ro_um of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6518
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN:  PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
(CREDIT 1019-PAK)
December 1, 1986
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects De?artment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 = Average 1980    Rs  9.90
US$ 1.00 = Average 1981/84 Rs 12.30
US$ 1.00 = Average 1984/85 Rs 14.80
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    -    Asian Development Bank
BEL         Bankers Equity Limited
BMR    -    Balancing, Modernization and Replacement
DFI    -    Development Finance Institution
GOP    -    Government of Pakistan
IDBP   -    Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IiC    -    Industrial Investment Credit
HOI    -    Ministry of Industry
NCTE   -    National College of Textile Engineering
NDFC   -    National Development Finance Corporation
OED    -    Operations Evaluation Department
PBC    -    Pakistan Banking Council
PCR    -    Project Completion Report
PICIC  -    Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investmeat Corporation
PPAR   -    Project Performance Audit Report
TIRDC  -    Textile Industry Research and Development Center
FISCAL YEAR
PICIC       January 1 - December 31
GOP         January 1 - June 30



THE WORLD BANK                FR oF          US ONY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofic of DMect(*-Cewi
Opwatwo tvattFn
December 1, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Pakistan: Pakistan Industrial Credit
and Investment Corporation (PICIC)(Credit 1019-PAK)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report - Pakistan: Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation (PICIC)(Credit 1019-PAK)" prepared by the South Asia Regional
Office. Under the modified system for project performance auditing further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not
been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Dank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
(CREDIT 1019-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ***********..................................................***,*****    i
BASIC DATA SHEET                         ...........ii
HIGHLIGHTS      .............................. ........................          iv
I*  INTRODUCTION .*         .......................*..................          1
II.  THE ENVIRONMENT                                                             1
- General ..**       ......*........................................        1
- The Industrial Sector          2........... .......*......... ...         2
- The Financial System .......................................0             3
III.  PICIC'S ROLE AND BANK GROUP OBJECTIVES .....................                5
- Background ......          ...                                           5
- Objectives of Bank Group Assistance   ................                    5
IV.  UTILIZATION OF THE IDA CREDIT ...**.*......*         .......*.              7
- Rate of Utilization *.......................................              7
- Subproject Review Process             9...........  ...........  ..      9
- Characteristics and Performance of Subprojects..............            10
V.  INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS ,...............................e                    11
- Background ......                                                       11
- Major Institutional Problem Areas *        .........................    12
- Institutional Achievements .............................,..             13
- Future Challenges  ,.........                                           14
VI.  OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ....1....6..............
- Operational Performance  ......... ...........................          16
- Financial Performance and Prospectso... ...................            16
VII. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................. ....................             18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by tecipients only in the perfotmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES                                                                    Page No.
1.  Estimated and Actual Disbursements ..............................         21
2.  Subprojects and Disbursements ...................................         22
3.  Characteristics of Subprojects .................................          23
4.  Subproject Cost and Financing Summary ...........................         25
5.  Procurement Procedure Review           ....................................  28
6.  Summary of Appraisal Review Process .............................         30
7.  Financial Performance of Subprojectso.............................        31
8.  Economic Performance of Subprojects           .............................  32
9.  PICIC - Projected and Actual Lending Operations 1979-1984  .......        33
10. PICIC - Balance Sheets 1980-1984 ...............................         34
11. PICIC - Income Statements 1980-1984..............................*       35
12. PICIC - Summary of Resource Mobilization 1980-1984    ..............     36
13. PICIC - Summary of Collections and Arrears.......................        37
14. PICIC - Comments Received from the Borrower ......................       38



-i-
PROWECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN. PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
-(CREDIT 1019-PAK)
PREFACE
This report reviews the implementation of Cr. 1019-PAK, which was the
eleventh lending operation of the Bank Group for private industrial sector
development in Pakistan, in which the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Invest-
ment Corporation (PICIC) was the single intermediary. The report covers
the period from 1980 to 1985, during which disbursements under this Credit
were made. The IDA Credit of US$40.0 million was approved on May 30, 1980,
declared effective on October 29, 1980, and disbursed until October 28, 1985.
An undisbursed amount of US$3.2 million was cancelled on December 20, 1985.
The previous Project Completion Report (PCR) on Loans 961-PAK and
1326-PAK, was included in a Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) dated
October 28, 1983. Subsequent lending operations for industrial investment,
in which  "CIC is a participating financial institution, (subject to
specific eligibility criteria) are the two Industrial Investment Credit
Projects (IIC I and II) which are still under implementation. This PCR,
therefore, covers the last lending operation with PICIC as single inter-
mediary; it was prepared by the Industrial Development and Finance Division
of the South Asia Projects Department based on a draft PCR prepared by
PICIC and supplementary information, supplied by PICIC after the review of
that draft by Bank Group staff. Comments received from the Borrower have
been taken into account as appropriate in finalizing the report and are
reproduced in Annex 14.
This project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.



-ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
(CREDIT 1019-PAK)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Item                                        (US$ million)
Credit Amount                                       40.0
Disbursed                                         36.8
Cancelled                                          3.2
Repaid to IDA                                      Nil
Outstanding to IDA                                36.8
Economic Rate of Return (Subproj.)                  16%-35% (Appraisal Estim.)
Financial Performance (Subproj.)                    Generally Unsatisfactory
Institutional Performance                           Improved
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item
First Mention in Files                              05/01/79
Negotiations                                        04/07/80
Board Approval                                      05/15/80
Loan Agreement Date                                 05/30/80
Effectiveness Date                                  10/29/80
Original Closing Date                               03/31/84
Actual Closing Date                                 03/31/85
Borrower                                            GOP
Executing Agency                                    PICIC/MOI
Fiscal Year of Borrower                             6/30
Fiscal Year of DFI                                  12/31
Follow-on Project Name                              Industrial Investment Credit I
Loan Number                                       Credit 1439/Loan 2380
Amount (mill. US$)                                100.0
Loan Agreement Date                               01/84



-iii-
MISSION DATA
No. of      No. of        Report
Mission              Month          Year       Staff        Weeks         Date
Appraisal           may/June         '79        2            2           04/22/80
Supervision         Sept/Oct.       '80         1            2           11/21/80
Supervision         August          '81         2            1/2         09/17/81
Supervision         October         '81         2            1/2         12/10/81
Supervision 1/      April           '82         2            1           06/17/82
Supervision 1/      March           '83         2            1           12/30/83 2/
Supervision 1/      August          '83         2            1/2         12/30/83 2/
Supervision         November        '83         1            1/2         12/07/83
Supervision         August          '84         1            1/2         10/15/84
Supervision 1/      January         '85         2            1           03/12/85
Supervision 1/      June            '85         2            1           10/10/85 3/
PCR Mission         October         t85         1            1/2         PCR
1/ These supervision missions were part of missions on previous and suboequent
lending operations involving PICIC; time shown is proportionate to
Cr. 1019-PAK.
2/ Staff Appraisal Report IIC I.
3/ Staff Appraisal Report IIC II.



-iv-
PROJECT CqoHPTION REPOtT
MAZISTAN:_ ?AKISTA INDUSTuIAL CEDIT AND INVMSlKENT CORP9MATION (PICIC)
(CRBDT 1012-PAR)
HIGHLIGHTS
The Bank Group's eleventh direct lending operation to PICIC,
Cr. 1019-PAK for' US$40.0 million for financing of private industrial sector
projects, was made in May 1980 against a background of fundamental problems,
which had developed in the late 1970s. During those years, Bank Group assis-
tance had been aimed at re-establishing PICIC's institutional and financial
strength, through close consultation with the Goverwment of Pakistan (GOP).
This collaboration resulted in the resolution of problems related to the loss
of PICIC's assets in Bangladesh, systematic monitoring of PICIC's collection
efforts and GOP actions designed to provide an improved legal framework for
the resolution of PICIC's arrears problems. Additionally, under the previous
direct loan to PICIC (1326-PAK) action was taken to assist PICIC and GOP in
developing rehabilitation schemes in the textile sector, vhich constituted a
significant part of PICIC's portfolio arrears (para. 12).
The objectives of Cr. 1019-PAK were:
(a) to strengthen PICIC's competitive position by broadening its
resource base in local currency, diversifying its lending activity,
restructuring its organization and upgrading of staff (para. 13);
(b) to transfer recources in support of improved private industrial
investment activity, following GOP's new economic policies
(paras. 2 and 13); and
(c) to support specific follow-up work based on the findings of the
"Werner Study" of Pakistan's Textile sector (para. 12).
The resource transfer was achieved at a slower pace than anticipated,
the selection of subprojects vas more varied and did rot--contrary to
expectations-include a substantial portion of textile rehabilitotion and
new textile projects. This reflects more a misreading of actual subsectoral
credit demand and sources of financing than a wrong selection process by
PICIC, which in fact, was able to utilize Bank Group funds for a more
desirable diversification of its portfolio (paras. 15, 16 and 35).
Subproject experience has been mixed. Long implementation delays, cost
overruns, and lower than expected operating results plagued many of the
subprojects financed. Some have had positive results, while others are still
under implementation. Kajor factors affecting this performance were both
internal and external to the subproject. Internally, they were handicapped
by sponsors" delay in completing legal formalities and implementing the
projects according to schedule. Externally, they suffered from the de-
linking of the rupee from the US dollar, which increased most local costs and



affected adversely some foreign costs. Finally, in some cases market condi-
tione and the effects of local aud internatlonal ecoomic developments were
misjudged at appraisal. Less than satisfactory resource management on the
part cif PICIC, with respect to the IDA Credit, resulted in cancellation of
US$3.2 million despite an extension of the closing date by one year
(paras. 15-16). Except for insignificant disbursement of funds for two
training institutes, utilization of the technical assistance component for
textile training by GOP was not achieved. The Bank Group clearly misjudged
the readiness of all parties required to move ahead on textile training to
improve labor productivity, and output quality within the prescribed
implementation period (paras. 17-18).
The institutional objectives of restructuring PICIC's organization,
consolidating its financial position and arresting the deterioration in its
loan portfolio as well as in its staff resources, were achieved during the
period 1981-84. Strong support from GOP and increasingly more cooperative
interplay becween PICIC and the Bank Group in the resolution of critical
muana.ement issues contributed to a fundamental institutional turn-around
during this period. Organizational changes subsequently made, have been
steps in the right direction (paras. 29 and 31). In the area of financial
viability, PICIC's financial position since 1984, including its collection
performance, has considerably improved. Old arrears, which are adequately
provided for, are beginning to become less important to PICIC's financial
status (paras. 34-37). PICIC's participation in the subseqn:ent multi-
institutional Industrial Investment Credit Project (IIC-I - Ln. 2380/
Cr. 1439-PAR) approved in December 1983, has so far been encouraging.
PICIC's managesent should now be able to move from crisis management to
strategic management. PICIC's internal organizational improvements have made
sufficient progress to pursue business promotion with a more diversified
clientele. This will require further strengthening of management systems and
staff resources. Continuation of competent management with clear operational
goals is a prerequisite for PICIC's full recovery from past weaknesses. The
strategy study to be financed by the Bank Group under the second IIC project
will be useful for ongoing efforts of GOP, PICIC and the Bank Group to bring
the process of PICIC's institutional rehabilitation and restructuring to a
more advanced stage than was possible during the implementation period of
Cr. 1019-PAK (para. 33).
Several lessons can be learned from this project:
- Fundamental changes in the institutional structure and management
approach of established government-controlled institutions, can only
be achieved through strong commitment and support on the part of the
goverAment aud require substantial supervision efforts on the Mart of
the Bank Group;
- Multi-institutional lending operations are a more effective vehicle
for the broader institutional and sectoral objectives, for which this
particular project could only play a transitional role;



-vi-
Significant preparatory work is required for sector-wide training
programs and more than general goverment commitment and private
sector interests are required for their execution; and
Appropriate development of project implementation and follow-up
capacity of individual financial institutions, remains an important
objective of industrial development lending operations and continues
to require serious attention during supervision (para. 45).



PROJECT CONPLETLON REPORT
PAKISTAN
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
(CREDIT 1019-PAK)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.      Since the start of its relationship with the Pakistan Industrial Credit
and Investment Corporation (PICIC) in 1957, the Bank Group has provided it with
eleven loans/credits totaling US$273 millions, with important industrial
development effects. In October 1983, the Bank's Operations Evaluation
Department (OED) issued a Pro3ect Performance Audit Report (PPAR) covering the
two previous loans to PICIC (Loans 961-PAK and 1326-PAK). This report covers
the period of the Bank Group's relationship with PICIC from 1980 to 1985 and
focuses on PICIC's institutional performance and the implementation of sub-
projects and technical assistance financed under Cr. 1019-PAK. Subsequently,
starting with the First Industrial Investment Credit (Ln. 2380/Cr. 1439-PAK)
made in 1983, the relationship of the Bank Group was broadened to includes
development finance institutions (DFI's); and comnercial banks in multi-
institutional lending operations. The period covered in this report, therefore,
represents a transition period, in which institutional objectives were parti¶lly
addressed in Cr. 1019-PAK and partially in more broadly designed operations and
policy dialogue under the subsequent Industrial Investment Credits, prepared and
approved from 1983 to 1985.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
General
2.      Beginning in the late 19709, GOP embarked on a program of reforms to
achieve financial stability, high growth and revival of private sector
confidence. Progtess during the Fifth Plan (FY79-FY83) was considerable despite
adverse external factors, including a world recession, a 30Z dec.£e in the
external terms of trade, and the Afghanistan crisis with its attendant require-
ments for increased defense and refugee expenditures. GOP restored financial
discipline by reducing budget deficits and bank borrowings and by enforcing
stricter monetary policies. Improvements in financial management were combined
with price adjustments, aimed at correcting economic distortions and a program
of longer-term reforms in key productive sectors. As a result of these actions,
GDP growth averaged over 6X; inflation rates declined gradually, private sector
confidence increased, and a manageable balance of payments situation was
maintained. Growth performance was good in industry, agriculture, energy and
exports.



-2-
3.      Pakistan's steadily improving economic performance was interrupted in
FY84, due to an unexpected downturn in agriculture and migrant remittances, and
the carry-over of inflationary pressures from PY83 with inflation levels
increasing from 5.21 (FY83) to 91 (FY84). GDP growth in FY84 slowed to 3.51
as a result of a 6.21 fall in agricultural value added caused by adverse weather
and pest attacks. However, manufacturing grew by 8.3% and services by 6.2%.
Fixed investment rose by 6.51 with private investment increasing by 11.51.
Budgetary policies in FY84 continued to be prudent. Current revenues and expen-
ditures both increased by 201. As a result of stagnant exports and lower
remittances, the balance of payments deteriorated, leading to a reserve drawdown
of US$113 million. Yet, considering the importance of agriculture, the achieve-
ment of creditable growth in PY84 poinzs to resilience in Pakistan's economic
structure, which is partly the result of recent Government efforts to begin
removing structural imbalances in the economy.
The Iadustrial Sector
4.      Government policies have contributed significantly to the recovery of
the industrial sector. Since 1977, GOP has given greater emphasis to the role
of private industry. This policy shift is reflected in GOP's decisions to
divest a number of industrial units, which were nationalized in 1972, open
restricted induastrial categories to private investment, and restrict public
sector invevtment to completion of ongoing projects and balancing and modern-
ization needs. GOP has also relaxed investment sanctioning requirements and
other industrial controls, and has increased investment and export incentives
for private industry. The improved policy environment has been responsible for
a resurgence of private sector confidence, which has led to growth in output and
investment. Although in 1983 the poor cotton crop affected textile exports,
with a few exceptions oth(r manufactured exports recorded strong growth. During
FY84, manufacturing value added growth slowed to 8.31 in real terms compared to
an average of 10.41 over the previous five years, due to sluggish growth in
textiles, public enterprises and exports. Private industrial investment
achieved record growth, while public investment fell sharply, continuing the
decline characteristic of recent years. The performance of public manufacturing
enterprises remained substantially better than during the late 1970s, although
production growth and profits declined in FY84. Output growth was strong,
especially in cement, some agro-processing and chemicals. Notwithstanding
improved industrial performance during this period, there remain important
structural problems. High levels of protection and domestic regulations con-
trolling new investments have limited industrial competition and the development
of an industrial structure and import of foreign technology which retains con-
siderable elements of inefficiency.
5.      In July 1984, GOP issued a new Industrial Policy Statement (IPS).  The
IPS reemphasizes the Government's commitment to a mixed economy, with the
private sector as the "engine of growth" and the public sector as investor of
iast resort. The IPS emphasizes the need to rationalize the tariff structure
and continue a realistic exchange rate policy to improve resource allocation
and strengthen competitiveness of industry. Investment sanctioning limits were



-3-
raised from Re 60 million to Rs 300 million in project size, and from Rs 30
million to Re 50 million in foreign exchange requirements. The IPS also estab-
lished standard, more liberal terms for obtaining foreign private loans and
suppliers' credits as well as for payment of technical fees and royalties. All
agreements conforming to these terms will be approved automatically and need
only be registered with the State Bank. Although improved industrial perfor-
mance in the eighties has been noteworthy, sustained growth will depend on
continued improvements in the incentive structure, including reduction in the
level of protection, effective management of public enterprises, the development
of the capital market and further relaxation of government controls. In
addition, attention needs to be given to infrastructural deficiencies, espe-
cially in energy, which are a major cause of project delays and low capacity
utilization.
The Financial System
6.      The financial system in Pakistan has evolved rapidly since independence
in 1947. It consists of: five nationalized commercial banks (NCBs); seventeen
foreign commercial banks (FCBs); four specialized financial institutions; nine
development finance institutions (DFIs); several insurance companies; two leas-
ing companies; two stock exchanges; and a housing finance corporation. The
State Bank of Pakistan (SBP), the central bank, directs and regulates the fina.a-
cial system within overall policies set by GOP. The Pakistan Banking Council
(PBC) oversees and coordinates the activities of NCBs and fulfills many of the
functions previously discharged by commercial bank shareholders. The Ministry
of Finance monitors the operations of the other financial institutions. While
domestic currency for term financing has not been a constraint in recent years,
industrial investment has been hampered by weaknesses in the financial delivery
system. The Bank Group' s assistance has, therefore, been increasingly linked
with efforts to expand the number of channels for industrial finance, to
encourage competition amoug various financial institutions and to strengthen
industrial lending capabilities of major financial intermediaries.  With the
accelerated pace of industrial investment since 1981, most investments have been
financed through debt due to lack of equity finance from the formal capital
markets and a continuing reluctance of entrepreneurs to provide adequate equity
contributions for longer-term industrial investments. New pragmatic financing
modes are now being introduced as part of the Islamization process, 1/which
could significantly improve the proportion of risk-bearing capital in industrial
investments.
1/  As of July 1985, Pakistan's financial system and all domestic currency
transactions are based on new financing modes consistent with Islamic
principles. Interest rates have officially been removed from the system.
New financing arrangements, proposed or in operation, relevant to industrial
finance include: (i) mark-ups, a sale with a profit margin, which varies
according to the term; (ii) Term Finance Certificates (TFCs), which would be
bonds with a risk premium; (iii) Musharikas, designed to meet working capi-
tal needs, in which profits are shared according to a pre-agreed formula;
(iv) Modaraba companies, which operate as investment funds in accordance
with Islamic tenets; and (v) hire-purchase and leasing.



-4-
7,      Notable changes in the industrial financing system during the last
decade have included: the creation of a number of non-bank financial
institutions; the decline in the relative importance of established DFIs; and
the emergence of the NCBs as a force in term lending. Initially, the Industrial
Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) and PICIC were the main institutions,
providing term financing for private industrial development. However, in 1982
the National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC), which was established in
1974, was allowed to expand its clientele to include large- and medium-scale
private firms as well as public sector enterprises, to which it had previously
exclusively extended its assistance. Among the DFIs, NDFC is now the largest
industrial lending institution in Pakistan. Other institutions such as Bankers
Equity (BEL) and the three joint venture companies (PAK-SAUDI; PAK-LIBYA and
PAK-KUWAIT) also increased their role in term financing for private industrv.
Due to historical developments, different legal structures and changing govern-
ment policies, the DFIs became excessively compartmentalized and were con-
strained in the range of financial services, which they could provide to
industrial clients. In response to Bank Group recommendations, GOP took a
number of measures during 1983-84 to rationalize previous government regulations
affecting business activities of DFIs. This has strengthened the competitive
element and provided sounder financial bases for PICIC and IDBP. As a result,
the efficiency of the industrial credit delivery system has improved
considerably. New lending instruments under the Islamic system have provided a
greater variety of financial assistance for private entrepreneurs and the effect
has been a more market-oriented approach to pricing of capital. Although some
uncertainties remain about the evolution of the system, it appears that, on the
whole, Islamization is having a beneficial impact on the financial system.
8.      The Bank Group's approach to industrial lending has now shifted from
individual relationships with the DFIs (as reflected in the eleven direct lend-
ing operations to PICIC, of which Cr. 1019-PAK was the last) to a focus on the
industrial finance system as a whole. The multi-institutional approach allows a
broader and more effective policy dialogue with GOP. This also benefits the
individual institutions. Some of the recent improvements in regulations affect-
ing DFIs have been brought about by a concerted effort to integrate the DFIs
more with the new financial system. In the case of PICIC, this meant, for
4nstance, permission to participate in the interbank market to strengthen its
local currency resource base; which in turn now enables PICIC to make working
capital loans, and to offer a broader spectrum of assistance to its clients.



-5-
III. PICIC's ROLE AND BANK GROUP OBJECTIVES
Background
9.      PICIC was one of the first DFIs established with Bank Group and IFC
assistance. The Bank made its first loan to PICIC in 1957. During the 1960s,
PICIC developed into a well managed and experienced DPI. However, during the
1970s, PICTJ faced a number of significant operational problems which affected
its viability. In 1974, a substantial portion of its assets were lost through
the separation of Bangladesh, while repeated nationalizations affected nega-
tively the investment climate and curtailed significantly its sphere of
activity. In ad,ition, the repayment ability of many of PICIC's clients was
severely reduced by the effects of the 1972 devaluation, which more than doubled
their obligations. In 1974, Pakistan's commercial banks and life insurance
companies were nationalized. This indirectly affected PICIC's character as a
private institution as 49Z of its issued capital was for all practical purposes
controlled by GOP. The main effect of this was not necessarily direct govern-
ment intervention in operational management, but more the impact of public
sector regulation in areas such as salary schemes for PICIC staff, cumbersome
management appointment procedures, and a resultant management approach of
increasing reliance on the government as the problem solver for the institution.
The deterioration in PICIC's operation was compounded in late 1974, by the poor
international market for the important textile sector, which constituted a
significant part of PICIC's portfolio.
10.     The tenth loan to PICIC (Ln. 1326-PAK), which brought the total amount
provided by the Bank Group to US$233 million, was made in 1976. During the
preparation and implementation of that loan a number of steps were agreed with
PICIC and GOP, which inter alia focused on the problem of PICIC's liabilities
regarding Bangladesh and improvement in PICIC's loan collections, necessary to
restere PICIC's long-term creditworthiness. The Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAM) on Loans 961-PAK and 1326-PAK of October 28, 1983, noted that
these objectives were only achieved in part with PICIC's strategy of emphasizing
legal action against defaulters in the face of a legal environment unfavorable
to creditors proving to be self-defeating and limiting collections. The con-
tinuation of Bank Group support for PICIC through Cr. 1019-PAK was, therefore,
based on the e.,pectation that GOP actions, beneficial to all financial institu-
tions in Pakistan, would be taken to substantially improve PICIC's collections.
Objectives of Bank Group Assistance
11.     In retrospect, it may appear that the juncture for a shift to multi-
institutional lending linked to policy reforms at the sectoral level should
already have been reached in 1980 when Cr. 1019-PAK was made. While the credit
was a single institutional loan, the project had broader objectives relating to:
(i) institutional reform linked to legal and sectoral reforms beyond individual
institutions; (ii) assistance for rehabilitation in textiles; and (iii) resource
transfer to private industry. However, it was premature to propose a multi-



institutional loan at that time, because it takes continuous involvement at the
institutional level as well as at the macro-economic level to build the
appropriate platform for effective dialogue at the sectoral level. This was
certainly true, given the circumstances in Pakistan's industrial and financial
sector during the 1980-83, when encouragement of new, more liberal policies
required continuation of resource transfers through established institutions
like PICIC. The broader platform for policy dialogue was established in 1981,
concurrently with the first Small-Scale Industry Project (Cr. 1113-PAR), which
involved the commercial banks as well as an established DFI (IDBP); and with the
first Industrial Investment Credit (Ln. 2380/Cr. 1439-PAK) in 1983, which
started a series of policy-oriented lending orerations with multi-institutional
scope and specific technical assistance for organizational systems studies,
staff training assistance and subsector studies.
12.     The provision of US$40.0 million to PICIC under Cr. 1019-PAK, was
designed to provide US$37.0 million for Rubloans to private sector projects with
a high degree of financial and economic viability. The main objective of the
Credit, rested on the assessment that Bank Group resource transfer was needed
through PICIC to support the improvement in the private sector investment
climate following GOP's new economic policy. Continued Bank association with
PICIC was expected to give the Bank Group an opportunity to actively engage
PICIC's management in a process of institutional reforms to strengthen its
operational system, which had become cumbersome, due to decision making proces-
ses overly dependent on Board-level management consensus. Additionally,
association with PICIC in selecting and appraising subprojects was expected to
contribute to further improvements in PICIC's appraisal capacity. A further
effort was made to relate part of the projects' objectives to GOP's program for
rehabilitation of the textile sector, prepared in response to the Bank-financed
"Werner Study" on Pakistan's textile sector carried out under Ln. 1326-PAK.
Specific follow-up to this sector work was included in the Credit, in the form
of technical assistance for textile training as a separate US$3.0 million
project component. 1/ In addition, financing of BMR textile projects was
assigned sectoral priority for the subloan component. The credit also included
funding for a textile specialist to upgrade PICIC's activities in this sector
and to coordinate it with GOP's textile training program.
13.     With respect to PICIC's future role in the evolving financial system
in Pakistan, it was recognized by the Bank Group that further strengthening of
its management system, active involvement of PICIC in arranging local currency
financing for its clientele, and more active promotion of investment oppor-
1/ It was also recognized at the time of appraisal that the urgent need for
textile training was closely related to labor-relations problems. GOP had
wanted an action program for management training, supervisor training and
operator training. With assistance from UNIDO and IL0, GOP had resolved to
establish and reorganize training institutions. Cr. 1019-PAK was to provide
some funding for specific training programs of these institutions.



-7-
tunities in key industrial sectors with rehabilitation and modernization
requirements, would be necessary first steps in reactivating PICIC's role as
the private sector catalyst that it had prominently played in the 19609. The
changed circumstances in Pakistan's financial sector also meant that PICIC's
role as an active participant in a more competitive environment--without clear
demarkation of areas of activity for individual financial institutions--would
have to be based on competitive strength rather than on a narrowly defined
charter. The objectives of Cr. 1019-PAK partly reflected these requirements.
14.     It was also recognized that a start needed to be made to link wider
institutional reform objectives and rehabilitation efforts in specific
industrial subsectors to GOP action programs. Cr. 1019-PAK, therefore, provided
a link to subsequent multi-institutional lending operations, which address the
need to rationalize the structure of the DFIs and commercial banks, and to build
on policy changes relating to broader developments in the credit and capital
markets and specific industrial subsectors. In this sense, the broader in3titu-
tional and sectoral objectives of Cr. 1019-PAK, have been carried over into
subsequent lending operations; their achievement needs to be judged in a longer
time frame than that pertaining to the eleventh and last lending operation with
PICIC as single intermediary institution.
IV. UTILIZATION OF THE IDA CREDIT
Rate of Utilization
15.     Commitment of the credit component proceeded satisfactorily and funds
were fully comitted on schedule. However, subsequent sponsor withdrawal and
exchange rate fluctuations left US$3.2 million to be cancelled. Disbursements
were also mixed. PICIC's projected and actual disbursements under Cr. 1019-PAl
are shown in Annex 1. One year after effectiveness of the Credit only 14X had
been disbursed against estimated 21X; disbursements only picked up in the second
year and three years after effectiveness, had reached 83% as against an adjusted
the original estimate of 951. In January 1984, an amount of US$2.25 million,
earmarked for technical assistance to GOP for textile training, was reallocated
for subproject lending to PICIC; increasing the amount available to US$39.25
million. However, despite several extensions of the closing dates for submis-
sion of subprojects and for disbursements only US$36.7 million was disbursed by
the effective closing date of September 30, 1985. Neither PICIC nor the
Ministry of Industry were able to fully disburse the amounts made available for
technical assistance, despite an extension of the disbursement period by twenty-
one months. On closing, US$114,000 had been disbursed for technical assistance
to two textile training institutes--the Textile Industry Research and
Development Centre (TIRDC) and the National College of Textile Engineering
(NCTE).
16.     In the case of subproject financing, the underutilization of the Credit
reflects slow disbursement and realization of foreign-exchange savings during



-8-
project implementation, which left funds that could not be recommitted for new
projects within the available time for disbursement. The fact that three
projects were authorized, but were not ready for disbursement by the final
closing date in December 1985, indicates the need for more effective project
progress monitoring on the part of PICIC to avoid leaving scarce IDA resources
committed without actual need. Development of appropriate statistical data
systems and monitoring procedures could significantly improve PICIC's resource
management.
17.     In the case of the training component, the original project concept
included the use of US$3.0 million for modernizing five existing training
institutions, and providing teaching aids and payments to foreign consultants
for services to PICIC and to the Ministry of Industry (MOI). However, MOI did
not utilize the amount earmarked for advisory services to prepare a textile
training program. In January 1983, after a delay of two years, MOI submitted a
training proposal prepared by the Textile Industry Research and Development
Centers (TIRDC). IDA found that proposal unacceptable because of the time
needed to disburse the funds, and because it involved institutions other than
those that had been appraised for the purpose of the Credit. The training
proposal also lacked a clear assessment of the training needs and priorities in
the textile sector. The Bank, therefore, in August 1983 decided to send at the
Bankis expense a training expert to Pakistan to redesign the training program,
taking into account changes in circumstances that had taken place since
appraisal in 1980. As a result of this reassessment a revised technical assis-
tance allocation of US$750,000 was made for use on a 50:50 basis by TIRDC and
the National College of Textile Engineering (NCTE) on a 50:50 basis. The
remaining US$2.25 million was reallocated for on-lending by PICIC to private
sector mills f,r textile training expenses; which again proved to be a non-
realizable objective. The private mills were not prepared to borrow from PICIC
for training expenses, even at a concessional 3% rate of interest with a 7-years
repayment period. This led to the final reallocation of the US$2.25 million for
subproject lending referred to in para. 15.
18.     The amounts re-allocated to TIRDC&and NCTE were also not fully utilized
due to an arduous and lengthy process of preparing procurement documents in the
Supplies Department of MOI. Out of the total allocation of US$750,000 only
US$114,000 was disbursed for a few items for laboratory equipment for TIRDC and
NCTE; before the extended closing date of the Credit--other items had to be
covered under other credits on an exceptional basis. The tangled history of the
training component resulted in an unfortunate failure to provide any substantial
assistance for textile training despite considerable effort and great
flexibility in subproject formulation on the part of the Bank Group. The main
factor responsible for this failure was the lack of commitment to serious train-
ing efforts on the part of the private textile mills and the OI. In the case
of the mills, this is related to the hesitancy of private owners to modernize
the labor force under present conditions in the sector. In the case of MOI, the
difficulty of executing a relatively small procurement program through MOI
reveals the need to find more effective administrative arrangements for such
projects in the future. It also shows that it is necessary to address training



-9-
on a sector-wide basis outside a single lending operation in the context of a
clearly defined GOP action program that includes other policy changes for a
fully coordinated subsector strategy.
Subproject Review Process
19.     Thirty-six subprojects were approved under the subloan component of the
Credit. Of these, 26 subprojects were approved by PICIC under the free limit 1/
and were reviewed by Bank staff prior to approval. Disbursements of US$36.7
million were made for 32 subprojects and 4 subproject authorizations totaling
US$2.1 million were cancelled at a later date; in three cases this reflected
delays in the readiness of the projects for disbursement before the extended
closing date and in one case withdrawal by the project sponsors. Prior Bank
review covered 28% of all subprojects financed and 66% of the total amount of
financing made available under the Credit. This is consistent wit'1 the expecta-
tions at the time of appraisal with respect to the extent of prioz Bank review
of subprojects (about 30% by number and 60% by amount). Although PICIC's
pipeline at the time of appraisal included a large number of textile
subprojects, many were financed under other lines of credit or were withdrawn by
their sponsors. Thus, only three textile subprojects were reviewed by Bank
staff with 25% of total financing for A-projects, which was considerably less
than the 75Z of A-project financing expected to be related to the textile sector
at the time of appraisal. The total amount of assistance for textile projects,
including subprojects approved under the free limit, was about 29% of the total
authorized loans. Although 10 textile subprojects were included in the project
submissions under the Credit, the intended focus on financing textile
rehabilitation and expansion/ modernization was not achieved, because the amount
of funds used for this purpose was far smaller than had been expected. Bank
reviews of only three textile project proposals also did not offer much oppor-
tunity for more than routine analysis applied to any other subsector; these
reviews did not reveal any significant f4atures. Post implementation data on
six of the ten textile projects financed reflect mixed subproject results--three
are incurring losses and three are achieving higher financial results than
anticipated. Three are still under implementation or in their first year of
operations, and there is no available data on one subproject. On the other
hand, during 1980-1984 PICIC financed 18 other textile projects using a Chinese
line of credit for eight subprojects, rupee funding from the SBP for three
subprojects, and other foreign currency lines of credit for seven other
subprojects. Fifteen projects were in spinning by way of addition or replace-
ment of spindles, two were in weaving and one in garment manufacture; eleven
projects are operating satisfactorily, five projects are still to be completed,
one is seriously delayed, and one has operating problems. Overall, it appears
1/  The free li^;t was US$6.0 million (aggregate assistance to each respective
company) except for textile projects. The free limit for textile BMR
projects was set at US$1.5 million; new subprojects in the textile sector
were all subject to prior Bank review.



-10-
that PICIC's experience in financing textile projects in recent years has shown
positive results. It is also apparent that the demand for foreign currency
financing for textile projects is relatively reduced, vis-a-vis the availability
of domestic currency lines and the demand for Chinese equipment which is repor-
tedly compatible with the quality of Pakistan cotton.
20.     A summary of the overall experience with subproject operations is given
in Annex 6. Cnly four of the nine subproject proposals submitted to IDA prior
to 'pproval were acceptable without additional information. Major weaknesses,
however, were reflected only in two of the five subproject proposals on which
questions arose during the review; these related to the financing plans, the
market forecasts and the project cost estimates of one new polyester plant and a
textile BMR project. Economic rate of return estimates for the nine reviewed
A-projects ranged from 161 to 35%; the financial rates of return were estimated
to be in the range of 15Z to 34Z. The selection of subprojects and the prepara-
tion of project appraisal reports generally reflected an improving capacity of
PICIC's staff to appraise projects in a wide range of subsectors competently and
with meticulous detail. However, weaknesses in analysis, and realistic assess-
ment of implementation time and market prospects continue to exist. Follow-up
monitoring and systematic processing of feed-back information during implementa-
tion still needs to be improved, although PICIC has now taken action to address
these concerns and they will be reviewed also during a forthcoming organization
and systems review under Cr. 1646-PAK.21
Characteristics and Performance of Subprojects
21.     Distribution of subprojects among industrial subsectors is summarized
in Annex 3; it reflects a healthy diversification of portfolio additions with
29Z for the textile sector, 23X for engideering and related products industries;
17% for cement, ceramics and glass; and 14% for the chemical and petrochemical
industry. The remaining 17% were in processing of agricultural and food
products, and in the manufacture of leather, rubber and paper products as well
as in the printing sector. The geographical distribution reflects continuing
concentration of projects in the provinces of Punjab (40%) and Sind (341); the
share of project finance of Baluchistan (241) is mostly accounted for by
projects in the industrial areas around Karachi.
22.     Five of the thirty-two subprojects financed have not yet been completed.
Only one project was completed on schedule; five projects had delays of six
months or less, six projects suffered delays of up to twelve months, and twelve
projects had implementation periods of more than twelve months up to three years
in excess of original estimates. The aggregate average cost overrun was 291
against appraisal estimates since one third of the total number of projects were
completed within the original cost estimates. For the nine A-projects cost
overruns ranged from 19% to 93% for seven projects; only two A-projects were
completed without cost overrun. PICIC's role of financing of actual project
costs ranged from 211 to 63% for A-projects and from 11% tL' 791 for B-projects.
Only in three cases were other than IDA resources used for PICIC financing of
1/   For PICIC's views see Annex 14, para. 5.



-11-
the projects to complement the financing plans. In 10 projects, PICIC had to
reschedule repayments of its loans.
23.     The post-implementation performance of the subprojects financed, reveals
ai mixed, but generally favorable industrial development impact. Since 8 of the
32 projects financed are still in the implementation stage, the data base is not
yet complete. Production datt on 20 projects indicate that the actual aggregate
value added amounted to Rs 545 million compared to an estimated Rs 525 million
for all 32 projects at the time of approval. Average initial capacity utiliza-
tion was 70%, compared to an estimate of 65%, and the composite export figure
for half the numbe- of export-oriented subprojects was about 70% of the
appraised estimate for all projects with export components. The total employ-
ment created by 27 projects was 3,416 jobs, against an estimated 3,466 jobs, for
all 32 projects financed. The total sales of 15 projects exceeded the estimated
sales for che same number of projects at the time of appraisal by 24%. On the
otherhand, aggregate financial results of the majority of completed projects
were less favorable than had been foreseen, at the time of appraisal. Five
projects operated at a loss, while the 10 profitable projects had an average
yield on equity of 23%, as against the estimated average of 19% at the time of
appraisal for all subprojects. PICIC's ability to utilize performance data on
subprojects for comparative assessment of management and sector performance is
still limited. Appropriate development of monitoring systems and systematic
assessment of client company performance in comparison to appraisal estimates
and sector data require more attention from PICIC's management. Improvements in
this area could significantly contribute to a more informed advisory role of
PICIC's staff with special sector emphasis; however, as noted in para. 20 above,
these issues will be focused on during an organizational/systems review to be
initiated in November 1986.1/
V. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Background
24.     During the 1960s PICIC's position as the premier supplier of long term
foreign exchange resources for industrial investment in Pakistan became firmly
established. PICIC supported the development of new investment in such sectors
as cement, sugar and textiles. However, the 1970's were exceptionally difficult
for Pakistan and its institutions. PICIC was directly affected by the separa-
tion of Bangladesh in 1971, the drastic devaluation of the Rupee in 1972, the
nationalization of major private industries (including the commercial banks) as
well as the external shock of the increase in world oil prices and subsequent
worldwide recession with its impact on Pakistan's textile export industry. The
textile industry accounted for 401 of PICIC's portfolio, ant PICIC's clients
found it difficult to meet the drastically increased obligations for foreign
currency loans for which they were bearing the exchange risk.
V    For PICIC's reaction see Annex 14, paras. 6-8.



-12-
25.     The difficult period of the 1970's tested the original concept of
PICIC's establishment as a DFI with the primary objective of financing the
foreign exchange component of fixed investments in the private industrial
sector. Although PICIC's charter was designed to allow it to function more
broadly in capital markets and in extending non-financial assistance to
industry, the major function of providing foreign exchange resources dominated
the orientation of its management in the adverse circumstances of that period.
At the same time, as PICIC became a captive of the problems resulting from the
economic dislocation of the 1970's, its role in industrial finance also began to
change because of new circumstances in the financial and industrial environments
of the late 1970's and early 1980's. The preeminence of institutional foreign-
exchange onlending was reduced due to availability of suppliers' credit and
increasing inflows of workers remittances from the Middle East. At the same
time, new requirements for export financing and a broader range of financial
services, including provision of working capital funds, cash management services
and leasing arrangements, evolved in the late 1970's, in the context of a revi-
talized and more growth oriented private industrial sector. New financial
institutions with broader mandates (such as NDFC, BEL, Pak-Libya, Pak-Saudi and
Pak-Kuwait) became active, while the commercial banks began to participate in
term-lending and development of new Islamic financial instruments. PICIC's
share of total industrial financing consequently dropped from about 20% in 1970
to around 3% in 1982/83.
Major Institutional Problem Areas
26.     The primary objective of Bank Group assistance to PICIC in the late
1970's was to help restore its creditworthiness. As the PPAR of
October 28, 1983 pointed, this objective was accomplished when PICIC was
protected from losses related to assets in former East Pakistan and when its
equity base and liquidity position were buttressed by infusions of government
and State Bank funds. What remained as a serious financial problem at that time
was the high level of arrears on PICIC's portfolio, which continued to challenge
GOP and PICIC management in subsequent years. As of June 30, 1984, PICIC's
total arrears were Rs 1.58 billion, almost 50% higher than one year earlier, due
to a particularly bad year in the cotton sector in 1983. The Bank Group
expressed its disappointment about the low collection rate of 52% of current
billings and pointed out to GOP and PICIC that drastic measures were required to
prevent PICIC from failing in its efforts of becoming a more vibrant and com-
petitive financial institution again.
27.     In reviewing PICIC's institutional performance, the Bank Group noted
that not enough attention had been paid to organizational matters and to the
recovery effort; this was partly attributed to a prolonged period in 1981 when
the position of Managing Director had remained vacant and to the fact that the
initial major concern for the Managing Director appointed late that year had
been to step up collections. For a considerable time, the Bank Group had also
urged GOP and PICIC to rationalize the management structure to improve
Board/Management interaction. It was further noted that PICIC did not have
sufficient experienced junior level staff to fill higher level management



-13-
positions. It was agreed with PICIC management that next to a more intensive
recovery effort, rationalization of PICIC's organization was the most urgent
task.
Institutional Achievements
28.     Institutional achievements were the result of a concerted effort by GOP
and the Bank Group, tolether with the As4an Development Bank (ADB), in a tripar-
tite effort, to revitalize PICIC's managerial capacity, restore its financial
health and provide the basis for more active participation of PICIC in the
country's industrial development process. Changes in PICIC's management at the
Chairman's and Managing Director's level in April 1984, offered an opportunity
for renewed recovery and reorganization efforts. PICIC also participated in the
multi-institutional Industrial Investment Credit (IIC) under which eligibility
for access to Bank Group funds was conditioned by meeting specifically agreed
collection targets. Semi annual review meetings on collection performance
contributed to a more effective monitoring of progress in this area and offered
regular opportunities for discussion of specific actions to improve PICIC's
financial performance.
29.     The unwieldy structure and composition of PICIC's Board, and some lack
of clarity in the decision-making process, had for a long period adversely
affected the effectiveness of PICIC's management. However, action by GOP to
strengthen the authority of PICIC's Executive Committee and that of the Managing
Director removed previous operational difficulties.
30.     GOP's contribution to the resolution of legal disputes on repayment
obligations of PICIC's clients, and the formation of a committee on sick units
with effective decision making power, highlights the importance of strong
government commitment to,these institutional rehabilitation efforts. In mid-
1984, the new appointees for the positions of Chairman and a Managing Director,
therefore, found an improved, more effective management structure with increased
loan approval authority for the Executive Committee, now headed by the Managing
Director as Chief Executive of PICIC. A number of other organizational changes
succeeded in streamlining project approval processing. In addition, a Special
Projects Department was created in December 1981 to analyze and restructure
problem projects. The department prepared relief packages for consideration by
the newly established GOP Committee On Sick Units (Beg Committee) and maintained
close relations with the Pakistan Banking Council (PBC) and other financial
institutions to ensure adherence to and fulfillment of various provisions and
clauses of relief package agreements by the respective industrial units. With
renewed management efforts to focus on the arrears problem these institutional
measures began to have a positive impact on the collection performance in the
second half of 1984 (see para. 36).
31.     In the personnel area, PICIC introduced new procedures with systematic
performance evaluation of staff, specific attention to career development and
new training efforts. These measures did arrest the previously alarming profes-
sional staff turnover, which had been between 10% to 17Z p.a. during 1980-82 and



-14-
subsequently was brought down to around 5.0% by 1983-84. The current situation
appears to be stable as PICIC's management has brought a more forward looking
approach into the institution that opens new prospects for junior level staff
with career expectations. Further progress depends on a systematic effort to
upgrade the competence of PICIC's staff and to modernize systems and procedures.
An Inspection and Systems Department was created in 1984 to evaluate, correct
and improve existing operating procedures. The department is also monitoring
implementation of procedures by the operating departments; this will increas-
ingly have an impact on the consistency of approach to operational processes in
the institution. Another area in which considerable progress has been made is
the computerization of accounts which was accomplished in record time and with a
high degree of innovative skill. Further improvements in management systems,
particularly on the project appraisal and monitoring side, can be achieved by
developing appropriate computerized processes for these activities based or
in-house experience. PICIC's management is presently giving high priority to
this task.
Future Challenges
32.     PICIC's management must now move from crisis management, through
consolidation, to strategic management. During the last few years it has been
recognized by GOP and PICIC management that PICIC will have to diversify and
expand its activities to strengther its competitive position. Based on a more
consolidated financial position, a rationalized management structure, more
modern management processes, and higher quality professional staff with
broadened project experience, PICIC could play once again a leading role in
private sector industrial financing. GOP's future role vis-a-vis PICIC should
allow the full exercise of professional management to-reinforce its role as an
institution with private sector objectives. PICIC's internal management
improvements have made sufficient progress to set the sights of management on a
more active strategy of business promotion. A new Planning and Development
Department has been created to prepare project profiles for new and non-
conventional projects. A Central Promotional Committee headed by a Senior
Executive Vice President has been formed to direct the effort of diversifying
PICIC's project portfolio. For more effective coordination of appraisal
activities the Economic and Research Department and the Engineering Department
have been placed under the Executive Vice President in charge of the Projects
Department. The Project Appraisal Committee has been reconstituted with a
reduced membership to achieve a prompter and more efficient decision making
process.
33.     The results of PICIC's participation in the first multi-institutional
IIC Credit have been encouraging. They reflect continuing improvements in
project selection as well as a satisfactory rate of approvals, in terms of both
the rate of participation compared to that of PICIC's competitors and the rate
of increase in PICIC's own lending activities (para. 35). Under the second IIC
Project, which was approved in January 1986, technical assistance funds are
being provided to PICIC to carry out an organization study and product diver-
sification assessment. Terms of reference for the study have been reviewed by



.-15
IDA, invitations to bid have been issued by PICIC, and commencement of the study
is a condition of PICIC's participation in the Project. Establishment of an
equity financing function would be considered under that study.



-16-
VI. OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Operational Performance
34.     PICIC's projected and actual lending operations for 1979-84, are sum-
marized in Annex 9. Total annual approvals of foreign exchange loans, which at
the time of appraisal of Cr. 1019-PAK were expected to reach Rs 818 million by
December 31, 1983, were only Rs 612 million at that date. Commitment in foreign
exchange for 1983 totaled Rs 304 million equivalent against a forecast of Rs 686
million; disbursements in foreign 3xchange totaled Rs 173 million equivalent as
against Rs 550 million forecast in 1979. The pace vf operations only picked up
in 1984 when it finally reached the levels of project approvals anticipated
earlier. Commitments and disbursements continued to lag behind due to a period
of unexpectedly slow business development for which the bad cotton year of 1983
is only a partial explanation. A more important reason for the disappointing
business performance of PICIC during 1980-83 is the change in the environment
described in paras. 7 and 8, PICIC's internal management problems and the narrow
funding base limiting its lending activity to foreign exchange loans for which
demand was not as active, because of more ample alternative foreign exchange
sources, such as supplier's credits and free foreign exchange from workers'
remittances. During 1980-83, PICIC's cumulative project approvals, increased by
48; this annual average increase of 16 projects stands out against a subsequent
increase in 1983-84 by 37 projects, with a total of Rs 1.0 billion of approved
assisLance, of which 12.6% was in local currency.
35.     The year 1984 therefore marked a significant turning point in lending
activity after three years of slow growth. There was also a notable shift in
the flow of assistance to the chemical and petrochemical group of industries
which in 1984 accounted for 50% of total assistance against only 15% in 1984.
The share of assistance to the enginering sector increased in 1984 from 11% to
17%, and that to the cotton textile industry from 4% to about 15%. Assistance
to food products and processing including the sugar industry, which had
registered over 30% of total assistance in 1983, dropped to about 5% in 1984.
The major share of projects approved were new projects or expansion of existing
units. Commitments and disbursements under Cr. 1019-PAK, could not benefit from
this renewed lending activity because of the approaching closing date (March 31,
1985).
Financial Performance and Prospects
36.     PICIC's financial performance during .1980-83, was severely affected by
its poor collection performance which reduced its liquidity position. In 1981,
arrears reached Rs 1.5 billion (67% of PICIC's portfolio). Following the bad
cotton year of 1983 and the heavy proportion of loans to cotton textile manufac-
turing enterprises, which were hit by drastic, unexpected price increases in raw
material, another peak in arrears was reached in June 1984, as of that date
arrears were 50% higuer than at the same time in the previous year and again
reached Rs 1.5 billion. However, in the second half of 1984, PICIC's renewed



-17-
recovery efforts began to show results. Collections laiich had been 35% of
billings in the early 1980s reached 73%. With strong support from GOP, the Bank
Group and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) during the collection review
meetings, PICIC managed to reduce its arrears to Rs 1.1 billion or (35% of
portfolio as of December 31, 1984. If this rate of improvement in the collec-
tion effort is sustained, PICIC's portfolio will become less and less affected
by problem projects of the 1970's. However, restructured projects could become
problematic, particularly if the economy slows down and working capital credit
is tightened. PICIC needs to remain vigilant in the area of old and possible
new arrears. Collection efforts on overdue accounts, particularly pre-1980s,
should be carefully monitored, and liquidation proceedings should be pursued
against unviable firms. Cases under litigation reached a peak at the end of
1981 with Rs 1.0 million in that category corresponding to 45 projects. Since
then, 24 cases involving about Rs 700,000 have been resoled, while only 4 new
cases have been added for Rs 86,000. Nevertheless the remaining 25 cases
involving Rs 600,000 include, hardcore defaulters, which have been able to delay
legal proceedings. In 1985, the Legal Department was temporarily placed under
the Executive Vice President Projects for a reorganization and two additional
lawyers were recruited for more rigorous pursuit of these difficult cases. To
cover potential write-offs PICIC has provided Rs 227 million and has accrued
about Rs 600 million of interest on overdue accounts. These amounts are con-
sidered adequate.
37.     Summaries of PICIC's financial statements are given in Annexes 10 and
11; these show that PICIC's net profits after tax have increased from Rs 38
million (FY80) to Rs 62 million (FY84), or by 10% p.a. Total assets have
increased from Rs 2.4 billion (FY80) to Rs 3.9 billion (FY84) and with the
improved profitability the rate of return on assets increased from 1.3% (FY80)
to 1.7% (FY84) which is satisfactory. PICIC's return on equity improved from 9%
(FY80) to 12% (FY84) and dividend payments were restored with the result that
PICIC's share prices have increased from Rs 6 per share (FY80) to Rs 10 per
share or par (FY84). PICIC's debt service coverage of 1.2, and debt/equity
ratio of 6:3 are satisfactory.
38.     PICIC's strategy for the future is aimed at further improving its
profitability by stabilizing its term lending activities at a level of Rs 1.0
billion p.a. and building up its working capital loans from around Rs 620 mil-
lion at present to Rs 2.0 billion by FY88. Foraign exchange lending is expected
to be about US$ 60.0 million p.a. during 1986-87 with funds provided from the
Bank Group's second IIC project and from ADB lending. (A summary of PICIC's
resource mobilization for 1980-84 is given in Annex 12.) The achievement of
PICIC's medium-term objectives is not only sensitive to overall economic
developments in Pakistan, but will also depend on further improvements in
PICIC's management systems and staff resources. Continuation of competent
management with clear operational goals and strong leadership are vital to the
institution's full recovery from its past period of weakness. Conditionality of
access to Bank Group funds under the second IIC project is therefore based on
understandings with GOP that there is a need for the continued presence of an
experienced banker as PICIC's Managing Director.



-18-
VII. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
39.     The long relationship of the Bank Group with PICIC spans a period of
almost three decades. During this time, the original concept of support for
a typical private DFI with a major share of financing of private sector
industrial development in Pakistan was severely tested. After an initial period
of very successful operations during the 1950's and 1960's unforeseeable politi-
cal and economic disruptions eroded PICIC's financial health and the capacity of
its management to restore the institution to its former prominent role in the
newly developing financial sector environment of the late 1970's. In view of
these adverse circumstances, continuing resource transfers in support of
industrial development based on renewed private sector confidence in response to
GOP's economic policies could no longer be channeled through conventional DFI
credit line lending operations, without extensive Bank Group involvement in
institutional rehabilitation. Increasingly this required linkage of such lend-
ing operations to sector reform programs, both in the financial sector and in
specific industrial subsectors such as textiles, in which PICIC had a major
stake.
40.     First steps in this direction were taken in conjunction with the ninth
and tenth lending operation involving PICIC as single intermediary (Loan 961-PAK
and 1326-PAK), when agreements were reached with GOP to resolve the problem of
PICIC's liabilities in Bangladesh. In addition, steps were initiated to restore
PICIC's long-term creditworthiness through appropriate responses from GOP to
PICIC's other institutional problems, particularly in the area of arrears
collections. It was recognized later that without changes in PICIC's approach
to the recovery effort and without strong support from GOP, PICIC would not be
able to extract itself from its structural problems and become a viable and
competitive institution again. PICIC's strategy of emphasizing legal actions
against defaulters in the face of a legal framework unfavorable to creditors
proved to be self-defeating and the arrears problem began to worsen. At the
same time, increasing reliance of PICIC's management on GOP as problem solver
for the institution had a paralyzing effect on its capacity to meet the challen-
ges of a more competitive financial environment, in which provision of foreign-
exchange resources to industrial enterprises was no longer the most essential
banking service required.
41.     The need for continuous involvement at the institutional level convinced
the Bank Group in 1980 to extend a last credit line to PICIC as a single inter-
mediary with a major objective of providing foreign-exchange resources to meet
expected demand for high priority projects identified by PICIC. At the same
time, a broader platform for policy dialogue with GOP was established in 1981
concurrently with the first Small-Scale Industry project (Cr. 1113-PAK) which
involved commercial banks as well as an estaolished DFI (IDBP), and subsequently
in 1983 with the first Industrial Investment Credit Project, (Ln. 2380-PAK/
Cr. 1439-PAK) which started a series of policy-oriented lending operations with



-19-
multi-institutional scope and specific technical assistance for institutional
upgrading in the whole financial sector, as well as provision for subsectoral
studies. Cr. 1019-PAK, therefore, fulfilled a transition role in Bank Group
assistance to the financial institutions and to private sector industrial
development. Its major objective of resource transfer was combined with con-
tinuation of efforts to address PICIC's institutional problems in the context of
GOP's programs for institutional reform in the financial sector; for resolution
of the collection and arrears problems through rehabilitation and restructuring
of sick units as well as reforms of relevant legal processes. The credit was
also designed to contribute through resource transfer and technical assistance
to first steps in the rehabilitation and revitalizing of the textile sector. In
this specific sector the need for follow-up in support of GOP actions had been
recommended in the "Werner Study" of the textile sector, carried out under Loan
1326-PAK to PICIC.
42.     The period 1980-83 proved to be a more difficult one for the implementa-
tion of these objectives than had been anticipated. PICIC's lending activity
developed at a much slower rate than had been forecast; its managerial problems
began to exacerbate the institutions' structural financial weakness at a time,
when strong innovative leadership was required to meet the challenges of a
drastically changed environment in the financial sector. PICIC, for a time,
became the captive of its past difficulties. In addition, in 1983, its strong
exposure to adverse developments in the textile sector again made it clear that
more fundamental changes in business strategy and management approach were
required to make PICIC a competitive, more solidly based financial institution
capable of playing a substantial role in promoting future private industrial
investment in promising sectors of Pakistan's economy.
43.     The achievements under Cr. 1019-PAK. are not evenly spread over the
implementation period, nor do they apply to all of the wide range of objectives.
The resource transfer objective was achieved at a slower pace than had been
expected. The selection of subprojects was more varied and did not, as had been
intended, include a substantial portion of textile rehabilitation and new tex-
tile projects. The subproject experience has had an overall positive develop-
mental impact but individually there have been difficulties. Long implementa-
tion delays, cost overruns and lower than expected operating results charac-
terize many of the subprojects. In some cases, positive results, even in excess
of anticipated performance, were obtained. Other projects are still under
implementation. There is unfortunately a clear indication that PICIC's follow-
up procedures and monitoring systems are still inadequate to provide up-to-date
information on project performance. This deficiency has also contributed to
less than satisfactory resource management with respect to the IDA Credit of
which US$3.2 million had to be cancelled. Utilization of technical assistance
for textile training by GOP was not achieved, except for an insignificant dis-
bursement of funds for two training institutes. The major reason for this was
the lack of commitment on the part of GOP and the private sector mills to a
clearly defined textile training program as part of a sector-wide rehabilitation
program. The Bank Group clearly misjudged the readiness of all parties to move
ahead with textile training programs as recommended in the "Werner Study". It



-20-
also under-estimated the purely administrative constraints in the Ministry of
Industr" to prepare and implement such a programs including the procurement of
equipment.
44.     The institutional objectives of improving PICIC's managerial
capabilities, further consolidating its financial position and arresting the
deterioration in its loan portfolio as well as in its staff resources were
partly achieved during 1980-84. In fulfillment of its agreements under
Cr. 1019-PAK and in the wider context of the subsequent multi-institutional
lending operations GOP support for required institutional improvements in PICIC
was obtained. The most significant change occurred in 1984 with appointment of
a new management for PICIC, giving greater authority to a competent banker as
managing director. The organizational changeslsubsequencly made have been steps
in the right direction. PICIC's financial performance since 1984 has been
steadily improving. Collection performance has improved, and old arrears, which
are adequately provided for, are beginning to become less important to PICIC's
financial status. PICIC's participation in the subsequent multi-institutional
industrial investment credit project has so far been satisfactory, although its
follow-up activities in the new environment have yet to be fully tested.
However, it remains important that PICIC's management move toward strategic
planning. PICIC's has made sufficient progress in internal management improve-
ments to pursue a more active strategy of business promotion with a more diver-
sified clientele. This will, however, require further strengthening of manage-
ment systems and staff resources. Continuation of competent management with
clear operational goals is a prerequisite for PICIC's full recovery from past
weaknesses. The organization and strategy study to be financed by the Bank
Group under the second IIC project will be useful for ongoing efforts of GOP,
PICIC and the Bank Group to bring the process of PICIC's institutional
rehabilitation and restructuring to a more advanced stage than was possible
during the implementation period of Cr. 1019-PAK.
45.     Several lessons can be learned from this project:
- Fundamental changes in the institutional structure and management
approach of established government-controlled institutions can only be
achieved through strong commitment and support on the part of the govern-
ment and require substantial supervision efforts on the part of the Bank
aroup;
- More preparatory work is required for sector-wide training efforts and
more than general government commiLment and private sector interest are
required for their execution; and
- Development of project implementation and follow-up capacity of
individual financial institutions through appropriate monitoring systems
remains an important objective of industrial development lending opera-
tions and continues to require serious attention during supervision.
June 30, 1986



- 21 -
ZlOJICT COM&=ZIO  3POR
PAUISTAN- IND RI&L CRDIT AND
= 2INUSIUNT gomatIom  (PICIC)
(CRCDIT  09tK
Schedule of tattuted & Actual OUrtorlv Disburacmuts (18$ milliU2)
Estimted                      Actual
Qu rt.   Cusul.   Cuq l.         uK.Cx               ul
(as S of                        (as S of
total)                          total)
lot Quarter                -        -        -             -         -
2ad Quarter                -        -        -             -         -
3rd Quarter              0.50       -        -             -
4th Quarter              Ian-
3.50 j.£
1981
lot Quarter              3.00                              -
lad Quarter              3.50                             1.278
3rd quarter              4.00                             3.937
4th Quarter              3A 50     AK l4 L0Zi5                     1
17.50     3                       7.266    12.6
lot Quatr                3.00                             2.232
lad Quarter              3.50                             9.658
3rd Quarter              3.50                             2.856
4th Quarter              LaD 4 l.                         i18L85
30.50    8A                      26.116      0.6A
lst Quarter              2.50                             2.001
2ad Quarter              2.00                             2.046
3rd Quarter              1.00                             0 597
4th Quarter                      -AI0  6  5Q              1 146    5 790
37.00   Lff                      31.906    86HA
lst Quarter                         -                     0.964
2ad Qurter                                                1.715
3rd Quarter                         -                     0.236
4th Quarter                         -                     0.9o   3a5
35.781     iLL
lot Quarter                                               0.486
2ad Quarter                                               0.273
3rd Quarter                                               0 .287
4tiA Quarter                        -                      -      1046
36 .827    99i
1.      Projected disbuvrsmat figures are based on the original allocation
of 18$37.00 aillioa to PICIC and the completion of the ame was estimatd to
coincide with the original closing date of disbursements undr the eedit
which was March 31, 1"4



- 22 -                              AJgl 2
PROJECT COMPITION REPORT
PALISTAN INDUSTRUIL CREDIT AND
INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
(CREDIT 1019-PAR)
List of Sub,roiects and Disbursements
Status of Funds as at November 30, 1985
Subtrgiect                   Coeav
A-1                   United Woolen Mills Ltd.                     1,640,135.47
A-2                   Pioneer Cables Ltd.                          3,145,652.33
A-3                   Rupali Polyester Ltd.                        4,396,761.00
A-4                   Baluchistan Glass Ltd.                       3,654,716.73
A-S                  Treet Corp. Ltd.                              2,894,023.39
A-6                  Rashid Textile Mills Ltd.                     2,094,805.69
A-7                   Chaudhry Textile Mills Ltd.                  2,255,967.73
A-8                   Bata Pakistan Ltd.                           1,718,314.39
A-9                   National Tiles and Ceramics Ltd.             2,563,978.10
3-1                  Philips Electrical Industries-PA              1,278,480.85
B-2                  Lyra Shoe Co. Ltd.                              123,736.57
n-3                  S.G. Rayon Mills Ltd.                           532,000.00
B-4                  Fatech Textile Mills Ltd.                     1,231,736.40
B-5                  Alia Industries Ltd.                                  0.00
B-6                  Khavaja Tanneries Ltd. Multau                   143,949.73
3-7                  Hilal Tanneries Ltd.                            189,245.19
B-8                  Universal Chemical & General Mills Ltd.         199,587.82
B-9                  Pakistan Cycle Industrial Coop.                 560,720.05
B-10                 Khyber Wood Processing                          178,637.40
B-11                 Habib Arkady Ltd.                             1,859,412.30
B-12                 Metalex Corp. Led.                               97,556.29
B-13                 Khyber Spinning Co. Ltd.                        608,685.08
B-14                 Sapphire Textile Mills Ltd.                     821,842.62
B-15                 Mogul Tobacco Ltd.                              223,398.00
B-16                 Lever Bros Pakistan Ltd.                        305,299.70
B-17                 Jubilee Paper Boards Mills Ltd.               1,185,718.84
B-18                 Nephew and Nephew                               294,561.01
B-19                 Nabeel Fibres Ltd.                              285,871.65
B-20                 Moonlite Pak Ltd.                               412,033.62
B-21                 Bisvil Spinners Ltd.                            745,089.83
B-22                 Atlas Battery Ltd.                              346,258.36
B-23                 Syed Match Co. Ltd.                             184,S5OO.OO
B-24                 Pioneer Cables Ltd.                             540,683.49
C-001                National College of Textile Engineering          53,285.22
C-002                Textile Industry Research & Dev.                 60,323.12
Total Disbursement                          36,826,967.37
Balance Undisbursed                          3,173,032.03
Total Credit                                40,000,000.00
M. _ _=



23 -
Psgo 1
PIOECT COMPLETION REPOR
PKISTN IMNUSTRIL CREDIT AND
VES N  CPRATION (PICIC)
(CDl2Z4 1012-AV)
Characteristitcs of Sub-jro0ect linjancd Uuder IDA Loan No. 1019-PAh
(U$8 in #000)
No. of
1.   gtsre of Poects:                                                 t-     Pereatate
Now                                              11          18128         46.72
Existing                                         L4          206,0         53.28
Total:                 38798        10O.0
2.  Sectoral Distribution:
Agricultural & forest Products                    1            195          0.50
food Products 4 Processing                        3           2653          6.84
Paper, Paper Products 6 Printing                  1           1186.         3.06
Textile -    i) Cotton Textile                    4          6405          16.51
ii) Juts Manufacture                 -            -             -
iii) Other Textiles                   7           4682         12.07
Leather & Rubber Products                         4          2175           5.61
Engineering                                       8          9098          23.45
Chemicals & Petro-Chemicals                       5          5619          14.49
Cement, Ceramics and Class                        2          6785          17.47
Minerals                                          -           -              -
Tourism
Miscellaneous Products
Total:                              i 3879  100.00
3. Geoaranhical Ristribution (Province-Wise):
Sind                                             16         13245          34.14
Punjab                                           12         15610          40.23
M.W.F.P.                                          3           602           1.55
Baluchistan                                       4          9341          24.08
Capital Area                                                  -              -
Azad Kasbmir                                                                 -
Total:     I          38798         100.00



- 24 -
AUI*3
Page 2
(US$ in '000)
4.  Nature of Projiets:                           Proisets      AmoQs        Perc.ata
Up to 1 millior                                 22            7785         20.07
1-2 Nillion                                      4            5414         13.96
.2-3 Xillion                                      5          11271          29.05
3-4 Million                                      3            9931         25.60
4-5 Million                                                 . 4397         11.32
Total:   au            38728        100.02
5.  Duration of Loans
1-6 Years                                        1             185          0.48
6-8 Years                                        6            2252           5.80
8-10 Years                                       9            6786         17.49
10-12 Yeai3                                      1.           29575         76.23
Totel:    ,            38728        100.00
6.  Sub-Borrovirs Total ssets:                              (Rs in million)
Up to 1 million (Rupee)                          9            45.18         3.11
10-20 Million                                    4            53.27         3.66
20-30 Million                                    2           48.29          3.32
30-40 Million                                    4           134.20         9.23
40-50 Million                                    6          221.32         15.23
Above 50 Million                                it           9S1.40        65.45
Total:     2          1453.66        l22.01
7. Sub-8orrovers &MlovUent:                                 (US$ in '000)
Up to 50 Workers                                16             8461        21.81
51-100 Workers                                   6            3307          8.52
101-200 Workers                                  5           16101         41.50
Over 200 Workers                                 8            10222        28.17
Total:    a             38798       100.0



PIaJICT COMLIrTIOl mOI
fAK ATAN ID     IAL CUtPI  M
IYISEThIU COSidI&TioI (flCIC)
(C4tDIT 1019-PAR)
Saboroiect Cost *Nd fi"eciea Su_ri
(as in '000)
ftolect Coet_   __       _    _    _     ICICI UC___   __fxissl.e ti    Q£_
*1.                                  Stb-Project  Mature of                             Over-                Other                2 of Actual                       Differecce
llo.    Sab-foraognre                -__     S_b_rokcts   S*tiNated   Act'Al  --T_n*                                                                       #sfh.D.ALI_ c  otcl,S9ilkiJljSg4itSl_ (tbMoahL
L~~~~--------  -- ---                                             ---- _  _--_---.*-__s  _L -- ---- 8 ------- 9 -------m --------- u               ---- _1 ------- It_______ __
A- sSSl-POnCTS
I. United Woolen Hills Ltd. -         A - 01          1ew         17710        92242     14532      25936                25934       28.12    J.AY '82   Oct. '83   15 sntbt
(Pa iste  Wlool scourlia" Nd                                                         18.70?
pressing Co. Ltd.)
2.  Pioneer Cables Ltd.               A - 02         New          75000        74453     (547)      31580               31560        42.42    April '82  Sept. '82   5 Montbe
Sawing
3. tippei eolyester Li ited            A - 03         ev         101000       349985     48985      48990               44990        32.66    Oct. '82   Jan. '83    3 Noutbs
48.52
4.  Zslucbiatan Glass Ltd.             A - 04        as,          87500       110000     22500      40745                40745       37.04    Jan. '62   tereb '83  14 outbs
2s.7n2
S.  Treet Corporation Limited         A - 05           apnslpotia   60000     116096     56096      39795               39795        34.28    Jan. '84   Jan.  8S   12 Montbe
93.52
6.  Rerbid Textile Kills Limited       A - 06       0S  P         26700        54700     28000      26S00                26500       48 .45    Oct. '82   Dec. '83   14 onths
104.871
7.  Cbhadbry Textile Millo Ltd.        A - 07        DM"          35I00        44063     10983      28987                28987       62.93    Oct. '82   oct. '83   12 nontbs
31.002
B.  gets Pkietan Limited               A - 06       ELpsesion   8350O         1121SS     2844S      22445     1492       23937       21.34    Dee. '83   april '85  16 Montbe
34.32
9.  Rational Tiles * Ceraeice  Lt4.   A - 09         New          88000       122022       -        40035     7205       47240       38.71    may '82          -
0



-26-                                         ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
a    'A      A             a c              * c
i  !t M4-       4                                      4 4    "   ^    j  
Z~~~ ~ I4                                                                   I              
*                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*4    #A
|,   11           --    i    | y   4~~~~~~~~m  t  ! Zc 
-  I                      *4   #4   *4   .    *4   *4   4    *4   *4   *4~ti    I    I  g
1{lW ~ ~ ~ 4             4'                    *4 'S   3 C         
1 1as 1~~~a
't U. oH                0          0    * -        *4  *4 80 * 8               - 
|      ^    -    S    >    Z    ¢    S    ^              s    ^    bS   4    4 
p. ## * ^ w     2 a 0 -
j    ^    -    i t   S    ^    *,   "    0    5 -,   o           v 
i 't             *          i  * r           "  3 *4                      i  -*
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
i~~     ~~~            *4  8                                            *4  , i  °      E f 
S~~~~~                  5 t                         *     4fi fi    f  
0I    a                                                *4 -       S"
~~~~~~~*4j  *4   -    *4 i4                 f p     *     *4      p. O
:    t   tz   s    .    i    3    .    i3   li  f    i    i    f    34   0  .   p. 
2   .   "    ^    ^    ^~4   *  *4   -          X    o. Gb 



(a. in '000)
_    olect Coat    =                        ItcIc VnAiuGic      ._        _ f  t ii,ssS t.p ia3LZ
Sl.                                  Iob-Prejece  Ibtuto of                             Ovet Otoer                                S of Actual                       Differeace
lb ..  StaBorrow. __    ______  llo. __   Suburolecte s           Qitu         ctul    rua*   --- I       __to                       ssto  tub
X  __}  ___,  4  ,  ______ s __- 7 _____1t * -___2 ___]° __ 11 ______ 12 _ L} -L                                  -     -     ---------
14. Vo&hl Tobeeco Co. Ltd.               i - 15       "xpasioon    500         4107      (1493)      2250                 2250      5.78    Oct. '8I   Jan. '83   aS laltbe
saw iog
IS. Lever Brotbere Limited             B - 16        Expeasion   20000        10450      (9550)      3447                 3447       32.49    Joa. '83   Iarch '84  14 bathe
Sewing
13. Jubilee Paper Bord Nhlli Ltd.        - 17                     66500       91104        -        14700     2800       1750li      19.21    April '83
17. Nephew * Nephew Limited            a -         1 w             7500       19012      13512       3S89                 3589       18.88    Jan. '82   Oct. '82    9 booths
153.491
18. Ilbeel Fibres Limited **           a - 19        New          23670       MA44       17174       2860     6994        9854       24.13    Oct. '82
72.53Z
19. Iloalite (takiettm) Lisited        a - 20        Exapeeion    3003         2852      I I5S)      2067                 2067       72.48        N.A.    Dec. '85 No Sched4el
Sewing                                                                    wee prepered
20. Bievil Spieere Ltd.                a - 21        gxpasnion   22400        15026        -        10308                10308       68.60    Jan. '85       -             -
21. Atlas Blottery Ltd.                a - 22        Capepeion   16229        16800*       -        11893     3000       14893       88.65    Jan. '85       -
22. Syod Hateb Compeay Limited         B - 23        OUN"          3750        298         -         39         -         1958         -      Jan. '85
23. Pioneer Cable. Limited             * - 24 -       aspeaciom   11000         -  A                 7512       -         7512         -       Jan. '85
24. Souvenir Tobacco Co. Ltd.          a - 25        *SNa         14516         -  *       -         6016       -         6016         -       July '79
25. Precisiom Diemd tool Ltd.          a - 26        New           6500         -          -         3000      S00        3500         -       Jan. '85
26. Iboolite (Pakistan) Limited        B - 20        Ixpoecioa    7600        IS538       7938       3245       -         3245       20.88    July '82   July '83   12 bootbh
_ _   ___  ___   _____   _____   __ I___ ___ __   --- ----------1- - -                                                  __ -        - - _
* vpto 4ate cost of the project as the projecte are *till under implemantatioa.
C Scop* of tbe project bee cbang*4 substantially.
0



- 28 -                                Page I
PROJ=CT COMPLETION REPORT
PJAKISTAN INUSTRIAL -CREDIT AND
INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
(CREDIT 1019-PAX)
*Procurement Procedure Review
Si.                                            Sub-Project    Procurement Procedure
k.L           Sub - Borrowers                      No.               Followed
1.    International Floor Coverings Ltd.         A - 1             PP-I/77
(Formerly United Woolen Mills Ltd.)
2.    Pioneer Cables Limited                      A - 2            PP-1/77
3.    Rupali Polyester Limited                    A - 3             PP-1/77
4.    Baluchistan Glass Limited                   A - 4            PP-1/77
5.    Treet Corporation Limited                   A - 5            PP-I/77
6.    Rashid Textile Mills Limited                A - 6            PP-I/77
7.    Chaudhry Textile Mills Limited              A - 7            PP-1/77
8.    Bata Pakistan Limited                       A - 8            PP-I/77
9.    National Tiles & Ceramics Ltd.              A - 9            PP-I1/77
10.  Philips Electrical Industries of             B - 1            PP-1/77
Pakistan Limited
11.  Lyra Shoes Company Limited                   B - 2            PP-I/77
12.   S.G. Rayon Mills Limited                    B - 3            PP-VII/81
13.   Fateh Textile Mills Limited                 B - 4            PP-I/77
14.   Khawaja Tanneries Limited                  B - 6             PP-I/77
15.  Nilal Tanneries Limited                     B - 7             PP-1I/77
16.   Universal Chemical & General Mills Ltd.   B - 8              PP-II/77
17.   Pakistan Cycle Industrial Co-operative    B - 9              PP-I/77
8ociety Limited



ANNEX 5
Page 2
- 29 -
18.   Khyber Wood Processing Co. Ltd.             B - 10           PP-VII/81
19.   Habib Arkady Limited                        B - 11           PP-1/77
20.   Metalex Corporation Ltd.                    B - 12           PP-11/77
21.   Khyber Spinning Company Ltd.                B - 13           PP-1/77
22.   Sapphire Textile Mills Ltd.                 B - 14           PP-1/77
23.  Mogul Tobacco Company Limited                3 - 15           PP-Vul/8l
24.  Lever Brothers Pakistan Ltd.                 B - 16           PP-II/77
25.   Jubilee Paper Board Mills Limited           B - 17           PP-V$I/8l
26.  Nepbew & Nephew Limited                      B - 18           PP-11/77
27.   Nabeel Fibres Limited                       B - 19           PP-11/77
28.  Moonlite Pakistan Liaited                    B - 20           PP-11/77
29.  Bievil Spinners Limited                      B - 21           Single Bid
30.   Atlas Battery Limited                       B - 22           PP-1/77-81
PP-I(a)/84
31.   Pioneer Cables Limited                      B - 24           PP-I(a)/84
32.   Syed Match Company Limited                  3 - 23           PP-I(a)/84
1. PP-1/77 requires international Bidding.
2. PP-1I/77 requires competitive quotations from at least 3 sources.
3. PP-VII/83 is applicable to the procurement of second baud/
reconditioned machinery.
4. PP-It()/84 requires competitive quotations from at least 3 sources.
5. PP-I(b)/84 requires competitive quotations from at least five sources
of which atleast 3 should be from three different countries.
6. PP-I(c)/84 requires international bidding through advertisement in
at least two newspaper.
Source: PICIC



tit          0~~~~~~~1 
o          __                         tg ot    3
t~                  a    aeS       " °     "y    I"  t 0
0 ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ 0*a
0  32~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
3r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                                    t 
- . fl..e-~-- ------ --- ------------                        -
O                                             - - ______________ _--- - i
0      *              0                                                      b     v 
da.% 
0  #4        is            N4        N4      U     N                           -
(St .....e  .ee  e...  ..--------......------
*             u-
*    *              o
__________________________ 
..ee.e.ee  --- #  .e - ..ee.e..  - 
#4            o s
@______________________ N



PAISAN JUDI 8ItL CtEDIT AtD
ImVESTl~UT  COB0a7103 (PICIC)
(CaurP 1019-P)
Subproject Financial Performance Summary (Completed Projects)
lMet Earoings                tlouths of
sales ( a. rupees)          As S of Equity                Project      2 Cost
Subprojects            Textile (T)        Type        get.   Act.   +                s Bet.    Act.    Cesparis. Delay        Overrun
A-2  Pioneer Cables                            now        56.5    18.6    -    67         20.7    13.6        Lower         5
A-3  Rupali Polyester                          new        43.7    29.6    -    32         19.6    Lose        Lcwer         3        48.5
A-4  laluchistan Class                         sew        38.3    29.2    -      24       34.0    Loss        Lower        14        25.7
A-? Cbandhry Textile           T               anl        40.4    44.4    +      10       10.2    Loss        Lower        12        31.0
3-1  Pbilips glectrical                        Exp.      198.3   261.7    +      32       13.3    13.9       Higher         -         -
5-2  Lyre Shoe Co.                             lip.       16.1    14.2    -      12       13.9      3.2       Lover        14         -
3-3  S.G. Rayon Hills          T               lxp.       38.8    29.1    -      25       29.4    18.3       Lower          6       224.3
3-4 Fateb Textile              T               lxp.      240.0   460.0    +      92        9.4    45.0       Higber        15         -
5-6 ibavaja Tanneries                          BlD        17.3    23.2   +       34       41.0      4.4      Lover          5         -
3-7 Vital Tanneries                           B35         76.8    68.5   -       11       27.1    16.4       Lower          I        0.5
1-9 Pakistan Cycle                             BII       119.5    161.9    +     35       10.7      8.0      Lower         12       105.0
5-13 ibyber Spinning           T               151        15.9      5.2    -    67         4.2    Loss       Lower         22        9.2
5-14 Sappbire Textile          T               exp.      170.7    216.6    +     27        9.9    23.1        Higher       20        11.0
B-15 Kogul Tobacco                             Bxp.      133.6   124.3    -       7       31.2    Loss       Lower         15
5-18 Nephew & Nepbew           T               New        20.9    32.8    +      57       12.1    68.7       Higber         9       153.5
-     -------- --              -     ------------                                          - - ----------------
Source: PIC1C - Annexure 11
PCI - Annexure VIII
M



PROJ3C1 CoKPtElIOU REPORT
PAKIbSTAN INDUSTRzAL CREDIT MID INvEsIENT CoRSiRATroN LIMITED
ECONMHIC PERFORfANCt OF SUB-PROJECT UNDER-CREDIT 1019-PAK
;| Capacity Uti-                 Exports        Export as      Incremental    :'Cost/Job        lalue Added
Sub-Borro.era by                  SuD-                  lization (C)   (b in million) s  of sales   hEmPloy et             ('s in mtllioni's in million)
ledustrlal                        Project                                &el-            lEsti-tl  ;     jeaes- !Ata   IS9ti_                - sti-'
Csteor. No   T,oeatcon aia   [Actual  mte    A _ ctual lcatc  lActual mate _iActual  IiatO !Attusl  _ate lActual
s  .     2    s         #    l  S      6         7        8    i  9    tO 10     11     i 12   ; 1!1       14  1l
AGRICULTURAL & FOREST PRODUCT
Rhybev Wood Processing Co. Ltd.  B-10   Peshawar         60      N.A.    Nil      til       1il    rtl    24       50      0.225  .1I12  11.743  2.( 18
FOOD PRODUCTS & PROCESSING:
Habib Arkady Limited                3-11   Hub-Chowki   70        -      Nil      Kil       t:il  il   260      250      C.7j6  r.ios  56.r.50
tVogul Tobacco Co. Ltd.             B-15   Karachi       50       40      N.A    0.560      N.A    0.450  20        20  r .4455  2.2'              n 90.5804
PAPER. PAPER PRODUCTS & PRIMNTIrN                                                                                                                            r
Jubilee Paper & Board M111i   Ltd. B-17   Gujranwala   50         -      til      till     tNil     il   zis        -       ;.      _     G.*.                1
TEXTILES:
Cottont
Sapphlre Textile Mills Ltd.        8-14   Kotri          70       86   133.035 166.984   3ci.o30 ?7.1CO 326       375       .141  ..I )  i3."6 56.925
Fateh Te xttle Mills Ltd.      B    -4    Hyderabad    60        N-A.   37.710  N.A.       15.710  U.A.   55       55      D.;7 *54        + .    43.600
Resbid Textile Mills Ltd.          A-6    Karachi        80       33    55.478  22.269   s2.v/0 21.53   -          -        -       -      I4.530 16.737
Chbudbry Textile Mills Ltd.        A-?    Lahore         85       83     7.418  11.037   id.350) :5. Co nrl       i:il      :1    itl        .a.  25.j20
Noollan & Others:
international Floor Coverints Ltd A-1   Karachi          6,      74    16.o0o   Nil        3n.140  .tl   130      7?       0.$93  *).ro64  5.519  9.398
Khyber Spinning Co. Ltd.           B-13   Lnhore         50       60      1.736   t'tl     11.oon  gil    77       112     o.l64   1.lS   c.;,-70  1.342
Nephew & Nephew Limited            8-18   Hyderabad    70         70    20.380  32.780  UCA).O00 1(416.'O  375    730      1s.i24) {..      .7.i)o 14.740



- 33 -M!B9
PROJCT CO)GLETION REPORT
PARISTAN IIIDUSTRIAL CR1DIT AND
INVESTmENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
(CREDIT 1019-PAK)
(Rs in million)
Years ended                      PROJECTED UD ACTUAL LENDING OPERATIONS
December 31,           1979.       192!       1981       1982       1983        194
P1...... A  P   A ...L    A      ,P    A     P   A      P    A
.APPR2VALS
Forein Currency    N.A. 354  473  372   568  335   681  256   818  612   N.A. 874
Local Currency      N.A.  26  4Q  _23    49  _1 _U                     26 7  N.A. 126
Total                  380  513  395   617  383   742  363   895  838          1000
COMI ITHNTISIIT
Foreign Currency    N.A.   73  238    4   680  388   684  292   686  304   N.A. 264
Local Curreucy      N.A.    4  _a    j    _j  _a    _j  _j   _a   _j   N.A. 112_
Total                   77  261   10   716  408   725  321   738  351          416
Foreign Currency    N.A. 226  112  86   262  174  407  284   550  173   N.A. 240
Local Curreucy      N.A.   3    9   _A    29  _a    _6  _U    _4  _8   N.A. MA
Total                  229  121   90   291  189   443  299   594  231          374
_m  _m    ma  _m   am    mu   .        ma     .    _     m



- 34 -                                 AVU XL.I
PROJECT COMPLETION REMPOR
PARISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND
INVESTMENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
(CXE'DtT 1019-PA)
Balance Sheets (1980-1984) 1/
(as million)
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984
Assets
Cash and short term deposits                   97       80       115      120       123
Securities                                     19       14         7       20        21
Sundry current assets                          25       23        70      103       115
Accrued interest                              507      535       570      645       637
Loan portfolio (gross)                      1,793    1,811    2,425    2,639    3,167
Less:  reserves                            (94)      (99)    (104)    (224)    (238)
Loan portfolio (nee)                        1,699    1,712    2,321    2,415    2,929
Equity investments                            98        97       104      105       110
Fixed assets (net)                              1        1         1        4         5
Total assets                               2,646    2,462    3,188    3,412    3,940
Liabilities and NetWorth
Current liabilities                            74       87       221      164       172
Long term borrowings                       2,001    1,985    2,484    2,780    3,253
Total liabilities                        2,075    2,072    2,705    2,944    3,427
Paid-up capital                               92        92      110       110       110
Reserves-retained earnings                   279       298      373       358       403
Metworth                                   371       390      483       468       513
Total liabilities and networth             2,446    2,462    3,188    3,412    3,940
#ain    sam         -       amss    ufass
Long term debtsquity ratio                   5.4       5.1      5.1       5.9       6.3
1/ Assets and liabilities in East Pakistan are excluded.
Source: PICIC.



- 35 -
,A,N=  1 ,
PROJ;CT COMPLUTIQN REZORT
PARISTAN SNRYSTRIAL CREDIT AND
INVESThgf CO    lRTow (PICIC)
(CtEDIT lQ19-LAX)
tncoCe StateMents (1980-1984)
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984
tacome-__
Interest income                               190       174       205      258       316
Comnitment fees                                 9        25        25       48        23
Income - short-term investmeAts                12        12        10       10        10
Income - equity investments                     9        15        20       22        43
Total income                                      220  2              H       392
Expenses
Interest on borrowings                        151       155      183       222       254
Commitment fees                                -         -        -         -
Adintistrative expenses                        21        19        21       25        22
Depreciation                                   -         -        -          1         1
Provision for doubtful debts                    4         2        9        20        16
PortfoLio write-offs                           -              -             11        20
Total expensos                         -176      1t        213      2-79      313
Bet income                                     44        SO       47        59        79
Less:  income taxes                          (6)     (12)      (15)      (16)      (17)
NeFItacome (after taxes)                       38        38       32        43        62
Dividend                                       -        -         11        14        16
Ratios
Het profit/avg. networth (1)                  9.0      10.0      7.3       9.0     12.6
Met profit/avg. total assets (t)              1.1       1.3      1.0       1.3       1.7
Long term 4ebt/equicy ratio                   5.4       5.1      5.1       5.9      6.3
Admin. esp./avg. total ssets                  0.7      0.7       0.7       0.7      0.6
Adaim. exp./avg. Loan portfolio (2)           1.2       1.1      1.0       1.1      0.8
Source:  PtCC.-



- 36 _aDx.L 12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
P4RISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND
IjNVESMNT CQ^OPOATION (PIcIc)
(CREDIT 1019-PAR)
Sumuarv of Resource Mobilization - 1980-1984
Amount in
Foreign       US$                     Interest
Year of                                              Currency      Equiv.      Maturity    Rate
AOIrgval                 o0urce                      (Million)      (million)  (Years       (2)
FOREIGN CURRENCY
1980               Asian Development Bank             US$40.0       40.0         17         8.10
1980               French Government                 FFr. 5.6        0.6         15       8.5-8.8
1982               French Government                 FFr.10.5         1.1        15         8.5
1982               French Goverment                  Ffr.27.0        2.9         15         8.5
1982               L.f.V Germany                      DM 15.0        4.9         26         8.0
1983               Asian Development Bank             US$45.0       45.0         15        10.5
1983               F.M.O. Netherland                  DFLl5.O        4.3         16         8.5
1984               I.B.R.D/IDA                       US$18.0        18.0         15        10.0
AMDUNT IN RUPEES
LOCAL CURRENCY                                                    (Million)
Credits for Local MachinerY
1981               State Bank of Pakistan             Rs 11.0 a       -        6 years      6.5
1981               State Bank of Pakistan            Rs 10.8 a        -        6 years     6.5
1982               State Bank of Pakistan            Rs 60.0 a        -      8 1/2 years   6.5
1983               State Bank of Pakistan            RslOO.3 a        -      8 1/2 years   6.5
1984               State Bank of Pakistan             0s139.4 a       -      8 1/2 years   6.5
Loans for Short-term Isvestment
1983               State Bank of Pakistan            Rs25O.0 a        -      January 1989 10.0
1983               State Bank of Pakistan            Rs843.5 a        -     June 1988    10.0
1984               State Bank of Pakistan            Rs25O.0 a        -      Dec. 1989    10.00



- 37 -                                    ANNEX 13
PROJECT COMMLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVEST ErT CORPORATION LIMITED
CREDIT 1019-PAN
Surnarv of Collections and Arrears
A4earv Posit&on
As Percentage
of TOt81 LOar.E    Collection  Percetage
Tc-al Arrears             Net       As against As against
D  a  t e       j j 11    )   Oross, Of Pzov±sioa    billiL_ total dues
December 31, 1980     1121*7       440       465;           34%       24*
December 31, 1981     1259*2      47ji       49S           40,        19;.
December 31, 1982     1151.2      41Z        42$;          50         20;*
Deceaber 31, 1983      983.2      325        3             37*        39St
December 31, 1984    1023*1        31        33),          43b        34,*
December 31, 1985     1079*5*     25'       271%           655,37)
* haeod on flixed parity rates
Notes Seudiag 1DD-961-PA  04b-Loan..
Collection Performance
Year     C tionTarat           Actual Colletion              % of Target
.a iMillion)1
Jan -June/July-Dec7 Total
1981       340.0               174.2    176.3    350.5          103.1
1982       360.0               203.4    202.3    405.7          112.7
1983       427*0               220.5    219.8    440.3          103.1
1984       460.0               202.0    282.4    484.4          ICS.3
1985       500.0               261.9    276.5    538.4          107*7



- 38                                                of 6
PAKLSTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT
& INVESTMENT CORPORATION LMITED
State Life Buildln& No. 1
TEMLPHONES: 226361 10 LINES        L I. ChUndrir Road Kaahi.                   TELEX: PICIC PK 2'0
P.O. BOX NO. WSO KARACHI-2.                                                    CBLE 'TICCORP"
COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM THE BORROWER
No. PD/473/86                                 September 14, 1986
Mr. George Maniatis,
Acting Division Chief,
Operations ivaluation Department,
The World Banks
1818 H Street, N.W.,
v.ashington D*C. 20433s
U. S. A.
Dear Sir,
Project Completion Report on
IDA-Credit-1019-PjiK 
Please refer to your letter of August 8, 1986
enclosing draft copy of the Project Completion Report
prepared by the South Asia Regional Office of the bank
on IDA-Credit 1019-PAK.
We have gone through the report in context of
the objectives laid down by the bank for the credit and
enclose our comments on observations made in the report*
Yours jaithfully,
ASHFA        211RDI )
DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR
Encl: As stated above.



- 39 -                            ANNE( 14
Page 2 of 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND
INVESTNENT CORPORATION (PICIC)
(CREDIT 1019-PAK)
PCR Reference
1.    The draft of the Project Con;letion Report on IDA-Credit-1019-.FA
prer4red by the South Asia Regi.onal office of the ba.rYk has been gone
through in the context of objectives laid dor.n for the credit at the
time of preypar&tion of aFyraisal re-ort by the bank.  The observeations
of the rerort tre positive relating to sters taken ty Y*ICIC and GOP
for the institutional rehabilitation and orvanizstional strengthening.
This has contributed significantly towards FICIC's financial revival
and achievem.ent of coll'ction tarre-t6 throu& out and aided in overcomi
arrear problems inspite of certain unfavourable internal and external
factors which prevailed during the period and w.hich were beyond the
control of PICIC. -NoWeverg our comments on those arOas of the project
imFlementation w-ich in the views of PCR remained below the expectatio3
level are given below :-
2.     Project Completion beport mentions that one year after the           /Para. 15.
Adju.sted to
effectiveness of the cr--dit, actual disbursements were only 20v of the  reflect
change in SAR
credit amount compared to 50  estimated at the time of app.raisal.  In   projections.
this context, it is mentioned that the disbursement estimates of the
World Bank report were based on the assumption that the earlier effect:
neon of credit would result in starting of disbursements froa the thir
quarter of the year 1980, whereas the credit-line actually become sUe.
on October 29#1080* We suggest that it would be appropriate to-cOMpare
projected disbursements during the first four quarters wiQk actual dil
burseoments of the first four quarters after the credit becae eoffeetiv,
Similar comparison should be made for the remaining quarters as is don.
for the following estimated and actual disbursementsssa
0........



- 40 -                          ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 6
(us$ Million)
Cumulative
Estimated       % of        Actual        % of
Disburse4mnts   Total   Disbursements   Total
ist Four Quarters                10.00         27.0         5.215       14.1
2nd Four Quarters               24.00          64.9       22.012        59.7
3rd Four Quarters               35.00          94.6       30.760        83.1
Last Two <Juarters              37.00         100.0       32.870        89.00
3.     The above comparison depicts that actual disbursements proceeded  /PCR
para. 15
satisfactorily and only 11% of thA original credit amount was left for
disbursement by the original closing date of disbursement. The disbursement
of this amount could have easily been effected by the closing date had the
decision to revert implementation of the projects by the project proponents
not been so late leaving no time for the diversion of undisbursed funds to
alternate projects. Non-completion of the requisite formalities for the
effectiveness of loan by some projects and simultaneous availability of funds
under IIC-1 from the World Bank and Development Finance Project from the
Asian Development Bank where access to the pool money was subject to the
full commitment of initial allucatiou was also a contributing factor for
non-ut-;lization of undisbursed amount. We also submit that total amount
available under the credit was committed for the projects without leaving
any amount for exchange fluctuations which could have been on either side
and which was difficult to project. The actual disbursements however resultet
in saving of an amount of USM 3.09 million equivalent since US$ became strong
during the period. You would agree with us to suitably amend the remarks in
PCR regarding less thou satisfactory   resource management in view of the
fact that it was not possible to calculate saving3 from exchange fluctuation;
till disbursements,
4.    Project Completion Report mentions that only tbreetextile sub-
projects were reviewed by the bank with 25% of the total financing



AIINEX 14
- 41 -                            Page 4 of 6
for A*projects as compared to ?5% of A-Project. financing expected to/PCR para. 19
modified to
be relbted to the textile sector at the time of appraisal. It would be/ reflect
existence of
appreciated that appraisal estimtes of the bank were based on the   pipeline and
alternative
backlog of projects which were awaiting allocation of funds at the time/ sources of
financing.
of the sypraisal of IDA Credit-1019-PAK and which besides other textile
projects also Included three textile projects namely Firdous Spinning
and Weaving Mills, Crescent Textile Mills Limited and Dawood Cotton
Mille i4mited involving an aggregate amount of USM 7.128 million. The
first two projects were later on withdrawn by the sponsors whereas the
project of Dawood Cotton Mills Limited was implemented under Chinese
Credit since it involved expansion of cotton spinning capacity for the
project for which Chinese LIne of Credit was available and PICIC was
restricted by the GOP to finance any expansion in cotton spinning under
the credit. Pegarding seven textile projects approved by 'ICIC during
1980-1984 and which were fi#anced from the sources other than the Chinese
Credit, It i. mentioned that out of these two were financed out of IDA-
Credit-1019-PAI while one project was issued repayment guarantee in
favour of Islamic Development Bank. Out of the remaining four project6,
Coe project was not eligible for financing under IDA-Credita1019-PAE
whereas the remaining three projects were approved during the third and
fourth quarters of 1984 and it was estimated that these projecrs would
not be able to utilize the funds by the closing date of disbursements
If allocated funds under IDA-Credit-1019-PAK. However, these projects
were financed from the World Bank funds under Industrial Investment
Credit-I.



ANNEX 14
- 42 -                               Page 5 of 6
5.     It would not be correct to assume that PICIC follow-up,             /PCR para. 20
indicates
monitoring and processing of feed-back information system is not           that PICIC
has not taken
contributing sufficiently towards efficient and better implementation action to
address the
of the projects and fails to enhance the capabilities of the               weaknesses
noted.
appraisal staff by not imparting knowledge about actual implementation
;roblemr. This observation has parhaps been made becuse of the
non-availability of certain data in case of some projects. This non-
availability of data in certain cases is attributed to the fact that
the compilation of information for PCR was started well before the
closing date of disbursement of credit, when some of the projects
were still under implementation. The information desired for the
PCR from the staff concerned with the implementation of the project
were such which are normally extracted from the Completion Reports
prepared on the sub-projects which is normally prepared one year after
the commencement of the commercial operations of the projects. It
would be appreciated that FICIC's project follow-up and feed-back
system is efficient and systematic to provide relevant information
to the appraisal staff with regular preparation of the quarterly
progress reports on projects under implementation besides completion
reports. Quarterly reports are prepared by the implementation staff
in association with technical staff whereas people from the Economic
and Research Department are also associated -in the preparation of
completion report. PCR is circulated to all the concerned including
appraisal people for having feed-jack for future appraisal works.
6.    On the observation concerning realistic assumptions for market
forecast, it is mentioned that to achieve more appropriate results
..../.**.



ANNEX 14
Page 6 of 6
43 -
from the market forecast, PICIC apart from historical growth rate   /PCR - paras
21-23. The
of domestic demand and past growth rate of exports also employs          weaknesses
identified in
certain other measures for forecasting the market for a product.         PICIC's opera-
tions will be
For instance such macro variables as the growth of GNP, per capita   reviewed in
the process
income, the population growth rate, the rate of urbanization and         of an insti-
tutional
other applicable variables are also being correlated while projecting/ review to
be carried out
the future demand.                                                    under LN2648-PAK.
7.    Market report on PICIC projects has now been segregated  into /PCR -
paras. 21-23
two parts viz, macro analysis and micro analysis. The macro part of
the market report deals with the demand/supply position of a product
from the national point of view whereas the micro part deals with the
ecoromics of the firm. It deals with the price competitiveness of a
firm's products with the similar products and attempts to analyse the
consumer response and the marketing strategy of the firm. This part
also deals with the project locatJon from the point of view of its
nearness to raw-material centres and markets. In all import substiutior
project,calculation of Domestic Resource Cost ratio has also been
included.
8.    Regarding PCR's observations concerning assessment  of realistic /PCR -
paras. 21-23.
implementation time, it is mentioned that PICIC realizes its importance
for the implementation of the project with lesser cost over-runs and
better results and has started giving due considerations to the factors
like size of the project, proposed location, Government approval if
required, technology involved and status of the arrangement of
remaining foreign and local currency requirements of the project*.



