Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.2834a-PAK
PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF AN IDA CREDIT FOR THE
PICIC INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 22, 1980
South Asia Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =    Pakistan Rupees (Rs)
US$ 1         =      Rs 9.9
Rs 1                 US$0.101
ACRONYMS
ADB    -   Asian Development Bank
BMR    -   Balancing, Modernization, and Replacement
GOP    -   Government of Pakistan
ICP    -   Investment Corporation of Pakistan
IDBP   -   Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IPB    -   Investment Promotion Bureau
KfW    -   Kreditanstalt fur Wideraufbau
MD     -   Managing Director
MOI    -   Ministry of Industries
NIT    -   National Investment Trust
NDFC   -   National Development Finance Corporation
NWFP   -   North West Frontier Province
PAYE   -   Pay As You Earn Scheme
PICIC  -   Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
SBP    -   State Bank of Pakistan
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Pakistan = July 1 - June 30
PICIC                    = January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THE
PICIC INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.    INTRODUCTION  ............................................                          I
II.    ECONOMIC AND INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENT  .....................                          2
Industrial Performance and Policy Issues  ....                    ............     2
The Textile Sector  ......................................                         5
Industrial Finance ...................,.                           .......    9
III.    INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS  ...................................                         12
ownership and Board   ....................................                        12
Management and Staff  ....................................                        13
Organization  .............................................                       14
Procedures  and Standards  ................................                       15
Operating Policies  ......................................                        17
Relations with Government and the Business Community  ....                        18
IV.    RESOURCES AND OPERATIONS  ................................                         19
Resource Mobilization  ...................................                        19
Resource Allocation ..................                                           21
Development Impact ..................                                             22
V.    ARREARS AND COLLECTIONS  .................................                        23
Background  ..............................................                       23
Developments,  1976-1979  .................................                       24
Present Situation  .......................................                       25
Reasons for Arrears  .....................................                       26
The Legal System  ........................................                       29
Collection Plan  .........................................                       31
VI.    FINANCIAL ASPECTS  .......................................                        33
Profitability  ...........................................                        33
Liquidity  ...............              ...............................           34
Capital Structure  .......................................                       35
Equity Investments .................                        I                    36
Market Quotation  ..........................                                      36
Audit  ................................                     ...........          36
This report was prepared by Messrs. N. Fostvedt and J. Balkind, following
their Appraisal Mission to Pakistan in May/June 1979. It was updated fol-
lowing Mr. Balkind's mission in November 1979. Mr. D. Williams prepared a
section of the report as a result of the Industrial Sector Mission in May
1979 consisting of Messrs. Williams, P. Thuyet and A. Sandig.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- 1ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
VII.  PROSPECTS   ...............................................  37
General  Outlook   .........................................  37
Business  Forecasts   ......................................  37
Resource  Requirements   ...................................  39
Financial Projections ...................................   40
VIII.  PROPOSED  CREDIT  .........................................  40
Objectives of the Proposed Credit .......................   40
Lending  Scheme   ..........................................  41
Main  Terms   ..............................................  42
Project  Risk   ............................................  43
IX.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED ...........................   43
ANNEXES
1.  List of Shareholders as of December 31, 1979
2.  Outline of PICIC's Business Policies
3.  PICIC's Strategy Statement, 1980-1982
4.  Summary of Loan Operations, 1958 to 1979
5.  Comparative Statement of Loans Sanctioned, 1958 to 1979
6.  Sectoral Distribution of Outstanding Loan and Equity
Portfolio and Arrears as of December 31, 1979
7.  Rates of Return and Employment Ratios for PICIC Projects since
January 1977
8.  Statement of Arrears, 1975-79
9.  Classification of PICIC's Overdue Companies as of February 28, 1979
10.  Summary of Collection Plan, 1980-1982
11.  Auditors List of Projects in Arrears, as of December 31, 1978
12.  Actual and Projected Statements of Income, 1977-1983
13.  Actual and Projected Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1977-1983
14.  Backlog of Sanctioned Projects Awaiting Allocation of
Funds as of January 31, 1980
15.  Pipeline of Projects as of January 31, 1980
16.  Projected Foreign and Domestic Currency Resource
Position, 1980-1983
17.  Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1980-1983
18.  Disbursement Schedule
19.  List of Documents in Project File
Chart
1.  PICIC's Organization Chart as on December 31, 1979
Map
IBRD 14496 - Locations of PICIC Financed Projects



PAKISTAN
PICIC INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BASIC DATA - PICIC
1.   Year Established:   1957
(Rs
million) %
2.   Ownership (as of December 31, 1979):  Private Sector                46.2   50.4
GOP-owned Institutions    45.4   49.6
Total Share Capital        91.6  100.0
3.   Bank Group Assistance
No. of Loans/Credits            Amount        Implementation Performance
10                      US$233 million                Good
Last Loan   Date Signed   Effectiveness    Amount   Authorized   Disbursed
(US$ Millions as of March 31, 1980)
1326-PAK        9/29/76     11/29/76          25.0        25.0          23.2
4.   PICIC Operations                          (Rs Million)
Actuals                   Projections
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
Gross Sanctions        177    314    367    287    380    513    617
Commitments            307    125    301    180    177    261    716
Disbursements          257    193    130    260    229    121    291
5.   Projected Foreign Currency Resource Position (US$ million)
1979     1980
Resources Available for Commitment at beginning
of period                                               23.1      13.4
Less:  New Commitments                                     17.2     24.1
Plus: Projected New Resources
IDA/ADB                                        -        80.0
KfW
Other Bilateral Credits                             7.5      7.5
Resource Available for Commitment at end of year          13.4      76.8



- 11 -
6.   Financial Ratios                  Actual                      Projected
1978      1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
(i) Profitability
Net Profit after
tax to Average
Net Worth (%)          11.2       9.3      6.6      7.1     8.2      7.9
Net Profit after
tax to Average
Total Assets (%)         1.45     1.28    1.02    1.12    1.27    1.17
Administrative
Expenses/Average
Total Assets (%)        0.70      0.71    0.78    0.84    0.86    0.85
(ii) Capital Structure
Debt/Equity Ratio
(contractual
definition)           5.71:1   5.49:1  4.90:1  4.78:1  5.02:1  5.54:1
7.   Interest Rates and Charges
PICIC Term Loans (foreign currency)                       11%
PICIC loans for locally fabricated machinery               8.5%
Commercial Bank Loans (local currency
fixed investment)                                       11%
Commercial Banks Working Capital Loans                    14%
PICIC Penalty Rate on Overdues                             4%
Savings Deposit Rates                                   8-12%
April 1, 1980



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THE
PICIC INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC)
was one of the first development finance companies (DFCs) established with
World Bank Group assistance. IBRD made its first loan to PICIC in 1957, and
has by now made ten loans for a total of $233 million. 1/ During the 1960s,
PICIC developed into a well managed and experienced DFC. However, the time
since then has been exceptionally difficult. A substantial portion of PICIC's
assets was lost through the separation of Bangladesh, while repeated national-
izations under the previous administration affected negatively the investment
climate and curtailed significantly PICIC's sphere of activity. In addition,
the repayment ability of many of PICIC's clients was reduced by the effects
of the 1972 devaluation, which more than doubled the repayment obligations
of PICIC's clients, and starting in late 1974, by the poor international
market for the important textile sector.
1.02      The latest IBRD loan to PICIC (Loan 1326-PAK) for $25 million was
made in 1976, and has been utilized according to schedule. The loan was fully
committed by December 1978, and disbursements as of March 31, 1980 were $23.2
million. During the preparation and implementation of that loan, a number
of steps were agreed with PICIC and the Government (GOP), which inter alia
resolved the problem of PICIC's liabilities regarding Bangladesh. In addition,
the agreed measures were expected to improve PICIC's loan collections to a
satisfactory level. However, this improvement did not materialize for two
reasons, both outside PICIC's control. First, the political uncertainties
in Pakistan worsened, and resulted in serious disturbances in 1977, which
affected the production, profitability, and cash flow position of many clients.
Second, the sharp exchange rate fluctuations over the past few years for the
rupee, which is tied to the US$, again increased significantly the debt serv-
ice burden of many PICIC clients, and created a feeling that it is inappro-
priate for the term-lending institutions to demand repayments, as per their
subloan agreements, at the higher exchange rates. This feeling, combined with
a delay in announcement of GOP support for PICIC's position that the clients
should honor their contractual obligations, resulted in a pronounced unwill-
ingness on the part of many borrowers to repay PICIC. A recent adverse court
decision concerning arrears due from a subborrower prior to the 1972 devalua-
tion, which PICIC is appealing, has made PICIC's collection efforts more diffi-
cult. Nevertheless, several actions taken by GOP have improved the prospects
for PICIC's collections.
1/   On completion of Loan 590-PAK, the Operations Evaluations Department
(OED) reviewed PICIC's performance, which was found to be satisfactory
(Project Completion Report of January 13, 1978). In this report, the
foreign exchange risk problem was highlighted (para 5.07).



- 2 -
1.03      The objectives of the proposed IDA credit of $40 million 1/ would
be (a) to provide scarce foreign exchange term funds for financially and
economically viable industrial projects in the private sector, thereby sup-
porting the present improvement in the investment climate, and GOP's present
emphasis on the private sector; (b) to achieve substantial improvements in
PICIC's collections; this will inter alia require GOP actions that will bene-
fit all financial institutions in Pakistan; (c) to achieve further improvements
in PICIC as an institution; and (d) as part of the project, to follow up on the
implementation of GOP's textile program, and provide support ($3 million) for
textile training. The credit would also support the textile sector through
PICIC's financing of textile projects, principally for balancing, moderniza-
tion, and replacement (BMR) and a smaller number of new projects.
II. ECONOMIC AND INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENT
Industrial Performance and Policy Issues
2.01      The manufacturing sector accounts for about 15% of GDP and employs
about 3 million people, or 13% of the total workforce. Large and medium size
manufacturing produces about 76% of value-added in the sector, this output be-
ing shared (about 60:40) between private and public firms. Small and cottage
industry, which is entirely private, provides about 87% of total manufacturing
employment and accounts for the remaining 24% of value-added. While the manu-
facturing sector has been important in the Pakistan economy since independence,
and remains so today, the past ten years have seen wide variations in perform-
ance and major changes in the structure of manufacturing. While maintaining a
share of 15-16% of GDP, the manufacturing sector passed through two periods of
very low or negative growth (i) in FY71-72 as a result of the war and secession
of East Pakistan; (ii) between FY75-78 during the last years of the previous
administration and the initial martial-law period. Real manufacturing value-
added fell in FY72 by 3.6% from the FY71 level; and the growth of value-added
in manufacturing from FY75 through FY77 averaged less than 1% per annum in
constant prices. The distribution of production also shifted with small-scale
industry contributing just over 20% of manufacturing value-added in FY70 and
slightly over 30% in FY79. Gross fixed capital formation in manufacturing
appears to have declined steadily from FY70 through FY75, when growth in
investment resumed. The pattern of investment in industry, however, changed
markedly. Investment in public manufacturing enterprises was about 11% of
the total gross fixed capital formation in FY70 and was below 10% of the total
in the three following years. By FY75, the share of public investment was
approaching one half and reached about 73% in FY78. As a consequence of this
structural shift, which focussed capital formation on large-scale "basic"
industries such as steel, cement, heavy chemicals, fertilizers and agricultural
machinery, the present industrial strategy is constrained by the need to com-
plete outstanding commitments in large-scale public sector investments (para
1/   In March 1980, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) approved a loan of $40
million to PICIC. The IDA credit and the ADB loan were prepared in close
coordination with similar terms and conditions.



- 3 -
2.19). Manufactured exports developed rapidly in the 1960s but fell during
the mid-1970s as a result of international recession, crop failures and the
shift in Government policies on industrial structure.  By 1977, exports were
stagnant - even in current dollar values - and Pakistan faced a steadily
worsening trade balance (from US$328 million in FY74 to $1,488 million in
FY78).
2.02      Considerable concern has been expressed over the past several years
about Pakistan's economic performance. This concern relates principally to
(i) the size and composition of the public investment program, with its con-
centration on large-scale, long-gestation projects to the neglect of more
urgent programs to improve productivity in agriculture and industry, to pro-
mote exports and to strengthen basic social services; and (ii) inadequate
domestic resource mobilization efforts, which have led to large budget
deficits and acute balance of payments difficulties. At the same time, the
private sector was severely depressed by nationalizations and restrictions
on its activities.
2.03      It now seems clear, however, that partly as a result of recent Gov-
ernment efforts to reorient its policies (para 2.04) and improved stability,
a significant economic recovery is underway in Pakistan. GDP growth during
the last two years averaged 6% per annum, and a similar rate of growth is
likely to be attained in FY80. This growth has been accompanied by an annual
increase of about 4.4% in total production and a rapid growth in exports,
which increased in real terms by 11% in FY78 and by 23% in FY79. Most of the
increase was in manufactured goods. During the first five months of FY80, ex-
ports rose in current prices by 50% over the corresponding months of the
preceding year, and for the year as a whole may be about 30% higher than in
FY79. This performance contrasts markedly with the economic stagnation of
the early and mid-seventies.
2.04      Important changes have been made during the past 2-3 years in Gov-
ernment policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the early
and mid-seventies of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the
private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead indus-
trial investment and growth are being gradually reversed. Most agricultural
processing and some industrial units have been denationalized; amendments to
the Constitution providing safeguards to private industry against further
arbitrary Government acquisitions have been announced; the areas open to the
private sector have been widened; and a range of incentives introduced to
encourage private activity. Tax holidays, excise and import duty concessions,
easier access to imported raw materials, concessionary credit and income tax
provisions, and direct cash rebates have been granted to encourage private
investment and exports. The investment sanctioning procedure has been stream-
lined; the average period for processing investment applications has been cut
down from about twelve to three months, while projects involving investments
of less than $500,000 no longer require government approval.
2.05      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult
and inevitably long process of reforming the public sector, which has been
plagued by inefficiency and losses. Major studies have been completed of



- 4 -
the management and organization of the public sector, and the performance of
individual enterprises. 1/ In accordance with the recommendations of these
studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been abolished, the
number of sector holding corporations has been reduced from 11 to 8, and
boards of directors have been established at the enterprise level. Some
public sector units which had little prospect of improved financial perform-
ance have been closed down and others are being offered for sale to the pri-
vate sector. In addition to the denationalizations, further public disinvest-
ment is being considered on a case-by-case basis, e.g., a new mutual fund
has been formed for the sale of equity holdings in public sector enterprises
to private investors.
2.06      As a result of the new policies and the recovery, the climate for
private industrial investment in Pakistan has improved over the last two or
three years. Businessmen and industrialists (especially in textiles) are
encouraged by the new incentives and the generally more positive GOP attitude
to private investment. Recovery in manufacturing value-added has been observed,
and in recent months Karachi's stock market has rallied; new issues doubled in
value between FY77 and FY78. Sanctions by the Investment Promotion Bureau
(IPB) and the development banks increased in current prices from Rs 0.8 bil-
lion in FY77, to Rs 1.8 billion in FY78 and to Rs 4.1 billion in FY79. Of
these amounts, the non-institutional sources have grown rapidly; sanctions
through the PAYE scheme increased from Rs 133 million in FY78 to Rs 1.1
billion in FY79, and through the NRI scheme from Rs 240 million to Rs 445
million respectively. 2/
2.07      Industrial growth has yet to realize the potential that is suggested
by resource endowment and market size. The transition from the rapid growth
of the 1950s and 1960s--based on easy and highly protected import substitu-
tion--to a more diversified and outward-looking mode of industrial development
was interrupted by both external and internal traumas. Although GOP has made
some important changes to both industrial policy and the incentives within
which trade and industry function, these changes essentially supplement rather
than restructure a complex, piecemeal incentive system. It will be necessary
to ensure that policies and incentives support those industries which are, or
can be made, efficient in the long run and maximize the ability of industry
to save or earn foreign exchange. For this purpose, more analysis is needed
to determine effective protection levels acceptable to policymakers and
consistent with overall development objectives.
1/   The Beg Implementation Committee Report (December 1978); the Uquaili
Commission Report (November 1978). Many of the recommendations which
were implemented originate from IDA's earlier reports on the Public
Industrial Sector which were incorporated as an Annex to the April 1978
Economic Report (No. 1294-PAK).
2/   Under the Pay-As-You-Earn Investment Scheme (PAYE), machinery and equip-
ment may be imported from suppliers willing to accept payment over a
period of time from export earnings of the unit. The Non-Repatriable
Investment Scheme (NRI) is to attract savings of Pakistanis living
abroad.



-5-
2.08      The Government requested IDA assistance in the review of its indus-
trial policies. The review will include three main phases:
(a) Further work on the textile sector, and possibly on the
engineering and other sectors to estimate effective exchange
rates;
(b)  assessment of overall effective protection levels; and
(c)  a full industrial sector review, possibly in FY82, in
time for the preparation of the next Five-Year Plan.
2.09      The revival in private investor interest and its role in recovering
the ground lost in efficient capital formation should create a strong demand
for foreign exchange in the next few years. The overall shortage of foreign
exchange for imports of machinery equipment and raw materials represents the
most pressing physical constraint to industrial growth. The role that PICIC
and IDA can exercise in the provision of foreign exchange resources for
economically-sound projects could prove crucial to the revitalization of the
private industrial sector.
The Textile Sector
2.10      The cotton textile industry is the most important private industrial
subsector in Pakistan, and it accounts for 49% of PICIC's outstanding loans and
46% of its arrears. In the early seventies, the loss of markets and assets in
Bangladesh and the 1972 devaluation caused adjustment problems for many of
Pakistan's mills. Then in the years after 1974, the industry suffered from a
declining international market situation which, coupled with the industry's
internal weaknesses, and Government pricing policies, caused a serious erosion
of profitability. In addition, there was some decline in both quantity and
quality of cotton production. For these reasons, the Bank financed a study of
the textile sector under Loan 1326-PAK which was carried out by Werner Inter-
national Consultants (Belgium).
2.11      From the Werner study and IDA's industrial sector work, it is evi-
dent that the Pakistan textile industry has many of the necessary conditions
for supplying domestic textile needs economically and for reestablishing an
important position as an exporter of cotton textile products. Pakistan pro-
duces cotton fiber, has a supply of relatively low cost and easily trainable
labor, and a supply of relatively well-trained technicians and administrators.
Furthermore, current GOP policies are clearly aimed at providing a stimulus to
the industry. The removal of excise tax and import restrictions on machinery
for balancing and modernization as well as the introduction of export incen-
tives are suggestive of a firm intention to encourage the rehabilitation of
the industry.
2.12      However, despite these favorable conditions, the textile industry
in Pakistan has not yet fully recovered. Demand has risen in the last year
despite the quotas imposed by some countries. Nevertheless, a number of mills
operate inefficiently and face serious labor problems. Relatively few firms
are operating efficiently and many are in serious difficulty as reflected in
PICIC's low collections from its textile clients (para 5.04). The quality of
the cotton produced in Pakistan is low, and ginning techniques are inadequate
resulting in low lint quality. Labor discipline in the industry is poor and



- 6 -
operator and managerial skills are lacking to the point where much of the
apparent advantages of low-cost labor has been eroded through low productivity.
Relatively little has been done to broaden and diversify the product mix,
consequently the industry still produces and exports mainly the low quality
and low value-added end of the textile product range.
2.13      Following the submission of the Werner Report, GOP prepared a pro-
gram of rehabilitation measures in the form of a series of working papers
(Annex 19), which covered the following areas:
(a)  Fiber profile and cotton production, ginning and trading
Recommendations include seed certification programs, ginning
licensing and pricing changes. Several of the more urgent
recommendations are already under implementation, such as
seed quality control, improved planning systems and denational-
ization of cotton ginning units.
(b)  Cotton Textile Industry Structure and Training
Industry structure and power loom sector;
Training and training institutions;
Recommendations cover a wide range of approaches to training
and plans for adjusting the relationships between the organized
and unorganized sectors (para 2.17).
(c)  Marketing:  Sales performance, promotion, code of practices,
certification of products, and a medium/long-term program for
improving quality, reliability and export image.
(d)  Labor Management Relations and Taxation:  Several recommenda-
tions on tax changes have already been implemented. A Labor
Commission is due to make proposals for improving labor-
management relations.
(e) Estimation of investment requirements for rehabilitation.
The above papers set out the actions GOP is taking in an effort to provide the
climate, policies and institutional support needed to rehabilitate the industry.
In addition, the working papers provide an estimate of the investment required
to equip the industry, upgrade its production and meet expected export demand.
2.14      IDA discussed the Werner Report and the textile program with GOP
officials and textile industrial representatives. Since the textile industry
is in the private sector, the Program stressed the policy role GOP will play
in creating and adjusting the infrastructure, the environment and the incentive
structure for the textile industry. IDA accepted the program as a reasonable
basis for rehabilitation of the sector. The program draws heavily on the
conclusions of the Werner Report, is wide ranging, and is composed of both
ongoing activities and new proposals. The three areas below are of particular
importance to the rehabilitation of the textile sector and are likely to have
favorable effects on PICIC's financial position.



2.15      Labor-Management Relations.  There is an urgent need to improve
labor-management relations in general and in the textile industry in partic-
ular. Labor costs in textiles have risen by 200% since 1972 or about 25%-
30% p.a. with a relatively high ratio of fringe benefits to wages. Absenteeism
ranges between 25% and 40%, and labor turnover is as high as 100% per annum
in some mills. Current labor legislation affords high protection to workers
and leaves few disciplinary powers with management. The result is low pro-
ductivity which threatens to raise the effective cost of labor above levels
in other textile exporting countries. To recommend remedial measures, GOP
has established a high-level Labor Commission which includes representatives
of workers and employers. Submissions by employees and workers and the views
of the consultants have been presented to the Commission. The report of the
Commission is due by December 1980; preliminary findings are under review by
the Government.
2.16      Export Promotion.  The Werner Study stressed the need to improve
the image of Pakistan's textile exports.  Accordingly, GOP has embarked upon
a program to improve export marketing performance and quality control by
introducing the following measures:
-    establishing export promotion units and warehouse facilities
in the major markets (EEC and USA);
-    providing a testing and certification system to rebuild con-
fidence overseas in Pakistani textile products; and
-    improving availability and terms of export credit financing
(as in para 2.27) and insurance services.
Increased protectionism in the form of quotas and proposals for countervail-
ing duties in some of Pakistan's traditional market outlets, has made it more
imperative than ever that Pakistan's mills improve their product quality and
price competitiveness and not depend on fiscal incentives.
2.17      Training.  Training is perhaps the most urgent need of the Pakistan
textile industry and is closely related to the labor-relations problem. This
is recognized by GOP and the action program includes the basis for a fairly
comprehensive approach to the issue. Training is needed at all levels in the
industry and may be considered under the following categories:
(a) Management Training. The industry needs 400-500 professional
managers for administration, marketing and financial operations.
To meet this need GOP is discussing with UNDP the formation of
a management institute for the industry. In addition, GOP is
considering the introduction of minimum qualification require-
ments for mills above a given size.
(b) Supervisor Training. Training of supervisors should be under-
taken by the larger mills as an in-house activity. Supervisor
training for smaller mills should be arranged (as suggested in
the GOP program) by the Cotton Textile Industry Research and
Development Center (CTIRDC) assisted by other local textile
consultants. The CTIRDC would be entrusted with training
programs for instructors who would, in turn, organize super-
visor training courses in the mills. The CTIRDC would need



strengthening and the scope of its activities should be widened
to deal with this task.
(c)  Operator Training.  Operator training, particularly for spinners
and weavers, is best done in the mills. GOP proposes that units
of 25,000 spindles and above should be capable of introducing
improved training methods themselves, possibly with assistance
from CTIRDC and/or consultants.
2.18      With assistance from UNIDO and ILO, GOP has started establishing,
staffing and reorganizing new and existing training institutions. For improv-
ing the supply of recruits with at least basic training (especially for smaller
units), three new vocational training centers are being established by GOP at
Karachi, Hyderabad, and Mardan; and one center expanded at Faisalabad. 1/
The centers will include facilities for training textile operators and main-
tenance personnel. To assist GOP further in providing the other training
needs,specifically, provision of facilities for training of supervisors and
instructors for in-plant training, it is recommended that $3 million of the
proposed credit be earmarked for textile training subprojects (paras 8.02 and
8.03). The details of each training subproject would be reviewed by IDA
during the course of implementation of the credit. These would be submitted
by GOP to IDA for approval in the same manner as PICIC subprojects above the
free limit (para 8.07). Accordingly, the proposed credit includes a component
for IDA to finance and disburse 100% of foreign exchange costs and 60% of
local training costs on the basis of individual detailed proposals for each
training activity. The training program has been formulated to include the
following components:
A.   Foreign Exchange Requirements                           (million US$)
(i) Modernization and uplifting of
existing institutions
(a)  Textile College, Faisalabad                      0.602
(b) Government Weaving and Finishing
Institute, Shahdara                            0.400
(c) Small Industries Services Centre,
Korangi, Karachi (Institute of
Textile Technology - proposed)                 0.560
(d)  Swedish Institute, Karachi                       0.100
(e) Textile Industry Research and
Development Centre, Karachi                    0.500
(f)  Books/Periodicals/Aid                            0.150
(ii)  Two foreign consultants/experts and foreign
training of local experts                           0.250
(iii)  Textile industry expert                                0.240
(iv)  Contingencies                                          0.200
Total                                            3.002
B.   Rupee Requirements                                      (Rs million)
(i) Renovation of the building of Rs 5.00 million
Service Center, Korangi, Karachi                       3.0
1/   These 4 training centers are included in IDA's proposed Vocational
Training Project.



2.19      Textile Lending.  GOP's program highlights the need to provide
finance for the textile industry's rehabilitation mainly through balancing,
modernization and replacement (BMR) investment in selected mills. The textile
consultants estimated a total foreign exchange requirement of about $450 mil-
lion for the textile industry over the next five years. 1/ PICIC now plans
to increase its level of sanctions for textiles, although not to the level of
the early seventies. 2/ Special criteria for textile lending under the credit
include priority to the financing of BMR projects, and the higher value-added
stages, e.g. weaving and finishing rather than spinning. Projects that are
less dependent on imported raw materials should also be given priority. A
lower than usual free limit for approval of PICIC subprojects in this sector
is provided for in para 8.07. In addition, an improvement of PICIC's approach
to evaluating textile lending projects would be introduced such as closer
attention to management capacity (para 3.12). Finally, the credit includes
provision of a textile specialist who will spend the latter 12 months of his
assignment upgrading PICIC's activities in this sector (para 3.13). The tex-
tile adviser would spend the first 12 months with the Ministry of Industries
(MOI) working on textile policy measures and on the training program. The
assignment would be for a total of 24 months, and for which recruitment would
be made by December 31, 1980.
Industrial Finance
2.20      General.  Pakistan has an extensive banking and financial sector
comprising 3 development banks, 5 nationalized domestic commercial banks, 15
foreign banks, other specialized financial institutions (such as the Agricul-
tural Development Bank, House Building Finance Corporation, etc.), a fairly
active stock exchange, and agencies specializing in capital market instruments
(para 2.30). A committee has been set up under the auspices of the Banking
Council to study the ramifications that Islamization might have on banking
policy and procedures, and to recommend ways to preserve a sound financial
sector which would also be consistent with Islamic beliefs. A few limited
measures have been introduced (para 2.29).
2.21      Financing of Private/Public Investment.  During the period FY71-78,
the private sector accounted for 33% of total investment in medium- and large-
scale industries (in addition to almost all small scale investments). GOP
projects this percentage to increase to 48% under the Fifth Plan period
(FY79-83), as follows (Rs million):
Public         Private       Total
Amount   %      Amount   %     Amount
FY71-78          16,910   67      8,290   33    25,200
FY79-83          21,000   52    19,000   48    40,000
1/   Assuming more conservatively an actual figure of $350 million, of which
$150 million should be covered by PICIC and IDBP in a 2:1 proportion,
PICIC would need to lend $20 million annually to the textile industry.
2/   Over the past few years, PICIC has reduced its relative lending to
the cotton textile sector, which accounted for 25% of gross sanctions
in 1977/1978; most of this was for balancing and modernization.



- 10 -
About 75% of the planned public industrial investment is for the completion
of ongoing projects, mainly the Karachi steel complex, cement, and fertilizer
projects (para 2.01). Thus, most new industrial projects are expected to be
financed in the private sector.
2.22      Private Sector.  Based on current trends and future projections,
PICIC and IDBP 1/ could be expected to provide long-term finance for about 30%
of the above Rs 19 billion of private investment, or Rs 5.7 billion over the
five-year period. This would entail an annual level of sanctions of Rs 450-
500 million each for PICIC and IDBP, which is a little above their present
levels of activity (para 7.05) but attainable. Suppliers credits and non-
institutional schemes such as PAYE and NRI which have been growing rapidly
(para 2.06), would account for about 40%, and 30% would accrue from the firms'
internal cash generation and the entrepreneurs' contributions of share capital.
2.23      Public Sector.  The public sector corporations on the other hand
depend heavily on government budget outlays for their investment. About 40%
of their development expenditure in the next five years (para 2.21) is ex-
pected to be financed by GOP budget outlays. The remainder of the investment
is projected to be financed by long-term loans from the National Development
Finance Corporation (NDFC), 2/ suppliers credits and internal cash generation
from the corporations. However, since most of the public sector corporations
are largely in deficit, and the Government budget is extremely tight, it is
doubtful whether the public sector will meet its projected 52% share of invest-
ment.
2.24      Relation of the Term-Finance Institutions and Investment Procedures.
The division of labor between NDFC and PICIC/IDBP is clear (public vs. private
sectors); however, between PICIC and IDBP there is an intentional overlap to
encourage competition. For the most part, PICIC caters to the medium and
large-scale private investor, whereas IDBP serves the small-medium scale
client. PICIC's minimum loan amount is Rs 1.5 million 3/ whereas IDBP's maxi-
mum is Rs 4.0 million. However, IDBP's limit does not apply to textiles,
resulting in greater overlap in this sector. Both institutions enjoy a great
deal of autonomy from government on management, recruitment and investment
sanctions. However, PICIC is required to obtain the approval of IPB (para
2.06) for all projects in which a Director of PICIC's Board might be involved
and where the imported raw materials amount to more than 50% of the project
requirements. IPB acts as the Secretariat of the Central Investment Promotion
1/   IDBP is a wholly government-owned development bank, which was created in
1961 (restructured from the Pakistan Industrial Finance Corporation)
to provide term finance to the small-medium scale client. IDA's credit
177-PAK (US$21.6 million) to IDBP is completed and closed. In FY79, IDBP's
sanctions were Rs 547 million, above its usual level. PICIC's sanctions
were Rs 380 million in 1979 (para 4.07).
2/   NDFC was established in January 1973 to provide long-term finance and
working capital to public sector units. IDA's credit of US$30 million
to NDFC is now fully committed.
3/   Rs 750,000 for loans to projects located in under-developed regions.



- 11 -
and Coordinating Committee (CIPCOC) which is empowered to approve projects
where the imported raw material does not exceed 50% of the project's require-
ments. For projects with more than 50% imported raw materials, the approval of
the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC) is required. The time taken by IPB
to process investment proposals is being reduced (para 2.04).
2.25      Credit Flow.  There are 22 scheduled banks operating in Pakistan,
all subject to the purview and controls of the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP)
and the National Credit Consultative Council (NCCC), the body in charge of
setting credit ceilings. The five domestic commercial banks, which were
nationalized in January 1974, account for 85% of outstanding advances, 90%
of deposits and 99% of the branch network. Fifteen foreign banks and 2 spe-
cialized banks (IDBP and the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan) account
for the remaining advances and deposits. In FY79 bank credit to the private
sector increased by Rs 3.3 billion or 13% over the previous year and to the
public sector by Rs 2.6 billion or 24% over its corresponding level. Credit
for manufacturing companies registered only a 4% increase compared to 40%
for commerce. However, these figures do not include long-term credit from
the specialized financial institutions such as PICIC, IDBP and NDFC, and
therefore understate the flow of credit to the manufacturing sector.
2.26      Long-Term Rates.  PICIC, IDBP and NDFC make foreign exchange and
local currency loans at around 11%. The rate on PICIC and IDBP's rupee loans
was reduced from 13% in July 1978 to provide an incentive to local currency
financing. Commercial banks, which lend only in local currency, do a small
proportion of long-term lending at 11%. Both PICIC and IDBP have access to
special credits from the State Bank of Pakistan (SPB) to finance the purchase
of locally manufactured machinery. Under this scheme, PICIC and IDBP are able
to lend at 8.5%. Demand for these loans is increasing since improved machinery
and equipment are now produced locally.
2.27      Short-Term Rates.  Commercial bank working capital loans carry an
interest rate of 14% or upwards, and are compounded quarterly resulting in
effective rates of 15-16%. The 3% differential between the rate charged by
the term-lending institutions and by the commercial banks has provided an
incentive to clients to repay the latter promptly and to delay repayments of
their relatively cheap term loans. PICIC's 4% penalty rate and IDBP's 5%
charge, have helped to equalize the charges. SBP has also introduced a re-
finance scheme for export development whereby exporters can receive loans from
commercial banks at 3% which are discounted by SBP at zero interest. These
rates were reduced in late 1978 from 6% and 3% respectively. The demand for
this type of finance increased rapidly (commercial banks utilized Rs 8.5 bil-
lion of export refinance in FY79 compared to Rs 2.6 billion in FY78) partly
due to the lower interest rates and the improved export performance.
2.28      Deposit Rates.  Interest rates on short term deposits held with the
commercial banks have been steadily increasing from a weighted average of 4.7%
in June 1975 to 6.3% in December 1978. The largest category are regular sav-
ings accounts which bear an interest rate of 7.6%. Fixed deposits (3 months
to 3 years) carry interest rates of up to 11.4% (weighted average). Time
deposits increased by 25% in FY78, following a 40% increase in the previous
year. All types of deposits reached a total of Rs 55 billion in FY79. The
"bank rate" (rate charged by SBP on its loans to other financial institutions)
is 10%, having risen from 8.5% in the last 2 years.



- 12 -
2.29      Capital Market.  Pakistan's capital market institutions have con-
tinued to grow despite the uncertainties of the past few years. As mentioned
in para 2.06, activity on the Karachi Stock Exchange remained strong in 1979;
about 35 million shares were traded, an increase of 16% over the previous year
(FY78 turnover had increased 80% over FY77). During FY79, 14 new companies
were floated, 11 of which were over-subscribed by ten times. Total subscrip-
tions received reached Rs 400 million in response to offerings of only Rs 44
million. Debenture trading was light; new debenture issues were under-
subscribed by Rs 11.5 million. The Investment Corporation of Pakistan (ICP)
was created in 1966 as a government-owned institution to underwrite new issues
and place debentures. In FY79, ICP underwrote 43 share placements amounting
to Rs 527 million and debentures of Rs 765 million. ICP is conservative, how-
ever, underwriting only the safest issues. Thereafter, it tends to provide
bridge loans to the companies instead of taking up the underwritten shares. 1/
ICP also sells mutual funds; as of June 1979 there were 8,000 such unit holders.
ICP's latest flotation required the fund to hold only shares, excluding all
debentures in accordance with Islamization. The National Investment Trust
(NIT), a mutual fund which has attracted 70,000 small and medium-sized individ-
ual investors (up to Rs 35,000), sold 19.5 million units amounting to Rs 227
million in FY79, which represented an increase of 60% over the FY78 amount.
Besides the improvement in the stock exchange performance, the principal
factors that led to the increase in NIT unit sales were changes in the FY80
budget which increased the investment allowance limit from Rs 20,000 to
Rs 35,000 and the tax-free limit on dividend income from Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000.
III. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Ownership and Board
3.01      Share Capital.  PICIC's initial paid-up capital, Rs 20 million,
was increased progressively to Rs 66.4 million by 1974. Due to the depressed
stock market until 1978, it has not been feasible to increase the share capital
further. As of December 31, 1979, PICIC's share capital was held by GOP-
controlled financial institutions 2/ (49.6%), foreign investors (35%), and
private Pakistani shareholders (15.4%) (Annex 1). The share of the public
institutions was 47% as of December 1976, and has been increasing as a result
of share purchases, evidently for investment purposes, by the public financial
institutions from foreign and private local shareholders.
3.02      Board of Directors.  PICIC's Board of Directors is competent and
experienced. It consists of 13 Pakistani and five foreign Directors. Of the
1/   PICIC raised objections about ICP's policy and in early 1979 ICP agreed
to take up the share issues within 2 years of a company's commencement of
operations. In its charter, PICIC itself is able to undertake underwrit-
ing, which it has done on a few occasions (para 4.06).
2/   State Life Insurance Corporation of Pakistan, Investment Corporation of
Pakistan (ICP), National Investment Trust (NIT), and the nationalized
commercial banks. This includes shares owned by private investors but
held in trust by the banks.



- 13 -
Pakistani Directors, two represent GOP, two are from GOP-owned financial insti-
tutions, and the others are prominent industrialists, in addition to PICIC's
Chairman and Managing Director. The Board meets about four times a year. The
Executive Committee consists of eight of the Directors, and is empowered to
approve loans below Rs 5 million.
Management and Staff
3.03      Management.  PICIC's full-time Chairman, Mr. N.M. Uquaili, was
appointed in December 1975. He is an ex-PICIC Managing Director and ex-
Finance Minister, and exercises strong leadership on PICIC. He is ably comple-
mented by the Managing Director, Mr. Bashir Ahmad, who came to PICIC from IBRD.
The latter is burdened by too many routine matters, passed up to him for deci-
sion from the various departments. To assist the MD in some of these matters
and to solve the appraisal fragmentation problem (para 3.09), PICIC appointed
a Senior Chief of Operations as of January 1, 1980, who will oversee the
Appraisal, Loan, and Implementation Departments and report directly to the
MD. This appointment is expected to improve coordination and feedback, and
leave the MD more time for issues concerning policy and institutional devel-
opment.
3.04      Staff.  PICIC had 135 professional staff as of December 31, 1979,
of whom 79 had more than ten years of service within PICIC. PICIC still finds
it difficult to recruit qualified staff, due to competition inside Pakistan
and abroad. Turnover, however, has decreased from 7% in 1978 to 6% in 1979
partly due to a general revision of salaries and benefits in 1978. This salary
revision was the outcome of a general review of PICIC's salaries and benefits.
PICIC will undertake a further review of professional staff salaries and bene-
fits to be completed by December 31, 1980. This review, which will most prob-
ably be carried out by local consultants, would assess PICIC's overall competi-
tiveness for qualified staff within Pakistan, and determine an adequate level
for PICIC to be able to recruit and retain qualified staff. In addition, the
review would aim at developing a remuneration structure and policy that would
encourage performance, through adequate differentials and rewards for perfor-
mance, which present policies do not do adequately.
3.05      In addition to a review of its salary structure, it is important
that PICIC place more emphasis on staff development policies. Measures to
improve communications, on-the-job training, and to increase delegation of
authority would be devised. This would require an upgrading of PICIC's
personnel section, which now consists of one officer in the Secretary's
Department.
3.06      Together with improved rewards for good performance (para 3.04),
PICIC has implemented measures to increase the level of individual responsi-
bility and accountability at the professional staff level. This requires
increased management awareness at the department level and more continuity in
project appraisal and implementation (para 3.15). PICIC is revamping its
performance evaluations to focus on performance (productivity and creativity)
and growth potential.



- 14 -
3.07      PICIC utilizes mainly on-the-job training of its staff, although
the extent of external training has lately increased. In 1978, PICIC had
its first formal orientation program for new staff; such programs should
be repeated and PICIC should also arrange other internal courses and seminars
for its staff. In 1978, nine PICIC officers attended courses and seminars
outside PICIC, of which two were sent abroad. PICIC should increase further
the extent of such training, inter alia by using its KfW counterpart funds
under which about Rs I million per annum is available for training and con-
sultancy services (para 4.09). In particular, PICIC would introduce seminars
in personnel management for its managerial staff, who lack training in this
regard, and increase the opportunities for technical training of its engineer-
ing staff (para 3.13). Much of this training is only available abroad.
3.08      Under the present organization structure (para 3.09), PICIC's staff
tend to become specialists in narrow fields, and this becomes even more pro-
nounced by the fact that most staff stay for many years in one department. To
prevent this, PICIC has begun to rotate some of its staff within the Karachi
head office, and also between the head office and the branch offices, although
the latter is more difficult due to staff regional preferences and relocation
costs. Also, PICIC encourages its staff to broaden their fields of expertise,
e.g., financial officers or engineers assist in market analyses of subproject
appraisals, economists assist in follow-up reports, etc.
Organization
3.09      Chart 1 shows PICIC's organization chart as of December 31, 1979.
While generally adequate, the organization was in need of certain improvements
which have now been made. In particular, PICIC's appraisal work had become
unnecessarily fragmented. Incoming loan applications were first scrutinized
in the Project Development Department, 1/ and projects found acceptable were
then transferred to Project Appraisal (formerly the Operations Department).
However, important sections of the appraisal reports were prepared by the
Economic Research Department (marketing and economic analysis), and the
Engineering Department (technical aspects). The responsibility for project
appraisal, therefore, was divided, with the Operations Department having
overall responsibility without adequate control. This caused problems of
coordination and fragmentation of responsibility, and resulted in a number
of weaknesses in PICIC's appraisals (para 3.12).
3.10      In view of the above, PICIC undertook in December 1979 a moderate
reorganization of the operational side. The Senior Chief of Operations (para
3.03) was appointed and the Operations Department was converted into the Project
Appraisal Department. Appraisal teams will be established with participants
from the three departments concerned. The teams will be of a semi-permanent
nature; this will encourage sectoral specialization, which has been lacking.
The team leader (from the Project Appraisal Department) will be responsible
for preparing the appraisal reports, which will be submitted to the chief of
the Department without having to clear the contributions of the economists and
l/   The purpose of this Department is to provide a focal point for all
potential clients. The Department also undertakes promotional activ-
ities (para 4.09).



- 15 -
engineers with their respective chiefs as at present. Also, any conflicts of
authority between the three departments concerned will be resolved by the
Senior Chief of Operations. In the longer run, PICIC should consider allocat-
ing economic and engineering staff to the Project Appraisal Department, which
should then be fully responsible for appraisal work and would be organized in
permanent appraisal teams along subsector lines. The team leaders could then
be selected on the basis of their qualifications, and need not necessarily
have a financial background, as at present.
3.11      In 1976, PICIC's follow-up activities were organized into three
departments; Project Implementation (which followed the projects from sanction
to completion), Investment (the follow-up of completed projects), and Special
Projects (which was responsible for the projects facing serious difficulties
or in wilful default). Detailed analyses of problem projects were carried out
by the Special Projects Department. PICIC has now merged the Investment and
the Special Projects Departments into a new Loan Department for all follow-up
activities, maintaining a special cell for problem projects and special studies.
This reorganization should eliminate the fragmentation of the end-use work,
and permit more subsector concentration. 1/ The Investment Department has
been dissolved and responsibility for PICIC's equity portfolio has been trans-
ferred to the other departments.
Procedures and Standards
3.12      Appraisal.  The quality of PICIC's appraisal reports declined in
recent years, partly as a result of the fragmentation of the appraisal work
(para 3.09), and PICIC's inadequate feedback system (para 3.15). PICIC's
management is aware of these shortcomings, and it expects that the reorgani-
zation of the appraisal function, and the appointment of a Senior Chief of
Operations (para 3.03) will help restore the appraisal quality. In addition,
PICIC is paying closer attention to its appraisal estimates of construction
costs, implementation schedules, contingencies, and working capital require-
ments, which have sometimes been under-estimated in the past few years.
Technical assistance under the credit will help PICIC to improve its market
analyses, including marketing channels and pricing assumptions (para 3.16)
The quality and depth of management should be reviewed more critically,
particularly in textile projects. PICIC encourages its staff to be more
critical when preparing financial estimates and assumptions and not to rely
excessively on feasibility studies presented by clients.
3.13      The problem of keeping up-to-date is particularly evident in PICIC's
Engineering Department. The engineers are reasonably well qualified, but find
it difficult to keep in touch with technical developments. PICIC is consider-
ing various measures to improve the Engineering Department including better
availability of trade publications, visits to quality units inside Pakistan
and abroad, and visits to trade fairs and foreign machinery suppliers. In
particular, PICIC's management is emphasizing that all its engineers should
1/   The Project Implementation Department, which handles projects after loan
commitment until operating stage, will remain largely in its present
form.



- 16 -
regularly undertake field visits.  The proposed IDA credit includes provision
of technical assistance to PICIC under which PICIC would recruit an industrial
engineer by December 31, 1980 to improve its engineering analyses in all sub-
sectors and to train its engineers on up-to-date technologies. In addition,
PICIC will be able to make use of subsector specialists on a consultancy basis
from a $500,000 component in the ADB loan (para 1.03) for project promotion.
In addition, the IDA credit would finance the foreign exchange costs of a tex-
tile specialist who would allocate 12 months to work with PICIC's engineers,
economists and financial analysts, in upgrading PICIC's appraisal and follow-
up work in the textile subsector, and developing PICIC's medium term textile
policies and its promotional efforts. 1/
3.14      Follow-up.  PICIC's top management has for the past few years taken
a very strong interest in the follow-up and loan recovery work. PICIC's
follow-up procedures are generally satisfactory; the arrears problem being
largely due to factors beyond its control. Considerable efforts to improve
collections have been made, as indicated by the substantial increase from 1976
to 1978 in the annual number of formal follow-up visits, which have now
reached a reasonable level:
Under Implementation              In Operation
No. of      No. of               No. of     No. of
Companies    Visits      %      Companies    Visits      %
1976             73          63      86.3       187         75       40.1
1977             82          97    118.3        192        105       54.7
1978             90         126    140.0        184         167      90.8
The consolidation of PICIC's follow-up work (para 3.11) should permit better
coordination and greater subsector specialization for PICIC's follow-up staff.
In addition, PICIC intends to make greater use of its engineers in follow-up
work and to improve the analytical content of its follow-up reports.  In this
regard, the recent ADB loan includes provision for PICIC to recruit a devel-
opment bank specialist for 12 months who would analyze PICIC's portfolio and
recommend rehabilitation measures for problem projects.
3.15      Feedback.  The feedback process from end-use to appraisal could be
improved which will be one of the tasks on which the Senior Chief of Operations
will focus. The feedback from completion reports to appraisals of similar
projects and the calculation of ex-post rates of return (para 4.10) will
help this process in the future.
3.16      Economics and Research Department.  Weaknesses in this department
have become evident in recent years, particularly in PICIC's subsector sur-
veys (para 4.09). To improve this important aspect of PICIC's work, IDA
would finance under the credit an experienced industrial economist for 12
months, who should (a) train PICIC's operational staff in economic evaluation
1/   The textile adviser should spend the other 12 months working with GOP
on policy issues and textile training (para 2.19).



- 17 -
of projects 1/; (b) train PICIC's economic staff in sector analysis and the
preparation of sector reports; (c) assist PICIC's management in the prepara-
tion of a medium-term plan for its industrial sector work which would focus
on sector diversification in line with the Five-Year Plan (paras 2.08 and
2.21); and (d) assist PICIC in improving its promotion work, market analyses
of subprojects and its market surveys, including marketing channels for import-
substitution and export-oriented projects. Recruitment of the economist
advisor would be completed by December 31, 1980.
3.17      Procurement and Disbursement.  PICIC generally uses international
competitive bidding for its foreign exchange loans or, in the case of smaller
projects or bilateral credits, three alternate quotations from foreign sup-
pliers. In its utilization of previous IBRD loans, PICIC's procurement and
disbursement procedures have proven to be fully satisfactory.
Operating Policies
3.18      PICIC's Policy Statement is shown in Annex 2.  The Statement restricts
PICIC's exposure in any single project to $4 million and its total commitment
in a single enterprise to the equivalent of 25% of PICIC's net worth or $5 mil-
lion, whichever is lower. Through special Board approval, PICIC has exceeded
these limits in a few cases. However, the limit is now felt to be restrictive
in view of increases in project costs. PICIC will, therefore, increase its
exposure limit (for a single transaction as well as total commitment) to 20%
of PICIC's net worth, or $6.0 million, whichever is lower.
3.19      PICIC's draft Strategy Statement for 1980-82 is shown in Annex 3.
The Statement's formal approval by PICIC's Board is a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed credit. Features of the Strategy Statement are: (i)
PICIC's policy to continue to finance only industries controlled by the
private sector; 2/ (ii) PICIC's criteria for lending to the textile sector,
emphasizing projects for balancing, modernization, and replacement (BMR) and
for increasing quality and value added; (iii) PICIC's intention to emphasize
the financing of projects that would not require large amounts of imported raw
materials; (iv) emphasis on employment creation and export-oriented projects;
(v) PICIC's focus on measures to reduce its arrears (Chapter V).
3.20      Lending Terms.  PICIC's foreign currency interest rate has remained
at 11% for a number of years as per GOP policy although the effective cost to
the sub-borrower was much higher due to the foreign exchange risk (para 5.07).
In July 1978 GOP reduced the rupee term lending rate from 13% to 11% to
1/   PICIC calculates the internal economic rate of return for most sub-
projects. However, while the staff employ the technique correctly, it
is done mechanically, and at a late stage in the appraisal process.
2/   PICIC previously considered and rejected the possibility of changing its
policies to finance also the public sector. In view of the existence of
NDFC (para 2.23) and GOP's present emphasis on the private sector, there
is no need for PICIC to change its policies in this respect.



- 18 -
achieve parity and to stimulate local currency loans for fixed investment (para
2.26). 1/ The Government has decided to maintain the fixed investment rate at
11% (for foreign exchange loans and rupee loans), but it has agreed to carry
the exchange risk (para 3.21). With a 3% fee for this benefit, the cost to
the subborrower will be 14%, which is reasonable. The long-term inflation
rate for Pakistan is projected at 10%. This rate of 14% would represent a 3%
differential over the rate on rupee term loans, which represents an adequate
premium for risk-free foreign exchange. The 14% cost to the subborrower would
also be equivalent to the rate paid to commercial banks for working capital
loans which should assist PICIC in its collection efforts since the subborrower
would no longer have an incentive to pay the commercial banks first. 2/
3.21      Exchange Risk.  GOP has decided to carry the exchange risk under
the proposed credit, which will remove the difficulties faced by subborrowers
caused by exchange fluctuations (para 5.07). A 3% exchange risk fee (included
in the overall cost of 14%) will be charged by GOP to the sub-borrowers, to
cover the expected difference between domestic and international inflation
and possible changes in the rupee-dollar rate.
3.22      Spread.  For a number of years, PICIC's spread has remained at 2%,
which is well below the spread of about 4% required for PICIC to maintain its
profitability margins, increase its provisions for doubtful debts and build-
up its equity in real terms (para 6.02). Under the ADB loan (para 1.03) the
Government recently increased PICIC's spread to 3%. For the proposed IDA
credit, the Government has agreed to increase PICIC's spread to 4% from
April 1, 1981. Until then, it will be 3%. With an 11% interest rate (net
of exchange risk fee), the onlending rate from GOP to PICIC would be 8%
applicable to disbursements until March 31, 1981 (estimated at 18% of total
disbursements) and 7% thereafter, applicable to all disbursements from
April 1, 1981 (82% of the estimated disbursements, Annex 18).
Relations with Government and the Business Community
3.23      Relations between GOP and PICIC continue to be close.  PICIC is
represented on a number of important GOP committees concerned with industry
and finance. GOP has continued to provide PICIC with resources, including
SBP cash credits for liquidity support. PICIC's relationships with its over-
due clients had become strained owing to PICIC's firm position to recover
all its arrears. Now that it is clear that relief will not be forthcoming
from GOP (para 5.09), it is likely that relations will improve.
1/   However, most of PICIC's local currency lending is for locally fabricated
machinery, refinanced by the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) at 6.5% and
relent by PICIC at 8.5% (para 2.26).
2/   PICIC's penalty rate of 4% on overdue payments has helped to off-set
the differential between the working capital rate and the rate on
outstanding term-loans.



- 19 -
IV. RESOURCES AND OPERATIONS
Resource Mobilization
4.01      Foreign Exchange Resources.  Since inception and through December
1978, PICIC had obtained foreign exchange resources of $571 million, of which
IBRD accounted for 41%, other untied loans (ADB and KfW) for 20%, bilateral
sources for 24%, suppliers' credits for 13%, private bank loans for 1%, and
the portion of PICIC's share capital paid in foreign exchange also for 1%. Up
to the early seventies, PICIC's performance as a mobilizer of resources was
relatively good, and it was able to arrange several private bank loans and
private suppliers' credits.
4.02      PICIC's ability to generate foreign exchange resources will depend
largely on the general creditworthiness of Pakistan. In addition, PICIC's
financial strength must improve from its present level before it can be able
to obtain significant commercial sources from abroad. Nevertheless, PICIC
has lately made several attempts to diversify its foreign exchange resources
with some success, as follows:
(a) In January 1979 PICIC reached an agreement with the China
National Machinery Import and Export Corporation (MACHIMPEX),
of Peking, under which the latter will sell on credit through
PICIC up to 50,000 textile spindles with equipment per year
(a maximum value of $6-$7 million per annum) to PICIC approved
projects. PICIC will appraise the projects and guarantee the
agreements between the industrialists and MACHIMPEX. Since the
emphasis for textile investments is on BMR, and considering
that there has been few purchases of Chinese textile machinery
in the past years, there is only limited interest in this facil-
ity (to date PICIC has approved 2 projects under this line of
credit, amounting to $4.1 million).
(b) PICIC has recently entered into an agreement with the Islamic
Development Bank (IDB), under which the latter will make equity
investments for a total of $6 million in projects identified
and prepared by PICIC. PICIC does not charge any fee for this
service. At present, IDB is considering equity participation
in 3 subprojects involving foreign exchange subloans of $9.7
million.
(c) PICIC received a French credit of US$10 million equivalent in
1978, as well as a $10 million East German credit. In spite
of PICIC's efforts to promote the use of the East German credit,
demand has been slow. 1/
1/   This is due to machinery quality differences and also to the stringent
downpayment requirements (15% of FOB value) contained in the credit
arrangements.



- 20 -
4.03      PICIC's resource mobilization efforts have been encouraging under
the circumstances. In addition to the above, it is also preparing projects
jointly with IFC, 1/ has tried to obtain project financing from the Saudi-Pak
and Pak-Kuwait Corporations, (without any results so far) and is involved in
discussions with the Netherlands Finance Company for Developing Countries
(FMO) whereby FMO might loan up to $4 million equivalent for fou. projects
submitted by PICIC.
4.04      As of December 31, 1979, PICIC had utilized fully most of its
untied lines of credit, and also substantial portions of its bilateral credits.
The latter are tied, and are therefore of limited usefulness unless PICIC
can obtain some untied resources with which to blend the bilateral credits.
In addition, PICIC had available the Chinese and East German credits, which
may prove difficult to use (para 4.02). Thus, PICIC is in urgent need of
new untied foreign exchange funds to meet a substantial investment demand
(para 7.05).
4.05      Local Currency Resources.  Of PICIC's total rupee resources as
of December 31, 1979 (Rs 1,186 million), equity and reserves accounted for
28%, SBP cash credits (58%), SBP credits for locally fabricated machinery
(9%), rupee debentures (2%), and other resources (3%). Due to its low col-
lections, PICIC has had to rely on SBP cash credits to cover its liquidity
shortfalls. At present, PICIC has a substantial undrawn balance on these
credits (about Rs 122 million), but this will not be used for any other
purpose than to cover any future liquidity shortfalls. Due to its liquidity
problem, PICIC is only able to make rupee loans for locally fabricated machin-
ery, which are refinanced by SBP. At present, it is not feasible for PICIC to
seek alternate sources of rupee funds. Any share capital increases will have
to await an improvement in PICIC's liquidity position and dividend record,
while there is no potential demand for debentures at an interest rate that
PICIC could afford. Thus, PICIC will have to depend on SBP for local currency
funds in the foreseeable future. PICIC insists on a substantial local con-
tribution by the sponsors, with a maximum debt-equity ratio for the projects
of 60:40. PICIC would then finance machinery and equipment (local and for-
eign), with the sponsors covering other expenditures (land, buildings, import
duties, etc.), out of their own contribution.
4.06      From inception, PICIC has provided underwriting and debenture finance
for Rs 109 million, in cooperation with other local institutions that provided
Rs 214 million for these issues. However, because of its liquidity problem,
PICIC has not been in a position to participate in such financing to any
extent for some time. Also since inception, PICIC has participated in 59
ventures with foreign investors, who provided Rs 687 million to PICIC's
Rs 660 million. Of the foreign ventures, two hotel projects, with a total
foreign investment of Rs 28 million, were sanctioned in 1978. In the future,
1/   In May 1979, the Board approved an IFC investment (US$2.4 million in
loan and US$0.4 million in equity) in Milkpak Ltd. IFC has appraised
recently an additional 2 projects in which IFC proposes to invest
$4.8 million and PICIC $1.8 million equivalent.



- 21 -
PICIC's projects are likely to be larger in size, and more complex tech-
nologically. To ensure the viability of these projects, and to obtain the
necessary financing, PICIC expects that the number of projects with foreign
investment and collaboration will increase.
Resource Allocation
4.07      Lending Operations.  Annex 4 gives a summary of PICIC's lending oper-
ations for 1975-79. Since 1976, the operations have been uneven due to the
uncertain political-economic climate, the 1977 disturbances, and the fact that
PICIC has been constrained by its lack of foreign exchange resources since
about mid 1978. As a result, gross sanctions declined from Rs 470 million in
1976 (when PICIC received loans from IBRD and ADB), to Rs 382 million in 1977,
and to Rs 287 million in 1978. However, they increased to Rs 380 million in
1979.  Commitments increased from Rs 126 million in 1976 to Rs 301 million in
1977, but then fell to Rs 180 million in 1978 and Rs 77 million in 1979 as
PICIC ran out of untied foreign exchange resources. Disbursements fell from
Rs 193 million in 1976 to Rs 130 million in 1977, due to the disturbances in
that year, but then increased to Rs 202 million by 1979, as the utilization
rate of previous commitments improved significantly, due to the improved
investment climate. About 95% of PICIC's loan operations have been in foreign
exchange, largely because PICIC is financing primarily medium- and large-scale
industries for which suitable locally-manufactured machinery is normally not
available in Pakistan. Nevertheless, it is likely that PICIC could increase
its use of the SBP credit line for locally fabricated machinery through pro-
motional measures, particularly since improved machinery is now manufactured
locally.
4.08      Annex 5 shows the characteristics of PICIC's recent operations,
while Annex 6 shows the distribution by subsector of PICIC's loan (and equity)
portfolio as of December 31, 1979. Textiles accounted for 51% of PICIC's loan
outstandings, of which cotton textiles accounted for 40%. Sugar was the
second largest subsector, with 11% of loan outstandings. Since 1976, PICIC
has tried to reduce its exposure in cotton textiles. No loans for new spin-
ning units have been approved, with cotton textile BMR projects approved only
after very careful scrutiny. PICIC has also sought to develop loans to other
subsectors. These efforts have had limited effect, due largely to the poor
investment climate which prevailed in 1977-78. Nevertheless, PICIC's depend-
ence on cotton textiles has been reduced, accounting for 22% of net sanctions
in 1979. Other important subsectors in this period have been the cement,
ceramics and glass subsector (11% of net approvals), paper products (17%),
and chemicals (21%).
4.09      Promotional Activities.  PICIC's promotional activities have included
efforts to encourage projects in the under-industrialized areas of the country,
and projects outside the cotton textile subsector. In this regard, PICIC tried
for some time to encourage specific foreign investments in Pakistan, in sub-
sectors like polyester, tractors, pharmaceuticals, and ceramics, but no lending
has materialized so far. PICIC has also played a promotional role through its
efforts to seek new sources of foreign exchange financing (para 4.03), and it
paid for the local costs of the Werner study of the textile industry (para
2.10) out of its KfW counterpart funds. Under this fund, PICIC receives about
Rs 1 million a year that can be used for staff training, consultancy services,



- 22 -
and promotional activities. PICIC should make more use of this facility than
it has done till now. During 1977 and 1978, PICIC's Economics Department
carried out market surveys of eight subsectors, 1/ following which a number
of projects were approved. In 1979, 3 market surveys were carried out. Some
project-oriented promotional work is also carried out by the Project Develop-
ment Department, which has direct contact with potential clients. This depart-
ment is currently preparing a proposal for a PICIC leasing subsidiary.
Development Impact
4.10      Rates of Return.  PICIC calculates the internal financial rates of
return (IFRR) and the economic rates of return (IERR) for all new projects,
and for those BMR/ expansion projects where the incremental costs and benefits
can be separated from the existing company's operations. As shown in Annex 7,
of 60 projects sanctioned by PICIC since January 1, 1977, the ex-ante IFRR
ranged from 9.8% to 28.1% and the ex-ante IERR from 16% to 50% (calculated for
31 projects). Until recently, PICIC has seldom calculated ex-post economic
rates of return, but with the implementation of the Bank's Subproject Data
System (SDS), it has started to calculate these indicators. The rates are
slightly lower than ex-ante due to increases in investment costs arising from
foreign currency escalations, and implementation delays.
4.11      Employment Creation.  The division of labor between the industrial
term lending institutions has resulted in PICIC lending to the medium- and
large-scale private industries, and IDBP to small- and medium-scale indus-
tries, also in the private sector, while NDFC lends exclusively to the public
sector (para 2.24). As a result, the average size of PICIC's loans is fairly
large (Rs 9.7 million in 1977, Rs 12.2 million in 1978). The average invest-
ment cost per job for 40 of the 60 projects listed in Annex 7 (excluding the
BMR projects) is US$21,040, which is reasonable for the size of subprojects
financed by PICIC. The 40 subprojects created permanent employment of 5,345
jobs. About 6,000 permanent jobs are estimated to be generated under the IDA
credit (30 subprojects at 200 jobs per project). No figures are available on
indirect employment effects which would be considerably higher, considering
that many of the projects manufacture inputs for other projects, e.g., cotton
yarn. The average investment cost per job of the projects to be financed
under the IDA credit is estimated at $25,000. PICIC would like to improve
the labor intensity of its projects, but has found it difficult to do so in
practice, since the choice of technology is basically determined by the range
of industries in Pakistan, the international supply of machinery, and by the
present shortages of skilled labor many of whom have emigrated to the Middle-
East. Potential for subcontracting is limited because of the fairly sophis-
ticated nature of many of PICIC's projects; nevertheless, PICIC takes into
account whatever scope for subcontracting that might exist, e.g., nuts and
bolts manufacturing for electric fan assembly plants.
4.12      Policy Impact.  Besides project finance, PICIC has also had a quali-
tative impact on its subprojects through its appraisal process, and on the
1/   Poultry feed, electric lamps, laundry soap, sheet glass, tractor imple-
ments, dry battery cells, paints, cigarettes and matches.



- 23 -
implementation of general industrial policies through its subsector studies
(e.g., textiles) and its active participation in various GOP committees. Con-
sidering that it is private sector-held, PICIC has played an important role
in the economy and in policy formulation, particularly due to the prominence
of its Chairman and Managing Director (para 3.03).
V. ARREARS AND COLLECTIONS
Background
5.01      PICIC's arrears position was excellent up to around 1970, but began
to deteriorate at the time of independence of Bangladesh, due to the social
and labor unrest at that time, and the loss to many industrialists of invest-
ments and/or traditional markets in the previous East Pakistan. 1/ Then, the
May 1972 devaluation of the rupee 2/ more than doubled the debt service burden
on PICIC's foreign exchange borrowers (about 95% of total PICIC outstandings),
and created the problem of PICIC's revaluation surplus (para 5.07). From 1974
onwards, the industrial sector was also affected negatively by the effects of
the oil crisis, the general rise in price levels including labor costs, and in
particular by the prolonged problems in the important textile sector. This
sector, which now accounts for about 50% of PICIC's outstanding portfolio, has
suffered since the second half of 1974 from a difficult international market
situation. This, coupled with the internal weaknesses of the industry, caused
a serious erosion of profitability for many textile units, a situation that
only now is improving. The investment climate in Pakistan had been very good
throughout the sixties, but worsened because of the events in the early seven-
ties; 3/ and then deteriorated further as a result of repeated nationaliza-
tions, 4/ including the take-over of the commercial banks in January 1974.
The private sector was thus severely affected; a number of industrialists
became reluctant to tie up further funds in their industries, and PICIC's
bargaining power with its clients declined since they were not as interested
in new loans as before. The political turmoil in 1977-78 further aggravated
the situation.
1/   PICIC also lost control over its assets in Bangladesh, while retaining
its corresponding liabilities. This problem was solved under Loan
1326-PAK.
2/   The rupee was devalued by 131% from 4.76 to 11.00 per US$ in 197.2, and
then revalued to 9.90 per US$ in 1973, for an overall devaluation of 108%.
3/   Particularly the secession of East Pakistan.
4/   For example, the nationalization of 31 units in ten industrial sectors,
which were reserved for public corporations, reduced the scope for private
investment. Most of these sectors have now again been opened for private
investment.



- 24 -
Developments, 1976-1979
5.02      Since 1977, PICIC's collections have been below the targets due pri-
marily to factors beyond its control. The following table shows PICIC's actual
local collections for the years 1976-1979, compared to the targets agreed under
Loan 1326-PAK (Rs million):
Target             Actual
1976                355                 360
1977                373                 252
1978                390                332
1979                n.a. 1/            303
The collections exceeded the target in 1976, but declined in 1977, due to the
uncertainties and disturbances before and particularly after the national
elections in March of that year. Pakistani industry may have lost about sixty
working days in 1977, due to production stoppages and disrupted deliveries.
PICIC's own work was also hampered by breakdowns in transportation and commun-
ications. In addition, in 1977 the textile industry (already hit by the
adverse international market situation) was also affected by a very poor cotton
crop. Under these circumstances, PICIC's collections fell by 30% to Rs 252
million. The uncertainties continued in 1978, but under the more stable
conditions, PICIC's collections increased to Rs 332 million. This represented
a respectable effort under the circumstances. However, because of the low col-
lections, PICIC has remained dependent on SBP cash credits for liquidity sup-
port, and its arrears (over three months) as of December 31, 1979 had increased
to Rs 877 million or 33% of total outstandings, compared to 28% in 1978 (Annex
8). About 47% of the arrears represented principal and 53% interest.
5.03      The trend in arrears (over three months), 1972-79, can be summarized
as follows:
As of December 31,           1972       1974      1976       1977      1978      1979
(a) Companies in arrears
- Number               188        137        112        128       114      122
- % of total            68.4       47.9       42.7       46.6      43.3     46.4
(b) Arrears /a
- Rs million           235.1      416.8      497.2      558.8    669.7    877.1
- % of portfolio        11.3       22.4       22.5       24.7      27.5     33.0
(c) Outstandings affected
by arrears /b
- Rs million         1,367.2   1,236.7   1,149.2   1,502.3  1,449.0  1,747.7
- % of portfolio        65.6       66.4       52.1       66.4      59.5     65.8
/a   Principal and interest in arrears.
7b   Principal and interest in arrears plus principal not yet due on loans
in arrears ("infected portfolio").
1/   The targets did not extend up to 1979.



- 25 -
The table shows that between 1976 and 1979, the number of companies in arrears
declined in relative terms. On the other hand, the actual arrears as well
as amounts affected by arrears have increased significantly. This is due to
the fact that although PICIC has been able to reach settlements with a number
of clients, often involving some reschedulings, little progress has been made
on many of the more difficult cases, such as the cases under litigation (para
5.10). For these loans, the arrears have increased rapidly as new installments
fell due but were not repaid, interest and penalty charges accumulated, and in
particular as the rupee value of the overdues increased as a result of the ex-
change fluctuations (para 5.07). As a result, projects in arrears over 24
months were 25% of total arrears in 1975, and 47% in 1979 (Annex 8). This
indicates that many of the cases have become "hard-core" defaults for which
PICIC will need to provide concessions after negotiating partial repayments
(para 5.17).
Present Situation
5.04      In view of the improved outlook for private investment (para 2.01)
and improved position of the textile sector (para 2.06), it had been expected
that PICIC's collections for 1979 would show further significant improvements
over 1978. However, after an auspicious beginning in January, collections
dropped significantly in the following months except for June which was again
a good month. (Most of PICIC's loans fall due in January and July.) As of
end-June 1979, total collections were Rs 170.6 million (including miscellaneous
recoveries and receipts against repayments due July 1, 1979) compared to a
target of Rs 198.7 million for the period. However, PICIC's collections for
July-December decreased to Rs 132.2 million, yielding Rs 303 million for 1979.
The principal factors affecting collections in 1979 were continued political
uncertainty caused by the scheduled, and later indefinitely postponed elec-
tions, delays in setting up the Special Courts, continued defaulting by a
number of large PICIC clients, particularly textiles, and difficulties in
the paper and solvent extraction sectors. Detailed statistics for PICIC's
collections January-December 1979 are as follows:



- 26 -
Collection
Overdues    Billings                                  Percentages (%)
as of      January-  Collectiong   Overdues                  / Against
December 31, December   January- -   December          Against-  Total
Sector         1978          1979   December 1979  31, 1979 /b   Billings  Dues
____________________ (_____ Rs million)----------------------------
Textiles:
Cotton          317.7        199.4        74.8          424.9            38       15
Others           50.4         64.4        40.9            67.1           64       36
Sugar              11.1         70.0        51.1            34.9           73       63
Paper
manufacturing   44.3          29.5         8.4            65.2           29       11
Solvent
extraction       15.3          3.8         1.4            17.7           37        7
Public sector      24.5         40.8        42.5            16.3          100       65
Cases under
litigation /d  158.8          38.6         3.3          183.3             9        2
Others             78.8        132.0        80.4           107.2           61       38
Total        700.8 /e    578.5        302.8          916.6 /f         52      24
/a   Collections for January-March 1980 were Rs 92 million, an increase of
7% over the corresponding period in 1979.
/b   After reschedulings.
7T   Includes collections from billings against overdue clients, and clients
not previously in arrears. Since the former category is large (para 5.03),
the recovery percentages would necessarily become low.
/d   All sectors.
/e   Of which Rs 31.1 million for less than three months.  Excluding these,
the arrears were Rs 669.7 millon as mentioned in para 5.03.
/f   Includes overdues of less than 3 months.
This table shows that while PICIC's collection situation is problematic in most
sectors, the major problem sectors are cotton textile projects and paper manu-
facturing. As of December 31, 1979, these sectors accounted for 46% and 7%
of total arrears, respectively, whereas they only provided 25% and 3%, respec-
tively, of total collections in 1979. Many textile units are still suffering
from serious problems, but with the improved market conditions and GOP incen-
tives (para 2.11), the profitability in this industry should now be improving
considerably. The above table also shows that during 1979 total overdues
(including overdues under 3 months) increased from Rs 701 million to Rs 916
million. As clients continue to fall in arrears, incurring additional interest
charges, an increase in total overdues is to be expected. However, in this
case about 25-30% of the increase in arrears was due to the appreciation of
the strong currencies (para 5.07).
Reasons for Arrears
5.05      Based on a comprehensive review of its overdue portfolio, PICIC has
broken down its arrears (as of March 1, 1980) in the following manner:



- 27 -
No. of
Companies           Amount
No.   %         Rs million    %
(a)  Unprofitable operations           21   11.7         271.4      25.2
(b)  Closed units (fully or
partially)                       6    3.3         105.0       9.7
(c)  Delays in payments during
construction and initial
operations                      10    5.6          79.2       7.4
(d)  Cases under litigation            26   14.5         362.2      21.3
(e)  Deliberate defaults               23   12.9         132.5      10.4
(f)  Full or partial settle-
ment expected by
June 1980                       93   52.0         127.0       4.3
Total                          179  100.0       1,077.3    100.0
This table shows that projects in various types of difficulties accounted for
42% of total arrears, while defaults (categories (d), (e) and (f)) accounted
for 58% of total arrears by amount (Rs 621.7 million), and for 79% by number
(142 out of 179 companies). Accordingly, PICIC's arrears situation would
improve substantially if it should be able to collect these overdues. For
that to happen, improvements in the administration of the legal system are
required that would facilitate collections through the courts from recal-
citrant clients. Besides speeding up the processing of the present legal
cases, this would also discourage other clients from entering into lawsuits
against PICIC.
5.06      Financial Problems.  The above table probably over-estimates the
extent to which PICIC's clients in arrears suffer from financial problems,
since the table is prepared on the basis of the companies' accounts, which
may underestimate their profitability. Also, PICIC's figures show that a
number of companies with operating losses are still having positive cash flows,
out of which some repayments could be made. Finally, in several cases the
arrears could be settled through the sale of the units (including closed units),
or of some of their assets, but most owners have been unwilling to take such
steps. At present, there is little that PICIC can do to force sales in these
situations. Despite these caveats, there is also no doubt that many of the
clients do suffer from real problems. Annex 9 shows PICIC's classification
of its overdues as of March 1, 1980 according to various categories. For 90
of the companies, actions were being taken which would resolve the overdues
through reschedulings, court cases, and GOP repayment of public sector over-
dues. For 64 of the companies, the arrears were analyzed according to whether
prospects for improvements were linked to GOP policies, changes in company
management, improvements in operating performance, reduction of wilful defaults,
further reschedulings, etc.  The most important factor has been the exchange
risk problem.  Other common causes are weak management, changes in input
prices, market problems (e.g., specialized textiles), shortages of working
capital, and delayed project implementation (normally caused by shortages of
construction materials, lack of skilled workers, and delays in the underwrit-
ing of public share issues by ICP consortia). PICIC is trying to solve these
problems through its follow-up work, its requests to GOP for policy changes in



- 28 -
appropriate cases, assistance in speeding up GOP permits and licenses (para
2.04), and its requests to ICP for action on underwriting commitments (para
2.29).
5.07      Exchange Rate Fluctuations.  The most important single cause of
financial problems for PICIC's clients over the past few years has been the
foreign exchange risk. 1/ This first became a problem with the devaluation of
the rupee in 1972, which more than doubled the debt service burden of PICIC's
clients at that time. It also created in PICIC's balance sheet figures a
revaluation surplus of Rs 66 million on loans in arrears, 2/ most of which has
now been collected. However, in addition to the 1972 devaluation, the rupee,
which is tied to the US$, has declined substantially over the past few years
against strong currencies such as the DM, SFr, and to a lesser degree the
Yen. This has increased substantially the repayment obligations of many sub-
borrowers, and affected severely their financial projections. The Bank's
practice of disbursing largely these three currencies exacerbated matters.
DM, SFr and yen accounted for 45% of disbursements under Loan 590-PAK, 57%
under Loan 961-PAK, and 86% under Loan 1326-PAK. PICIC has estimated that
the effective cost to subborrowers of foreign exchange borrowings might have
been as high as 20-22% per annum. The clients found it very difficult to
calculate in advance the risk connected with such borrowings which seldom
figured explicitly in their calculations. This factor combined with interest
and penalty charges has resulted in some firms in arrears owing amounts to
PICIC about 3 times higher than the principal amounts. 3/ PICIC's policy
(incorporated in its subloan agreements) of charging repayment at the rate
prevailing at due date or repayment date, whichever is higher, also helped
to increase the debt service obligations of borrowers in arrears. It was
originally thought that this policy served as an incentive for prompt repay-
ment, but it seems rather to have caused resentment against the term-lending
institutions. On its existing loans, PICIC is considering amending the
clause to apply simply the rate at the time payment is made.
5.08      Deliberate Defaults.  Para 5.05 showed that deliberate and casual
defaults (categories (e) and (f)) as of March 1, 1980 were Rs 259.5 million
(24% of total arrears). In addition, some of the other arrears (including
cases under litigation) are partly of a deliberate nature. The widespread
unwillingness to repay is caused by several factors. Some businessmen hope
that as a result of Islamization, PICIC will have to convert its outstandings
into a form of equity, thereby eliminating their repayment obligations to
PICIC. In other cases, industrialists, some of whom acquired the habit of
not repaying during periods of real difficulties, do not care to honor their
1/   The Project Completion Report on Loan 590-PAK (January 13, 1978) high-
lighted this aspect.
2/   PICIC had met its foreign debt obligations as these fell due at the
pre-devaluation rate, while sub-borrowers in arrears were contrac-
tually obligated to repay at the higher post-devaluation rates.
3/   When a borrower falls in arrears for a protracted period, such escala-
tion in repayment obligations is inevitable, considering the aggregate
of interest, penalty charges and exchange rate changes.



- 29 -
commitments since PICIC has been unable to obtain effective legal recourse,
and it cannot grant them new loans due to its present lack of funds. 1/
5.09      However, the main reason for the deliberate defaults was the wide-
spread feeling that it was unfair of the term-lending institutions to require
the sub-borrowers to repay their loans at the higher exchange rates, in
particular where they stood to make a foreign exchange gain on overdues.   In
this regard, several influential groups of businessmen pressed GOP to grant
generous concessions on their debts to the financial intermediaries, and some
GOP statements in early 1979 encouraged the hope that such concessions would
be granted. However, on November 8, 1979 GOP announced that relief would not
be forthcoming and that the matter of collections of arrears must be settled
directly between the banks and their clients. However, as a concession, GOP
announced in the FY80 Budget, re-enactment of a provision that had expired in
1975, under which industrialists who have suffered losses on their foreign
exchange loans may revalue their assets correspondingly, and thereby benefit
from higher depreciation write-offs. GOP has estimated the cost of this
measure, which will be applicable retroactively to 1975, at Rs 30 million per
annum.
The Legal System
5.10      Cases Under Litigation.  As of December 31, 1979, PICIC had 26
cases under litigation for a total of Rs 335 million (Annex 9). About half of
these cases were filed in 1977 or before, with one case dating back to 1971.
PICIC has found that the moment a suit is filed, clients who previously paid
some amounts no longer pay at all, while the court cases normally go on for
years, due to delaying tactics by opposing counsel and the slow processing in
the courts. Also, even if a judgment favorable to PICIC is passed, liquidation
procedures still take a very long time, partly due to inadequate supervision
of the court appointed liquidators, who are paid an annual percentage of the
value of the assets under liquidation, and thus have no incentive to speed up
the liquidation procedures. The result is that PICIC has been reluctant to
file cases in the High courts, except as a last measure after reschedulings
and negotiated attempts have failed.
5.11      Recovery Ordinance.  As a first, important step to improve the legal
framework for the financial institutions, GOP passed a Special Recovery Ordin-
ance, with effect from April 1, 1979. The promulgation of this Ordinance was
a condition for appraisal of this credit. Its purpose is to facilitate loan
collections through the courts for the scheduled banks in Pakistan. PICIC,
although not a bank, has been declared an eligible institution under the
Ordinance. The main aspects of the Ordinance are as follows:
1/   In many cases, borrowers prefer to repay working capital loans to com-
mercial bank first since the interest rate is at least 3% higher than
on the PICIC loans (para 3.20). For newer loans, PICIC has increased
its penalty rate sufficiently to off-set this cost differential for
clients in arrears.



- 30 -
(a)  The establishment of special courts to deal with cases
regarding loans outstanding to banks and other eligible
institutions. The courts will handle only this type of
case, and can pass both civil and criminal judgements;
(b)  Simplified court procedures;
(c)  Adjournments of cases to be allowed only in extraordinary
circumstances. (In the regular courts, repeated adjourn-
ments for long periods have caused substantial delays
in court processing). All decrees shall provide for in-
terest on the judgement debt from the date of the decree
till payment at the contracted rate or at the rate of two
percent above the bank rate, whichever is higher;
(d)  The financial institutions can obtain additional security
for existing loans where this is considered inadequate;
(e)  The courts can order executions of their decrees by
attaching the land revenue owing, so that the decree
holders can obtain the assistance of the public admin-
istration in collecting their dues;
(f)  Penal remedies will be available in cases where borrowers
sell mortgaged assets without permission;
(g)  No appeals will be entertained against the decisions of
the Special Courts unless a cash deposit of the decreed
amount or satisfactory security is furnished.
5.12      GOP has taken a number of steps to implement the Ordinance, includ-
ing the appointment of a special judge in each province. The Ordinance could
have a significant impact on PICIC's collections, by providing an effective
legal measure against recalcitrant clients. However, this will depend largely
on the way in which the Ordinance is administered by the courts. In this
regard, it seems likely that there would be a need for more than one special
judge in the provinces of Punjab and Sind, and GOP has agreed to appoint addi-
tional judges for these two provinces when necessary. 1/ Although, it is still
too soon to assess the impact of the Ordinance, initial signs indicate that the
Special Courts should provide a quicker, more effective means for legal redress
than the High courts. The first PICIC case considered was decided in favor of
PICIC. Due to the increase in the number of cases filed by the term-lending
institutions and the commercial banks, the Ministry of Law has requested the
Special Courts and the High Courts to give priority to PICIC's cases. With
the Rules of Procedure for the Special Courts issued in February 1980, the
mechanism is in place for the full hearing of the cases filed.
1/   The workload on the Special Courts will depend on the number of cases
filed by the commercial banks, which have a large number of loans in
arrears. PICIC intends to make active use of the Ordinance, and has
already sent legal notices to 23 of its clients.



- 31 -
5.13      Regular Legal Framework.  In addition to the establishment of the
Special Courts, it would be highly desirable also to improve the processing
of company law matters through legal channels in the Hight courts, particularlv
to speed-up liquidation proceedings, which is not the direct concern of the
Special Courts. Also, it would be advantageous to facilitate the change of
management or ownership for units that are closed or operating with serious
difficulties, and at the same time are in serious arrears to the financial
institutions. PICIC has been requesting such measures for some time and
legislation to this effect is being drafted by the Ministry of Finance and the
Law Ministry. However, the main area for improvement lies not in changes to
the laws but in the administration of the legal system. Significant improve-
ments could be achieved administratively, e.g., through the appointment of
judges exclusively for company law matters, through swifter implementation of
liquidation proceedings and prompt scheduling of cases involving overdues.
Collection Plan
5.14      PICIC has prepared a project-by-project collection plan on a half-
yearly basis for the period January 1980-December 1982, which is summarized in
Annex 10. Briefly, the plan presents the following figures:
Collections
Amount       % of Amounts
(Rs million)   Falling Due
1978 (actuals)               332             66
1979 (actuals)               303             52
1980                         350             64
1981                         380             67
1982                         420             80
The plan is based on a careful estimate of the repayment ability of PICIC's
existing clients, and based on the assumption that the problem of unwilling-
ness to repay will basically be overcome through the Recovery Ordinance,
continued firm support by GOP and rescheduling by PICIC in appropriate cases.
With such support and other measures which are discussed in PICIC's Strategy
Statement (Annex 3) and in the following paras, the above collection figures
for 1980-82 represent suitable targets for PICIC.
5.15      The following aspects of the collection plan are pertinent:
(a)  The cotton textile sector is expected to increase from
20% of collections in 1980 to 25% in 1982, based on the
projected profitability situation in the industry. Never-
theless, PICIC assumes reschedulings of Rs 139 million,
in this sector. Further improvements in the economic
environment for the textile sector would have a signifi-
cant impact on PICIC's collections;
(b)  PICIC expects that collections in the paper and board
industry will increase from Rs 8.4 million in 1979 to
Rs 16 million in 1980 and Rs 18 million in 1982;



- 32 -
(c) Public sector collections are assumed to be high (Rs 54 mil-
lion in 1980) due to the measures agreed in para 5.19;
(d) PICIC has assumed low recoveries from its legal cases, i.e.,
Rs 193 million for 1980-82, or only 40% of the Rs 478 mil-
lion of arrears for which legal action has been taken or
is currently planned for lawsuits in the immediate future.
Speedier court actions for these cases would thus have a
large impact on PICIC's collections.
5.16      Reschedulings.  PICIC only grants reschedulings as part of an over-
all settlement with a client in arrears, and often involving some down-payments
on arrears. 1/ Provided that the Recovery Ordinance has the intended impact,
the clients should become more interested than in the past in regularizing
their relationship with PICIC. Despite the reluctance till now of many clients
to enter rescheduling agreements, PICIC has rescheduled substantial amounts
over the past few years. e.g., in 1978, 22 loans were rescheduled involving
outstandings of Rs 139 million. In 1979, reschedulings of Rs 106 million were
made. Under the collection plan (Annex 10), reschedulings of Rs 291 million
have been estimated, mostly for 1980-81.
5.17      PICIC Concessions.  At present, PICIC is willing to grant resched-
ulings in deserving cases, and to forego its outstanding penalty charges
and interest spread to revitalize closed units, usually those that have seen
a change in management. Otherwise, no concessions to defaulters have been
given, which has been a prudent policy in view of the widespread pressure for
concessions. Now that GOP has given PICIC its full support, PICIC might agree
to a limited number of concessions and write-offs, in particular on its
accrued exchange gains, in order to encourage repayments and reduce the debt
burden on clients in genuine difficulties.  Also, PICIC is considering chang-
ing its exchange clause (para 5.07) on existing loans to read that repayments
will be made at the exchange rate prevailing at time of repayment.
5.18      PICIC's collection plan can only be achieved with solid GOP support
for its collection efforts which was forthcoming in November 1979 (paras 5.09
and 5.12). GOP has agreed to continue to support PICIC's collection efforts,
and to constitute a Review Committee consisting of the Secretary of Finance
(or his representative); PICIC's Chairman or MD; and IDA's representative,
which will meet once every 4 months to review collection measures and perform-
ance. If IDA considers such measures and performance inadequate, it has the
right to suspend authorization of subprojects under the credit.
5.19      Additional administrative measures to assist collections include
the following:
1/   In addition, clients must accept PICIC's 4% penalty rate, and agree to
a revised amortization schedule that is reasonable from PICIC's point
of view and realistic considering the cash flow position of the company.



- 33 -
(a) Public Sector Projects. Under the negotiations for Loan 1326-
PAK, GOP undertook to assist PICIC in implementing its recovery
program for public sector units, 1/ and that it would take "all
appropriate steps" to ensure payment to PICIC by the concerned
borrowers within twelve months of any default in payments. By
and large, the public sector units have repaid PICIC at a higher
rate than the private sector. Nevertheless, some public sector
companies have been slow in honoring their commitments, and pub-
lic sector overdues as of December 31, 1979 were Rs 16.3 million
(para 5.04). GOP has agreed to clear, by October 31, 1980, the
public sector overdues outstanding as of December 31, 1979. In
addition, GOP has agreed that from November 1, 1980, it shall
cause all other amounts owed by public sector companies to PICIC
to be paid within 6 months of the due dates.
(b) PAYE Scheme and IPB Licenses. At the insistence of PICIC and
IDBP, GOP has agreed not to grant licenses under the PAYE scheme
(para 2.06) to industrialists who are in arrears to the term-
financing institutions. In addition, the Ministry of Finance
and PICIC representatives on CIPCOC (para 2.24) would oppose the
granting of fresh sanctions to parties in default to PICIC unless
arrangements have been made to clear their overdues. With the
upswing in investment interest, these are important measures for
PICIC to enforce collections.
VI.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Profitability
6.01      PICIC's net profit after tax declined from Rs 33.1 million in 1978
to Rs 30.0 million in 1979 (Annex 12). This is due to the lack of growth in
loan outstandings in this period and PICIC's narrow interest spread (para
6.02). After-tax profit as a percentage of average total assets improved from
1.4% in 1977 to 1.45% in 1978 due to increased capital gains on sales of
investments, but declined to 1.28% in 1979. Administrative expenses, which
remained fairly stable between 1975 and 1977, increased from Rs 12.4 million
(0.55% of average total assets) in 1977 to Rs 16.1 million (0.70%) in 1978, on
account of increased office expenses, 2/ and also increased staff salaries and
benefits, which were required to maintain PICIC's competitiveness.  Due to
PICIC's resource constraints in 1978-79, its loan portfolio will not increase
sufficiently over the next few years to prevent the administrative expenses
from increasing further, to about 0.85% of average total assets projected in
1/   Units financed by PICIC and then nationalized by GOP.
2/   PICIC's lease for its office premises was renewed at a substantially
higher rate than under the previous lease.



- 34 -
1983, which would still be reasonable. In view of its liquidity situation
(para 6.03), PICIC did not declare cash dividends for 1977 and 1978. Instead,
it issued bonus shares at the rate of 20% for 1977, and 15% for 1978. For
1979, PICIC is again unlikely to declare cash dividends.
6.02      GOP presently allows an interest spread of 2% for the term lending
institutions, which is inadequate for an institution like PICIC in an infla-
tionary environment. At a minimum, PICIC should be able to retain sufficient
earnings after taxes, provisions, and dividends, to increase its equity in
nominal terms sufficiently to offset inflation. On this basis, the minimum
spread for PICIC can then be calculated as follows (all figures are rounded):
(a) Operating profit is equal to interest spread times aver-
age portfolio of Rs 1,900 million;
(b) From operating profit deduct: administrative expenses
(0.7% of average total assets of Rs 2,340 million),
taxation (35% of net profit, which represents PICIC's
average taxes after taking deductions into account),
annual increment to provisions at 0.25% of average port-
folio, 1/ and dividend payments at 10% of share capital
(Rs 92 million). The remainder, representing retained
earnings, should be 10% of equity at the beginning of
the year (Rs 300 million), assuming a 10% rate of
inflation.
On this conservative basis, and rounding off to the nearest 0.5%, PICIC should
have a spread on all its lending operations of at least 4.0%. GOP has agreed
that PICIC will receive a spread of 4% on the IDA credit applicable to all
disbursements after April 1, 1980. Until then PICIC would receive a spread
of 3%, the same as on the ADB loan (para 3.22).
Liquidity
6.03      Due to its poor collections (paras 5.02-5.04), PICIC has not been
in a position to service all its debts, and has had to borrow from SBP for
this purpose. Total SBP cash credits from 1973 onwards amount to Rs 690 mil-
lion, of which Rs 568 million were outstanding as of December 31, 1979. These
loans were granted at the Bank rate (10%), which is higher than PICIC's in-
terest rates, including penalty charges, on many of its older loans. For this
reason, GOP has agreed to grant PICIC an interest deduction on its SBP cash
credits. For a period of two years, all rollovers and any new credit lines
will be provided at half the bank rate (5%), and GOP will provide to PICIC a
tax-free reimbursement for two years against interest paid in excess of 5% on
Rs 125 million cash credit which was rolled over in September 1979.
1/   This gives annual provisions of less than Rs 5 million, which can seem
to be on the low side. However, this calculation does not take into
account the substantial amounts taken to interest suspense account,
which are considered roughly offset by the fact that the above cal-
culation does not take into account income from equity investments,
penalty rates and various fees.



- 35 -
PICIC has not been able to repay to SBP some of its cash credits drawn so far,
and several reschedulings of about Rs 180 million have therefore been made for
a period of 5 years. As discussed in para 7.08, an additional cash credit of
Rs 125 million will be required in 1980/81 to cover liquidity gaps.
Capital Structure
6.04      PICIC's latest share increase was in 1974, at which time the share
capital was increased from Rs 60 million to Rs 66.4 million (Annex 13). Due
to PICIC's financial difficulties and the uncertain investment climate in
Pakistan, it has not been feasible for PICIC to increase its share capital
further, except through the bonus shares given in lieu of cash dividends.
PICIC's net worth increased from Rs 285 million (end 1977) to Rs 307 million
(end 1978), and to Rs 332 million in December 1979 (Annex 13). At the same
time, PICIC's outstanding loan portfolio remained stable at about Rs 1.83
billion, due to the lack of steady growth in operations (para 4.07). As a
result, PICIC's long term debt-equity ratio fell from 6.6:1 (December 1977) to
5.9:1 (December 1979), while the long term debt-equity ratio (contractual
definition 1/) fell from 6.1:1 to 5.5:1, which is well below the contractual
limit of 7:1. This limit would be maintained in view of PICIC's arrears
problem. Given PICIC's present financial condition, it would be difficult for
PICIC to attract investors for any share capital increases. However, it is
possible that its liquidity and profitability could increase faster than
projected, in which case a new share capital issue could be floated in 1981 if
conditions were suitable at that time.
6.05      Provisions.  PICIC's actual provisions against doubtful debts
amounted to Rs 90 million as of December 31, 1979 (Annex 13) and accounted for
5% of its loan portfolio. 2/ Actual provisions which are determined on a
project-by-project basis in consultation with PICIC's auditors, represented
about 25% of the principal portion of the arrears. In addition, PICIC has not
taken to income interest accrued on bad and doubtful debts which amounted to
Rs 295 million (13% of its loan portfolio); these reserves are kept in an
interest suspense account. Most of PICIC's outstanding loans are well secured;
i.e. PICIC's low collections are not representative of the amount of underlying
assets held by PICIC-assisted companies. In particular, the value of land and
machinery used as collateral has increased substantially in many cases. Also,
PICIC's provisions are made out of after-tax profits, whereas any ultimate
write-offs would be tax deductible. For all these reasons, the provisions
were considered by the auditors and IDA to be adequate.
6.06      During 1980, PICIC will update its market valuations of the collat-
erals of subprojects in arrears. PICIC's auditors include in their long-form
audit submitted to IDA each year a full list of the companies in arrears and
analysis of the adequacy of the collateral backing each project, i.e., whether
the collateral was based on (1) the appraised valuations; (2) bank guarantees;
1/   Counting as equity GOP subordinated loans falling due after the last
installment of any IBRD loans to PICIC.
2/   Total provisions and reserves amounted to Rs 332 million as of December
31, 1979 or 18% of PICIC's loan portfolio.



-36 -
(3) book value in current year's financial statements of the company; or (4)
book value from previous years financial statements. 1/ As shown in Annex 11,
of the 93 companies listed as operating at a loss or in technical/financial
difficulties as of December 31, 1978, 65 were based on the previous year's
book values, 14 on the 1978 book values, 9 on guarantees and only 5 on appraised
market values. There were 116 companies listed as operating profitably with
another 56 companies listed as being under construction or in pre-operation
stage. Thus, out of a total of 270 companies in PICIC's portfolio, 91 or 33%
were operating with difficulties. PICIC is updating the market valuations of
the collaterals for these companies through its follow-up work and specialized
appraisal where necessary. The auditors will conduct a random sample test of
these valuations, the results of which would be included in the 1979 long-form
audit to be submitted by June 1980.
Equity Investments
6.07      As of December 31, 1979, PICIC's equity portfolio amounted to
Rs 89.2 million (at cost) in 80 companies (Annex 6). Of these, 54 represent-
ing Rs 64.9 million were paying dividends, and 23 (Rs 21.1 million) were not
paying dividends due to losses. One non-paying company was making modest
profits. The aggregate market value of these shares was Rs 120.9 million, 35%
above costs. The dividend yield as a percentage of equity portfolio fell from
11.2% in 1976 to 9.3% in 1978 and 8.9% in 1979; this reflects the general
performance of private industry. However, PICIC has also sold off some shares;
on these sales, it achieved a capital gain of Rs 4.5 million in 1978 and
Rs 5.3 million in 1979.
Market Quotation
6.08      The book value of PICIC's own shares as of December 31, 1978 was
3.6 times the par value of Rs 10. During the first half of 1979, the market
quotation ranged from Rs 10.60 to Rs 12.75 and was Rs 11.0 on December 31,
1979, or 30% of book value. 2/ This was higher than the level of 1976 and
1977, so that the value of PICIC's shares has not been affected negatively by
the lack of a cash dividend, although this could change. Net earnings per
share (after provisions) during 1979 were Rs 2.78, and the price/earnings
ratio during the first half of 1979 was about 3.4. This low ratio may reflect
the market's assessment of the likely slow growth in earnings for an insti-
tution like PICIC.
Audit
6.09      A.F. Ferguson & Co., and Rahim Jan & Co., continue to be PICIC's
auditors. They certified PICIC's 1978 annual accounts without any qualifi-
cations. The 1979 accounts are presently under audit. Thus, all 1979 figures
in this report are provisional. The quality and timeliness of the audit
1/   These four categories are standard and are drawn from the World Bank's
Guidelines for Preparation of Long-Form Audit Reports.
2/   On February 28, 1980, PICIC's shares were quoted at Rs 10.50.



- 37 -
reports are satisfactory. The 1978 long-form audit met the Bank's requirements
and special attention was devoted to PICIC's arrears. However, the 1979 audit
report should include additional material on the collaterals backing PICIC's
overdue clients (para 6.06).
VII. PROSPECTS
General Outlook
7.01      As discussed in Chapter 2, the level of private industrial invest-
ment has been very low throughout most of the seventies, which has resulted
in a substantial accumulated need for BMR investments. Also, since 1977,
there have been several important changes in GOP's industrial policies, includ-
ing some denationalizations, the opening of several subsectors for private
investments, export rebates for textiles, etc. The 1980 Budget included
additional measures that should encourage private investment, such as an
export rebate for engineering goods and depreciation write-offs against
updated valuations of machinery and equipment. At the same time, the inter-
national market has improved for the important textile sector. As a result,
the private sector investment climate has definitely improved over previous
years.
Business Forecasts
7.02      Project Pipeline.  PICIC's pipeline of projects consists of (i) a
backlog of projects already sanctioned by PICIC's Board and awaiting alloca-
tion of funds; and (ii) a pipeline of projects which are currently under
appraisal or review by PICIC's management. 1/ Regarding the backlog, as of
January 31, 1980, 33 loans ($53.0 million foreign exchange costs) had been
sanctioned by PICIC's Board but were still awaiting commitment due to lack
of resources. This backlog is distributed over a wide range of industries
(Annex 14). Thus, cotton textiles account for only 3 projects ($7.1 mil-
lion) or 13% by amount; 2 woollen textiles BMR projects and one new project
account for $2.4 million; while 2 new metals and glass and ceramics projects
account for US$4.5 million. Other important subsectors are printing and
packaging, paper/board projects, agro-industries and engineering projects.
Allowing for minor cancellations from this backlog, subprojects for about $48
million would be committed in 1980.
7.03      PICIC's pipeline of applications as of January 31, 1980 consisted
of 31 projects with estimated PICIC foreign exchange loans of $47.0 million
(Annex 15). Again, there is a wide sectoral distribution, including projects
for the manufacture of tires ($3.9 million), glass and ceramics ($14.7 mil-
lion), various textiles and garments ($12.2 million), agrobased industries ($2
million) and prefabricated housing ($3.8 million). The pipeline is well diver-
sified between provinces, including 3 projects in Baluchistan, although the
1/   PICIC has also been approached for a number of other projects that
might be formally presented to it for financing over the next few
years, should PICIC obtain foreign exchange resources.



- 38 -
latter are mostly located in an area not far from Karachi.  The pipeline is
considered reasonably firm, and excludes several projects under evaluation
but not considered likely to go forward, and other projects in their initial
stages of application that would likely go forward. In all, projects for
about $40 million could be committed out of the pipeline over the next two
years. Together with the $48 million from the backlog, PICIC might thus be
able to commit subprojects with a foreign exchange requirement of about $88
million over the next two years, even without taking into account any new
applications, in particular for textiles (para 2.19).
7.04      Projected Operations.  In spite of the very large pipeline and
backlog, for the purpose of these projections PICIC's level of operations
has been estimated on a conservative basis, due to the uncertainties that are
still prevalent in the economy, as follows:
Actual                 Projected
1978        1979    1980   1981    1982    1983
-------------------(Rs millions)---------------
Gross Sanctions
Foreign Currency                 273         354     473    568        681    818
Local Currency                    14          26       40     49        61      77
Total                        287         380      513    617        742    895
Commitments
Foreign Currency                 183          73      238    680       684    686
Local Currency                    (3)          4       23     36        41      52
Total                        180           77     261    716        725    738
Disbursements
Foreign Currency                 250         226      112    262       407    550
Local Currency                    10           3        9     29        36      44
Total                        260         229      121    291        443    594
7.05      PICIC's estimated level of gross sanctions for 1980 (Rs 513 million)
is 35% above the 1979 level, based on PICIC's pipeline. The proportion of
local currency loans in gross approvals is expected to increase slightly from
7% in 1979 to 9% by 1983. About 10% of each year's gross sanctions are
expected to be cancelled, which yields commitments of Rs 261 million in 1980.
A large increase in commitments is projected for 1981 to Rs 716 million (due
to the backlog and utilization of the new lines of credit) and to remain at
about the same level in 1982/83. PICIC's foreign exchange disbursements
should decrease from Rs 226 million in 1979 to Rs 112 million in 1980 due to
the slow-down in commitments in 1978 and 1979. However, these disbursements
should reach Rs 407 million by 1982, and Rs 550 million by 1983.



- 39 -
Resource Requirements
7.06      Foreign.  Annex 16 shows PICIC's projected resource position through
1983. Its uncommitted foreign currency resources as of January 1, 1980 were
$13.4 million, mostly tied funds. Through 1982, the foreign exchange commit-
ments are projected at about $162 million, which could be partly financed by
bilateral credits ($27 million), resources available at the beginning of the
period ($13.4 million), and new KfW funds ($11.2 million). Assuming that PICIC
should still have available at least $7.5 million in uncommitted resources
(tied funds) in 1980, the present requirement for funds from the multilateral
lending agencies would be about $80 million. ADB has approved a $40 million
loan, which means that a $37 million IDA credit for PICIC would cover the
balance of its foreign exchange requirements. The credit would account for
about 23% of PICIC's commitments in the period 1980-82. Further lines of
credit from IDA and ADB would be required in 1982 and 1983 to meet PICIC's
shortfall based on its projected commitments in these years.
7.07      Domestic.  PICIC's rupee resource flow is projected in Annexes 13
and 16-17 and is summarized below:
1980     1981      1982     1983
Sources: Cash from Operations /a             22.8     28.3      35.3     33.8
Surplus of principal
collections minus
repayments /b                     3.2     34.5      65.1      46.2
Net cash surplus                   26.0     63.7    100.4       80.0
Use:     Net repayments on SBP
cash credits /c                   -        -        50.0      50.0
Result:  SBP cash credits (II to V)
outstanding at end of
year                            443.5    443.5    393.5    343.5
/a   Net profit adjusted for depreciation and taxes as shown in Annex 16.
7T   Principal collections minus principal repayments on loans and debentures,
and minus deficit in foreign currency collections.
/c   In the projections, it is assumed that PICIC's rupee loan disbursements
will be financed in their entirety by the special SBP credits for locally
fabricated machinery which are separate to the cash credits.
7.08      In 1979 GOP agreed to reschedule SBP cash credits of Rs 125 million
for five years. In addition, SBP has agreed to make available to PICIC, if
necessary, an additional credit of Rs 125 million in 1980-81. Other cash
credits which fall due in 1980 (Credits II, III and VII for a total of Rs 180
million), and in 1982 (Credits IV and V for a total of Rs 100 million) giving
a total of Rs 280 million will also be rescheduled for 5 years. Against this,
PICIC should be able under the above projections to repay almost about Rs 100
million in 1982-83 (Annex 16). Tentative estimates for the years after 1982
indicate that PICIC should be able to repay its SBP borrowings under the
revised schedules.



- 40 -
Financial Projections
7.09      Annex 12 shows projected income statements for 1980-1983.  Net pro-
fit after tax is expected to decline from Rs 30.0 million in 1979 to Rs 24.2
million in 1980, due primarily to PICIC's decreased lending act-vitiy in
1978-79 and increasing interest expenses. The profitability is expected to
improve in the following years to the 1977 level (about Rs 33 million). Net
profit after tax is projected to increase from about 1.0% of average total
assets in 1980 to 1.17% in 1983. The administrative expenses are projected
to increase by 10% per annum. This moderate increase would increase the
expenses as a percentage of average total assets from 0.7% in 1980 to about
0.85% in 1983. PICIC's total assets are expected to grow rapidly in 1982-83
as a result of increases in disbursements (para 7.05).
7.10      Annex 17 shows the projected cash flow statements through 1983.
Due to rollover of cash credits (para 7.08), the debt service coverage ratio
is projected to remain above 1:1 from 1981 and thereafter. As a result of
its tight liquidity, it has been assumed that PICIC will pay dividends of
10% only in 1982 and 1983. This will be necessary for PICIC to maintain the
price of its shares at around par (para 6.07), and ease the task of increas-
ing PICIC's share capital in the future. These dividend payments would repre-
sent only a fraction of PICIC's domestic resource requirements over the period
1980-1983, the majority of which is used to service PICIC's foreign currency
borrowings (about Rs 185 million of repayments in each year 1980-83).
7.11      Annex 13 shows PICIC's projected balance sheets through 1983.  Total
assets (excluding those in Bangladesh) are expected to grow from Rs 2.78 bil-
lion in 1979 to Rs 3.46 billion in 1983 or by about 5% per annum. The loan
and investment portfolio should grow at about a rate of 4.3%, to Rs 3.5 bil-
lion by 1983. The debt/equity ratio (contractual definition) is projected to
decrease from 5.5:1 (end-1979) to 4.9:1 (end-1980). By 1983, it is projected
to increase to 5.5:1 which would still be well below the 7:1 limit. PICIC's
equity is projected to grow from Rs 422 million (end-1979) to Rs 536 million
(end-1983). Assuming an inflation rate of 10%, this would mean a decline
of about 15% in PICIC's real equity measured in 1979 rupees. This adds addi-
tional weight to the justification for an increase in PICIC's interest spread
over the present 2% (para 6.02).
VIII. PROPOSED CREDIT
Objectives of the Proposed Credit
8.01      The proposed credit would serve the following purposes:
(a) Provide scarce foreign exchange funds for economically
and financially sound private sector projects through
PICIC, thereby supporting the improvement that has taken
place in the private sector investment climate;



- 41 -
(b) Improve the collections system which would benefit all
financial institutions in Pakistan;
(c) Through the credit, significant improvements would be
achieved in PICIC as an institution, including technical
assistance for its textile engineering and economic work.
With this upgrading, PICIC will be well placed to channel
IDA (and other) funds to productive investments in Pakistan;
(d) Under the credit, assistance will be provided to GOP for
the implementation of its textile program in the priority
area of training; and
(e) Financing would be provided for balancing, modernization
and replacement investment in selected textile mills identi-
fied for such support through GOP's textile rehabilitation
program and PICIC's appraisal process.
Lending Scheme
8.02      The proposed credit for $40 million would be made to GOP, of which
$37 million would be on-lent to PICIC to finance the foreign exchange costs
of capital goods and services of subprojects sponsored by private productive
enterprises. As with other DFC projects, eligible enterprises would be
defined broadly to include manufacturing as well as agro-industries, mining,
etc. Out of the $37 million allocation, PICIC will use about $240,000 to
finance the foreign exchange costs of recruiting an industrial economist and
an engineer whose services will be provided to PICIC for a period of one year
each (paras 3.13 and 3.16). Of the proposed credit, $3 million would be used
by GOP for financing the costs of textiles training (para 2.18). Out of this
amount, GOP would use $240,000 to finance the costs of recruiting a textile
specialist for 24 months whose services will be provided to the Ministry of
Industries for 12 months regarding the implementation of textile rehabilita-
tion measures including training, and subsequently to PICIC for 12 months
(para 2.19).



- 42 -
8.03      The tentative costs of the project are summarized as follows:
US$
A.   PICIC subprojects to finance imported
machinery and equipment                           36,760,000
B.   Technical Assistance to PICIC:  Industrial
Economist and Engineer (12 man months
each) /a                                             240,000
C.   Textile training, including
technical assistance to GOP *                      3,000,000
Total                                          40,000,000
/a   In addition, ADB would be providing one expert to PICIC
(development bank specialist for 12 months, para 3.14).
*    Textile specialist for 24 man-months at a cost of $240,000,
consisting of 12 months with GOP and 12 months with PICIC
(para 2.19).
Main Terms
8.04      Interest.  PICIC would lend to sub-borrowers at 14%, including a
fee of 3% payable to GOP for carrying the exchange risk (paras 3.20-3.22).
Thus, the onlending rate from GOP to PICIC would be 8% until April 1, 1981.
Thereafter, the onlending rate would be 7%. The technical assistance would
be passed on to PICIC at IDA terms. PICIC would pay to GOP a commitment
fee of 3/4% which would be charged to the subborrowers.
8.05      Exchange Risk.  The foreign exchange risk would be assumed by GOP,
against a fee of 3% to be passed on to the sub-borrowers (in addition to the
lending rate). Thereby, the considerable uncertainties affecting the present
rupee parity rates would not affect this credit, and would reduce for PICIC
the serious collection problems it has been facing on past loans on account
of exchange rate fluctuations.
8.06      Amortization Schedule.  Repayments by PICIC to GOP would be made on
a flexible amortization schedule upto a maximum of 18 years, including 3 years
grace. These payments would be in approximate conformity with repayments
received by PICIC from its sub-borrowers.
8.07      Free Limit.  Under Loan 1326-PAK the free limit was (i) $2.5 mil-
lion on PICIC's lending to a project; or (ii) $4 million including outstanding
commitments to the project. IBRD reviewed for prior approval 17% by number
and 44% by amount of the subprojects financed under that loan. Under the pro-
posed credit this free limit would basically be maintained (the aggregate to
one company would be increased to $6 million) except for textile subprojects
for which there would be a stricter free limit as follows: (i) for textile
BM&R subprojects, the free limit would be $1.5 million; (ii) all new textile



- 43 -
subprojects would be submitted to IDA for prior approval. Based on PICIC's
backlog and pipeline of projects, IDA should review for prior approval about
30% by number, and 60% by amount, of the subprojects financed under the credit
including over 75% (by amount) of textile subprojects. In addition, IDA
would review for approval all textile training proposals submitted by the
Ministry of Industries.
Project Risk
8.08      The primary risk associated with the proposed credit concerns the
investment climate, which could again deteriorate as a result of political
uncertainties or policy changes towards the private sector. An additional
uncertainty is the economic situation in Pakistan, with inflationary pressures
and balance of payments difficulties. Due to these factors and the legal
problems discussed in Chapter 5, there is a risk that the substantial improve-
ments projected in PICIC's collection plan might not be achieved. However,
at present the prospects appear reasonably good for the private industrial
sector and for PICIC.
IX. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED
9.01      A $40 million IDA credit is recommended, of which $37 million would
be for PICIC and $3 million for GOP as described in paras 8.01-8.03.
9.02      The following matters have been agreed:
-    With GOP:
(a) Allocation and disbursement criteria for funds to cover tex-
tile training under the credit (para 2.18);
(b) Improvements in the legal framework for collections and GOP
measures to support PICIC's collection efforts (paras 5.12,
5.13 and 5.18);
(c) IDA's right to suspend authorizations of subprojects if it
considers the collections measures or performance to be
inadequate (para 5.18);
(d) Final settlement by October 31, 1980 of PICIC's public
sector overdues (para 5.19);
(e) Continuation of GOP's present policy to refuse PAYE financ-
ing schemes to industrialists who are in arrears to PICIC
(para 5.19);
(f)  The availability of SBP cash credits to cover PICIC's
liquidity shortfalls (para 7.08);
(g) The rescheduling of existing SBP cash credits (para 7.08);



- 44 -
(h) The carrying of the exchange risk by GOP against a fee of
3% to be paid by the subborrowers (paras 3.21 and 8.05); and
(i) The passing on of the technical assistance to PICIC at IDA
terms (para 8.04).
-    With GOP and PICIC:
(a) Recruitment of a textile industry specialist by December 31,
1980, to be financed out of the credit (paras 2.19 and 3.13);
and
(b) A GOP onlending rate to PICIC of 8% until April 1, 1981; and
7% thereafter in order to achieve a 4% spread for PICIC, appli-
cable to all disbursements after April 1, 1981 (para 3.22).
-    With PICIC
(a) A review of professional staff salaries and benefits to be
completed by December 31, 1980 (para 3.04);
(b) Recruitment of an industrial economist and engineer both
by December 31, 1980 to be financed out of the credit
(paras 3.13 and 3.16);
(c) A Collection Plan for 1980-82 (para 5.14);
(d) PICIC's debt-equity ratio (para 6.04); and
(e) The free limit under the credit including special criteria
for textiles (para 8.07).
9.03      The following are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit:
(a) Approval by PICIC's Board of its Strategy Statement
(para 3.19); and
(b) Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOP and
PICIC.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
List of Shareholders as of December 31, 1979
1/
No. of       No. of
Foreign Shareholders who Subscribed in Foreign Currency         Shareholders    Shares       Percentage
International Finance Corporation                                                322,000
Bank of America (USA)                                                            290,691
Continental International Finance Corporation (USA)                              206,523
The Commonwealth Development Finance Company Ltd. (UK)                           162,065
Deutsche Bank A.G. (West Germany)                                                442,750
Private Investment Company for Asia (PICA) S.A.                                  161,000
6       1,585,029         17.30
Other shareholders holding less than 100,000 shares                  22          814,152          8.887
Sub-total                                  2,399,181         26.18
Foreign Shareholders who Subscribed in Pakistan Currency
The Chartered Bank (UK)                                                          148,823
Grindlays Bank (UK)                                                              324,012
First National City Bank (USA)                                                   183,998
3          656,833         7.17
Other shareholders holding less than 100,000 shares                  7           152,697         1.67
Sub-total                        10          809,530         8.84
Total foreign shareholders       38        3,208,711        35.02
Pakistani Shareholders
State Life Insurance Corporation of Pakistan                                  2,045,311
Habib Bank Limited                                                               258,950
National Bank of Pakistan, Head Office                                           414,000
Investment Corporation of Pakistan                                              312,269
Pakistan Insurance Corporation                                                   314,853
United Bank Limited                                                              173,010
National Bank of Pakistan, Trustee Department                                    842,750
Premier Insurance Company of Pakistan Ltd.                                       131,962
Valika Woollen Mills Company Limited                                             103,500
9        4,596,605        50.16
Other shareholders holding less than 100,000 shares                571        1,357.884        14.82
Total Pakistan shareholders 2/   580          5,954,489        64.98
Total PICIC Shareholders           618        9,163,200       100.00
1/ Par value per share: Rs 10
2/ Of which Government-owned institutions account for 4,544,434 shares (49.59%)of the total
share capital.
Jazeiary 4, 1980



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LTD.
OUTLINE OF BUSINESS POLICIES
(Approved by the Board on 10/12/1964 and as amended on
11/3/1967, 30/9/1967, 7/12/70, 31/1/1974 and 25/8/1975)
1.   Objectives of the Corporation
(a) To stimulate the development of the country by providing finance
for the establishment of new industries as well as for the
balancing, modernisation and expansion of existing industries,
all in the private sector;
(b) To provide finance only for projects economically viable and
financially sound; and
(c) As far as possible, to assist in broadening the base of indus-
trial ownership in the country and thereby develop the Stock
Market.
2.   These objectives are carried out through:
(i) Investment Policy
(a) Finance are made available only for viable projects
which will contribute to the economic growth of the
country and to savings or earnings of foreign exchange.
For this purpose all projects are subjected to carefull
examination through qualified staff and only those judged
economically viable, technically sound and financially
profitable are considered for assistance;
(b) Finance are made available to projects which are in
line with the development plans of the Government,
preference being given to projects largely based on
local raw materials;
(c) Financing is diversified, as far as possible, both as
regard different regions of the country and as regards
different industries and their ownership. Preference
is given to the financing of projects in the under-
developed areas of the country as long as they satisfy
the conditions of economic viability and financial
soundness;



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page Z
(d) In accordance with the normal business practice,
adequate security is obtained to cover the loans but
in addition the main considerations are soundness of
management and projected profitability of the enter-
prise to cover repayments;
(e) The Corporation does not seek any controlling interest
in any enterprise financed by it but, consistent with the
safety of its interests, leaves the management and con-
trol in the hands of the entrepreneurs;
(f) Even after providing the finance, the projects are
carefully watched and those in difficulties are assisted
to the extent possible till the loans are repaid; and
(g) Corporation does not finance working capital requirements
by means of short term local currency loans. This business
is left to the commercial banks. In other respects also
PICIC does not compete with commercial banks.
(ii) Method of Financing
Corporation provides finance according to the suitability of each
project, in the form of -
(a) direct loans, mostly in foreign currencies;
(b) loans partly convertible into stock;
(c) direct equity participations; and
(d) under-writing of public issues.
(iii) Size of Loans
(a) As desired and/or approved by Government the Corporation
has reviewed the minimum limit for its lending operations.
These minimum limits, except where an enterprise is already
mortgaged with PICIC for an earlier loan or where per-
mitted by Government for special reasons, for the time
being are Rs 1.50 million for foreign currency and
Rs 2.50 million for local currency loans. However, for
under-developed areas (which are fully exempt from inci-
dence of customs duty on import of industrial plant and
machinery) the minimum limit for foreign currency loans
is Rs 750,000.
(b) PICIC shall normally limit its financial assistance in
any single transaction to not more than US$4 million.
PICIC shall normally limit its total commitment to any
single enterprise to the equivalent of 25% of PICIC's
netVorth or US$5 million whichever is the smaller.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
For the purposes of this limitation, the term "Total
Commitment" means the aggregate amount of all the out-
standing commitments of PICIC in such enterprise plus
the total amount of any proposed new commitment; both
amounts to be determined as of the date such new com-
mitment is proposed to be made. The Board may approve
transactions and commitments exceeding these limits in
exceptional cases after particularly rigorous project
appraisal and close and explicit scrutiny by PICIC's
Management and Board.
(iv) Exchange Risk
In granting foreign exchange loans (except in the case of sub-
loans from the first IBRD loan to PICIC where the foreign
exchange risk is covered by Government) the exchange risk is
passed on to the ultimate borrowers WI.
(v) Staff Recruitment and Training
(a) In order to strengthen its own management and staff as
well as to assist its clients in the formulation and
conduct of their projects, Corporation has continued to
build up an effective organization and develop an adequate
staff possessing skills in finance, marketing and economic
analysis, engineering, accountancy and law; and
(b) Corporation has been sending out members of its technical
staff for training at IBRD, IFC, Economic Development
Institute and other development financing agencies abroad;
at the same time Corporation has trained officers of
other institutions and is particularly ready to receive
for training officers from newly established development
banks for their initial training.
(vi) Reserves
The Corporation continues to build reserves consistent with sound
financial practices. In the past the practice has been to place
roughly 50% of the profits to reserves, in addition to capital
gains realised from the sale of investments and intention is to
continue this policy.
(vii) Broadening Industrial Owernship
(a) In the case of new as well as existing large industrial
enterprises, as a condition of financing, Corporation
has required that certain percentage of the share capital
is offered to the general public as a means to broaden
the base of industrial ownership;
1/ Under the proposed IDA credit, the Government will carry the exchange risk
for a fee of 3% payable by PICIC's borrowers.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
(b) The Corporation has, wherever practicable, made direct
equity investments or obtained conversion rights and then
sold some of its investments in the open market to further
the growth of the capital market. In selling any invest-
ments it pays due regard not only to its own interests but
also to the interests of other participants in such enter-
prise as well as to the steady and sound growth of stock
exchanges in the countrv; and
(c) It is the intention that the total equity investments
in various enterprises, either made directly or acquired
through conversion rights, is normally restricted to the
paid-up capital and free reserves of the Corporation.
(viii) Control over the Corporation
The Directors will use their powers to prevent any one person,
or company, or group of affiliated persons or companies obtaining
effective control of the Corporation.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page I
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND
INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Strategy Paper, 1980-82
1.        PICIC's main objective is development financing by way of providing
credit facilities, equity support, and other assistance to private industries
in Pakistan. In view of the important role the private sector can play in
industrial development, PICIC intends to be guided in its operations by the
following priority principles over the next three to four years.
I. Business Policy
(a) PICIC would confine itself to the financing of industries
controlled by the private sector;
(b) Government investment policy for the Fifth Five-Year Plan
is generally to restrict the public sector primarily to
the completion of ongoing projects while encouraging the
private sector to play its full role; PICIC would play
its due role in the fulfillment of objectives set out in
the Plan for the private sector;
(c) Every endeavor would be made to diversify PICIC's loan
portfolio in terms of industrial classification and geo-
graphical location of projects so that PICIC's exposure
in any single category of industries, such as textiles,
is not unduly extended and special attention is paid to
the development of industries in comparatively under-
developed parts of the country;
(d) Promotional work with special efforts would be undertaken
to develop non-conventional industries such as minerals
processing, engineering, chemicals and petroleum;
(e) Newcomers with sound financial backing and suitable
background would be encouraged to enter the industrial
field;
(f) Consistent with Government industrial policies, and sub-
ject to the sponsors being suitable and creditworthy,
the following types of projects will be encouraged:
(i) Projects based on domestic raw materials and agri-
cultural and industrial byproducts and wastes;
(ii) Projects based wholly or substantially on locally
fabricated machinery;



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(iii) Projects that are suitable for employment generation;
(iv) Export-oriented projects including financing for proj-
ects to be established in the Export Processing Zone;
(v) Projects for producing basic industrial and agricul-
tural inputs and projects for the manufacture of
improved agricultural implements and machines suit-
able for use by farmers to raise agricultural produc-
tivity; and
(vi) Import substitution industries that are shown to be
efficient.
(g) PICIC's existing maximum financial exposure limit in any
single transaction is $4 million and its total commitment
in a single enterprise is equivalent of 25% of PICIC's net
worth or $5 million whichever is lower. This limit is now
felt to be restrictive in view of the increasing project
costs. It is, therefore, proposed to increase the exposure
limit (for a single transaction as well as total commitment)
to 20% of PICIC's net worth or $6 million whichever is lower.
For projects requiring larger financing, efforts will be made
to associate other financial agencies such as IFC, CDFC,
Islamic Development Bank, FMO and other external agencies
directly lending to the private sector;
(h) In order to ensure better and maximum utilization of exist-
ing installed capacities preference would be given to proj-
ects for balancing, modernization and replacement of existing
units and their expansion in appropriate cases;
(i) In view of the present situation in the textile industry,
emphasis will be on the financing of balancing, moderniza-
tion and selective expansion of existing units to improve
the quality of products and their competitiveness for export.
In order to make possible the maximum utilization of cotton
and synthetic yarn and increase exports of finished cloth,
new proposals for weaving and finishing would be considered.
In addition, those industries which use cotton and synthetic
yarn as raw material would also be extended financial assist-
ance. Replacement, balancing and modernization of spinning
capacity would be allowed, whereas expansion in spinning
capacity would be considered only in exceptional cases;
(j) Consistent with Government policies and procedures, foreign
private investment would be encouraged in fields where tech-
nical knowhow and managerial skills are needed for the
successful operation of a project of national importance
(e.g., engineering, chemicals and petroleum, etc.). In
such cases, if so required, PICIC would help the foreign



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
investors to find suitable Pakistani partners and in some
cases make equity investments to support the capital base
of the project;
(k) PICIC would not take over to run any project but it would
help to bring about change of management where this is
essential for the successful operation of a project.
II. Project Promotion
2.        PICIC would intensify its efforts to diversify its project portfolio
outside the textile subsector. Keeping in view the industrialization and
technological development in the country, PICIC would encourage projects in
subsectors such as mineral products, paper and pulp, machinery including
electrical machinery, appliances and fittings and sophisticated projects in
the fields of electronics, petro-chemical and precision engineering. These
projects, for implementation, would need larger capital outlays and most of
them would be based on technologies not available in Pakistan. To overcome
such a situation, PICIC would be arranging joint financing arrangements with
foreign investors already well established in that line of manufacture and also
with international financing agencies such as FMO, IFC, Islamic Development
Bank, etc. PICIC will also investigate the feasibility of establishing a
subsidiary to undertake machinery leasing operations in Pakistan. PICIC
intends to have more intensive use of consultants in the carrying out of
industrial surveys to identify and to develop projects particularly the down-
stream projects of Pakistan Steel Mills, projects in rice milling, exportable
garments sector, and mining sector. PICIC will further intensify its efforts
to develop entrepreneurship and suitable projects in the under-developed areas
of the country.
III. Project Appraisal
(a) The standard of project appraisal would be maintained and
further improvements made by utilizing the experience of
those projects which have encountered difficulties;
(b) In order to increase the sponsors' financial stake in the
project and better project PICIC financing, the debt/equity
ratio for all projects would be improved as much as possi-
ble, and, normally, debt financing will not exceed 60% of
the total project cost. Any bridge financing provided by
a financial institution in place of share capital pending
issue of capital will be treated as a subordinated loan
so as not to disturb the debt/equity ratio of the project.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
IV. Implementation and Follow-up
(a)  The functions relating to project implementation, super-
vision and follow-up have already been reorganized on a
more rational basis. It would now be possible to have
closer follow-up and supervision so as to identify and
rectify problems quickly of the individual projects not
only during the course of construction but also after
completion and production till PICIC funds are repaid.
Projets will be visited at least once a year and more
frequently when loan repayments are in arrears;
(b)  Procedures have been revised for the procurement of
machinery under PICIC loans with a view to ensuring the
most reasonable prices and checking the possibility of
overinvoicing. This includes requiring that purchases
be made on the basis of international competitive bidding,
where appropriate; or otherwise shopping through at least
three competitive quotations.
V. Overdues
(a)  PICIC is concerned with the problems of its overdues.  In
this regard PICIC will continue to seek assistance from
the Government if problems arise concerning collections
from units now in the public sector or from commercial
banks for guarantees enforced. Further, Government has
already issued the Banking Companies (Recovery of Loans)
Ordinance - 1979 and PICIC is entitled under this Ordi-
nance for recovery of its overdues under a summary
procedure.
(b)  PICIC has undertaken a project-by-project study of its
portfolio. On that basis, targets for PICIC's total
collections (principal and interest) over the four year
period have been established and a collection plan adopted.
3.        PICIC's plan of action for solving the problem of overdues involves
the following:
Rescheduling
(i) Rescheduling already agreed to has only been in those cases
where:
-    the borrowers have made some downpayments;
-    they have agreed to the revised repayment schedule; and



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
-    where PICIC management is satisfied that they can be
expected to keep to the revised schedule of repayment.
(ii)  In all cases of rescheduling, the borrowers are required to
execute a supplementary loan agreement setting forth the
revised schedule of repayment and also agreeing to penal
interest at the enhanced rate of 4% so as to bring the total
interest rate in line with the interest rate currently
charged by commercial banks, thereby leaving no incentive
for withholding payment.
Legal Cases
4.        Legal action will be taken where necessary after a very careful
selection so that the impact is felt on others. Now that the Banking Companies
(Recovery of Loans) Ordinance - 1979 has been issued, PICIC would also take
action against defaulters under this Ordinance.
Other Actions
5.        All the leverage available to PICIC for collection of dues from
sponsors or groups of defaulting companies would be strictly applied. Fresh
loans would under no circumstances be sanctioned to any unit in default or any
group which has under its control any unit in default of payment till such time
as a satisfactory arrangement acceptable to PICIC has been reached for the
clearance of overdues.
V. General
(a)  PICIC is conscious of the professional staff turnover
problem specially after the oil boom in the Middle East
countries. In order to tackle this problem, PICIC is
already following a systematic policy of fresh recruitments
on a periodical basis for the development of its profes-
sional staff and promotions and adjustments so that the
vacancies are promptly filled in as far as possible from
within the organization without adversely affecting the
quality and flow of work. In addition, it is also planned
to review the emoluments of the professional and technical
staff in the light of prevailing conditions and PICIC's
financial position;
(b)  Through various Government Committees on which PICIC is
represented, close contact is kept with various Government
departments and agencies connected with the development of
industries in the country. Where a particular industrial
sector of the country is adversely affected, PICIC takes
up the matter with the Government for appropriate remedial
measures.



55 -                             ANNEX 4
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
1/
Summary of Loan Operations ,1958 to 1979
(Rs in Millions)
1958-1974    1975    1976    1977    1978        1979      1958-1979
2/
LOCAL CURRENCY
Gross Sanctions                    244.72      40.67   29.41    5.05   13.70        26.20    359.75
Net Sanctions 4/                   129.63      25.90   27.29    5.05   13.70        26.05    222.38
Commitments 5/                    118.47       24.07   11.45   28q,58    3.15        3.73    183.15
Disbursements                      108.22       8.73   19.13   28.13   10.15         3.35    177.71
Repayments                          40.50       4.68    2.60   15.61   15.25        10.12      88.76
Outstandings(end of Period)         67.72      71.77   88.30  100.82   95.72        88.95      88.95
3/
FOREIGN CURRENCY
Gross Sanctions                  5065.62    274.51  440.09  377.31  272.86    353.34   6783.74
Net Sanctions 4/                 3681.48    150.67  287.03  361.75  267.62    350.50   4984.70
Commitments 5/                   3397.42    283.25  114.11  272.79  182.94          73.06   4323.57
Disbursements                    3011.59    326.67  273.61  128.23  249.85         226.06   4216.01
Repayments                       1355.02    150.28  188.59  135.32  221.20    164.84   2215.25
Outstandings  6/                  1655.25   1753.83 1738.74 1707.48 1726.52    1743.75   1743.75
TOTAL
Gross Sanctions                  5310.34    315.18  469.50  382.36  286.56         379.54   7143.49
Net Sanctions 4/                 3792,19    166,85  295,82  327.08  248.59         376.55   5207.08
Commitments .                    3515.89    307.32  125.56  301.37  179.79          76.79   4506.72
Disbursements (excluding
961-PAK)                         .3118.49    257.59  192.63  130.11  248.57        202.47   4149.86
Repayments (excluding 961-PAK) 1395.52    154.96  191.19  150.93  236.45           192.01   2317.16
Outstandings 6/                  1722.97   1825.60 1827.04 1808.30 1822.24   1832.70   1832.70
1/ Includes guarantees
2/ Includes debenture loans
3/ Based on foreign currencies parity rates as of December 31, 1978
4/ Net of cancellations in year loan was approved.
5/ Including Loan 961-PAK.
6/ After deducting payments received in advance.
January 4, 1980



PARISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OP LOANS SANCTIONED 1958 to 1979
(R. in Millions)
1958-73                          1974                         1975                         1976                         1977                         1978                        1979
No.     Aoount    7.         No.    Aoount    /.         No.    Aoount       h         No.    Aoount    7          No.    Amoont    /.           No.     A-ount              No.     AaIEt        S
SIZE OF LOANS
Below Rs 500,000                   50          9.4     0.3       3          3.0     1.0       -          2.5     1.4        -         0.9     0.3        1         1.1     0.3         -        2.0    0.7       _         1.2       0.3
Rs 500,000 to R. 999,999           101        64.1     1.8        -         1.5     0.5        2         2.0     1.1        2         3.1     1.0        4         5.1      1.4        2         8.7    3.1                5.2        1.4
RN  1,000,000 to Rs 2,499,999      113       150.2     4.3        3        11.9     3.8        5        21.6    12.2        6        18.9     5.8        5        15.6     4.3         8        30.3   10.8       3        9.2        2.4
Rs 2,500,000 to R. 4,999,999       122       376.7    10.8        2        32.4    10.4        7        36.7    20.8        7        30.8     9.8        9        39.0    10.6         3        25.7    9.1       7       22.9        6.1
Rs 5,000,000 to Rn 9,999,999       101       674.4    19.2        5        35.6    11.5        2        24.2    13.7        8        62.2    19.8        8        51.0    13.9         3        34.8   12.4       6        44.5      11.8
Rs 10,000,000 aod abovo             97      2226.0    63.6        7       225.9    72.8        5        89.6    50.8       12       199.0    63.3       11       255.0    69.5         7      179.8   63.9      71       293.6       78.0
TOTAI      584      3500.8   100.0       20       310.3   100.0       21       176.6   100.0       35       314.3   100.0       38        366.8   100.0       23       281.3  100.0      27       376.6     167.0
INDUSTRLAL CATEGORY
Jots processin8                     6         97.5     2.8        1        26.0     8.4        -         -       -          2        23.8     7.6        1         4.3      1.2        -        1.3    0.5       -          -          -
Cottoo aod other Textiles          203      1503.7    43.0        5        92.3    29.8        9        84.9    48.1       10       123.4    39.3        9       108.0    29.4         5      131.9   46.9        6       81.8       21.7
Sugan                              44        670.2    19.1        2        46.0    14.8        1        13.4     7.6        -         -        -         4        49.0    13.4         -        0.9    0.3       -          -          -
Food Prodoots aod Processing        85       226.6     6.5        2         9.5     3.1        2        11.2     6.3        1         2.5     0.8        5        32.5      8.9        5        10.7    3.8       4       25.6        6.8
Engine-riog                         80       209.8     6.0        -          -       -         3         6.5     3.7        6        28.1     8.9        3        19.1      5.2        3        41.6   14.8       3       31.6        8.4
Ch-eicalo and Phernaceoticals       45       175.9     5.0        1         4.8     1.5        2         5.1     2.9        2        12.5     4.0        4        12.8      3.5        1         4.3    1.5       4       78.2       20.8
Cenent, Ceramico aod Gl.e.          19       106.8     3.0        2        25.3     8.1        2        48.5    27.5        4        57.1    18.2        6       116.7    31.8         -         8.0    2.8       1       42.7       11.3
Paper, Paper Prodocts and
Printing                      35        239.0     6.8       -          -        -         1         4.5     2.5        4        44.7    14.2        2        19.9     5.4         3       23.0    8.2       3        62.2       16.5
Ilend Wster Tr-nsport end
Shipping                       2         80.1     2.3       1          0.4     0.1       -           -       -         -          -       -         -          -        -         -          -      -       -          -         -
Miscellannous                      65        191.2     5.5        6       106.0    34.2        1         2.5     1.4        6        22.2      7.0       4         4.5    1.2          6        59.6   21.2       6       54.5       14.5
TOTAL     584      3500.8   100.0       20       310.3   100.0       21        176.6   100.0      35        314.3   100.0      38        366.8  100.0         23      281.3  100.0      27       376.6     100.0
GEOGRAPHICAL SPREAD
Sind                               294      1465.0    41.9       11       132.5    42.7        9        77.7    44.0       14       112.9    35.9       14       121.8   33.2          4        37.4   13.3       9      103.0       27.3
Pon-ab                             228      1625.8    46.4        4       101.9    32.8        7        70.4    39.9       13       151.8    48.3       11       140.2   38.2         11       190.4   67.7       8      103.5       27.5
N.W.F.P.                            52       308.4     8.8        4        36.9    11.9        5        28.5    16.1        6        35.8    11.4       11        82.5   22.5          2        12.2    4.3       4       53.8       14.3
Bslonhist-n                          6        82.0     2.3        1        26.0     8.4        -          -       -         1         4.9      1.6       2        22.2    6.1          4        27.7    9.9       3       68.4       18.2
IslaIabad (Capital)                  4        19.6     0.6       -         13.0     4.2        -          -       -         1         8.9     2.8        -         0.1      -          1        11.2    4.0      -         0.3       0.1
OA-d K.shnir                                             -         -        -         -         -            -                         -        -        -          -       -          1         2.4    0.8       3       47.6       22.6
TOTAL     584      3500.8   100.0       20       310.3   100.0       21        176.6   100.0      35        314.3   100.0      38        366.8  100.0         23      281.3  100.0      27       376.6     100.0
TYPES OP LOANS
Local Correocy                     47        105.1     3.0        5        24.5     7.9        -        25.9    14.7        5        27.3     8.7        2         5.1    1.4          3        13.7    4.9     16       247.5       65.7
Foreign Correocy                   537      3395.2    97.0       15       285.8    92.1       21       150.7    85.3       30       287.0    91.3       36       361.7   98.6         20       267 6   95.11233
TOTAL     584      3500.8   100.0       20       310.3   100.0       21        176.6   100.0      35        314.3    100.0     38        366.8  100.0         23      281.3  100.0      2
TYPE OF PROJECTS
New P-ojscts                       247      2207.1    63.0       12       252.7    81.4        7        90.1    51.0       18       171.5      54.6     15       214.7   58.5         10       168.9   60.0      5        26.1        6 9
NMR 4 Espansion                    337      1293.7    37.0        8        57.6    18.6       14        86.5    49.0       17       142.8     45.4      23       152.1   41.5         13       112.4   40.0     22       350.5       93. 1
TOTAL     584      3500.8   100.0       20       310.3   100.0       21        176.6   100.0      35        314.3    100.0     38        366.8  100.0         23      281.3  100.0      27      376.6      100.0
January 31, 1980



PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Sectoral Distribution of Outstanding Loan and Equity Portfolio and Arrears as of December 31, 1979
(Rs in Million)
Industrial Sector                 Loan Portfolio    Equity Pbrtfolio    Total Portfolio               Principal and Interest Overdue-/
Amount     %       Amount        %      Amount       %       Amount    Z of Total    Z of Loan Portfolio
Jute Processing                     56.5      2.6        8.6       9.4       64.9       2.9        1.7        0.2               3.0
Cotton and Other Textiles        1,106.0    50.9        21.1      23.6   1,127.1       49.8      600.6       65.6              54.3
Sugar                              230.7    10.6        26.4      29.6      257.1      11.4       34.9        3.8              15.1
Food Products and Processing       134.9      6.2        4.6       5.2      139.5       6.2       59.4        6.5              44.0
Engineering                         97.2      4.5        4.3       4.8      101.5       4.5       20.5        2.2              21.1
Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals       76.2      3.5        2.4       2.7       78.6       3.5       28.6        3.1              37.5
Cement, Ceramics and Glass         162.7      7.5        1.6       1.8      164.3       7.2       41.9       4.6               25.7
Board, Paper and Printing          123.8      5.7        3.0       3.4      126.8       5.6       76.3        8.3              61.6
Transport and Shipping               6.0      0.3      12.1       13.6       18.1       0.8        -          -                  -
1/
Miscellaneous                      178.0      8.2        5.3       6.9      183.3       8.1      52.7        5.7               29.6
2,172.0 3/ 100.0      89.2      100.0   2,261.2    100.0       916.6      100.0               44.2
sn==s=    -=e=        =e===    mana   ninin          ===n             a    an                  _
1/ Primarily hotels, minerals and agro-industries.
2/ Includes overdues of less than 3 months amounting to Rs 39.5 mi11ion.
- Excluding this category, arrears amount to Rs 877.1 million or 40.4% of the total loan
portfolio as of December 31, 1979.
3/ Includes loans made under Loan 961-PAK and therefore differs from figures in the Balance Sheet (Annex 13).
January 31, 1980



PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Ex-Ante Rates of Return and K/L for Projects Sanctioned since January 1977
Total Fixed
Type of          Loan Amount               Investment             Employment         IERR       IFRR
Project No.             Name of Project                  Industry            Project        Foreign    Local         Foreign      Local        No. of Jobs         %.         %         K/L
(Rs Millions)            (Rs Millions)
1.          Alia Industries Limited, Lyallpur  Cotton Knitwear    New                    2.90        -            2.90       4.90             82              -         15.6      0.095
Garments
2.          Lakson Tobacco Company Limited,    Cigarettes               New             12.63        -           12.63      17.33            215              30        14.8      0.139
Mardan
3.          Printing Corporation of Frontier   Printing/                New              4.10        -            4.10       4.50             67              21        14.0      0.128
Limited, Peshawar                      Publishing Press
4.          Mach-Kan Coal Company Limited.         Mining               New              0.60        -            0.60       0.85              -               -         -          -
Mach.
5.          Metalex Corporation Limited,           Electric Fans        Exp.             5.00        -            5.00       6.50             80              50        19.0      0.144
Karachi
6.          Kohinoor Industries Limited,           Cotton Textile       BMR             35.00        -           35.00      19.80              -               -           -        -
Lyallpur
7.          Bannu Woollen Mills Limited,           Woollen Textile    BMR                7.00        -            7.00       4.40
Bannu
8.          Sunshine Cotton Mills Limited,         Cotton Textile       Bal/Repl         3.00        -            3.00       1.15
She ikhupura
9.          Bari Doab Rice Mills Limited,          Rice Processing    New                9.50        -            9.50      14.70             63              24        15.4    0_384
Gujranwala
10.          Syed Match Company Limited,            Matches              BMR              1.37        -            1.37       0.75              -               -           -        -
Hazara
11.          K.K. & Company Limited, Peshawar   Fruit/Vegetable    BMR                    3.50        -            3.50       6.00             97              29        14.7      0.098
Canning
12.          Khawaja Tanneries Limited, Karachi Tanning 6 Curing   BMR                    1O00         -           1.00       0.60              3               -           -
13.          Souvenir Tobacco Company Limited,  Cigarettes               BMR              5.60         -           5.60        3.00            75               -           -      0.115
Karachi
14.          Packages Limited, Lahore               Paper Board          Exp.            14.30         -          14.30      13.60             50               -         21.8     0.558   :
15.          Fine Gas Company Limited, Lahore   Oxygen Gas               New              5.80        -            5.80       5.80             40               -        20.4      0.290
16.          Pakistan Feeds Limited, Pipri          Poultry Feeds        New              2.20         -           2.20       5.40             57              16         11.0     0.133
17.          International Standard Ceramics    Sanitary Ware            New             26.00        -           26.00      37.70            266              42        21.7      0.239
Ltd., Karachi
18.          Dost Enterprise Limited,               Tanning & Curing   BMR                0.44         -           0.44       0.30              -               -           -
Hyderabad
19.          Babri Cotton Mills Limited,            Cotton Textile        BMR             6.45         -           6.45       3.03               -              -           -
Kohat
20.          Shahmurad Sugar Mills Ltd.,            Sugar                New             40.00         -          80.00      81.70            801              28         14.2     0.202
Mirpur Bathoro
21.          Shahtaj Sugar Milla Ltd., Mandi    Sugar                     BMR             7.20         -           7.20       4.00              -               -           -
Bahauddin
22. --n      Frontier Sugar Mills Ltd.,             Sugar                 HMR             1.00         -           1.00       0.50
Distillery Ltd., Takht-i-Bhai
23.          National Match Factory Limited,    Matches                  BMR              1.37         -           1.37       0.63
Pe shawar
24.          Farah Ceramics Industries Limited, Sanitary-ware            New             26.00         -          26.00      39.00            305              32         23.0     0.213
Peshawar
25.          Ganj Glass Works Limited,              Tuftad Sheet         New             39.50         -          39.50      26.50            180              31         28.1     0.367
Hasanabdal                             Glass
26.          Delta Batteries Limited, Swabi         Battery Cell         New             11.58         -          11.58      14.80            157              44         22.6     0.168
27.          National Detergents Limited,           Synthetic            New              5.45         -           5.45       16.65           126               -         15.7     0.175
Kotri                                  Detergent
28.          Omer Glass Industries Ltd.,            Glass Tablewares   New                7.95         -           7.95        8.75           110                -        17.6     0.152
Pe shawar
29.          Pakistan Battery Manufacturing         Dry Cell/Battery   Repl               1.70         -           1.70        0.87              -               -          -
Co. Ltd., Karachi
30.          Hyesons Concrete Products Ltd.,    Concrete Pipes           New             21.60         -          21.60      31.85              92             20         14.1     0.581   '1
Karachi
31.          Mitchell's Fruit Farms Ltd.,           Confectionery         Exp.            5.30         -           5.30        4.90              -             50         16.4
Renala Khurd
32.          Monnoo Industries Ltd., Muridke    Cotton Textile           Repl            25.00         -          25.00      16.70               -               -        14.7
33.          Century Packaging Industries           Paper Converting   New               11.20         -          11.20      18.30              97             23         18.9     0.304
Limited



34.         Hotel Corporation of Quetta          Hotel                New            22.00        -         22.00      70.00           258              16       11.5    0.357
Limited, Quetta
35.         Hotel Corporation of Faisalabad    Hotel                  New            27.00        -         27.00      83.50           330              19        13.1    0.335
Limited, Faisalabad
36.         Quetta Cold Storage & Ice Plant    Cold Storage           Exp.             -         1.50         -         1.50             14              -        13.5    0.107
Company Limited, Quetta
37.         Kalyal Kashmir Tanneries Limited,  Tannery                rew             1.10       1.30        1.10       6.26             98             50       27.2    0.075
Mirpur (Azad Kashmir)
38.         Sarhad Cigarettes Industries         Cigarettes           Bal/Exp         2.30        -          2.30       1.30             30              -          -     0.120
Limited, Mardan
39.         Zain Packaging Industries Limited, Printing &             B/M Exp         2.50        -          2.50       4.05             20              -          -     0.328
Karachi                              Packaging
40.         Malbro Industries Fabrication        Agricultural         New             2.50        -          2.50       8.00             76             44        19.1    0.138
Limited, Lahore                      Implements
41.         Zeb Marble Industries Limited,       Marble               New             0.60       1.80        0.60       4.86             84             23        16.0    0.065
Mardan                               Processing
42.         Sunshine Bicycle Limited,            Bicycle              New            28.00       6.00       28.00      38.00            187             32        17.0    0.353
Sheikhupura                          Components
43.         Nabeel Fibres Limited, Muridke       Tufted Blankets    New               9.00        -          9.00      14.67            255             32        25.7    0.093
44.         Crescent Textile Mills Limited,    Cotton Textile         Repl           39.60        -         39.60      33.70             -               -          -        _
Faisalabad
45.         Climax Engineering Company           Electric Fans        M/Repl          5.00        -          5.00       3.40             -               -          -
Limitad, Gujranwala
46.         Mitchell's Fruit Farm Limited,       Food Processing    BMR               0.90        -          0.90       0.60             -               -          -
Renala Khurd
47.         Sardar Mohd. Usman Jogezai           Mining               Exp.            2.00        -           2.00      1.40             49              -          -      0.069
Company Limited, Quetta
48.         Modern Floor & General Mills         Wheat Milling        B/M             0.98        -           0.98      1.71             -               -          -
Limited, Lahore
49.         Universal Soap Ltd., Karachi          Soap Manufac-       New             3.00       1.00         3.00      9.00            104             31        11.5    0.115
turing
50.         Packages Limited, Lahore              Paper Board         Div             6.14        -           6.14      5.57              3             45          -        -
51.         Sanaulla Woollen Mills Limited,    Woollen Textile    Bal/Exp             1.00        -           1.00      0.70             22             50          -      0.077   'n
Karachi
52.         Shahdin Limited, Sangla Hill         Woollen Shawls       New            26.00        -          26.00     39.00            297             32        20.12   0.219
53.         Pakistan Wool Scouring & Pressing  Carpet Yarn            Exp            20.00        -          20.00      24.30           130             25        20.1    0.341
Company Limited, Karachi             Spinning
54.         Marble Industries Limited,           Mining               Exp/M           2.20        -           2.20       2.60            17              -          -      0.282
Karachi
55.         Hashtnagar Industries Limited,       Agricultural         Exp             3.00        -           3.00       3.50            51             26          -      0.128
Peshawar                             Implements
56.         Frontier Sugar Mills & Distille-   Distillery             Repl             -         1.48          -         1.75             -              -          -
ry Limited, Takht-i-Bhai
57.         Noble Metals Limited, Hub             Brass Gate          New             3.01        -           3.01       5.08            99             37        26.1    0.082
Chowki (Baluchistan)                 Valves
58.         Ashraf Soap Industries Limited,    Laundry Soap,          New             3.00        -           3.00       7.03           104             31         9.8    0.096
Guiranwala                           Refined Glycerine
59.         Gulistan Papersacks Limited,          Papersacks          New             8.05        -           8.05      11.06            62             16        18.2    0.308
Kotri                                Manufacturing
60.         Premier Board Mills Limited,         Chipboard            New            39.00        -          39.00      31.04            92             23        19.6    0.761
Mardan
January 31, 1980                                                                                                                                                                    I
- I



- 60 -                                     ANNFX
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
STATEMENT OF ARREARS -/
(Rs million)
A. Agewise Distribution
December 31:                           1975           1976           1977            1978       1979       Z
3 - 6 months                    84.9           76.1           91.4          122.5      141.4      16.1
6 - 12 months                  192.8           85.0           77.2           95.4      140.8      16.1
12 - 18 months                  194.5           76.7           76.0           77.3       113.9     13.0
18 - 24 months                  116.8           61.1           58.5           57.9        72.9       8.3
Over 24 months                  196.0          198.3          255.3          316.6       408.1     46.5
Total                    785.0          497.2           558.5          669.7 3/  877.1 3/ 100.00
B.  Funds in Arrears
December 31:                             1972      1973      1974     1975      1976      1977      1978     1979
1.  Number of companies in arrears        188       154       137       129     112       128        114      122
2.  Total number of companies             275       268       286       274     262       276        263      263
3.  1 in % of 2                           68%       57%       48%      47%      43%       46%        43%      46%
4.  Number of loans in arrears            237       186       166       141     122       143        131      140
5.  Total number of loans                 353       319       320       305     313       342        316      348
6.  4 in % of 5                           67%       58%       52%      46%      39%       42%        41%      40%
7.  Amount of principal in arrears       126.4    168.9    239.3    262.1   256.1    277.7         317.6      406.5
8.  Amount of interest in arrears        109.1    139.3    177.5    195.9   241.1    281.1          352.1     470.6
S.  Principal plus interest -    :
in arrears                        235.1    308.2    416.8    458.0   497.2    558.8         669.7     877.1
10.  Amount of principal and overdue
interest outstanding for
loans in arrears                1,367.2  1,233.6  1,236.7  1,233.7 1,149.2  1,502.3   1,449.0   1,747.7
11.  Amount of loan portfolio
outstanding (principal
plus overdue interest)          2,083.8  1,927.8   1,862.6 2,051.5 2,207.7  2,263.8   2,435.0   2,656.0
12.  Arrears as percent of
portfolio (9 in % of 11)           11.3%    16.0%       22.4%   22.3%   225%      24.7%      27.5%      33.0%
13.  Amount outstanding affected
by arrears as % of loan
portfolio(lO in % of 11)           65.6%    64.0%      66.4Z   60.1%   52.1%    66.4%        59.5%      65.8%
1/ Arrears over 3 months.
2/ As of September 30, 1975.
3/ In addition, there were overdues of less than three months of Rs 31.1 million,
and overdues of Rs 4.9 million on account of The Special Steel Mills of Pakistan
Limited, a public sector project managed, without risk, by PICIC.
The overdues of more than three months were distributed as follows:
Principal   Interest    Total
(i)  Local currency        17.8       23.9        41.7
Foreign currency    388.7       446.7       835.4
Total        406.5      470.6       877.1
(ii)  Sind                 141.7      153.1       294.8
Punjab               210.0      228.9       438.9
Baluchistan           21.6       28.0        49.6
NWFP                  33.2       60.6        93.8
Total        406.5      470.6       877.1
January 31, 1980



- 61 -
ANNEX 9
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Analysis of Overdues (Up to December 31, 1979) as of February 28,.1980
(Rs 'OOOs)
Number of     Amount in      % of Loan
Companies      Arrears       Portfolio
I.  OVERDUES AS ON 31.12.1979                                 144          916,599         42.24
A) Less: Since cleared up to
Februarv 21, 1980
1. Arrears fully paid        17   3,167
2. Arrears partially          -   5,671
repaid
3. Rescheduled                5   3,165          22           12,003          0.55
Balance,                               122         904,596         41.69
B) Less: Arrears expected to be
fully paid by June 1980
1. Arrears under Bank         4   1,273
Guarantee
2. Firm commitment for
repayment before June
30, 1980 on account
of current arrears        19   5X446          23            6,719          0.31
Balance:                                99          897,877        41.38
C) Less: Rescheduling Target
1. Active cases
rescheduled by June
1980                       3  31,013
2. Cases due for
rescheduling upon
completion of projects    3  19,360            6           50,373          2.32
Balance:                         93          847,504         39.06
D) Less: Public Sector Overdues
(Repayment assured by GOP)                        3           15,769          0.73
Balance:                               90         831,735         38.33
E) Less: Cases under litlomtion on
which PICIC has no control
1. Companies which stand      6  45,917
liquidated
2. Pending Court Cases       11 233,918
3. Special Court Cages        9  55,070          26          334,905         15.43
II - RRSIDUAL BATLANGF nwR OWRvRTER                             64         496,830         22.90
ANALYSED AS UNDER:                                         -           - .....
A) Cases where revival of Projects
is dependent on change in
Government policies                                         3          20,611          0.95
B) Cases of unviable projects where
sizeable portion of PICIC dues may
have to be written off.                                     2           5,741          0.27
C) Cases where recovery prospects are
linked with change of present
management                                                  7         127,798          5.89
D) Cases where recovery is expected
on disbursement of Consortium
Funds                                                       4          34,182          1.58
E) Cases where rescheduling is
contingent upon improvement in
company's operating and
financial position                                          2          41,914          1.93
F) Cases of wilful default where
recovery appears difficult unless
legal action is initiated
(Awaiting promulgation of Special
Recovery Law)                                              25         181,690          8.37
G) Remaining cases where recovery is
being pursued and part payments                            21          84,894          3.91
expected by June, 1980.                                   -
y 3 064                                              496,83          22.90
January 31, 1980                                                         .....           ..... ---



PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Collections Targets, 1980-1982, by Subsector
(Rs Millions)
Arrears as of               Estimated Recoveries
Industrial Classification            December 31, 1979          1980         1981           1982           Planned Reschedulings
Textiles
1) Cotton                               215.2                 73.4         87.1          106.6                  138.9
2) Others                                27.2                41.8          46.9           50.9                   11.2
Solvent Extraction                       17.8                  1.4          2.4            3.6                   17.8
Paper and Board                          76.3                 15.5         16.3           18.2                   76.1
Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals             4.6                 16.3         17.5           17.3                     -
Food Products                             8.7                 14.3         17.1           17.9                    4.8
Engineering                               0.5                  7.9          7.2            7.9                     -
Cement, Ceramics and Glass               13.2                 10.4         15.8           23.5                    9.9
Sugar                                    16.5                 43.9         56.6           57.0                     -
Miscellaneous                            42.1                 16.2         17.2           25.1                   32.3
Legal Cases
1) Cases under litigation               335.0                     )            )              )
2) Cases where legal action                                   55.1)        70.7)          66.8)
contemplated                      143.2                      )            )              )
Public Sector                            16.3                 53.8         25.2           25.2                     -
916.6               350.0        380.0           420.0                  291.0
April 15, 1980



- 63 -                                                               ANNEX 10
Page I
PAKISTAN INDUOSThIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMET CORPORATION LIMITED
Audi tors List of P-rojec,tsiTn -Ar,rear
as of becember 3t, 1978
(Rs  000's
Provision for
Loan Outstanding                                      Collateral                      Total Arrears               possible losses
Principal   Interest       Total Amount       Amount    Basis of Valuation *         Principal   Interest         Principal   Interest
A. Compsni-s Operating                                                All in exess
Profitably (116)          615,245      48,182         698,283      of principal              ,                   22,581       12,861          _           5,815
48,182     Outstanding
B. Companies jnder
Construction or in
Pre-Operating stage
not in Technical or                                                All in excess
Financial Difficulties  377,542        45,556         559,149      of principal              -                   13,862       21,841          -             323
(56)                                                   45,556      Outstanding
C. Companies Operating at
a loSS or in Technical
of Financial
Difficulties (93)
Aaj Teatile Mills Ltd.  24,630         8,349          33,246         42,694                 1                      480        5,944          -              -
Abid Industries Ltd.       1,637         626           2,263          5,705                 4                      864          555         298            626
Al-Ata Textiles Mills
Ltd.                    17,331      14,307          31,638         25,232                 4                  14,272       14,307       4,846           9,461
Ali Asghar Textiles
Mills Ltd.               5,135       1,630           6,765         24,040                 4                   4,795         1,372
Ali Textile (Jhang)Ltd. 18,403        12,162          30,565         30,023                 4                   10,262       10,750       3,235          5,519
Allatasays Textile and
Finishing Mills Ltd.    2,342           592           2,934         14,642                 4                    1,353          467
Allied Paper Industries
Ltd.                     21,560      12,230          33,790         46,394                 4                    7,680       10,715       1,681         12,172
Allied Textiles Millo
Ltd.                      5,517       7,220          16,737         34,801                 4                    5,588        6,736                      5,398
Amanat Leather
Industries Ltd.           8,659       4,103          12,762         26,094                 4                   2,040        3,607       2,946           1,158
Aoin Industries Ltd.       2,654       1,838           4.492          3.711                 4                    1,260        1,607         914          1,107
Apollo Textile Mills Ltd   700           367           1,067         20,337                 4                                   367
Arag Industries Ltd.       1,000         885           1,885         31,496                 1                    1,000          885          -             410
Babri Cotton Mills Ltd. 23,946        10,572          34,518         60,039                 4                  10,719       10,729                          -
baksh Textile Mills
Ltd.                     13,792       5,434          19,226         27,342                 4                   5,516         5,109          -           5,434
BaluchiDtan Textile
Mills Ltd.               23,373      21,298          44,671         40,788                 4                   14,070       20,473       6,262         16,143
Bawany Industries Ltd.   7,478         6,753          14,639         30,848                 4                    3,296        5,939          -           1,580
Bala Engineers Ltd.        8,667       1,938          10,605         39,784                 4                   5,552         1,522          -              -
Burjor Ardeshire
Industries Ltd.          2,431       3,558            5,989          4,224                 4                   2,431        3,285       1,143          3,558
Chsrsadda Sugar Mills
and Distillery Ltd.    15,427         2,881          18,308         31,193                 4                   1,117           162          -              -
Ch-ephar(Pakistan)Ltd.   8,914         8,936          17,850          9,985                 4                   8,324         8,936       4,457          8,936
Chenab Textile Mills
Ltd.                     13,143       7,171          20,314         26,188                 4                   5,953        6,212           -           6,069
Chilya Corrugated Board
Mills Ltd.                9,354       5,949          15,303         26,808                 4                    1,342       5,188           -              -
Colony Textiles Mills
Ltd.                      7,146         209           7,355         19,222                 3                      466          303          -              -
Colony Woollen Mills
Ltd.                      3,349         484           3,833          7,264                 3                       -            _
Consolidated Spinning
and Weaving Mills Ltd. 21,996         1,937          23,933         32,793                 1                      609       1,114
Dont Muhaomsad Cotton
Mills Ltd.                  500         214             714         10,961                 4                       -           214
Elahi Cotton Mills Ltd.  8,658         4,031          12,689         13,432                 4                    4,678       4,019
ELMAC Ltd.                   -             8               8          4,611                 4                       -             8          -              -
ixtract11001Pakistan)
Ltd.                      3,870       4,188          10,058          9,521                 4                    4,772       3,670        1,531         3,281
Fazal Rahman Mills Ltd. 11,217         3,764          14,984         20,332                 1                    1,154       3,019           -              -
Fero.sons Laboratories
Ltd.                     2,160         819           2,979         28,081                 3                       771        701          -              -
Frontier Textile Mills
Ltd.                    19,556       5,853          25,409         34,357                 1                        -       4,945          -               -
Ghafur Textile Mills
Ltd.                     4,761         545           5,306         10,664                 2                       799        389           -             -
Chulan Hussain Hidayat-
ullah Textile Mills
Ltd.                    19,443       7,500          26,943         29,172                 1                        -       3,750          -              -
Ghulam Mohammad Leather
Industries Ltd.          7,079       2,857          10,578         15,772                 4                        -         -            -
Golden Block Works Ltd.    833            82             915          3,315                 2                       119          40          -
Goodluck Industries        1,814          81           1,895          7,557                 4                                   -            -
Hassan Tanneries Ltd.    7,620         2,340           9,960         18,137                 4                       276      1,873           -
Hbzara Woolen Mills Ltd. 7,809         2,592          10,499         13,748                 3                       644      2,070           -
Hilal Fabrics Ltd.         3,819         710           4,529          7,243                 4                       134         554          -
H.M. Silk Mills Ltd.       1,971          77           2,048         16,510                 2                        _          _
Indus Steel Pipes Ltd.   5,157        3,941            9,098          6,896                 4                    2,516       3,531          -
lqbal Floor Mills Ltd.       258         -               258          3,301                 4
Kkyber Textile Mills 
Ltd.                    24,503      9,502           34,005         62,357                 3                    4,112       8,405          -
Larkana Woollen Mills
Ltd.                     6,260      8,082           14,342         29,657                 4                    4,993       7,551          -          6,307
Mosoon Textile Mills
Ltd.                    11,517       3,524          l5oO41         37,766                 4                        -         858          -
Margalla Textile Mills
Ltd.                     5,895          21           5,916         15,720                 4                        43         21          --
Mahboob Industries Ltd.  2,071         3,136           5,207          2,182                 4                     2,071      2,898           -         3,136
M.PFM.Y. Industries Ltd. 3,906           257           4,163         24,843                 2                       515          57          -             -
Modern Enbroidery and                                                                                                                                    63
Textile Mills Ltd.       3,378       2,892           6,270          3,893                 4                    2,116       2,616         588         2,637
Modern Flour and Gera1l
Mills Ltd.               1,342         509           1,851          3,893                 4                    1,342         419          -            509



- 64 -                                                                   ANNEX 11
Page 2
Provision for
Loan Outstanding                                       Collateral                        Total Arrears              possible losses
Principal   Interest       Total Amount         Amount    Basis of Valuation*           Principal   Interest        Principal   Interest
Mohib Textile  Mills Ltd.   18,120          8,743          26,863             31,032             4                     10,048        8,630           -           8,164
National Commercial and
Industrial Enterprise
Ltd.                            -             28              28              1,843             4                         -            28           _              -
National Silk and Rayon
Mills Ltd.                       844         911           1,755              6,464             4                         844         828           _              -
National Tyre and Rubber
Co. Ltd.                       1,151         108           1,259              3,341             2                          75          '3           -              _
Naveena Industries Ltd.         2,807         575           3,382              3,301             4                         829         429            -
Nillon Nylon Mills Ltd.         1,861         498           2,359              2,708             3                         618         359            -
Nishat Mills Ltd.               7,516       2,300           9,816             46,827             4                          -           -            -           2,264
Noon (Pakistan) Ltd.            9,351       9,509          10,860             13,171             4                      1,350        8,871            -          8,254
Noor Silk Mills Ltd.            5,381       4,496           9,877              7,776             4                      5,119        4,069         1,101         4,480
Northern Foundry and
Engineering Works Ltd.         3,995       3,594           7,589             36,827             4                      1,315       3,265            -             -
Olympia Spinning and
Weaving Mills Ltd.             1,596          43           1,639              9,035             2                           8          -
Orient Industries Ltd.          1,464       1,002           2,466              2,047             4                      1,464          885           -             434
Pak Hard Board Industries
Ltd.                          1,951         327          2,278              4,033             4                       1,951         243            -            -
Pakistan Industrial Gases
Ltd.                          2,202       1,847          4,049             19,894             3                       2,201       1,667            -            -
Pakistan Paper Corporation
Ltd.                        51,772       59,382        111,154            141,452             4                       6,189      14,631         15,251       48,050
Pakistan Paper Products Ltd. 1,400            384           1,784              8,319             3                        500          385           -             -
Paramount Industries Ltd.         582          39             621              3,863             4                         -             3
Pioneer Metal Works Ltd.          767         463           1,230              1,311             2                          70          35
Plasticrafters Ltd.             1,471         394           1,865              6,413            4                          -             .           .            -
Precision Industries Ltd.    1,650            560           2,210              4,178            4                         516         466            -            352
Qadri Textile Mills Ltd.    22,638          8,372          31,010             40,220             4                      1,919        7,142           -             -
Quetta Textile Mills Ltd.    6,017          1,175           7,192             37,097             4                     13,208      16,170            -         11,651
Racham Textile Mills Ltd.   20,272         16,111          36,383             28,822             3                         -            -          5,175           -
Sabina Textile Mills Ltd.    2,792            145           2,937              5,558             2                         32                        -            -
Sally Textile Mills Ltd.    18,975          3,545         22,520             26,589             4                          -            -          3,993        3,545
Saitar Industries Ltd.          1,652         142           1,794              2,000            2                          _            23           .            -
Service Industries Ltd.         7,731       1,522           9,253            20,216             4                       2,071       1,086
Shakergan; Mills Ltd.          37,700      22,924         60,624            109,263             3
Shams Textile Mills Ltd.    39,252         27,928          67,180             57,481            4                          -            .            -            -
Solvex (Pakistan) Ltd.          5,229       3,955           9,184             9,303             4                       2,669       3,541            666        3,339
Spinear Towels Ltd.             5,725         915           6,640             13,109            3                         282         609            -            -
Small Marble Corporation
Ltd.                           1,114         337          1,451              2,748             -                          59         237            -            -
T-svear Woollen Mills Ltd.   5,454            949           6,400             10,484            3                         667         918            .            -
United Cotton Mills Ltd.    43,555         34,347          77,902            65,420             4                      32,715       31,643           -            -
United Textile Mills Ltd.   11,139          9,049         20,188             22,171             4                       7,586        8,865         2,835        6,244
Universal Leather and
'ootwear Industries Ltd.    3,835          1,695          5,530              5,995             4                          -           268           -          1,695
Universal Oil and Vegetable
(Ghms Mills Ltd.                1,352          91           1,443             11,642            4                         679            -           -            -
Us,man Textile Mills Ltd.         362         187             549             15,622            3                         362           154          -            -
Ish Flour Mills Ltd.              287           8             295             4,785             4                          26             8          .            -
Wahid Spinning Mills Ltd.    3,702            744           4,446             8,038             4                       1,514          535           -            -
Waqar Ceramics Ltd.            16,128      18,996         35,262             36,021             4                       8,384       17,660         7,468       15,550
Zulsham Engineering Works
Ltd.                         3L09L         1.768          4,864              4'915             3                                    1,192          600         1,210
813,869    453,062       1,274,500                                                     249,322       312,796       64,990       213,273
* (1)      appraised valuations;
(2)   = bank guarantees;
(3)   = book value in current year's financial statements of the company;
(4    = bhook value from previous years financial statements.
January 31, 1980



- 65 -
ANNEX 12
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Actual and Prolected Statements of Income, 1977-1983
(Rs in Million)
Actuals                                Prolected
Years ending December 31                                     1977        1978          1979        1980        1981         1982        1983
Income
Interest Income from Loans                                  159.64      170.20       185.05       183.67      183.55      198.38       213.26
Commitment charges, Other Fees, Commissions                  12.90       12.91         8.42         7.75       15.01       21.39        26.60
Income from Loan Operations                                 172.54      183.11       193.47       191.42      198.56      219.77       239.86
Dividend Income                                               8.76        7.95          7.85        7.75        8.18         8.77        9.62
Capital Gains                                                 4.26        4.51          5.32        5.00        5.00         5.00        5.00
Realisation of exchange reserve                               1.77        6.80           -           -           -            -           -
Income from short-term investments, deposits, etc.            4.84        5.43          7.58        5.68        6.22        6.49         6.76
Total Income    192.17        207.80       214.22      209.85       217.96      240.03      261.24
Less: Expenses
Interest and Commitment Charges on Borroaings               133.03      142.69       152.84       158.86      160.34      170.15       188.65
59.14       65.11        61.38       50.99        57.62       69.88       72.59
Less: Administrative and Other General Expenses              12.41       16.06         16.70       18.37       20.21        22.23       24.45
Profit before Tax                                            46.73       49.05        44.68        32.62       37.41       47.65        48.14
Provision for Tax                                            14.20       16.00         14.70        8.45       10.42        14.78       14.57
Net Profit                                                   32.53       33.05        29.98        24.17       26.99       32.87        33.57
Net Incom Available for Allocation
Unappropriated profit beginning of the year                   0.35        0.49          0.63        0.14        0.62        0.71         0.65
Net Income                                                   32.53       33.05         29.98       24.17       26.99       32.87        33.57
32.88       33.54        30.61        24.31       27.61       33.58       34.22
Allocation of Net Income
Reserves                                                     14.71       16.26         26.00       20.50       14.00       19.00        20.00
Provision for Doubtful Advances                               4.40        4.70          4.47        3.26        3.74         4.77        4.81
Appropriation for Stock Dividend                             13.28 1/   11.95 2/         -           -           -            -           -
Unappropriated Profit end of year                              -          0.63          0.14        0.55        0.71        0.65         0.25
Cash Dividends                                             _                            -            -          9.16        9.16         9.16
32.88       33.54        30.61        24.31       27.61       33. 58       34.22
3/
Ratios
1.  Rate of Cash Dividend (%)                                  -           -             -           -         10.0        10.0         10.0
2.  Dividend Pay out Ratio (%)                                 -           -             -           -         33.94       27.87        27.29
3.  Net Profit after tax to Av. Net Worth(%)                  11.3       11.2           9.33        6.62        7.13        8.19         7.98
4.  Net Profit after tax to Av. Total Assets         (%)       1.40       1.45          1.28        1.02        1.12        1.27         1.17
5.  Administrative Expenses/Average Total Assets (%)           0.55       0.70          0.71        0.78        0.84         0.86        0.85
_i/ Stock Dividend at 20!.
2/ Stock Dividend at 15%.
3J Excludes assets in former East Pakistan.
4/ 1979 figures are provisional and subject to audit. For the purposc c!f this cxercise, no dividend has been assumed for 1979.
January 31, 1980



- 66 -
ANNE 13
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Actual and Prolected Balance Sheets
As of December 31, 1977-1983
(Rs Million)
(Actuals)
As of December 31                              1977           1978           1979         1980          1981         1982         1983
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Short-term Deposits                    67.41         89.22           76.39       100.30       140.26        161.36       171.32
Government and Other Securities                 22.06          17.05          10.70        10.70        10.70         10.70        10.70
Receivables and Accrued Income                 332.80         361.93         427.96       487.94       517.55        529.18       527.44
Deposits, Prepayments, etc.                     18.58          17.78          20.29        20.29         20.29        20.29        20.29
Total Current Assets                440.85        485.98          535.34       619.23       688.80        721.53       729.75
Outstanding Loans:
Foreign Currency  1/                       1,707.48      1,726.52         1743.75      1651.09      1682.94      1845.56       2154.73
Domestic Currency                            100.82         95.72           88.95        84.45        98.01       116.15        139.94
Total Loans                       1,808.30      1,822.24         1832.70      1735.45      1780.95       1961.71      2294.67
Equity Investments                              85.47         86.09           89.24        93.24         99.24       107.24       119.24
Total Loans and Investments    1,893.77         1,908.33         1921.94      1828.69      1880.19       2068.95      2413.91
Deduct: Reserve for doubtful Accounts           80.64          85.34          89.81        93.07         96.81       101.58       106.39
Net Portfolio                     1,813.13      1,822.99         1832.13      1735.62      1783.38       1967.37      2307.52
Fixed Assets                                     1.15           0.97           0.99         1.29          1.59         1.89         2.19
Amount Receivable from Government of
Pakistan                                       2.98          1.35            1.69         1.69          1.69         1.69         1.69
Total Assets in former East
Pakistan                            389.45         410.24         415.37       415.37        415.37       415.37       415.37
Total Assets               2,647.56       2,721.53        2785.52      2773.20       2890.83      3107.85      3456.52
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Tax Payable                                      4.38           5.35           5.86         4.23          5.21         7.39         7.28
Cash Dividends Payable                            -              -              -            -            9.16         9.16         9.16
Accounts Payable and other Current
Liabilities                                   75.46         93.43           60.48        60.48         60.48        60.48        60.48
Total Current Liabilities           79.84          98.78          66.34        64.71         74.85        77.03        76.92
Long-term Debt
Foreign Currency Borrowings 1/               1,384.87      1,341.07         1300.14      1226.32      1290.39       1514.04      1879.22
Rupee Loan from US Aid                          25.71         22.86           20.00        17.14         14.28        11.42         8.56
Rupee Debenture Issues                          82.13         45.37           18.00          -             -            -            -
State Bank Credit: Cash Credit-I               125.00        125.00          125.00       125.00       125.00        125.00       125.00
- II to  IX  already drawn                   204.00        301.71          443.51       443.51       443.51        393.51       343.51
- Fresh withdrawals                            -             -                -          50.00         50.00        50.00        50.00
SBP Loan for local machinery                    49.83         47.00           42.15        42.73         62.42        87.53       104.39
Total Borrowings Senior to         1,871.54      1,883.01         1948.80      1904.70       1985.60      2181.50      2510.68
Equity
Share Capital                                   66.40         79.68           91.63        91.63         91.63        91.63        91.63
Revaluation Reserve 2/                          14.96          8.10            8.10         8.10          8.10         8.10         8.10
Reserves, Unappropriated Surplus               284.08        303.85          321.88       358.55        388.88       412.59       437.00
365.44        391.63          421.61       458.28       488.61        512.32       536.73
Deduct: Provision for Doubtful Accounts
of (West) Pakistan                          80.64         85.34           89.81        93.07        96.81        101.58       106.39
Net Worth                        __62W          -7~-~331.80                     365.21       391.80      74 10 .7 4    430.34
Subordinated Government Advances                21.93         23.21           23.21        23.21         23.21        23.21        23.21
306.73        329.50          355.01       388.42       415.01       415.37        415.37
Liabilities relating to former East
Pakistan                                     389.45        410.24          415.37       415.37        415.37       415.37       415.37
Total Liabilities and Equity            2,647.56       2,721.53         2785.52      2773.20      2890.83       3107.85      3456.52
-=--==e    ==-=====e           _==,=-=-      -- ----   =-==e_ ....   =         , ---. .     ....  ..
Current Ratio                                 5.52:1        4.92:1
8.07:1       9.57:1       9.20:1       9.37:1        9.49:1
Debt/Equity Ratio (Contractual
definition)                                 6.13:1        5.71:1          5.49:1       4.90:1        4.78:1       5.02:1       5.54:1
debt/Equity Ratio                             6.61:1        6.22:1          5.94:1        5.28:1       5.13:1       5.37:1       5.89:1
1/ Excluding Loan 961-PAK (administered loan).
2/ Assumed to remain constant during projected period.
January 31, 1980



- 67 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LINITED
Backlog of Sanctioned Projects Awaiting
Allocation of Funds as of January 31.1980
Amount
Date of   sanctioned
No.   Project  Name            Location    sanction  (US$ '000)        Project Description
I   Firdous Spinning & Weaving Karachi       28.3.75      1,010   Balancing and moderni-
Hills Limited.                                                sation of existing
facilities.
2   Pakistan Feeds Ltd.         Pipri       12.12.77        222   Establishment of a
poultry feed plant.
3   Shahmurad Sugar Mills Ltd. Mirpur       29.12.77      4,040   New sugar mill with
Bathoro.                          sugar can crushing
capacity of 2,000/tons
day.
4   Parah Ceramic Ind.Ltd.      Peshawar   29.12.77       2,626   New Vitreous sanitary
ware manufacturing plant
5   Hotel Corporation of        Faisalabad  25.4.78       2,727   New 4-Star hotel at
Faisalabad Ltd.                                               Faisalabad
6   Hotel Corporation of        Quetta       25.4.78      2,222   New 4-Star Hotel at
Quetta Ltd.                                                   Quetta.
7   Malbro Industries           Lahore       22.5.78        253   New agricultural imple-
Fabrication Ltd.                                              ments fabricating unit.
8   Sunshine Bicycles Ltd.      Sheikhupura  5.6.78       2,828   New bicycle manufactu-
ring plant.
9   Crescent Textile Mills      Faisalabad   5.6.78       4,000   Replacement of the
Limited.                                                      company's cotton
spinning facMities.
10   Universal Soap Ltd.         Karachi      18.9.78        303   New washing soap manu-
facturing plant and gly-
cerine refiniAg  uait.
11   Sardar Mohd.Usman           Quetta       18.9.78        202   BMR of coal mining
Jogezai & Co.Ltd.                                             facilities.
12   Packages Limited.           Lahore      29.11.78        620   BMR of paper machine to
produce 350 tons of
facial tissue paper/
annum.



- 68-
ANNEX 14
Amount                 Page 2
Date of sanctioned
No.     Project  Name           Location   sanction  (USS'000)          Project Description
13   Pakistan Wool Scouring &    Karachi   30.12.78        2,020    Addition of a new plant
Pressing Co.Ltd.                                               to produce floor
coverings
14   Nobles Metals Ltd.           Hub Chowki 10.4.79         313    New Metal fabrication
unit.
15   Hashatnager Industries Ltd. Peshawar   10.4.79          303    Expansion of agricultural
implements unit.
16   Ashraf Soap Industries Ltd  Gujranwala 10.4.79          303    New laundry soap manu-
facturing unit.
17   Premier Board Mills Ltd.    Mardan       30.4.79      3,939    New Chip board manu-
facturing unit.
18   Gulistan Papersack Ltd.      Kotri       30.4.79        859    New paper sack unit
19   Mogul Tobacco Co.Ltd.        Karachi    30.5.79         429    Expansion of cigarette
unit.
20   Dost Enterprises Ltd.        Hyderabad  30.5.79         182    BMR for tanning and
curing.
21   Pioneer Cables Ltd.          Lasbella   30.5.79       2,525    New electric cables
manufacturing unit.
22   Amin Synthetics Ltd.         Azad        30.9.79      2,626    New Polypropylene bags
Kashmir                          making unit.
23   Rupali Polyester Ltd.        Sheikhupura3O.9.79       4,040    New Polyester texturised
yarn spinning plant.
24   Dilon Limited                Karachi    30.9-79       3,131    Addition of polyester yarn
unit to existing facili-
ties.
25   Yummy Milk Products Ltd.    Lahore       15.11.79       505    New Plant for Processing
of food products.
26   Lyra Shoe Company Ltd.       Kotri       15.11.79       152    New Shoe making unit.
27   Dawood Cotton Mills Ltd.    Karachi    30.12.79    2,118    Expansion of spinning
facilities.
28   Baluchistan Glass Ltd.       Hub Chowki 30.12.79    4,040    New bottle making unit.
29   Ruby (Pak) Limited.          Karachi    30.12.79        859    New Blanket making unit
30   Frontier Woollen Ltd.        Peshawar   30.12.79        808    New Woollen Yarn spinning
Unit.
31   Khyber Spinning Mills Ltd.  Lahore       30.12.79       606    Balancing & Modernisation
of Woollen Mills
32   Universal Rice Mills Ltd. Sheikhupura  30.12.79    1,364    New Rice processing Plant.
33   Highland Shoes Ltd.    Azak Kashmir    30.12.79         859    New Shoe making unit.
53,034.
January 31, 1980



- 69 -
ANNEX 15
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Subsector Distribution of Projects in Pipeline as of
January 31, 1980 1/
Total of Subloan        Percentage of
Industrial Category                       Amounts                 Total
(US$ Millions)
Food Products and Processing                0.75                   1.6
Paper and Board                             10.14                 21.6
Cotton Textiles                            10.71                  22.8
Jute Manufactures                           5.35                  11.4
Leather and Rubber Products                  4.05                  8.6
Engineering                                  2.03                  4.3
Chemicals and Petro Chemicals               4.48                   9.5
Ceramics and Glass                          9.11                  19.4
Miscellaneous                                0.38                  0.8
47.00                100.0
Geographical Distribution             Number of Projects        Amount
(US$ Millions)
Sind                                         9                    15.2
Punjab                                       10                   17.7
NWFP                                          8                   11.1
Baluchistan                                   3                    2.2
Azad Kashmir                                  1                    0.8
31                   47.0
1/ Based on list of projects under appraisal by PICIC and not yet submitted
to its Board of Directors.
April 15, 1980



- 70 -
ANNEX 16
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Projected Foreign and Domestic Currency Resource Position 1980-1983
1980       1981        1982        1983
I. Foreign ($ Million)
Resources available for commitment at                           1/
beginning of year                                        13.4        76.8        26.8         9.7
Less: New commitments                                      24.1        68.7        69.1        69.3
Resources Surplus/(Shortfall)                             (10.7)        8.1       (42.3)      (64.1)
Plus: New resources:
IDA                                                 40.0         -           -         40.0
ADB                                                 40.0          -        40.0          -
KfW                                                   -         11.2         -         22.4
Bilateral Credits 2/                                 7.5         7.5       12.0        15.0
Resources available for commitment at                      76.8        26.8         9.7        13.3
end of year                                                        -
No. of months covering succeeding year's
commitments                                             13           5           2           -
II. Domestic (Rs Million)
i1
Resources available for disbursement at                    15.01       38.92       78.88     100.52
beginning of year
Plus: Sources
Adjusted net profit 4/                                  22.84       28.27       35.35      33.76
Plus: (payables minus receivables)                     (59.98)    (29.61)    (11.63)        1.74
Collections (Principal FC)                             205.11      230.50      245.31     241.35
Collections (Principal LC)                              13.28       15.58       17.84      20.47
SBP cash credits                                        50.00         -          -           -
SBP scheme for local machinery                           8.78       29.14      35.98       44.26
Interest to be reimbursed by GOP                        12.50       12.50        -           -
Total Sources                  267.54      325.30      401.73      442.10
Less: Requirements
Equity investments                                       4.00        6.00        8.00      12.00
Disbursements of loans                                   8.78       29.14       35.98      44.26
Repayments (FC)                                        186.18      198.37     184.28      185.34
Repayments (LC)                                         29.06       12.31      13.73       30.26
Repayment SBP Cash Credits                                -           -        50.00       50.00
Investment in Fixed Assets                               0.60        0.60       0.60        0.60
Dividends                                                 -           -         9.16        9.16
Total requirements                     228.62      246.42     301.21      331.62
Resources available for disbursements at                   38.92       78.88      100.52     110.48
end of year                                              -          -
l/Consisting of uncommitted IBRD funds ($0.3 million), ADB funds ($0.8 million), KfW funds
($0.4 million), French funds ($7.8 million), U.K. funds ($1.9 million) and Belgian funds
($2.2 million). In addition, PICIC had available $10 million East German Credit, $6.4 million
IDB equity line and its Chinese Credit, which have been excluded due to an evident lack of
interest.
2/Includes some utilization of less popular credit lines (e.g. Chinese and East German)
3/Consists of net cash and investment in trustee securities and quoted debentures, and excludes
unutilized portion of cash credit (Rs 121.50 million) and SBP line of credit for locally
fabricated machinery (Rs 61.54 million), which are taken as sources of funds in the years
they are utilized.
4/Profit before tax and revaluation reserve realization less actual tax payments during year
plus depreciation.
January 31, 1980



- 71 -
ANNEX 17
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1980-1983
(Rs in million)
Years ending December 31                                          1980      1981     1982      1983
SOURCES                                                                     Proj
Profit before tax and Revaluation Reserve
Realization                                                     32.62    37.41    47.65    48.14
Depreciation                                                       0.30     0.30      0.30     0.30
Increase in Accounts Receivable and
Accrued Income                                                 (59.98)  (29.61)  (11.63)    1.74
Drawn down on:
Fresh Draw down from SBP Cash Credits                           50.00      -      (50.00)  (50.00)
State Bank Loans  1/                                             8.78    29.14    35.98    44.26
Foreign Currency Borrowings 2/                                 112.36   262.44   407.93   550.52
Interest to be reimbursed by GOP                                12.50    12.50       -        -
Loan collections against:
Foreign Currency Loans                                        205.11   230.50   245.31   241.35
Local Currency Loans                                            13.28    15.58    17.84    20.47
Total Availability of Funds                                   374.97   558.26   693.38   856.78
USES
Investment in Fixed Assets                                         0.60     0.60      0.60     0.60
Disbursements of:
Foreign Currency Loans 2/                                     112.36   262.44   407.93   550.52
Local Currency Loans                                             8.78    29.14    35.98    44.26
Equity Investments                                                 4.00     6.00      8.00    12.00
Repayments of Borrowings:
Foreign Currency                                              186.18   198.37   184.28   185.34
Local Currency                                                  29.06    12.31    13.73    30.26
Payment of Tax                                                    10.08     9.44    12.60    14.68
Payment of Dividend                                                 -        -        9.16     9.16
Total Payments                                                 351.06   518.30   672.28   846.82
Cash Surplus/(Deficit)                                            23.91    39.96    21.10      9.96
Opening Cash Balance (foreign and local)                          76.39   100.30   140.26   161.36
Closing Cash Balance                                          100.30   140.26   161.36   171.32
,,,,,,= fl== .     ====t===, ,=,=,=,=
Debt Service Coverage (Times)                                      0.95     1.12      1.24     1.20
1/ For refinancing loans sanctioned by PICIC for locally-fabricated equipment.
2/ Excluding those under IBRD Loan 961-PAK.
January 31, 1980



- 72 -
ANNEX 18
PICIC INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Millions)
A.  PICIC COMPONENT                                Amount                  x
IDA  FY81    July - September                    0.5                   1.4
October-December                   3.0                   8.1
January-March                      3.0                   8.1
April - June                       3.5                   9.5
10.0                 27.1
FY82    July-September                      4.0                 11.0
October-December                   3.5                   8.1
January-March                      3.0                   8.1
April-June                         3.5                   9.5
14.0                 36.7
FY83    July-September                      3.5                  9.5
October-December                   3.0                   8.1
January-March                      2.5                   6.8
April-June                         2.0                   5.4
11.0                 29.8
FY84    July-September                      1.0                  2.7
October-December                   1.0                   2.7
January-March*                      -                    -
2.0                  5.4
TOTAL       37.0                 100.0
B. TEXTILE TRAINING COMPONENT
IDA  FY81    July-September
October-December
January-March                      0.3                  10.0
April-June                         0.3                  10.0
0.6                 20.0
FY82    July-September                      0.4                 13.3
October-December                   0.4                  13.3
January-March                      0.4                 13.3
April- June                        0.3                  10.0
1.5                 50.0
FY83    July-September                      0.5                 16.7
October-December                   0.4                  13.3
0.9                 30.0
TOTAL         3.0                100.0
* Project closing date:March 31, 1984.
April 15, 1980



- 73 -
ANNEX 19
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. Werner International Consultants, Study of the Cotton Textile Industry in
Pakistan (in 8 Volumes); October 1978.
2. Ministry of Industries, Program of Measures to Rehabilitate the Textile
Industry (Five Working Papers); May 1979.
3.  Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation Ltd. (PICIC),
Series of data concerning PICIC's Financial Position, Operations and
Collections principally:
(a) PICIC's 1979 Annual Report (published);
(b) PICIC's Analysis and Classification of its Arrears as of
April 30, 1979 (Project-by-Project);
(c) Analysis of Position/Measures to Speed-up Recovery -
October 31, 1979;
(d) PICIC's Collection Plan.
4. A.F. Ferguson and Company and Rahim Jan and Company, Long-form Audit of
PICIC's Accounts for year ended December 31, 1978.
5. Other Government Publications principally:
(a) State Bank of Pakistan Annual Report - 1978-79;
(b) Fifth Five-Year Plan - 1978-83 and Industrial Investment Schedule;
(c) Investment Promotion Bureau - Review of Private Industrial
Investments Approved During 1978-79;
(d) P. van Thuyet - Internal IDA Note on the Fifth Plan, 1978-83,
Industry.
6.  Government of Pakistan Gazette,  Banking Companies(Recovery of Loan)
Ordinance ; April 1, 1979.
January 31, 1980



PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
ORGANIZATION CHART AS OF DECEMBER, 1979
BOARD OF D,RECTOHS
EXECU'TIVE COMMITTEE
N,M. n~U ... 
CHA IRMAN
MANAGING DIRECTOR
PROJECT              ECONOMIC                                        PROJECT                  LOAN                                         SECRETA-               ACCOUJNTS               INTERNAL
GAROOR E            PESHA7IAH                 RAWALPINsDI             OETT                POETAPPRAISAL                                    RESEARCH             ENGINEERING               IMPLEM                    DEPT                  LEGAL                 RIAT                   DEPT.                   AUDIT
REGINAL                 PC                                               OFC                 DEVELOPMENT                DEPART.              AND STAT              D,EPT.                    EINTATION                                       DEPT
OF                      FIEOFFICE                                                            DE PT
DEPT.                                          DEPT.
MANAGER               MANAGER                    MANAGER                MANAGER                   CHIEF                  CHIEF                  CHIEF                  CHIEF                  CHIEF                   CHIEF                   CHIEF               SECRETARY               CHIEF                   INTERNAL
Siksnd,r            T~Sj Abfla                  I-sooWllh               I. R.h Im             S, b.htrAc              A. Ber,d                A GaIdir              Fa-a Ran               A G. Mir                SZ. Kiaa            S. MobSb Hsa.-           AbBo- Darn              MaSh-d Ali
Rashid ADo-d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Meehetoo  AiEa1
ISttf                  Dra.ff            I          rf             B     S t                      tafDrf                             ff        fI-                    Stffstff                                SI                           I StaffI    StaffI                                                     StaffI
JPrRf-e -l,or  1 3     Ptfesnal                                                                  Frnf-ei-cl    N        Proesioal        7    ProfR.iOn-,s             rfsio           7    Pfseoas          15      PrRf-so-le   Sa    Prcf-i-Rnls    S1    PtIRSf-Oi-1    2              SteM                   Prof-ei-onaf
Other OfIces   4 1   Asssats6s,tat,                                                                                    Asitns.As-tns                                   satcs AssstRt,AW--,ar~                                               A5,s,an--               Other Offic-    a       tfescRf    4          Asltas
As,tns     Clerks, TEepst,    IClcrEs, TR-tiS,                                                              Clerks. Typi-t          Clerks. TRp,ats       Cl.tk, Typist    S       lrs5Rit               Clerks. Typit-,         ClIrks, Typist          AllSSOS.Asisans                               Clerksl TRpi-rs
Clerks. TypIsts  17    err.  7                                          err~        ~         ~~~~      ~      ~~~~~                                                                                 ~~~.,  ff.    et.S  tc  4  et.2        Cferk, Tcpi-sEsk.TV,t                         e        
SUMMARY
Sta
S-nior Oficr                      18
Othe .Officer                     15
Assifant, Clerks, T,pist, err    fSD
T-to                            302
WortH Rank-f15914



IBRD 14496
6oo                                     64                                       6                                         72            U. S. S.R.             JANUARY 1980
PAKISTAN                                                                            j    ,
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND                                                                                "-. CHINA
INVESTMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
LOCATIONS OF PICIC FINANCED PROJECTS                                                                                    /
36-                               1959 - 1979                                                                           CHIRAL   I36
Project areas
@     National capital                                                                             :         SWAT    s
o     Provincial capitals                                                                      D    RARA 
0 R  HAZARAJ. Appno ,~~~~one line of -ntr
o     Selected major cities                                                                            A    PJ..
-     - District boundaries                                  
-  .... Provincial boundaries                                                         Pesinw       i...
_. International boundaries                                                   NORT                      .        IAMAD
Rivers                                 ..                                      ......,)  R OHAT  fcAMPRE IPORS RAV,^lPtN5l. .....................  _
WAZIR15TANy'  ZI             SARG   HA;   omSbKd
Rivers-o SAL                                                                                 PELSago REsO    C                            32IPANDI
~~        T, 8 A               r ~~-         SRRERHERJHELA
@ _ 2>x y > 9 K ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIANWAL): hr 
!  D  E  M  O   R  A  T  I CR  E  P  U B  I C / < -Z H O B go < 'I J "  ' y J H N .4tZAtASA<AH ORERE
OF AFGHANISTAN                             PISHIN'AF
DEM -OCR)ATIC   REPUBLIC  ~HORPDERA    NaR
L ORALAI
K.                  C HAGAI                /         )              KACCH </,                                                               I  N   DI AJ\>.
\.   .-6 ALL/U C U-f S T AN                                G (/ UL,AN
..               ,                      j-           (       4ASIuRABAD- _,(_/        A         : iBAHAWALPUR
28-                 (  ,'                                k!   *1 J           2 ,   .- JACOBABAD                   i 'L  .  HN 
IRAN    I                 / I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KA
5ALA        bN BUTDINDf
,CK             H  A G A    M                     C      / I
I R A N  !                              ,  i             g LARKAN~~~A  .- A  N          
fz                                : BAKHUZDARHAW/AKHAIRPURKILOMETERS O  100  200       300
( _t                       -'                                                                                         MI  g_< _    \LES O      100               200
-  C                         i                    X   DADU  XANGHAR                  's                 _                 5,~~~~~~~~~~~./  jNAIR    A\MYA
KHARAM                                                                                                        28--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DE   EPO 
F          -    <~~ \,  sHAR PARKAR                        I {RAN      (  TAFHNANI4- r s< ';-tQ  tt
KsJrehi i ~~BA I N   (                                                    . .,STAN     It _-on,o b't 
IRANELARANA         /O 
rfon ~ Ao hh  been preponotit ay TA-O WOOd BRnoks OTOff 0t0c1asieHy for KhLOToEEoc                                                                $T   2?0          3 _
boeOdAOOs sownOP 00 This nYap db nor oopfr, on eo par Of f,e o.o.. f^  ni r       >                                       ARABIA     v JOANcbtr   rt
OfAhdT,OS, any odgeenT on, if iega ssfitawo ef SPy TerntOrytvr tor anybksenwnM ot                                                                                     260
0/cstoptanXe                                                   DA         iEME                                                 A ic,s SANGHAR
BR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~SS



