Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2784-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
PICIC INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 24, 1980
This docunent has a resrieted distributo and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorition.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (Rs)
US$1       = Rs 9.90
Rs 1       = US$0.101
ACRONYMS
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
GOP    -  Government of Pakistan
ICP    -  Investment Corporation of Pakistan
IDBP   -  Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IPB    -  Investment Promotion Bureau
KfW    -  Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
NIT    -  National Investment Trust
NDFC   -  National Development Finance Corporation
NWFP   -  North West Frontier Province
PAYE   -  Pay As You Earn Scheme
PICIC  -  Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
SBP    -  State Bank of Pakistan
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Pakistan   =  July 1 - June 30
PICIC                     =  January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
PICIC INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                    Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:               Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corpora-
tion Ltd. (PICIC); and Ministry of Industries
Amount:                      US$40.0 million
Terms:                       Standard
Relending Terms:             US$37.0 million of the Credit would be relent to
PICIC with interest at 8% p.a. initially and 7% p.a.
from April 1, 1981, for up to 18 years, including 3
years grace, with repayments on a flexible amortiza-
tion schedule in approximate conformity with the
aggregate maturities of the sub-loans. The Govern-
ment would bear the foreign exchange risk, for which
sub-borrowers would pay (through PICIC) a special
fee of 3% p.a. Loans to PICIC sub-borrowers would
be at 14% p.a. interest inclusive of this fee, with
amortization up to a maximum of 15 years.
Project Description:         To finance the foreign exchange cost of industrial
projects carried out by private enterprises in
Pakistan. The project includes provision for train-
ing of textile industry personnel, and technical
assistance to the Ministry of Industry and PICIC.
Estimated Commitments
and Disbursements:         IDA FY                  1981    1982    1983    1984
…---------------------(US$ million -----------------
Commitments by PICIC:  14.0    16.0        7.0
Disbursements:
Annual               10.6    15.5    11.9       2.0
Cumulative           10.6    26.1    38.0    40.0
Appraisal Report:            No. 2834a-PAK, dated April 22, 1980.
Map:                         IBRD 14496
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A PICIC INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of US$40.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a PICIC Industrial Development Project.
US$37.0 million would be relent to the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Invest-
ment Corporation Limited (PICIC) with interest at 8% p.a. until April 1, 1981,
and 7% p.a. on all disbursements from this date, repayment up to a period of
18 years, including three years grace, and with a flexible amortization schedule
in approximate accordance with the aggregate maturities of the subloans. Up to
US$3.0 million will be provided to the Ministry of Industries to help finance
training programs for textile industry personnel and for technical assistance.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Prospects" (No. 2860-PAK, dated April 15, 1980) was distributed tc the
Executive Directors on April 21, 1980.
3.        Although budgetary and balance of payments problems have persisted,
the past two to three years have witnessed a significant economic recovery in
Pakistan. GDP growth during FY78 and FY79 averaged over 6% p.a. and a similar
rate of growth is likely to be attained in FY80. This growth has been accom-
panied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial production well above the
rate of population growth, currently averaging 3% p.a.,and by a rapid growth
in exports. Exports increased in real terms by 11% in FY78 and by 20% in
FY79; during FY80 a further 44% increase in current prices over the FY79 level
is expected. Value added in agriculture may rise by 6-7% this year following
increases of 4.2% in FY79 and 2.5% in FY78, and in industry by 4-5% this year
following 9.2% growth in FY78 and 4.2% in FY79. This performance contrasts
markedly with the economic stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when the
growth of GDP averaged only 3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export
growth was negligible.
4.        The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather, improved foreign demand for Pakistan's
exports and higher domestic demand associated with better crops, risirng
rural incomes and workers' remittances from the Middle East.  Various policy
changes introduced by the Government have also contributed to the recovery.
5.        In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives
to improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices. lit the
same time inputs, particularly fertilizer, have been heavily subsidized
(the Government has recently taken steps to reverse this policy, which is
now creating budgetary problems), and efforts have been made to improve the



fertilizer distribution system by expanding the marketing network and by ensur-
ing adequate supplies and timely delivery of fertilizer imports. A better
balance between nutrients has also been attained. In addition, the Government
has begun to address the deep-seated problems affecting productivity at the
farm level. A start has been made in improving extension services through
the adoption of the so-called training and visit system. Preliminary reforms
have been initiated to the agricultural research system in line with the find-
ings of a recent USAID/World Bank study. The Government has also accepted
and has begun to act on the main recommendations of a recently completed UNDP
study on irrigated agriculture, which emphasizes the need to improve the
efficiency of the water delivery system through the rehabilitation of distri-
butaries and better scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand
the role of the private sector, for example, through the promotion of private
tubewell development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pesti-
cides, seeds, agricultural credit and farm power--have also been strengthened.
These initiatives are still at an early stage and a breakthrough from the
problems of low productivity at the farm level is yet to take place.
6.        Major changes have been made during the past two to three years in
Government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the
private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead indus-
trial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricultural
processing and some industrial units have been denationalized; constitutional
safeguards have been provided to private industry against further arbitrary
Government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector have been
widened. A wide range of incentives including tax holidays, excise and import
duty concessions, easier access to imported raw materials, concessionary
credit and income tax provisions, and direct cash rebates have been granted
to encourage private investment and exports. The investment sanctioning
procedure has been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement
in private sector confidence and to a sharp increase in proposals for rela-
tively smaller-scale private investment projects, though industrialists are
still hesitant to commit themselves to large-scale investments involving long
pay-back periods.
7.        At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public sector, which has been plagued
by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been completed of the man-
agement and organization of the public sector, and the performance of individ-
ual enterprises. In accordance with the recommendations of these studies, the
Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been abolished, the number of sector
holding corporations has been reduced from 11 to 8, and boards of directors
have been established at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which
have little prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down.
In addition to the denationalizations mentioned earlier, further public dis-
investment is being considered on a case-by-case basis. A mutual fund has
been formed for the sale of equity holdings in public sector enterprises to
private investors.
8.        The higher level of economic activity during the past two to three
years and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new



- 3 -
taxes and reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues from 15%
of GNP in FY77 to 17% in FY80. Nevertheless, the budget has remained under
strain as expenditures have risen as rapidly as revenues. The Government's
policies of encouraging production and exports through subsidized inputs and
export rebates, and the political constraints to making price adjustments on
a number of items of mass consumption, have inflated subsidies. Rising debt
service, following the expiration of the four-year debt relief arrangement
with member countries of the Pakistan Consortium at the end of FY78, and
increased defense spending have contributed to the growth in non-development
expenditures. In addition, commitments under the ongoing public investment
program and higher subsidies for agriculture led to further increases in
development spending between FY77 and FY79. Despite the increased revenues,
budget deficits remained around 3-4% of GNP.
9.        An improvement in the situation seems likely during FY80.  The FY80
budget presentation in June 1979 included major new revenue measures which are
expected to yield about Rs 4.6 billion. In addition, substantial increases
were announced in domestic prices of petroleum products last December, in
railway fares in January and in fertilizer prices in February. The Govern-
ment has also been making a determined effort to restrain both development
and non-development expenditures, and supplementary allocations have so far
been negligible. While post-budget increases in import prices and other
exogenous factors (including expenditure on Afghan refugees) may add to budget
outlays, improved revenues and additional external assistance from the IMF's
Trust Fund and from Saudi Arabia may limit the domestically financed budget
deficit to about Rs 4.0 billion in FY80, equal to less than 2% of GNP.
10.       Pakistan's export performance has improved considerately in recent
years, although its share of world exports still remains below the level of
the early 1970s. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from
US$578 million in FY77 to an estimated US$1,600 million in FY80, have also
greatly assisted the external position. These increases have, however, been
offset by a rapid increase in the value of imports, mainly POL, fertilizer,
edible oil and capital goods. The current account deficit is expected to
remain around US$1,010 million or 4% of GNP in FY80, compared to US$1,050
million or nearly 7% of GNP in FY77 in current prices. The financing of
these deficits has become more difficult since program-type assistance from
OPEC countries (which was substantial in the mid-1970s) as well as net aid
flows from Consortium sources have declined.
11.       The balance of payments presents the Pakistan Government with its
most intractable problem. With imports roughly double the level of exports,
exports must rise at a substantially faster rate than imports simply to pre-
vent a worsening in the sizable foreign trade deficit--a task made even more
difficult by the sharp increase in the petroleum import bill. Secondly, fol-
lowing the termination of the 1974-78 rescheduling agreement, debt service
payments have increased sharply. In these circumstances, Pakistan has been
fortunate that substantial workers' remittances have helped to alleviate
the pressure on the external account. However, the growth of workers' remit-
tances seems to have slowed down; short-term borrowing is already relatively
high at around US$350 million; and foreign exchange reserves remain low. It
is difficult to see how the deficits in prospect in FY81 and subsequent years



- 4 -
could be financed without further major efforts by the Government to reduce
demand pressures, increase savings and encourage production and exports; and
without a substantial increase in external assistance at the same time.
12.       Thus, notwithstanding recent improvements in output and exports
and in the overall management of the economy, financial difficulties persist.
To a considerable extent these difficulties reflect continuing pressures on
resources, despite rapid output growth and the Government's efforts to restrain
public investment. These pressures have led to substantial imbalances between
savings and investments and between exports and imports, which have been reflec-
ted in sizable budgetary and balance of payments deficits. Further measures
appear essential if these and other basic issues limiting economic growth in
the longer term are to be adequately addressed. These issues include the farm-
level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture; the structure and
competitiveness of the industrial sector; the factors lying behind continued
rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service expenditures;
the inadequate performance of public sector enterprises; the problems of
public resource mobilization; and the large trade deficits.
13.       Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two-thirds of total exports. Despite the
recent recovery in output, a number of fundamental factors continue to limit
agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied by the
resources and technologies already available. Generally, output growth has
not been commensurate with the substantial increases in inputs, especially
water and fertilizer. Average yields for most crops have not improved over
the last decade although some improvement has taken place in wheat yields.
While considerable potential still exists for the additional use of fertilizer
and other inputs, it appears essential to give greater priority to evolving
complementary policies and programs which would have a direct impact on yields
at the farm level. The importance of increasing farm productivity is now more
widely recognized in the Government and a beginning has been made in address-
ing this problem. Nevertheless, support for programs to strengthen research,
extension, water management and other programs in the agriculture and water
sectors needs to be intensified, while fertilizer subsidies must be further
reduced, accompanied by necessary adjustments in output and consumer prices.
14.       Industry contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the 1950s
and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in manufacturing
production, though recently better, remain well below those attained in the
1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts for about 40% of
value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from problems of inefficiency,
excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in foreign markets, while manu-
facturing growth generally has been affected by the unsatisfactory performance
of public sector enterprises. While there has recently been a sharp increase
in private investment sanctions, it remains to be seen whether these will lead
to a substantial improvement in actual capital expenditures. To maintain the
increased momentum in the industrial sector will require, among other things,
a plentiful supply of foreign exchange both for investments and current inputs.
At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Government's incentive
system supports those industries in which Pakistan has a comparative advantage,



- 5 -
and more analysis is needed to determine levels of effective protection for
formulating an appropriate industrial development strategy for the 1980s. The
recovery in industry also needs to be reinforced by improvement in labor-
management relations and by further measures to rehabilitate the textile
industry, to improve the performance of the public sector and to increase
exports.
15.       The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjust-
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy
forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with encouraging success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained
by the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources. At the same
time, activity in the oil sector has been stepped up, in some instances through
joint ventures with foreign private companies. Domestic programs for explora-
tion and development of mineral fuels, as well as other energy source!s, hold
out the hope of a considerable improvement in Pakistan's balance of payments
outlook in the late 1980s.
16.       While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in popula-
tion, currently running at about 3% p.a., which has seriously handicapped the
country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning programs have
had little effect and there have been few changes in the socio-economic environ-
ment of a type that usually accompany declines in fertility. Rapid population
growth places severe burdens on Government resources simply to maintain educa-
tion and health programs at their current inadequate standards. However,
without higher literacy rates, improved health facilities and a reduction
in child mortality, it is doubtful that population growth rates can be much
reduced. Expenditures on social services remain comparatively low arid undue
emphasis has been given to higher education and urban health facilities. High
priority needs therefore to be given not only to increased allocations for
family planning and social service expenditure but also to its redirection
to serve the wider interests of the population and the economy. While the
substantial migration from Pakistan to the Middle East over the past few years
has to some extent relieved the pressures resulting from rapid population
growth, this clearly cannot be relied upon to provide an answer to such complex
problems in the long run.
17.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments a
fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the eco-
nomy, particularly in public savings. Although national savings at around
11% of GNP are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s,
there has been little improvement over the past two years. The continuation
oE the Government's recent efforts to restrain public spending and encourage
private investment will help to reduce present imbalances between investment
and savings flows, while increased opportunities for private investment should
attract resources from less productive uses. At the same time, an increase in
savings inevitably calls for restraining private consumption through appro-
priate price adjustments and selective duty increases on non-essential imports.
While the Government has made several price increases in recent months, for



- 6 -
example, in POL and fertilizer prices and railway fares, further adjustments
will directly reduce the budgetary burden of subsidies. Continued restraints
on development spending and measures to further improve revenues through
improvements in tax administration and tax and rate increases, for example,
property taxes, water rates and irrigation water charges, are also needed.
18.       Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses, pota-
toes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring countries.
In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's exports of
manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as well as of a
wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industries sector. Increased
domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels and fertilizer would
help to moderate import growth considerably.
19.       Total external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 amounted to about
US$7.8 billion, of which US$4.7 billion was due to bilateral members of the
Pakistan Consortium, US$1.1 billion to OPEC, US$1.3 billion to multilateral
agencies and the balance to other bilateral and private lenders. Contractual
debt service to multilateral and bilateral aid agencies rose from US$313 mil-
lion in FY73 to US$397 million in FY78, although the burden of these payments
was eased to US$200 and US$261 million, respectively, as a result of debt
relief arrangements. The four-year debt relief agreement with Consortium
countries expired on June 30, 1978, and as no further agreement was reached,
debt service payments rose sharply to about US$500 million in FY79. Contrac-
tual payments in FY80 are expected to amount to US$650 million and considerably
more in subsequent years. As a proportion of exports, non-factor service
payments and workers' remittances, debt service rose from about 15% in the
FY75-77 period to around 17.5% in FY79. Pakistan obviously needs to exercise
care in protecting its ability to borrow to meet future requirements and to
restrict commercial borrowing to a minimum. For this reason, Bank Group lend-
ing to Pakistan is currently confined to IDA credits. Pakistan's debt to the
Bank and IDA at the end of FY79 was about 14% of its external public indebted-
ness. The share of the Bank Group in total debt service is now about 9%.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
20.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately $1.8 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Through FY79, 38% of total Bank/IDA commitments
to Pakistan were for public utility services, 30% for agriculture, 31% for
industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for education.
Lending for public utility services has included loans and credits for rail-
ways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways, telecommunications and
water supply.



-7 -
21.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to support
the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are responsible for,
the principal public services supporting economic growth; and thirdly, to meet
basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development, and extend these
benefits to the poorest strata of the population.
22.       In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy.  Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of essen-
tial inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and water-
logging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, livestock
development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending is to
assist the Government's program to increase the productivity of available land
and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding investments, as
recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was Executing
Agency.
23.       In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through ten loans/credits amounting to US$233 million
for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). Direct
lending for industry has been limited to three large fertilizer plants. Proj-
ects are envisaged for further increasing domestic fertilizer capacity, as well
as for small-scale industry. IFC has made investments in 11 Pakistan enter-
prises for a total of US$63.6 million, of which US$54.1 million was by way of
loans and US$9.5 million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex
II). About US$29.4 million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by
IFC include three in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles and
one each in cement, steel, fertilizers, food processing and petrochemicals.
IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.
24.       The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the insti-
tutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, Telephone and Telegraph Department, and Federal and Provin-
cial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has assisted the
Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) with three projects each; the sector has also been assisted
by the construction under the Indus Basin Development Program of Mangla and
Tarbela dams.
25.       In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has recently financed a pet-
roleum development project and begun to play an important role in strengthen-
ing the Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assisting in
the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy
resources. In the field of urban development, Bank Group missions have worked
with the municipal planning authorities of Karachi and Lahore, Pakistan's major
cities, and following UNDP and IDA-financed technical assistance efforts, a



- 8 -
project is now under preparation for Lahore. A second water supply project
in Lahore is currently under implementation. Four IDA credits for education,
totalling US$41.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary
and higher technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of
primary teachers and agricultural extension agents.
26.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of February 29, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Credit and loan disbursement has been generally satisfactory. Some projects
have experienced initial delays due to Government procedures for project
approval, which are now under review, and to slowness in appointment of
consultants. The Government has recently increased the rates charged by
some public utilities to improve their financial position. Rapid turnover
of managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle
East, has been a problem in the case of some projects.
27.       A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
vocational training, agriculture research, small industries, water management
and irrigation and flood rehabilitation. Pakistan continues to have domestic
resource constraints for the reasons set out in Part I. To assist the Govern-
ment to finance agriculture and other high-priority projects which have a low
foreign exchange component, financing of some local expenditures in specific
cases is justified.
28.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provide the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan
on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance
within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
29.       The manufacturing sector accounts for about 15% of GDP and employs
about 3 million people or 13% of the national workforce. Large and medium
size manufacturing produces about 76% of value-added in the sector. Small
and cottage industry, which is entirely private, provides about 87% of total
manufacturing employment and accounts for the remaining 24% of value-added.
During much of the 1950s and 1960s, manufacturing provided a major stimulus
to growth. However, during much of the 1970s growth rates declined to little
over 2% from about 10% per year during the 1960s. In addition, there has been
a major structural change since 1973; the public sector expanded from about
10% to about 25% of industrial assets. At the same time, private investment
declined markedly as a result of nationalization fears, rapid cost inflation,
labor problems, adverse market conditions and problems in raw material supply.
30.       After four years of virtual stagnation, manufacturing production
increased by 9.2% in FY78 and 4.8% in FY79. This recovery reflected both a
more favorable general economic climate and the incentives and policy measures
which the Government has been implementing to revitalize industry over the



- 9 -
past three years, as described in Part I. General factors which have contri-
buted to the industrial recovery include higher domestic demand resulting from
a continuing high level of foreign remittances and improved rural incomes, end
stronger foreign demand for Pakistan's exports. In addition, supplies of two
major industrial inputs, cotton and sugarcane, improved in FY78. While the
reduced size of these two crops affected the rate of industrial growth in FY79,
this was to some extent alleviated by the gradual liberalization of policies
and the streamlining of procedures for the import of inputs. Together with
the provision of other incentives, the relaxation of administrative controls
has helped to sustain the upturn in industrial activity.
The Textile Sector
31.       The textile industry is the most important private industrial sub-
sector in Pakistan and accounts for 49% of PICIC's outstanding loans. During
much of the 1970s, the industry has been characterized by declining productiv-
ity, both of equipment and labor, and falling profits and liquidity. The most
important causes of these difficulties have been the world textile recession
in 1974 and 1975, restrictions and other measures imposed on the private sector
and acute labor problems. During the early 1970s, labor unions obtained rela-
tively large increases in wages and fringe benefits and virtually unlimited
job security without corresponding increases in productivity. La'bor costs in
the textile industry have risen by 200% since 1972, absenteeism is high and
current labor legislation leaves few powers with management. To recommend
remedial measures, the Government has established a high-level Labor Commis-
sion which includes representatives of workers and employers. While the report
of the Commission is due by December 1980, the preliminary findings of the
Commission are under consideration by the Government.
32.       In 1977/78, as provided under the latest loan to PICIC (Loan No.
1326-PAK), the Bank helped finance a study of the textile subsector. This
study, as well as IDA's industrial sector work, indicates that Pakistan's
textile industry has many of the necessary conditions for supplying domestic
textile needs economically and for re-establishing an important position as
an exporter of cotton textile products. Pakistan produces cotton fiber, has
a large base of mills and equipment and has a supply of relatively low cost
and easily trainable labor. At present, despite these favorable conditions,
a number of mills operate inefficiently, face serious labor problems, and
the quality of cotton cloth produced is low. Based on the findings of the
textile study, the Government has prepared a series of rehabilitation measures
covering (i) improvements in the quality as well as the quantity of raw
cotton and cotton lint; (ii) training of management staff and operatives;
(iii) upgrading of the industry's products; (iv) export marketing; (v) labor-
management relations; and (vi) investment requirements, principally for
balancing, modernization and replacements (BMR). Since the textile industry
is in the private sector, the Government's role is focussed on creating the
necessary infrastructure, environment and incentive structure for growth in
the industry. In addition, the financing institutions perform important
functions through screening and selection of viable projects.
33.       Several measures have been taken by the Government to assist the
textile industry in accordance with the rehabilitation program. These measures,



- 10 -
which supplement the general policy changes towards industry described earlier
in this report, include the abolition of excise duties on the manufacture of
cotton yarn, cloth and fabrics; the removal of import duties on textile
machinery required for balancing, modernization and replacement, and for the
manufacture of garments and other made-up textile goods; and compensatory
rebates on exports ranging from 7-1/2% on yarn to 12-1/2% on finished cloth
and made-up textiles. In addition, to improve cotton cultivation and ginning,
programs have been initiated to strengthen extension services, pest scouting,
supply of pesticides and spraying equipment, and availability of quality cotton
seed. Three components of the Government's program are of particular and
immediate importance to the rehabilitation of the textile sector: training,
export promotion and labor-management relations. Resolution of the latter
problem depends, as described above, on the outcome of the Labor Commission's
deliberations.
34.       The image of Pakistan's textile exports needs improvement.  The
Government has embarked on a program to establish a testing and certification
system in order to rebuild confidence in Pakistan's textile products overseas,
and export promotion units and warehouse facilities are being set up in major
markets. Given the intense world competition in textiles, these programs will
need to be pursued with vigor if they are to be successful.
35.       Training.  Training is perhaps the most urgent need of the Pakistan
textile industry and is closely related to the labor relations problem. With
assistance from UNIDO and ILO, GOP has started establishing, staffing and
reorganizing new and existing training institutions. For improving the supply
of recruits with at least basic training (especially for smaller units), three
new vocational training centers are being established at Karachi, Hyderabad,
and Mardan; and one center expanded at Faisalabad. The need for additional
training is recognized by the Government and the project therefore includes a
component to provide various types of training at the management, supervisor
and operator levels.
Industrial Finance
36.       Pakistan has an extensive financial sector.  It has three develop-
ment banks, one privately owned (PICIC) and two government-owned (IDBP and
NDFC). PICIC provides long-term finance to the medium and large-scale private
investor, whereas IDBP serves the small-medium scale client; NDFC caters to
public sector corporations. In addition, there are five nationalized domestic
commercial banks, 15 foreign banks and other specialized financial institu-
tions. A committee has been set up under the auspices of the Banking Council
to study the ramifications that Islamization might have on banking policy and
procedures, and to recommend ways to preserve a sound financial sector which
would also be consistent with Islamic beliefs.
37.       PICIC's Operations.  Since 1976, the trend of PICIC's operations
has been affected by the uncertain political-economic climate.  As a result,
gross approvals declined from Rs 470 million in 1976 (when PICIC received
loans from IBRD and the Asian Development Bank), to Rs 382 million in 1977,
and to Rs 287 million in 1978. However, in 1979 approvals increased to Rs 380
million. About 95% of PICIC's loan operations have been in foreign exchange,



- 11 -
largely because PICIC finances primarily medium and large-scale industries for
which suitable locally-manufactured machinery has not been available and also
because of the shortage in PICIC's rupee resources.
38..      PICIC, IDBP and NDFC make foreign exchange and local currency loans
at around 11% p.a. Both PICIC and IDBP have access to special credits from
the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) to finance the purchase of locally manufac-
tured machinery. Under this scheme, PICIC and IDBP are able to lend at 8.5%
p.a.  Demand for these loans is increasing since improved machinery and equip-
ment are now produced locally. Commercial bank working capital loans carry an
interest rate of 14% or upwards, and are compounded quarterly resultinig in an
effective annual rate of 15-16%. SBP has also introduced a refinancing scheme
for export development whereby exporters can receive loans from commercial
banks at 3% p.a. Interest rates on deposits range from 7.5% for reguLar
savings accounts to 13% on fixed time deposits.
39.       Over the next few years, the revival in private investor interest
in all industrial sectors should create a strong demand for foreign exchange.
The overall shortage of foreign exchange for imports of machinery, equipment
and raw materials represents the most pressing constraint to industrial growth.
The role that PICIC and IDA can exercise in the provision of foreign exchange
resources for economically sound projects could prove crucial to the revital-
ization of the private industrial sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed credit would be the Bank Group's eleventh lending oper-
ation to PICIC which was one of the first development finance companies (DFCs)
established with Bank assistance. IBRD made its first loan to PICIC in 1957,
and has now made ten loans for a total of US$233 million. 1/ During the 1960s,
PICIC developed into a well managed and experienced DFC.  The time since then
has been exceptionally difficult for it. A substantial portion of PICIC's
assets and staff were lost through the separation of Bangladesh, while repeated
nationalizations under the previous administration reduced the scope for PICIC
operations. In addition, for reasons described in paragraphs 54-58 below,
PICIC experienced serious collection difficulties and arrears increased sub-
stantially. The Project Completion Report on Loan No. 590-PAK highlighted
these factors, including the problems caused by foreign exchange fluctuations.
The latest IBRD loan to PICIC (Loan 1326-PAK) for US$25 million was inade in
1976, and has been utilized according to schedule. The loan was fully com-
mitted by December 1978, and disbursements as of February 29, 1980 were US$23.2
million. During negotiations for that loan, a number of steps were agreed
with PICIC and the Government, which inter alia resolved the problem of PICIC's
liabilities regarding Bangladesh.
41.       The project was prepared by PICIC, and the Ministry of Industries
participated on the textile training and policy issues. It was appraised in
1/   Net of cancellations but including funds used in Bangladesh.



- 12 -
May/June 1979 with an updating mission in November 1979. Negotiations for the
proposed credit were held in Washington in April 1980. The Pakistan delegation
was headed by Mr. N. M. Uquaili, Chairman of PICIC. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "PICIC Industrial Development Project" (Report No. 2834a-PAK) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Additional data on the
project are given in Annex III.
Project Objectives
42.       The objectives of the proposed credit would be (a) to provide scarce
foreign exchange term funds for financially and economically viable industrial
projects in the private sector, thereby supporting the present improvement in
the investment climate and the Government's efforts to revitalize the private
sector; (b) to improve the collections system; some of the measures to be taken
would benefit all financial institutions in Pakistan; (c) to achiieve further
improvements in PICIC as an institution; and (d) to follow-up on the implemen-
tation of the Government's textile rehabilitation program, and provide support
for it by financing textile projects, principally for balancing, modernization
and replacements (BMR), technical assistance and training.
Project Description
43.       The proposed credit for US$40 million would be made to the Government
of Pakistan, of which US$37 million would be re-lent to PICIC to finance the
foreign exchange costs of capital goods and services of subprojects sponsored
by private productive enterprises. As with other DFC projects, eligible enter-
prises would be defined broadly to include agro-industries as well as manufac-
turing, mining, etc. Out of the US$37 million allocation, PICIC would use
about US$240,000 to finance the costs of the services of an industrial econo-
mist and an industrial engineer (see below). The remaining US$3 million
would be used by the Government for financing the cost of textile training
and technical assistance. The Government would prepare training subprojects
for review and approval by the Association. These subprojects would include
the modernization of a number of textile training institutes, in-plant train-
ing, foreign training of technical and managerial personnel, and technical
asqistance. In addition, the Government 7ill engage a textile specialist who
would assist the Ministry of Industries for one year in implementing textile
rehabilitation measures, including training, and subsequently PICIC for one
year. The Government will engage the specialist by December 31, 1980 (Section
3.08 of the draft Credit Agreement). The cost of technical assistance is
estimated at US$10,000 per man-month.
PICIC's Role and Structure
44.       Organization.  PICIC is the main source of long-term finance for
the private industrial sector. As of December 31, 1979, PICIC's share capital
was held by Government-controlled financial institutions (49.6%), foreign
investors (35%), and private Pakistani shareholders (15.4%). PICIC's full-
time Chairman was appointed in December 1975. He is an ex-PICIC Managing
Director and ex-Finance Minister, and exercises strong leadership on PICIC.
He is ably complemented by a Managing Director. PICIC had 135 professional
staff as of December 31, 1979, of whom 79 had more than ten years of service



- 13 -
within PICIC. The professional staff turnover has lately decreased, partly due
to a general revision of salaries and benefits in 1978. To further strengthen
its professional staff, PICIC will carry out a review of staff compensation by
December 31, 1980 (Section 2.11 of the draft Project Agreement). While gener-
ally adequate, PICIC's organization was in need of certain improvements. In
particular, PICIC's appraisal process was fragmented. Its follow-up work was
unnecessarily divided into three departments. In view of these shortcomings,
PICIC undertook a reorganization in December 1979, involving merging of some
departments and appointment of a Senior Chief for Operations to oversee the
project promotion, appraisal and follow-up work. These steps should stream-
line PICIC's procedures. To improve PICIC's operational, engineering and
economic work, PICIC will engage, by December 31, 1980, an experienced indus-
trial economist and an industrial engineer for twelve months, who would train
PICIC's staff in evaluation of projects and sector analysis, and would assist
PICIC's management in the preparation of a medium-term investment plan (Section
2.10 of the draft Project Agreement).
45.       PICIC's Strategy.  PICIC has submitted to IDA its draft Strategy
Statement for 1980-82 which is satisfactory. Formal approval by PIC]:C's Board
is a condition of effectiveness for the proposed credit (Section 5.01 of the
draft Credit Agreement). Features of the Strategy Statement are: (i) PICIC's
intention to continue to finance only industries controlled by the private
sector; (ii) PICIC's criteria for lending to the textile sector, emphasizing
BMR projects and those that increase value added and product diversification
and depend on local raw materials; (iii) emphasis on employment creation and
export-oriented projects; and (iv) expansion of its promotional efforts.
Terms
46.       Lending.  The current interest rate on long-term loans charged by
PICIC and other financial institutions, in accordance with GovernmenL policy,
is 11% p.a. The estimated inflation rate in Pakistan is currently, and is
projected for the next 2-3 years to remain at, around 10%. The Government
is endeavoring to revitalize private investment (see paragraph 6 above) and
has decided to maintain long-term lending rates at their present level for
the time being.
47.       Exchange Risk.  Foreign exchange fluctuations have added a high and
unpredictable cost to PICIC's sub-borrowers. To avoid future problems, the
Government would carry the exchange risk under the proposed credit for which
a 3% exchange risk fee would be charged to sub-borrowers. Thus, subborrowers
would be charged a total rate of 14% p.a., which represents an adequate premium
over the 11% charged on rupee investment loans.
48.       PICIC Spread.  For a number of years, PICIC's spread has been fixed
by the Government at 2%, which is not sufficient to cover PICIC's costs includ-
ing provisions for doubtful debts and to enable PICIC to maintain its equity
in real terms. The Government has agreed to a spread of 3% in connection with
the recently approved Asian Development Bank (ADB) loan (see paragraph 61
below). For the proposed IDA credit, PICIC will receive a spread of 3% until
April 1, 1981, and on disbursements from this date the rate will increase to
4%. With an interest rate of 11% p.a., the relending rate from GOP to PICIC



- 14 -
would be 8% p.a. until April 1, 1981, and 7% p.a. from this date (Section
3.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
49.       Repayments by PICIC to the Government would be made on a flexible
amortization schedule up to a maximum of 18 years, including three years grace.
These payments would be in approximate conformity with repayments received by
PICIC from its sub-borrowers. PICIC would pay the Government a commitment fee
of 3/4%, and PICIC would charge its sub-borrowers a similar fee.
50.       Free Limit.  The free limit for sub-loans under the credit would be
US$2.5 million for PICIC's lending to any one project or US$6 million including
outstanding PICIC commitments to that project. Tn addition, for textiles the
following would apply: (a) for BMR subprojects, the free limit would be US$1.5
taillion; arnd (b) all new textile subprojects would have to be submitted to IDA
for prior approval (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).  Based on
PICIC's backlog and pipeline of projects, IDA would review for prior approval
about 30% by number, and 60% by amount, of the projects financed under the
credit including over 75% (by amount) of textile subprojects. IDA would also
review all textile training subprojects submitted by the Government.
51.       Procurement and Disbursements.  PICIC generally uses internationnl
competitive bidding for its foreign exchange loans or, in the care of smaller
projects or bilateral credits, three alternate quotations from foreign sup-
pliers. These procedures are satisfactory. The credit would be disbursed to
meet 100% of foreign expenditures on imported goods and services, 100% of
expenditures for consultants' services, and in the case of textile training,
100% of foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures.
Financial Position
52.       PICIC's net profit after tax decreased from Rs 33.1 million in 1978
to Rs 30.0 million in 1979. This was due to the lack of growth in loans out-
standing in this period and PICIC's narrow interest spread. After tax profits
in 1979 were 1.3% of average total assets. In view of its ti"ht liquidity
situation, PICIC did not declare cash dividends for 1977 and 1978. This is
also likely for 1979. Instead, it issued bonus shares at the rate of 20% for
1977 and 15% for 1978.
53.       Due to low collections since 1977, PICIC's liquidity position has
been tight, causing it to rely increasingly on State Bank of Pakistan (SBP)
borrowings. Total SBP cash credits as of December 31, 1979 were Rs 568 mil-
lion. These loans were granted at a rate of 10% for various terms ranging from
one to five years. Because of PICIC's liquidity position, the Government
has recently agreed with the ADB that the SBP will provide, initially for
two years, credits at 5% p.a. and will roll-over Rs 125 million for a further
five years. With regard to the proposed IDA Credit, the Government will
provide credits as necessary on adequate terms to enable PICIC to service its
debts (Section 3.07 of the draft Credit Agreement).
PICIC's Collections and Arrears
54.       Since 1977, PICIC's collections have been below the targets agreed
under Loan 1326-PAK, due to factors beyond its control. Total arrears



- 15 -
increased from Rs 701 million at end-1978 (28% of PICIC's outstanding port-
folio) to Rs 877 million (33% of the portfolio) at end-1979. A large part of
the arrears (47% at end-1979) are attributable to hard-core defaults of 24
months or more for which PICIC will need to provide concessions after negotiat-
ing partial repayments. About 25-30% of the increase in arrears is due to the
appreciation of strong currencies. As clients continued to fall in arrears,
incurring additional interest and penalty charges, an increase in total over-
dues was to be expected. PICIC has made strong efforts to collect overdues
and has performed adequately under the difficult circumstances.
55.       Exchange Rate Fluctuations.  The most important single cause of
financial problems for PICIC's clients over the past few years has been the
foreign exchange risk. This became a problem with the devaluation of the
rupee in 1972, which more than doubled the debt service burden of PICIC's
clients at that time. In addition to the 1972 devaluation, the rupee, which
is tied to the US dollar, has declined substantially over the past few years
against strong currencies such as the DM, SFr, and Yen, which accounted for
45% of disbursements under Loan 590-PAK, 57% under Loan 961-PAK, and 86% under
Loan 1326-PAK. This increased significantly the real cost of foreign exchange
borrowings for many PICIC clients. PICIC has estimated that the effective cost
of foreign exchange borrowings to sub-borrowers might have been as high as
20-22% p.a. Sub-borrowers have found it difficult to calculate in advance the
risk connected with such borrowings, which has seldom figured explicitly in
their calculations. Other causes of the arrears are weak management in some
companies, changes in input prices, market problems, shortages of working
capital, and delayed project implementation.
56.       Special Recovery Ordinance.  PICIC's problems have been exacerbated
by weaknesses in legal collection procedures. As of December 31, 1979, PICIC
had 26 cases under litigation for a total of Rs 335 million.  About half of
these cases were filed in 1977 or before, with one case dating back to 1971.
As a first important step to improve the legal framework for the financial
institutions, the Government passed a Special Recovery Ordinance, with effect
from April 1, 1979. The promulgation of this Ordinance was a condition for
appraisal of this credit. Its purpose is to facilitate loan collections
through Special Courts set up for the purpose of hearing cases more quickly
than under the High Courts. Rules of Procedure for the Special Courts were
issued in February 1980. Thus, the mechanism is in place for the hearing of
cases filed by PICIC.
57.       Regular Legal Framework.  In addition to the establishment of the
Special Courts, it would be desirable to improve the processing of company
law matters through legal channels in the High Courts, particularly to speed
up liquidation procedures, which is not the direct concern of the Special
Recovery Ordinance. Also, it would be advantageous to facilitate the change
of management or ownership for units that are closed or operating with serious
difficulties. Legislation to this effect is being drafted.
58.       Other Measures.  Several influential groups of businessmen have
been pressing for concessions on their debts to the financial intermediaries.
In November 1979, the Government announced that no relief would be forthcoming
and that the matter of collections of arrears must be settled directly between



- 16 -
the banks and their clients. In the FY80 Budget, the Government announced a
provision under which industrialists who have suffered losses on their foreign
exchange loans may revalue their assets correspondingly, and thereby benefit
from higher depreciation. This measure should ease the financial strain of
some clients. The Government has undertaken that the arrears of PICIC's pub-
lic sector clients as of December 31, 1979 (Rs 16 million) will be settled
not later than October 31, 1980, and from November 1, 1980, the Government
shall cause to be paid all amounts owed by public sector enterprises to PICIC
within six months of the due date. In addition, the Government will not grant
licenses for new projects to industrialists who are in arrears to PICIC (Sec-
tions 3.05 and 3.06 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Collection Plan
59.       PICIC has prepared a project-by-project collection plan on a half-
yearly basis for the period January 1980-December 1982. The plan assumes
collection figures of Rs 350 million, Rs 380 million and Rs 420 million in
1980, 1981 and 1982 respectively. The plan is based on a careful estimate
of the repayment ability of PICIC's existing clients, and on the assumption
that unwillingness to repay will basically be overcome through the Recovery
ordinance plus firm support by the Government. PICIC shall take all appro-
priate measures to expedite collections. If the Association considers these
measures or PICIC's collection performance inadequate, the Association may
suspend approvals of subprojects (Section 2.12 of the draft Project Agreement).
With Government support, the above collection figures for 1980-82 represent
suitable targets for PICIC.
60.       Provisions.  PICIC's provisions for doubtful debts on December 30,
1979 (Rs 90 million), which are determined on a project-by-project basis in
consultation with PICIC's auditors, represented 5% of the portfolio and about
25% of the principal portion of the arrears. These provisions are considered
to be adequate by the auditors and IDA. PICIC's debt equity ratio is projec-
ted to remain well below the agreed limit (under Loan 1326-PAK) of 7:1, and
by 1983 it should be about 5.5:1.
Pipeline, Resources and Credit Amount
61.       PICIC's pipeline of projects consists of (i) a backlog of projects
already sanctioned by PICIC's Board and awaiting allocation of funds; and
(ii) a pipeline of projects which are currently under appraisal or review by
PICIC's management. As of January 31, 1980, these two components added up to
about US$100 million equivalent of foreign exchange. The backlog and pipe-
line are well distributed, resulting from PICIC's efforts on sector diversi-
fication. Thus, textiles account for only 10% of the projects (by amount)
whereas glass, ceramics, printing and packaging, engineering, food process-
ing, and small cement projects account for the majority of the investment
proposals. The cement sector has recently been opened to the private sector
and illustrates the expanded role which PICIC is envisaged to exercise under
the new policies of the Government. Against this, PICIC has nearly exhausted
all its foreign exchange resources except for about US$8 million of tied
bilateral credits, some of which are in low demand by PICIC's clients. After



- 17 -
allowing for withdrawals and cancellations of projects, at least US$80 million
of untied foreign exchange funds are urgently required by PICIC. In March
1980, ADB made a US$40 million loan for PICIC, which means that a US$37 million
IDA Credit for PICIC would largely cover the balance of its foreign exchange
requirements, and would account for about 23% of PICIC's commitments in the
period 1980-82.
Development Impact
62.       Employment Creation.  The average size of PICIC's loans is relatively
large (Rs 12.2 million in 1978). The average investment cost per job for 40
PICIC projects financed since January 1, 1977 is about US$21,000, involving
over 5,300 jobs, which is reasonable for the type of subprojects financed. No
figures are available on indirect employment effects which would be consider-
ably higher since many of the projects manufacture inputs for other projects.
The ex ante economic rates of return ranged from 16% to 50%. PICIC has started
to calculate ex-post economic rates of return, using the Bank's Subproject Data
System (SDS). These rates are slightly lower (12-40%) than the ex-ante rates
because of increased costs and implementation delays on some projects. The
proposed credit is estimated to create about 6,000 jobs at a cost of about
US$25,000 each.
63.       Besides project finance, PICIC has also had a qualitative impact
on the implementation of general industrial policies through its subsector
studies (e.g., textiles) and its active participation in various Government
committees.
Project Risks
64.       The primary risk associated with the proposed credit concerns the
investment climate, which could again deteriorate as a result of political un-
certainties. An additional uncertainty is the economic situation in Pakistan,
which is still characterized by budgetary and balance of payment difficulties.
Due to these factors and problems in the legal collection procedures, there is
a risk that the substantial improvements projected in PICIC's collection plan
might not be achieved. However, as described earlier in this report, encourag-
ing progress has recently been made by the Government in dealing with Pakistan's
economic problems; the Government has initiated policies favorable to the
private sector; and debt collection should be substantially facilitated by
the establishment of the Special Courts and other measures outlined above.
The prospects, therefore, appear reasonably good for the private industrial
sector and for PICIC.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Asso-
ciation and the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation Limited,
and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors



- 18 -
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The following are additional conditions of effectiveness: (a)
approval by PICIC's Board of Directors of the Strategy Statement; and (b) sign-
ing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Association (Section
5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Moeen Qureshi
Attachments
April 24, 1980



- 19 -
You 3D                                                     ANNEX I
PAISUN  - SOCAL lICU   D     MU
,,,.            ~~~UtllECE GROUPS (AJSTED  A=EAGS
LAMD AU  (TROUSAND SQ. IN.)                 PAKISTAN                       - IIDST RUCST ESDASTE) 
TOM      5      03.9                                                     S        SUE      ur  HIGHR
A"ICULTURAL      2 4.2                               MMT UCZIT       GMCERAPHIC   INCOME       DiCOIe
1960  /b   1970 A  ESTEm     L      REGION /   GROUP !    GROUP a
on  P  CAPITA MsS)                   60.0       130.0    230.0            191.1      209.6       467.5
REUG  CONSIRETIOW PER CAPITA
(KIBaNS O COAL E(QUIVAU)          61.0        9S.0     161.0            69.1       83.9       262.1
POPMLATION AMD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-MR OILLIS)         45.9        60.4      74.9
33US POPULAION  (PCt Of TOTAL) 22.1           24.9      26.4            13.2       16.2        24.6
POP"ULAIO  PEJETIOWS
POPMLATION UI TAR 2000 (MILLIO)                       139.0
STATIONAR  POPULATON (KELLIONS)                       335.0
VAR SUTATIOARY POPULATION IS   CN                    2155
POPULATION DKSMT
PU SQ. Dl.                       57.0        75.0      93.0            86.6       49.4        45.3
PM  SQ. IN. AGRICULTURAL LAD    201.0       249.0    307.0            330.2      252.0      149.0
POPUMATION AGE SIUCTU  (PERCT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.8        46.3      47.0            44.3       43.1       45.2
15-64 TRS.                        51.8        50.5      50.0            52.4      53.2        51.9
65 YES. AND ABOW                   4.4         3.2       3.0             3.1        3.0        2.8
POPULATION GCOD RATE (PERCET)
TOTAL                             2.3         2.8       3.1             2.4        2.4        2.7
r.3A3                             5.0         4.0       4.1             4.1        4.6        4.3
CRQWE BIRTH RSAT  (PS THOUSAND)    49.0        47.0      45.0            44.4       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEAT RATE (PU THOUSAND)      23.0        18.0      15.0            16.4       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTIOI RATE             3.2         3.7       3.3             3.2        2.9        2.7
FA1LT PLANING
ACCEPTORS, AINUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..      1908.1   2065.0
USIRS (PQCENT OF MAIUD  WI)    ..              ..       6.0             7.9       12.2       13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
1DX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         83.0       102.0    103.0             99.4      98.2        99.6
iEn CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCUfT OF
fU     TrIEIMTS)               84.0        94.0      93.0            93.0      93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GEAES PER DAY)         48.5        59.4      54.0            56.1      52.1        54.3
OP WHICH ANIEAL AND PULSE      16.OLLA    14.0       14.3            10.4       13.6       17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RTE     27.0        21.0      17.0            19.2       18.5       11.4
RALT!T
LIPE EXPCTAY AT BE (AS)   4.0                  48.0      51.0            49.1      49.3        54.7
INFiAM MORTALITY RALT  (Pt
THOUSAND)                         U35.OA         ..        ..             ..       105.4       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATE (PUCUlT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               .        2.1.0     29.0            31.5      26.3        34.4
URBAN                              ..          ..      60.0           63.9       58.5        57.9
RURL                               ..          ..      17.0           20.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO ESRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         3.0       6.0            15.7       16.0       40.8
URBAN                              ..        12.0      21.0            66.8      65.1        71.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..             2.5       3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PllYSICIAN      11000.OLf    4310.0/h  3780.0/h        7107.9   11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PYmON         ..      8440.Oh 10040.0/h        12064.0    5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER 8OSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2070.0      1870.0   2020.0           2738.4    1417.1       726.5
URBAN                           370.0       500.0    570.0              *-       197.3      272.7
RURAL                         22850.0    12390.0  12360.0               ..    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..              ..       24.8       27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.4         5.3       5.6L/            ..       5.3         5.4
URBAN                             5.6         5.5       5.9/1           ..        4.9         5.1
RURAL                             5.4         5.2       5.4LI           ..         5.4        5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             3.1          ..       2.8/.
URBAN                             3.1          ..       2.7/1
RURAL                             3.1         '-        2.8/1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      17.9/1           ..       22.5        28.1
URBAN                              ..          ..      54.7r            ..       17.          . 45.1
RURAL                              ..          ..       4. 9             ..        ..9.9



- 20-                                                 ANNEX I
TMaR3
PAKIUNATCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKsM                     REFENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A)YRAGES
- nOST RECENT ESTIMTE) -
SAME        SAllE    NEX HiGHR
IOT ICEINT      GIOGRAPRIC   INCOKE      INCOKI
1960 Lb     1970 /b ZSTM        Lb  RIIION Ic  GROUP /d   GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ElUIZOLL RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                30.0        44.0      50.0            59.5       63.3        82.7
MAHL                 46.0        62.0      68.0            74.9       79.1       67.3
FEIDAJ               13.0        24.0     31.0            43.7       48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:   OTA!L               11.0        14.0      17.0            19.5       16.7        21.4
MALE                 18.0       22.0       25.0           27.8       22.1        33.0
FWKALE                3.0         6.0      8.0             10.0       10.2       15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 o0 SECONDARY)   1.0         1.5      1.5             1.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRtMAlY                          39.0        41.0      42.0            42.2       41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                        24.0        20.0      19.0              ..       21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       15.01,     20.0      21.0            25.5       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TROUSAND
POPULATION                        1.0         3.0       2.8             2.3        2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PM TOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0        14.0      16.0            15.5       27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ..         0.7       1.8              ..        2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 7.0          ..       5.0             6.2        5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8        3.0/i      ..              .. .      1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   13000.0    18100.0  20400.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  8.7         9.3       9.9            21.4       24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            60.8        58.9      58.0            66.3       69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               17.9        18.7      20.0             9.6       10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              31.5        28.7      27.9            35.8       36.9        37.1
MALE                               55.2        50.4      48.6            52.3       52.4        48.8
FEMALE                              5.7         5.5       5.7            15.7       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.7         1.7       1.7             1.3        1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLS   20.3L4      17.8      17.3              ..         ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.3fj     41.8      41.5              ..         ..        48.2
U3IWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.45/     8.0       8.4              ..          .         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5LI     20.2      20.6              ..         ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..      91.0            86.5       99.2       241.3
RURAL                              ..          ..      77.0            74.2       78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..      63.0              ..       91.9       179.7
RURAL                              ..          ..      65.0            50.4       54.8       103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      27.0            44.3       44.1        24.8
Rl,RAL                             ..          ..      48.0            52.4       53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Incolme (5281-550 per capita,
1976);  /f  Includes Bangladesh;  /R  1960-62;  /h  Registered, not all practising in the country;  /L  1972;
1963-64;  /k  1962-6;  /1  1973.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



-21 -ANEI
nIRlYI OIP SWEAL MICA20Mt
lot..:  Although the data ar  dean fr.  -oue  generaly  udged the   st authoritatie and reliable, it ehold a&so be noted that they NW  net be inter.-
tiolly cogarable becus  of the lack of standardied definition  end Cooaepte U.ed hy differet coutries in collecting the data. The data  r,entees
osefuol to describe order  of sagnitud, indicate trends, an  charaterize cerain  -Jor differ--e  betwee  countrie..
The adjusted group avrs. for each indicator  -r  popultion-wighted geocatrie enen, coo lading the extra  vale  of the indioctor and the riot populted
co-try Lo each grop.  D.s. to lack of date, grop avrages of al. idiatr  foe Capital Rurpies Oil Eaportre ad of indicators of Acoese to Water end hreta
Rioposal, Mo-nulg; cooa Didtrihotico  and ROcrty for other outry groups are popUtaioc--ighted gemtrie  ean  without escIuims of the extre-  ve .sd
the wcet poplAted coutry.  Sines the corcer  of countries ass the inictrsdeed, an aefablty ofdaaen  i   ot-mites.  cetic.  sst be exerised
in relatdn   -averne  of one indicator to antothe.  The-  -crae. ar M             aeMrusfl en asai-coato   o  'xscedvlus  hn  ar                      the value  of o
indicator at a time amoas the country and referene group..
IAND AREA (thousand sq.hm.(sr,tokrt  Peca  (percent  f pocultion-totl uban   drr.
Totl- Tt.1 surface are  coariig land are  end inland watec.-fahs   fpol   ttl hn   drrl   evdb   xrt   ipsla
Agri.uat-ra1-  Stut reet e.tiate of  Wgicu1tural are  ueed t.Wr.ri1y                       pecctatgee of their respective pwlatione. SEcrets dispoaalIamy include
or pecescrtly for crps, pastures, eaket end kitohen g-rdens or to                       the -o1ietion ad disposal,  iub or without treatmet, of h-s  soerta
lie CalIco,                                                                             acd  ste-water by eater-borne  yeten  or the us  of pit prirkee ad   -~ilar
GNP PER CAPITA (UoS) - GNP Per capita estietes at current sacht pricee,                     tpe:4poti_l . oie   - Ppelation divided by outer of prsoticieg physician
calulted by ease co-erion method en World Reek Ati._ (19,76_7  bathe);                  jiiiIithi'NiY idio           echool at university ievel.
1960. 1970, and 197$ data.                                                              Ponluistoner   are1ng Peron - Pepsltioc divided by outer of practicing air
ENEcRGY CONSUM4PT ION PER CAPITA - A-sal  --neptios of c-arcial enegy                        ad f;esle graduate    se  pratical nus.,sd a,iotet oursee.
(coa  en d lignite, pvtrole, natural gas end hydro-,  -Ice- end ge-                     PoPultion per Roepit.1 Bed - total, urban  end  rura  - Polation  (total, urban,
thermal civotriolty) in kilogrs    of o..aI equi-leot Per -apite; 1960,                   end  sr1i  divided by their reepeotioc outer of hospital beds acilabie in
1970, end 1976 data,                                                                      publc-nd pri-ate genera  an d spciediced hc,tpits1 end rhabiiitatisv.. coter,.
Hoepitala are e.tabliobneeto  porsa tly staffed by at least one physician.
POPUIATION ADO VITAL STATISTICS                                                             E tutbl iemeetaproviding principally cuo todii car  -r  cot icoluded. Rural
Total P9platios. Mifd-Year (miIli co..    A. cC July 1; 1960, 1970, end                   bo-pitolo, hwcrer  iaciudr health end sedicai center, not pormanetly staffed
1977 data.                                                                              ty s physician  (but by s medical enistant, core, eldoife, etc.) which offer
Urban Phpuatios (peroent of total) -Ratio of urban to total poyulatioo;                    in-patiet  -ccodatioc end proide a limited range of aedical facilitie..
differ-t definitions of urban  reso an  affect c-paraility of data                    Adcis-ios  per Ropit.1 Red - Total n.b.r of ad.loicos to or diecbarges Cs-c
.o,gio-ctr:vt;o;91*, 1970, sod 1975 dabs.                                                hoapitals divided by the cute.r of bed.,.
Pe,pslati- is yea  2001 -Corec..t populatios projectiose ar  based cc               tJSSiN
197  total pocclto  by  ge and sec and their esortality end fertility               Averse Rise o1f.Roneod(proerhousehol) - total, urban, ad rura  -
rates. yrojrtio- peraters for mortality rates  -opi.e of three                        A  oshl   os          , ofagoP of idividuals who share livisg qartere and
level  assuing life ecp-tany at birth Iscrea.aing eith coutry'c                       their ale meals.  A boarder or lodger say or esy not be isciuod is the
Pee -opito iccoer level, and female life -opect-y stailisiag at                       household for utati,tica  pus-Roars
77.5 year.  The paroatccrofor fertility rate also have three levels                 A-erg  nbecf persn. per rum  - total, urban, and cora  -  oeAg  cnic,
-ouiog idice in fertility noocding to icoon leve  end psst                           of per-oco Per roo   i  all urban, end rura  occpied cseticldecllicgs,
fesilly olccoiog performnc. cach .-otry is thro aaigned one of the.e                  repeotively.  CD-1ing. occlude con-permanet otrtures and ucocipprd per's
sice  -osisati-n  of aurtality and fertility treods for projectioc                  Accsas to Electricity (peret of dedllisuc) - total. urben  ad roe]-I            Cc
porpooco.                                                                             v-ti-nldelig  .h electricity Is living qu-re  as perceotag, of
Statooscry  op.plti-  - I.osotatios-y popuetiss tierL. lac   grooth                     tct1, urban, and rura  ddl_lings repectio-ly.
coetie birth rate ic equal to the death -tv, and also the age
ct_ut_ere_icooo..ot-ct. This so shievd ocly after fertility rates                EiIEATION
dIeiine to the r-pl.oert leve  of -it set  ep-odu-tio  rate, ohes                 RY.ipted Ehroilset Ratico
each gecerstios of ooaorpl-o   ito-lf eoatly.  The etetiocery poPe-                   Pes-1oo-ttl   ae and femal  -Groe, totl   al   n  feal  roroli
ltocnic  sacn estimated on the bacin of the projoctod char-terieti-,                   neto llue   t th   rmr   ee   spretage  o                          fepee ZPrit-
of the popu.intoo  ic tie yesr 2000, nod tie -te of decline of fertility                shool-age popultiosa; corenIly isoudee ohildee  aged 6-il y-aho bt
rate to  rplnocect lenJ                                                           adjuotd for different lengtbo of primary ed-ctios; I., -coti-cr  outh
ler  iti.IisrypulatlooIis roacdaod - The year  bro stationary population               usiocrea  edoatis- enr.llset sa  eoc-d 100 pe-cet  ior  non  i.pile
oice has b... rahed.                                                                    acbelco or shon  the officia  achool age.
Poincistios D-sity                                                                       SIc-odar  -ohoc I -total  malef ad feesl  - Coepoted no s.1, -;  -econlay
Pee sq. in. - Mid-year populat... per sqoar  kil ter (100 ihotare) of                     education requircs ott _eat for poroof appec-d primary isot-sot-;
total senprovides grseen1  -ctio..al, or teaher trainingisrot  i oepupi in
Pcs 0g  Ia.orolu-iLn             opsd  ssoofrcsiutsa  ad                                 usualy of 12 to 17 yea-u of uge; -crooposde-e   ore   r   orc
osly.                                                                                   eso1uded.
Poplatbo  Ag"Irot-   per-et) - Children (0-lb pysr-), working-age                         Vocational -srods-t (pes-cctofo...osdary( - Vocational  i-otit,it-.,o  -io o
(15-64yo)  edrtired  lb5 year  nod cov) an p-rotago. of aid-year                          trohnica, isdustri1, or otter p-crge   hioth operate idependentlyors
.poplacs  190    7,adI 197dta                                                             deatests of aroocdsry icotitutioos.
Populatioc broth Rte(ocrest);-totl  - An-a_ roc beaten  of total aid-                     Neil-teacherraicce...ne                    cndory - Tots1 otod-stc -tolld in
yea  pcostonofo  150tO  190-0,acd  970-77.                                     pri-ay and ne-nd-y levels dishe.d by cnters of benhe-,ioth,o-r-
Popuietioc I1roesh Rate~ (percent -ubn-osAl_  goet  -st- of urban                           opoding 1-1-lo
poPolati.s. for 1990-to, 10-0no1970-75.                                                 AdulIt literay s-ste (percet) - Litcrate adu1to  able torcO  o  oin)a
Crude RBirth case  epr thocoand) - A...a  Live births per thous-d of sod-                   aper-ntcor of total adult populatioc cord 15 yeoo and core.              t'
poor populotioc; 1 0, 970, sod 1977 dcts.
Crude leath Ote (per tousand) - Aoeia  deaths poe thouoaod ol sod-yew                 CONSUMPTION
pop,lation; 19b0, 1970, sd 1977 da.                                                  Pase,  e Con  per thoooad pooolstion) -   -soengr con -op ...  n-se oars
OnoReprod-ct-  Ostn - Acern     cnter of dagite-  5seojill bear                        setn   es   lc ight nehn;co-oe-atlnes                         re  nod military
isher norma  reproductitn -poriod if she -up-ri-o    prs...st oge-                     -hobilv..
sp_lific fe-tlitby  tense; usually fso-year a--ges euding in 1960,                    Radio R-ci-er  (per thoconod popolatioc) - All types ofreicsLo-ai
i970, nod 1975.                                                                        broadetso gcrlublic per thousad of popolat  oo    u  oe  unie-us
Pocily Elsoing -A ..orto-  Annua  (thouscds   - Annua  nebee ci                           reo i-erostoou-tr-e  an   0yasoe   eisrtc   fed.   essn   i
-coptor  o  birib.-ocotrol Oie   ne   uPieof nniicns  fanly                             effect; data for s-eret yea-u  ,y cot he  -opo...otlr~ic-e t.o--tri-n
plnoning program                                                                        aboiahed 1--esing.
Psnil.y Plsoco  - Users(croen  of n-ried voen)  P-tPreoge of marid                      TV Recivr  )oer touono-d copulation) - TV reeier  ice br-so-t is gren-1
nssof ohild-hea-ing4 co    5h  yas   b   -n  birth--otr1 device                      public per thous-d popolatbos; e-ldes uolicrcoed TV eeceier-: -onotri-
to all naresd ocevn in san   gr groop.                                                  sod is yar  hbro sego-t-ation of TV sets 05 in effect -
Keespape  Ci~rolsioco (per tho,an,d   _ooltlos) - h-  she overge circuLatio
pOiOD AND 111rRT17IONo   diygoea   nees   enae   dfised us   pridical Puhlietic
Usiex  fro  Pe cto  oere Capita (19b9-71-l20) - ind-o of pcr capsit.                      de-ctod priviaily so s-cod:*g geo.... Iro          t is consIdered to he 'daily"
onsoal prouction of  ll food ooditie-  Production ec des coed nod              if it appen-  nO leant four ti-e  a oeek.
feed  od i on o-l-dal yeabo            Cocrditi-nco--  pri-ay goodo                   Clovn  Annuo1 Abteod-so  per Capato  -  Year -booed no thic cntre of tickest
gr c   sgr __   -ntsed of ongac  ohiob ar  edible nod  -otniono.trieta                sold during the year,  -n1lding  deission  to drive-is cit-s  nod ac,lr
(eg.  offe  do t-nar  s-cised),  Aggregate production of  -so, cotry                 -ito..
ic_ned ootoa   yig  proisoertprior ceights.
Poe~ ai to n"iol of o_oico (prortrrurements) - Computed feoc                        LABOR FORCE
er-cl -qivoleco  -f cr  foo,d ouppli-c -oilable in country poe capita               Total labor Po-  (tihsnoda) - Etoon-io-ly sotire per..o..  ioluAic,g armed
Per day. Ao-clablo  ouppIi en    priur doc_tio production, -ap-et  loso               f-e  sod ii-eployed bobt occluding hoooee-o-, otudents, mts - Pfis,it__-
=oporto,,nod onog ,,in cotch.  Net -upplien en lde noisal feed, oreda,                snv-ri...o..ntr:e  ar      -ot opa...ble.
quacitleuId ic fod p-o...osng, so   susi   ln:Lucc    cur-                          K e  i....pypot) -FPsl   os  fres   ecnog   fOtl  ao   o-v
aento  -    _ce   oiented by PAiO  -sud on phyo:_bocics 1nrdfo  nornl               A~4oytre  pe-n)]t             lbrfceic fr_ing , fo_eotry, honting and
aotioity sod b-nltb  -o-od-eg           n-srertab terperant- , body weighto,          fishing no pe-eentnge of total lbhor force,
so  nd  r  isorisonc   . populti ., nod nllo-ing 10 percet for                                                         ino,y(pret    lb    ores   mg, ostroooiot, suofacturing and
saute  tnO  ooir"J  IcculI                                                            electricity, oItc,  ad gs- so peronstago  f tota~l labor foce,
IPe -pito oupply of protei  (g-n   pcr dey) - Protein coct-t or I.e                   Partivicatio   ae  pres)-toa_ai,sd  e e - srtloipathos o
capita -ct o-pply of food per day- Net supply of food in det'-edan                    a-tloity rste  ar  coputed so total, eale, end fr-sle lahor f-o  an Poe-
abov.Oqiees   o   l   onre   aalae  by USDA poide for a                               -etagr  of total, sale and femle pepsuiti-o of aol  grae.-peoti-ely;
cioacnionceo  Ogrsan  of tota  prtein Pee day nod20gras of                            1*0.  90,sod 1975 data.  These  re lILOt prtcipatico ratee reflecting
animlnodpoa  p'toi, of oh-b i IOgrnag ohld he animal pr-telo.                         age-ses struclture ofithy population, and 1eg tier treed.  A few eatiatee
Thee standard  ae I.oor  ha  stn f 75 g-o  of total protoi  and                     are Cfroentoalsucs
25g-s  ofaimal pro trin ananavene for the acId, proposd by FAV                    EcsoloRedeo  Rti    Vatic of poplasso   under 15 and 65 and -ee  to
in the Tird noel'd rood Ouro..                                                        th   arfor_   iage group of 15-6b pears
Per -pits protoOn uppiy fo  anima nod polon - Protein supply of Coed
1derived frev  asccad Pulse  in grm    er day.                                     INCOSE DISTRIHITIOR
Child  cocs ii) Motality Rate )vr thocnod) - Annual decthc p-e thboosd             Pe-entse ofPrvte Iooms (both -s cash end kind) - Received by etohen
In cor grop   -l yrr   to child,enc in thin  goo g-opi for eont decr-                   5 Per.en t, richest 20 Percent, pooreet 20 Fe-et, ad pooret tO percet
spiog --i.tr-- cots d~i-ro     f.o. life tbin.                                          of housholds.
diAtTo                                                                                  POVERTY TARGET ICR0020
Life Eooco-  c  u    irti(yearn) - A-es-ge n-mi- of yraro of lore                       Intimated Ahbouto Povety ic-om ,1Iroei U1perr cp,ota) - urban acd rurl
resir ingso bihirI;10, 1970, and 1977. data.                                           Absolute  oet  Incoa  lee .. loi that is _m leve  belo ohich a aisi:ti
Icfnt Moolty Paso (cepr thb. osd) - Annusi desthn of infanto onder oneosritionIl  adequate diet plun essential con-food requi  -tno  s  o
yer_fng   er  thsosd live births,                                                      affordable.
Acoeo t  ifcwAster Ice-coot         uoaic  - total,n urban, nod rura  -                 EPtiated Reloti-cIeet P       no   len(1   e   aita,)-urban end rurl
nof   atrnpp ticoue  Setd  ofo   aero r untretdht                              prsona :iote  oftie  -onory. Urbas  I-cel Lc derio-d fron the rurallel
tc-otenoad ceter ouh so that fr.s protected  oreho-, opeisgo,                        eith adjustment fur higher cot of living in urbanaea
and saitary wells) as petertagen of their repective Ppopitios. In                    Retianted PoPelatloc RlaAsutPoeyIoneevlpeet(-urba  ad
anubanae   public fontaic or standpost located sot mare thanrrl-meeo    Pofppulti-(uban and coral) etc are 'absotot uc'
200  bcenfo      os  cyb   oodrda  bing nithis reaonble
sorno   hat boo     srrlo a   escble auces woud oeply
tbasr.lh  honri cornser, of tic househld do act have tc eped a                                                                   o-oic and Social Rate Diiiaon
diserpoprtisnn  per.f tie ds  in fetching the f.sily. seater see ds                                                      tocoet  Anelyeis and Pr-je-tioes irpartet
August 1979



. 22 -                                                               ANNEX I
ICONiIIC DVILOPMNT DiTA
GROSS NATIONLL PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (A. constant prices)-
USS billion         .                                 1976/77       1977/78        1978/79
GNP at Market Prices                         19.61           100.0                                 2.5            7.0           5.9
Gross Domestic Investment                     3.45            17.6
Gross National Saving                         2.24            11.4
Current Account Balance                      -1.21            -6.2
Resource Balance                             -2.50           -12.7
OUTPUT, IABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978/79/a
Value Added            Labor Force           V.A. Per Worker
US$ million   %l                               US$ million    7.
Agriculture             5,694       32           12.4      54            459         59
Industry                4,210       23            4.2     18           1,002        129
Services                8,042       45            6.4     28           1,257        161
Total/Average        17,946      100           23.0    100             780        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverment                                               Central Goverrnment
(Re billion)               7 of GDP                             (Rs billion)             7% of GDP
1978/79        197/79       1976/77-1978/79                     1978/79       1978/79      1976177-1978/79
Current Receipts                 31.7            17.8              17.2                           24.6          13.8              13.2
Current Expenditures             33.8            19.0              18.0                           25.3          14.2              13.0
Current Surplus/Deficit          -2.1            -1.2              -0.8                           -0.7          -0.4              0.2
Capital Expenditures             21.2            11.9              11.3                           18.0          10.1               9.5
External Assistance (net)        10.8             6.1               5.4                           10.8           6.1               5.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
______   ______   ________    Janu4y       Jan rT y
1976/77      1977/78      19781791_ C    19__ 198
(billion Re outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                            52.8          64.7        77.7           73.1         88.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)               28.6          33.4        42.3           40.9        46.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)            30.1          35.7        40.1           39.8         49.9
Money and Quasi Money as 7% of SDP               38.9          41.3        43.7
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70 = 100)           255.3         271.4       289.7          293.0        310.0
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                            11.3           6.3          6.7            .           5.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)               29.4          16.8        26.6             .          13.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)            30.3          18.6        12.3             .          25.4
/a Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of. Finance and Planning. Serious underenumeration may exist, especially of women.
h GDP at factor cost.
qS  Provisional.
Not applicable.                                                                                                        April 1980



- 23 -                                                      ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77-1978/79)
1976177       19 77/8      1978/79      1979/80L±                      USS million       %
Fs million)r
Exports of Goods, NFS                               1,449         1,746        2,302        3,405         Raw Cotton           69             5
Importe of Goods, NFS                               3,339         3,804        5,198        6,208         Rice                278            20
Resource Balance                                   -1,890        -2,058       -2,896       -2,803         Cotton Yarn         141            10
Cotton Cloth       185            14
Interest Payments on External Debt                   -183          -261         -303         -331         Carpets             129             9
Workers' Remittances                                  578         1,166        1,395        1,575         Other Goods         585            12
Other Factor Payments (net)                           443           552          694          551           Total           1,387           100
Net Transfers                                         ...           ...          ...          ...
Balance on Current Account                         -1,052          -601       -1,110       -1,008         EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30. 1979)
Public M6LT Loans
Disbursements                                       799           797          888          895                                                      US$
Repayments                                         -175          -122         -235         -349                                                    million
Net Disbursements                                     624           675          653          546         Outstanding and Disbursed                    7,767.9
Undisbursed                                 2,536.3
Transactions with IMFLb                                41            41          -14           54         Outstanding Including Undisbursed          10,304.2
Short-Tem  Borrowing                                  -79           126          151           40
Other Items                                           162            44            3          548/e       DEBT SERVICE RATIO, 1978/79'L                23.4%
Changes in Reserves (minus sign = increase)           211          -312          294         -180
Errors and Omissions                                   93            27           23           -          IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECEMBER 31, 1979 (US$ million)
Gross Reserves (year end)/d                           372           694          386          566                                       IBRD          IDA
Net Reserves (year end)/e                            -146           150          -92          252
Official Gold (year end; million 0z2.)                1.6           1.7          1.7          1.8         Outstanding and Disbursed   343.8           717.6
Undisbursed                    88.0         353.5
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                Outstanding Including
Undisbursed                 431.8       1,071.1
Imports                                               400           485          611        1,203
of which:  Petroleum                                274           341          308          737
Exports                                                27            63           65          120
of which:  Petroleum                                 -             -            -            -
BATE OF EXChANGE
Through May 11, 1972       May 11, 1972 - February 15, 1973         Since February 15, 1973
US$  =  Rs 4.7619                 US$  =  11.00                       US$  =  9.90
Rs   =  US$0.2100                 Rs   =   0.0909                     Rs   =  0.1010
la Government estimate.
/b Including Trust Fund.
/c Includes extraordinary inflown from Saudi Arabia of $420 million and an SDR allocation of $39 million.
/d Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
/e Excluding use of IMF resources.
/f External public debt only; private debt is negligible.
L/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
... Included elsewhere.                                                                                                                    April 1980



- 24 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 29, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                                                Undis-
Number       Year    Borrower            Purpose                          Bank     TW       IDA       bursed
Seventy-five loans and credits fully disbursed/a                         573.0              479.3
206          1970    Pakistan    Engineering Education                      --                4.0       0.1
422          1973    Pakistan    Karachi Port III                           --               18.0       0.7
492          1974    Pakistan    Karachi Port IV                            --               16.0       6.8
1107         1975    SNGPL        Gas Pipeline IV                          60.0               --       10.9
546          1975    Pakistan    Industrial Development (NDFC)              --               30.0       4.2
1208         1976    Pakistan    Power Transmission                         --     35.0        _        9.9
620         1976    Pakistan    Seed                                        --               23.0      12.7
1326        1976    PICIC         Industrial Development                   25.0               --        1.8
630          1976    Pakistan    Lahore Water II                            --               26.6      12.5
648         1976    Pakistan    Irrigation and Drainage                     --               14.0       9.2
1366         1977    Pakistan    Livestock                                  --     10.0       --        9.8
1372/684    1977    Pakistan    Railways                                   35.0              25.0      36.3
678          1977    Pakistan    Education                                 --                15.0      12.5
751         1977    Pakistan    Hill Farming                               --                 3.0       2.4
754         1978    Pakistan    SCARP-VI                                   --                70.0      69.7
755         1978    Pakistan    Hazara Forestry                            --                 1.7       1.6
771         1978    Pakistan    Tarbela II                                 --                35.0       6.5
813         1978    Pakistan    Punjab Extension                            --               12.5      12.0
846          1978    Pakistan    Fauji Fertilizer                           --               55.0      41.1
867          1978    Pakistan    Toot Oil and Gas Development               --               30.0      27.5
877          1979    Pakistan    Salinity Control and Reclamation           --               60.0      59.7
892          1979    Pakistan    Primary Education                          --               10.0       9.7
922         1979    Pakistan    Sind Agricultural Extension/b               --              ( 9.0)   ( 9.0)
957         1979    Pakistan    Fourth Agricultural Dev. Bank/b            --               (30.0)   (30.0)
968          1980    Pakistan    Third WAPDA Power/b                        --              (45.0)   (45.0)
Total                                                                693.0    45.0      964.1
of which has been repaid                                             375.5      --       20.2
Total now outstanding                                                317.5    45.0      943.9
Amount sold                                               23.9
of which has been repaid                                  22.3         1.6      --        -_
Total now held by Bank and IDA/c                                     315.9    45.0    943.9
Total undisbursed                                                     44.5    19.7    293.4        357.6
/a  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects in the former
East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/b  Not included in totals:  Credit numbers 922-PAK, 957-PAK and 968-PAK are not yet effective.
7& Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 29, 1980)
Fiscal                                               Amount   In US$   Million
Year      Obligor            Type of Business        Loan    Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of           Rolled Steel         0.63       -        0.63
Pakistan Ltd.          Products
1959     Adamjee Industries    Textiles               0.75       -        0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement       Cement                5.25     0.42       5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                  Development            -       0.52       0.52
1969-                           Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute          Textiles              1.84     0.11       1.95
Products
1965     Packages Ltd.          Paper Products        2.31     0.84       3.15
1967     Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp. Ltd.             Paper                 5.38     2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules        Fertilizers           1.00     2.92       3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper       Pulp and Paper        5.60     0.63       6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Limited       Food & Food            2.40     0.40       2.80
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals &
Limited and Attock   Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.                              29.00      1.62      30.62
Total Gross Commitments                    54.16      9.48      63.64
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                33.25      1.01     34.26
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          20.91      8.47      29.38
Undisbursed                                25.40      1.41      26.81



- 26 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
This credit, together with other additional contributions arranged
in 1978, is intended to help finance the repairs and additional works required
to complete the project. In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage--the construction of
the closure section of the dam--to be undertaken. By end-June 1974, the
main embankment had been completed to full height, and the first impoundment
began on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties were encoun-
tered in the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of the tunnels
necessitated the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the tunnels and
outlet structure. Agreement was reached with the parties of the Indus Basin
and Tarbela Development Funds whereby special contributions were made by a
number of parties, including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the cost of
repairs and additional remedial works. The stilling basins suffered further
damage in August 1975 and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has now been
repaired and has operated satisfactorily. Serious erosion in the plunge pool
below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection
works. Final protection work in the service spillway plunge pool and in the
downstream channel will be completed in June 1980. Final protection work in
the auxiliary plunge pool will be completed in 1980/81. Since 1975, irriga-
tion requirements from the dam have generally been met. Power generation by
the first four units began in 1977.
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35.0 Million Loan and US$25.0 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement for the tele-
communications and signalling system is well underway and a contract award is
expected within the next three months.
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Completion of work on the Juna Bunder Berths is currently about
21 months behind schedule. Quay piling and shed construction have been com-
pleted and auxilliary works are in progress. The initial and subsequent delays
in construction of the Napier Mole Bridge will mean that completion is likely
to be delayed until early 1981 - about 3 years behind schedule. Most of Credit
422 has been disbursed. Construction of the oil berth has been completed.
Channel dredging works are in progress. A study commissioned by KPT for
rationalizing the port tariff structure requires further work before formal
proposals may be put forward. An interim tariff increase averaging 100% was
approved by the Government last year.
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25.0 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This loan has been fully committed and at end-February 1980, dis-
bursements amounted to US$23.2 million.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30.0 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: November 30, 1980
The Credit has been fully committed and US$25.8 million had been
disbursed as of end-February 1980. The Closing Date, originally September 30,
1979 has been postponed to November 30, 1980 to allow time to complete one
subproject.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Project activities are generally on schedule. A re-estimate of
final project costs (including the additional pipelines and distribution
systems authorized by the Bank) indicates savings in foreign exchange expen-
ditures of about US$7.3 million.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23.0 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project implementation remains behind schedule, with the most
important delays being with the construction and equipping of the four seed
processing plants. The first of these plants is now expected to commence
operations around mid-1980, while the others should be finished by the end of
the year. There have been signs of improvement in the quality of pre-basic
seed supplied by the research institutes, though there is still a problem with



- 28 -
ANNEX II
wheat seed in Sind. It is likely that project completion and credit closing
dates will need to be extended by 15 months.
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The majority of works have been contracted after some design delay
and retendering. Construction is about 2 years behind schedule. The engi-
neering consulting service financed by UNDP is being strengthened and extended
to cover the prolonged project period. Technical assistance provided by ODA
(UK) for engineering and financial management, leak detection and training
has been reorganized to better meet the needs of the project.
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50.0 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Construction of the 336-mile transmission line between Faisalabad
(formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and installation of associated equipment is
progressing satisfactorily. All bidding documents for equipment and materials
have been issued and awards made on the major items. Due to lower-than-
expected prices, estimated savings of $15 million have been cancelled. The
project has been delayed due to late employment of consultants and slowness in
awarding contracts. Completion is now scheduled for December 1981, about two
years behind schedule.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur-II Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14.0 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Overall progress is about 21 months behind schedule. However,
with the recent completion by WAPDA and their consultants of the project plan
report and construction of ancillary works and facilities, WAPDA would be able
to maintain consistent and seasonable progress in the critical task of the
drain pipe installations after delivery of most of the heavy equipment, which
took place in mid-1979.
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15.0 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Implementation is about six months behind schedule, but the project
is now making reasonable progress. The Educational Master Plan, covering
manpower and enrollment projections as well as other activities concerning
future development at Sind Agricultural University, was completed in April
1979. About 85% of civil works contracts have been awarded and about one-third
of the works completed. Tendering for about one-half the project equipment is



- 29 -
ANNEX II
in progress and the balance is expected to be tendered shortly. A technical
assistance contract was signed with UNESCO in early 1979 and recruitment is in
progress.
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10.0 Million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation continues to be hampered by changes in the
management of the main executing agency, the Punjab Livestock Board (PLB).
In July 1979, it was agreed that the project would be reduced in scope and
that PLB would concentrate its efforts on Village Livestock Association (VLA)
development activities and milk processing. Since then steps have been taken
to improve the viability of the existing milk plant and VLA formation has
increased almost three-fold. Based on Phase 1 of the milk plant consultants'
study the expansion of the Lahore Milk Plant for the production of UHT rather
than pasteurized milk appears technically feasible and financially attractive.
Since the consultants' cost estimates for plant expansion are considerably
higher than appraisal estimates, the Bank has indicated its willingnes to
consider application of part of the funds no longer required for other project
components towards the additional cost of the expanded plant.
Credit No. 751       Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3.0 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
This project is generally proceeding satisfactorily. All key staff
are in post and pilot programs for food crop trials, vegetables, apples,
forestry and livestock are operating close to schedule. Initial steps to
commence preparation of the proposed follow-up project have been taken.
Credit No. 754       SCARP-VI:  US$70.0 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is about one year behind schedule due to the delayed
appointment of consultants, who are assisting with final project plan,
detailed design and project implementation.
Credit No. 755       Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been some progress in different project activities, but
implementation is behind schedule, notably in the silvicultural work. Steps
to improve this situation have been agreed with the project authorities.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 813       Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:  US$12.5
Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project implementation is delayed about 18 months. Lately, there
has been progress in staff recruitment, building site acquisition and construc-
tion. A contract will be entered into shortly with a consulting firm to pro-
vide technical assistance.
Credit No. 846       Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55.0 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering and procurement are well advanced and construction is
underway. The marketing program is being implemented according to schedule.
Credit No. 867       Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30.0 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is about six months behind schedule mainly
due to technical difficulties in drilling and slow procurement. However, with
the availability of better equipment, materials and services, there has been a
recent improvement in well drilling. A new drilling management contractor is
expected to start work shortly. Four CIDA-financed experts are due to arrive
shortly in Pakistan to assist in project implementation.
Credit No. 877       Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan:
US$60.0 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effective
Date:  October 16, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30, 1986
Consultants to assist WAPDA in the preparation of final plan,
detailed designs, specifications and project implementation have been
appointed. The project is about six months behind schedule.
Credit No. 892      Primary Education:  US$10.0 Million Credit of April 18, 1979;
Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Consultants for training and evaluation components have been engaged.
However, the evaluation component has experienced difficulties and the consult-
ing agency is negotiating a new contract.
Credit No. 922       Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project:
US$9.0 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 968       Third WAPDA Power:  US$45.0 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 974       Third Highway:  US$50.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
PICIC INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project:
This credit is the eleventh in a series of lending
operations for PICIC and consequently preparation
is a continuing process.
(b)  The agencies which have prepared the project:
PICIC and the Ministry of Industries.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of the first mission to consider the project:
May 1978.
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:
May 11, 1979.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:
April 7, 1980.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:
August 1980.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions:
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions:
(a)  Government would engage by December 31, 1980, a textile
specialist (paragraph 43).
(b)  PICIC would carry out a review of staff compensation by
December 31, 1980 and engage by December 31, 1980, an
industrial economist and an industrial engineer (para-
graph 44).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
(c) PICIC Board approval of the strategy statement and signing
of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be additional condi-
tions of effectiveness (paragraphs 45 and 65).
(d) PICIC would on-lend credit to sub-borrowers at 11% p.a.;
Government to bear foreign exchange risk, for which sub-
borrowers would pay a fee of 3% p.a.; and PICIC would
receive a spread of 3%, increasing to 4% on April 1, 1980
(paragraphs 46-48).
(e) PICIC financing of US$1.5 million or more for sub-projects
for textile balancing, modernization and replacement (BMR),
and all PICIC financing for new textile subprojects would
require prior IDA approval. For other subprojects, IDA
approval would be required for PICIC's financing exceeding
US$2.5 million to a project or US$6 million including other
outstanding PICIC commitments to that project (paragraph
50).
(f) Government would submit for IDA approval subprojects for
textile training (paragraph 50).
(g) Government would assure availability of other SBP cash
credits to PICIC (paragraph 53).
(h) By October 31, 1980, Government would clear PICIC's public
sector overdues as of December 31, 1979 (paragraph 58).
Ci) Government would continue refusal of project licenses to
industrialists who are in arrears to PICIC (paragraph
58).
(j) IDA may suspend approvals of sub-projects if PICIC's col-
lection measures or performance is inadequate (paragraph
59).






IBRD 14496
60°                                   6'4'                                   686v                                    72'          U. S. S.R.          S JANUARY 1980
PAKISTAN                                                                        j    r  -
PAKISTAN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND                                                                   (                                           CHINA
INVESTMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
LOCATIONS OF PICIC FINANCED PROJECTS
1959-17
36e  1959 - 1979                                                                   g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f CHITRAL  I       N,   36'-
Project areas                                                                                     ¢
@    National copital
©    Provincial capitals                                                          0      SI             HAZARAls
o    Selected major cities                                                                                             Appr-..Wi.f ,-t.  -
-    - District boundories                                                                ;r.f''MRk\t
Provincial boundaries                                                 Pe shaw©
_ _. -. Internctional boundaries                                                 IRI S                      ( ISLAMANAD
h'RWAZIR ISIAN rN ._*- :            amabad".
Rivers                                                                                    L POKOHATR    DiALI
soune    A           > N, :          G       8   L. N.
sj       v2            vV  \ WAlZ            | AR                            /
DEMOCRATIC   REPUBLIC                         j.-  Z                    YJ 
~~n  I             *~~~AF'R.   <IZLAA
OF   AFGHANISTAN                      f  PISHIN                                        U'     /     ASjg r     8   A
,          elltta                        DERA      P       N      A          b
A  \RR    LORABAI
g = AR5                    )aesz~ ~    GHOTAZI .)AHAWA[NAGAR
.  HAGAII KALAT                                            BUGTI                                                  I N   D  I A
C H A G A I                 UB 1C.H-t5                                           )
> / j ( \A5IRAEAD-'.  =(_g 8      tAHAWAIPUR
28       ~                        (CFA >                             t *|    JACOBAtAD,             l O KAN  *\         j
-K H ARAM                   -1                    :        Ug                       .                               <28-
I RAN                                                                                            J L                                                              2
f                                                           IV, >/  j  S}/'.H/\/-Dr N
D   C  +°g KHUZDAR   '   / KHAIRPUR                           KILOMETERS 0         00        200        300
t *   M A K R A N   / /       ,      r        ^~~~~~~~NA 
(                                     )n  <   j X  /  '-1    \     lNA'eABUtfAHW                                 MILES 0                 100              200
*  J H   ,/   \  1    1  9  ^   -   -j   72'  76
g t                          A       /             ) DA U~~~~~~~~~~~~J  A4NGHAR    *_ U                      ' 4;y<_' @     
USSR    ~ o   CHINA
IDSM. REP. OF2     'A
Atcltt)-        1;   \.  THAR PARKAR    \               IRAN       (.FOHNI- )
lCaridi ,r              BADIS  / kT(_ c   
24                               INDIA~LTAI
IN~~~~~~~~~AO
SL4'     ; Arabiotn             Sea                                             HARBA " MAIN
<;7'                              QJ, A Ei >>          <     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N D I A
10  bwo hem, Hart oomperedby ft worft BekS a eo ffoootoeo,!v  -e m_-m(
o rho rd ero -f Kl f4r 0000 k  A A iatOd. The dnrroenee Ooesd -dt fOnr
HootesrhtieonnooerOi r eS ddu o  0000rsonpt', 000 tIrue Dn fte WrSt ethLnsA 00010                                   /EMEN        Arobjentn  Soev      
Lef7ieeo,anfsGodtiaoLeo n, ethe J#ge-tooioee of LeeYOennonrvonan oroloYnoeoooo rmTL -                                      rV
oxc~,teo0an efooof wt hmroourode,ono.  .                         ,      L                                             _                        ,
my .  --w



