O ICIAlg           CREDIT NUMBER 1019 PAK
DOUMENT
Development Credit Agreement
(PICIC Industrial Development Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                        0     , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1019 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            30               , 1980, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN  cting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and I TERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in the sched-
ule to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by The
Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation Limited
with the Borrower's assistance, and as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to The Pakistan Industrial Credit
and Investment Corporation Limited the parts of the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) Part B of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower; and
(D) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and The Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
Limited.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions):
(a) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning
set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."


﻿- 2 -
(b) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(c) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect
to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of
thirty days or (b) (i) with respect to Part B of the Project,
at any time the Association determines, after consultation
with the Borrower that an amount of the Credit will not be
required to finance the Project's costs to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and (ii) with respect to Part A of
the Project by the date specified in Section 2.02 (e) of
the Project Agreement no applications for approval or
requests for authorization to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of any portion of the Credit shall
have been received by the Association, or having been so
received, shall have been denied or (c) after the Closing
Date an amount of the Credit shall remc-in unwithdrawn from
the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals
and authorizations or to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice
such amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(d) The words "and the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06;
and
(e) The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "PICIC" means The Pakistan Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation Limited, established as a company under the
Pakistan Companies Act, 1913.


﻿- 3 -
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and PICIC, as such agreement may
be amended from time to time.
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and PICIC pursuant to Section
3.01 of this Agreement.
(d) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed
to be made within the scope of Part A of the Project by PICIC to
an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit relent to PICIC under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "free-limit Sub-loan" means a
Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(e) "Investment" means an investment other than a Sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made within the scope of Part A of the
Project by PICIC in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to PICIC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
PICIC proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made an Investment.
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-.oan or Investment.
(h) "Textile Capacity Expansion Investment Project" means
an investment project the primary purpose of which is to create
additional production capacity for textiles.
(i) "Rupees" and "Rs" mean the currency of the Borrower.
(j) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
(k) "Memorandum and Articles of Association" means the
Memorandum and Articles of Association of PICIC adopted on
September 26, 1957, as amended from time to time with the prior
approval of the Association.


﻿(1) "Statement of Policies" means the Outline of Business
Policies of PICIC as approved by its Board of Directors on
December 10, 1964, as amended on March 11, 1967, September 30,
1967, December 7, 1970, January 1, 1974 and August 25, 1975 and as
further amended from time to time with the prior approval of the
Asociation.
(m) "Bank Loan Agreements" means the loan agreements dated
December 17, 1957, September 25, 1959, June 27, 1961, February 13,
1963, June 30, 1964, July 9, 1965, August 10, 1967 and September
29, 1976 and the project agreement dated January 31, 1974, all
between the Bank and PICIC, as the same have been or may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and
PICIC.
(n) "Prior Loan" means any loan provided for in any of the
Bank Loan Agreements.
(o) "Government Agreements" means the agreements dated
October 26, 1957, December 7, 1961, July 4, 1967, December 30,
1968 and the Borrower's sanction letters dated August 24, 1974 and
October 17, 1974, all between the Borrower and PICIC providing
for advances by the Borrower to PICIC of Rs 30,000,000,
Rs 30,000,000, Rs 10,000,000, Rs 10,000,000, Rs 15,000,000 and Rs
3,600,000 respectively and shall include such amendments to such
agreements as may from time to time be agreed by the parties
thereto and the Association.
(p) "Special Recovery Ordinance" means the Banking Companies
(Recovery of Loans) Ordinance, 1979.
(q) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by PICIC or by any one or more
subsidiaries of PICIC or by PICIC and one or more of its subsi-
diaries.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000).


﻿-5-
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b), (c) and (d) of this Section, PICIC, on behalf of the Borrower
pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement, may withdraw from the
Credit Account in respect of Part A (1) of the Project up to the
equivalent of $36,760,000 for amounts paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by PICIC on account of with-
drawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan or
Investment to meet the reasonable foreign currency cost of im-
ported goods and services required for the Investment Project in
respect of which the withdrawal is requested; provided, however,
that no amount shall be withdrawn from the Credit Account in
respect of an Investment Project unless (A) the Sub-loan or
Investment for such Investment Project shall have been approved by
the Association or (B) the Sub-loan shall be a free-limit Sub-loan
for which the Association shall have authorized withdrawals from
the Credit Account.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project, other than a Textile Capacity Expansion Investment
Project, in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit which, together with any other amount to be financed by
PICIC out of other funds for the same project shall not exceed in
the aggregate (i) $2,500,000 equivalent or (ii) $6,000,000 equiv-
alent when the proposed financing by PICIC for such Investment
Project is added to any other outstanding amounts financed by
PICIC out of the proceeds of the Credit or of any Prior Loan or
out of any other funds provided that, with respect to an Invest-
ment Project in the textile sector other than a Textile Capacity
Expansion Investment Project the limit set out in (i) above shall
be $1,500,000 equivalent.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures made by
an Investment Enterprise prior to the date of this Agreement or
(ii) expenditures made in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the
Association's approval, or of an Investment, more than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Association shall have received
the application and information required under Section 2.02 (b) of
the Project Agreement or (iii) expenditures made in respect of a
free-limit Sub-loan more than ninety days prior to the date on
which the Association shall have received the request and infor-
mation required by Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.
(d) In addition to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, PICIC, on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to Section


﻿- 6 -
2.03 of this Agreement, may withdraw from the Credit Account in
respect of Part A (2) of the Project up to the equivalent of
$240,000 for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services
required for such Part of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit consisting of 100% of expenditures for
consultants' services.
(e) The Borrower may withdraw from the Credit Account in
respect of Part B of the Project up to the equivalent of
$3,000,000 for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for such Part of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, as follows: (i) 100% of foreign
currency expenditures, (ii) 60% of expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower and (iii) 100% of expenditures for consultants'
services.
Section 2.03. PICIC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a)
and (d) of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1984,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and PICIC of such
later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each Jan-
uary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1990, and ending Jan-
uary 15, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the
Project and shall cause PICIC to carry out Part A of the Project
all in accordance with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial and industrial
practices.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
or the equivalent thereof as shall be disbursed by the Association
for Part A of the Project to PICIC under a Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and PICIC containing
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association, which terms shall include, inter alia: an overall
annual lending cost to PICIC's sub-borrowers of at least 14%
consisting of PICIC's normal lending rate and an appropriate fee
to cover the exchange risk carried by the Borrower; and a spread
to PICIC on amounts disbursed by March 31, 1981, of at least
3% and on all amounts disbursed thereafter of at least 4%; and
repayment by PICIC within 18 years including grace, on a flexible
amortization schedule in approximate conformity with repayments
received by PICIC.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any
of its political subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instru-
mentalities, or any agency or instrumentality or any political
subdivision, to take, any action which would prevent or materially
interfere with the carrying out of the Project or the performance
by PICIC of any of its other obligations under the Project Agree-
ment or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall take or cause to
be taken all reasonable action which shall be required on its part
in order to enable PICIC to carry out Part A the Project and to
perform such other obligations.
Section 3.03. With respect to Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared detailed training
proposals in the form of sub-projects acceptable to the Associa-
tion.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall from time to time review and
discuss with the Association and PICIC the impact of the Special
Recovery Ordinance on PICIC's financial condition and shall
take all measures as shall be necessary to expedite repayment
of overdue amounts from PICIC's debtors.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall by October 31, 1980, cause to
be paid to PICIC all amounts owed to PICIC by public sector
enterprises which were overdue as of December 31, 1979, and shall
from November 1, 1980 onwards cause to be paid all amounts owed to
PICIC by public sector enterprises within six months of the due
date thereof.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall continue its policy of
not granting licenses under its Pay As You Earn scheme to those
who are in arrears to PICIC.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall provide, or cause to be
provided to, PICIC the necessary credit, on adequate terms, to
enable PICIC to service its debt, including, as required, re-
scheduling of credits to PICIC of the State Bank of Pakistan.
Section 3.08. In order to assist in carrying out Part B of the
Project the Borrower shall employ by December 31, 1980, a quali-
fied and experienced textile industry specialist, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of PICIC under the Project Agreement or under any other
project agreement between the Association and PICIC;
(b) any of the advances provided for in the Goverment
Agreements shall have become repayable prior to its agreed matur-
ity;
(c) any part of the principal amount of any loan to PICIC
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of


﻿- 9 -
maturity, as provided in the relative contractual instruments, or
any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(d) a change shall have been made in the Memorandum and
Articles of Association or in the Statement of Policies without
the Association's consent;
(e) an order is made or a resolution shall have been passed
for the dissolution or liquidation of PICIC; and
(f) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by PICIC, if such creation, acquisition
or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of PICIC's
business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its manage-
ment and personnel or the carrying out of Part A of the Project.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (d) and (f)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and PICIC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (e)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions that: (a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
entered into by the Borrower and PICIC, respectively; and (b)
PICIC's Board of Directors has duly approved and issued a strategy
statement pertaining to PICIC's planned operations over a period
of approximately two years after its date of issuance, such
statement to be acceptable to the Association.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:


﻿- 10 -
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed on behalf of PICIC, and consti-
tutes a valid and binding obligation of PICIC in accordance with
its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed on behalf of the Borrower and
PICIC, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of, the
Borrower and PICIC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date           3, 1980 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraphs (a) through (f)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement and those of paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date 18 years after the date of this Agreement, which-
ever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03
of this Agreement, the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division of the Borrower is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                  Telex:
ECONOMIC                             ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad


﻿- 11 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                  Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington,, D.C.                  24423 (RCA) or
89658 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
Schedule
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
1.   Assistance to PICIC in financing such productive facil-
ities and resources in the territory of the Borrower as will
contribute to the economic and social development of the country
by financing specific development projects through loans to and
investments in private enterprises in the territories of the
Borrower, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of PICIC.
2.   Improving PICIC's engineering and economic capabilities, by
providing technical assistance.
Part B:
Strengthening the Borrower's textile training capabili-
ties and technical assistance for improving the operations of
the Borrower's textile sector.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    .     day of
198 O
FOR SECRETARY


