j)    .-Document of
'IN                                  The World Bank                      FILE C0PY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1233-KO
STAFF PROJECT REPORT ON
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
KOREA
September 1, 1976
Agricultural Credit & DFC Division
East Asia & Pacific Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Won (W) 1.00            =        US$0.00206
Won 485                 =         US$1.00
Won 1 million           =         US$2,062
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 meter (m)       2               3.28 feet
1 square meter (m )    =          10.76 square feet
1 Kilogram (Kg)         =        2.205 pounds
1 hectare (ha)          =        3,000 2pyongs
1 pyong                 -        3.3 m
ABBREVIATIONS
NACF - National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
ORD   - Office of Rural Development
MAF   - Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
PKCs - Participating Kun (Gun) Cooperatives
TU    - Technical Unit of NACF
LAOs - Loan Appraisal Officers of the PKCs
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER                                                        Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY ........ . . .. . . .. . ........ ............  . i - xiv
A.   BANKING AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT  ......................  1 - 3
B.   PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING  ..............  1 - 5
Project Components ..... ...............................  1
Cost Estimates ........ .........................................  4
Financing ................................................... .  5
C.   BORROWING AND EXECUTING AGENCIES 1.....................  1- 23
The National Agricultural Cooperative Federation ......  1
Project Coordinating Committee ................... .o....  10
D.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ... o........ .....  ... .   1 - 5
E.   DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS .    ...............  ..        1 - 4
F.   TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS ...    ....      1 - 11
G.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                       .                1........ .... .  I - 12
H.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                   ......   o- ............  1 - 3
I.   RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS  ............. .......  1
ANNEX
ANNEX I Additional Reports and Data Related to the Project
Available in the Bank.
MAP
IBRD 10375
This report is based on the findings of the Appraisal Mission, which
comprised S.J. Khoo, A. Soulard, G. Kalu (IBRD), W. Bilbo and V. Carlson
(Consultants). The report was prepared by S.J. Khoo.
This document has a restricted distribution u  may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contentu may not olberw.e be diacbed without World Dank authorinzation.






KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
I.   Agriculture Sector
1.        The extraordinary expansion of Korea's export-oriented manufactur-
ing sector in recent years has, to a certain extent, obscured the tangible
and impressive, albeit less spectacular, gains made by the country's agri-
cultural sector; over the 1962-74 period its output increased by about 4% per
annum (a rate comparable with that attained by Thailand, Indonesia and the
Philippines). Korea's agricultural exports (including those of the fisheries
sub-sector) rose from about US$70 million equivalent in 1967 to approximately
US$423 million in 1974 and are estimated to have risen to over US$600 million
in 1975. Further, despite the steady increase in industrial wages, rising
agricultural productivity and increased farmgate prices have contributed
towards the achievement of near-parity in the earnings of urban and rural
households. These achievements are all the more commendable in view of the
fact that, because of Korea's geo-physical features, only about a quarter of
its total land area of about 10 million ha is cultivable.
2.        About 22%, or 2.24 million ha, of Korea's total land area is cul-
tivated. Another two-thirds are classified as forest land most of which
being mountainous would not be suitable for cultivation. Additional land
that can be brought into cultivation is consequently quite limited. Total
cropped area was 3.29 million ha in 1974 giving a cropping intensity of 147%.
Rice (1.2 million ha) and barley (0.9 million ha) are the major crops
accounting for about two-thirds of the total cropped area. Pulses (mainly
soybeans), vegetables, mulberry, fruits, tobacco and ginseng are the other
important crops and together with miscellaneous cereals, viz. maize, wheat
and millet, account for most of the remaining cropped area.
3.        There are some 2.38 million farm households in Korea.  The average
farm size is about 0.9 ha. Nearly two-thirds of farm households have less
than 1 ha of cropland but only 4% are landless largely as a result of the
Farmland Reform Law of 1950 which imposed a ceiling of 3 ha of cultivated
land per household.
4.        The Government places high priority on expanding foodgrain pro-
duction to supply as large a part of domestic consumption requirements as
possible. Efforts to expand production, especially of rice, barley and soy-
beans are directed mainly towards increasing yields on presently cultivated
land as new land suitable for cultivation is limited. Although rice yields
are already high, further increases can be obtained through irrigation
coupled with the wider use of high yielding and earlier maturing varieties.



- ii -
5.        As a result of rapidly rising per capita incomes and increasing
urbanization, the consumption pattern of the population has been undergoing
significant changes. It is estimated that the per capita consumption of
foodgrains reached a plateau during the 1972-73 season. In contrast to this,
per capita consumption of high value foods, especially fruits, vegetables and
meat products have been increasing significantly. Thus between 1962 and 1974,
while annual foodgrain consumption increased by about 4%, consumption of
vegetables, fruits and livestock products increased by 8%, 12% and 11% re-
spectively.
6.        Reflecting the rapidly rising domestic demand for the high value
foods, the other major strand of the Government's agricultural development
strategy is the continued diversification and expansion of agricultural
output into vegetables, fruits, livestock, mulberry, mushrooms, and tobacco
to meet domestic consumption needs and for export. Increased production of
these high income elastic commodities is an important way to raise the in-
comes of farmers and would result in fuller utilization of the available
farm labor as well as more productive use of other agricultural resources.
7.        The growth of agricultural output, which has been impressive as
compared with other East Asian countries especially when the country's geo-
physical features referred to in paragraph 1 above are taken into account
has nevertheless not kept pace with domestic requirements. This has caused
the Government to be increasingly concerned with the need to raise agri-
cultural productivity and to devote additional resources to the development
of the agriculture sector. More than three times the resources budgeted
for agriculture in the previous Five-Year Plan (1967-71) are included in
the current Plan (1972-76).
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1977-81)
8.        The proposed project would fit into the programs embodied in the
new Development Plan being formulated by the Government for the period 1977-81.
The objectives of the Plan in the agricultural sector are: (a) the expansion
of agricultural production and rural incomes; and (b) the further diversific-
ation of agricultural output through expansion of sericulture and the produc-
tion of nutritionally superior horticulture and livestock products.
Support Facilities
9.        Research, Extension and Marketing.  Research on fruits and vegetables
is undertaken primarily at the Horticultural Experiment Stations, and includes
development of improved varieties and cultural practices, and use of fertilizers
and pesticides. Storage problems are also being investigated with a view to
developing suitable storage facilities for the various fruits and vegetables.
The Suweon Sericulture Experiment Station has been involved in sericulture re-
search since 1914. It is presently undertaking research in four main areas
- breeding of disease resistant and more productive silk worm varieties, im-
provement of rearing techniques, development of higher yielding mulberry trees,
and improvement of silk-reeling techniques and silk processing. The research



- ii i -
and experiment stations are operated by the Office of Rural Development (ORD)
ot the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. The stations' specialists and
)RD's extension officers provide technical advice and extension support to
farmers.  Extension guidance is also provided by the Horticultural Cooperatives
and Sericulture Associations of which most of the farmers are members.
10.       The cooperatives, which are part of the National Agricultural Co-
operative Federation's (NACF) network of cooperatives, are engaged in the
marketing of farmers' output which is sold at NACF's crop and livestock
auction centres located in the urban areas. In addition, they provide their
farmer members with supplies of agricultural inputs.
11.       Agricultural Credit and Subsidies.  The total amount of credit made
available to farm households from institutional sources increased steadily
over the past decade from about 2,000 Won per farm household in 1964 to
over 6,000 Won in 1974. 1/ However, in 1974 institutional credit represented
only about 25% of total outstanding borrowings with the remainder provided by
non-institutional sources. NACF is the main source for institutional credit
for the agricultural sector in Korea. The terms and conditions of its loans
vary with the purpose and the source of funds and are controlled by the Govern-
ment. Part of NACF's operations are funded by borrowing from the Government
which charges interest varying from 2 to 5% per annum; these funds are used
to provide medium-term loans primarily for agricultural production. Borrow-
ings from the Bank of Korea at interest rates varying from 2 to 6% are used
to finance NACF's fertilizer operations, the purchase and export of agricul-
tural products and credit sales of agricultural inputs. Short-term loans to
depositors and cooperatives are made from NACF's deposit resources as a
normal banking service; the interest rate charged is 15.5%, the same as
applied by the commercial banks. Medium- and long-term loans are made by
the Kun Cooperatives, and short-term financing of agricultural inputs is
handled by the Primary Cooperatives. NACF loan interest rates range from
3.5% for irrigation associations to 15.5% for commercial loans. Interest
charged on the bulk of NACF loans is between 9 and 12%.
12.        In addition to interest subsidies, the Government provides farm
inputs, such as fertilizers and farm implements, to farmers at subsidized
prices. It has also provided price supports for certain products produced by
farmers, e.g. through the operation of the Grain Management Fund. However,
in recent years the Government has begun to reduce the levels of subsidy
partly because incentives of the magnitude provided previously are no longer
needed to boost production.
The Bank Group Lending Program
13.       The Bank Group's lending for the agricultural sector in Korea has
been aimed at assisting in the achievement of the Government's objectives.
Of the IJS$145.5 million lent, to date, for agricultural projects, US$93 million
1/   Based on ;i sample survey n)f farm householls in 1974.



- iv -
was provided for the Pyongtaek Kumgang (Loan 600-KO) and Yong San Gang (Loan
795-KO-Credit 283-KG) Projects, which are expected to provide irrigation for
60,000 ha; USS10.5 million has been made available for an Agricultural Credit
Project (Credit 335-KG) which supported a three-year lending program for the
provision of medium and long-term credit to Korean farmers through NACF to
develop orchards, sericulture, poultry, and swine; a US$7.0 million Loan has
been made for a Seeds Project (Loan 942-KO) which is helping to develop higher
yielding varieties of cereal crops, oil seeds and potato for multiplication
and distribution to farmers; US$13.0 million has been lent for the Integrated
Agricultural Products Processing Project (Loan 994-KO) aimed at combining the
on-farm production of commercial crops on land that was idle or under-utilized
with efficient and hygienic processing facilities. A US$7.0 million Credit
(234-KO) and a US$15 million Loan (1193-KO) have helped finance two livestock
projects the main components of which are the establishment of small and
medium size dairy farms by providing long-term loans to dairy farmers, the
construction and operation of dairy products processing plants and the pro-
vision of management and technical services related to these activities. In
addition, a US$20.0 million Bank Loan and a US$40.0 million Third Window Loan
(1216-KO & 1218T-KO) are helping finance a Rural Infrastructure Project
involving the construction of minor irrigation facilities, roads and bridges,
water supply systems, the provision of rural electrification, the development
of fuelwood blocks, and upland reclamation.
II. The First Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 335-KO)
14.       The project, which formed part of the Government's program for agri-
cultural development under the current Five-year Development Plan (1972-1976),
provided funds to NACF for: (a) medium- and long-term lending to farmers for
investments in orchard, sericulture, poultry and swine development; (b) con-
struction of training facilities at NACF's Cooperative College; (c) a farm
management consultant to assist in project lending to farmers; and (d) a
management study of NACF. Of the total project cost estimated at US$18.2
million during appraisal, IDA financed 58%, the Government 23%, and participat-
ing farmers the remaining 19%.
15.       The IDA credit of USS10.5 million for the project became effective
in Mvay 1973. Project implementation had been satisfactory and was completed
in May 1976, about a month ahead of schedule.  Project lending for on-farm
investments totalled about W 5,970 million involving 6,114 sub-loans. Lending
by sub-projects and ID)A disbursements as of May 31, 1976 were as follows:



v -
Sub-Loans
Number        Amount      IDA Disbursements
(W million)     (US$ thousand)
Orchard:
Apple                         1,870           2,624
Pear, Peach & Grape              752            738
Sericulture                         2,553          1,418
Poultry                               157            378
Swine                                 782            812
6,114          5,970             10,030
Farm M4anagement Consultant                                              75
Training Facilities                                                     215
Management Study                                                        180
Total                                                        10,500
Total sub-loans made were only about one-half the number estimated during
appraisal due to inflation which far exceeded the 15% contingencies pro-
vision. Building costs, the largest item in the subprojects, averaged
about twice the appraisal costs, and significant cost increases in excess of
the contingency provision were recorded for all the other investment items.
With regard to the distribution of sub-loans by sub-projects, the reduction
in the number of sericulture sub-loans accounted for most of the difference
between the actual lending and appraisal estimates. The increases in sub-
loans for apple orchard and swine development were largely offset by cor-
responding declines in the other fruit and poultry sub-loans. These dif-
ferences were mainly the result of unforeseen price and demand changes and
appear to represent a reasonable response to changing conditions.
16.       Under the project, a Technical Unit (TU) was established in NACF
to oversee project implementation, and particularly to monitor and super-
vise lending to farmers through the Participating Kun Cooperatives (PKCs).
The TU has carried out its functions satisfactorily; it has also helped
to select the PKCs, provided technical advice, and trained the Loan Appraisal
Officers of the PKCs in proper sub-loan appraisal and supervision. Since
the inception of the project, a total of 59 PKCs have been involved in project
lending and 123 Loan Appraisal Officers (LAOs) have been trained.
17.       The TU surveys indicate that total project investments made by
participating farmers as of the end of December 1975 amounted to an estimated
W 7,808 million (US$16.1 million). Major investment items include: (a)
2,181 ha of new orchard development of which apple orchards accounted for
some 1,844 ha, (b) 24,887 pyongs (82,130 m2) of storage space for fruits,
(c) 461 ha of mulberry plantings, (d) 56,230 pyongs (185,560 m2) of rearing
house space for raising silkworms and cocoons, (e) 24,713 pyong (81,550 m2) and
13,300 pyong (43,900 m2) of rearing house space for swine and poultry respect-
ively, and (f) irrigation facilities, equipment and other tools in support
of the major investment items. The average size of sub-loans was about 976,000
won (US$2,000).



- vi -
18.       It is still too early to evaluate the project's benefits and
impact, because several more years are required for it to reach full de-
velopment. However, in addition to the development and expansion of the
sub-projects concerned (para 17), the project has had significant institution-
building effects for NACF and the PKCs. Thus, the method of appraising
project investments in terms of their technical feasibility and financial
viability based on incremental returns and the need for regular supervision
of project investments during their implementation are becoming increasingly
appreciated by NACF and the PKCs. In fact, NACF is considering applying
this approach to its other agricultural lending as well. Provision of train-
ing facilities, construction of which was completed in October 1975, would
increase the output of trained personnel, and the management study completed
in December 1975 would improve NACF's management of its large and diverse
operations.
III. The Project
Project Concept
19.       The proposed project would be a continuation and expansion of the
agricultural development program financed under the First Agricultural Credit
Project (Credit 335-KO). It would provide medium and long-term loans through
selected Kun Cooperatives of NACF to about 7,900 farmers for investments in:
(a) apple orchard development, (b) silkworm rearing houses, (c) sprinkler
irrigation for orchards, (d) greenhouses for vegetable production, and (e)
on-farm storage for fruits. Similar sub-projects were financed under the
First Project except for green houses. The proposed project would support a
three-year lending program which would be part of a high priority Government
program to increase farm output and incomes through diversification and modern-
ization of agricultural production. It also aims at making more efficient and
fuller use of available agricultural resources, thereby enhancing the employ-
ment opportunitites, productivity and incomes of participating farmers.
Determination of project size was based on estimates of farmer demand and the
loan processing capacity of the on-lending institutions (Kun Cooperatives)
over a three-year period. In making the determination, account was also taken
of domestic consumption projections and export prospects of the Project
output, and the availability of complementary resources.
Description of the Project
20.       Apple Orchard Development.  This sub-project would finance expendi-
tures for the establishment of about 2,100 ha of apple orchards. Major in-
vestment categories would be: land clearing, preparation, levelling and
terracing; orchard establishment, including improved planting materials, fer-
tilizers, pesticides, and hired labor; and spraying facilities and other small
hand tools. Most of the apple orchards to be developed would range from one
to two ha and would be planted with improved varieties. Subloans would be
made to about 1,400 farmers and would only be given for orchard establishment
in soils considered suitable by the Institute of Agricultural Sciences in
Suweon.



- ViL -
21.       Silkworm Rearing Houses.  The main purpose of this sub-project is
to increase the productivity of sericulture production without the need to
expand the existing acreage under mulberry. The sub-project would provide
improved silkworm rearing houses and equipment to enable sericulture farmers
to expand as well as improve the quality of cocoon production. It would also
finance the first year's cost of improved inputs to existing mulberry plant-
ings, mainly fertilizers/manure, pesticides, and hired bullock power and
manual labor. Sub-loans would be made to about 3,500 sericulture farmers
owning 0.35 ha or more of mulberry plantings that would provide sufficient
leaves to feed the quantity of silkworms envisaged. The typical sub-loan
would finance an improved rearing house of about 20-25 pyongs (66-83 mi2) floor
space, and equipment, the major items of which would be pivot cocoon beds,
wooden racks and trays for silkworm feeding, and a two-wheel cart. The
rearing capacity would be five cases of silkworms per crop, or ten cases for
the two-crop year.
22.       Sprinkler Irrigation for Orchards.  Many existing orchards, es-
pecially those on sandy or volcanic ash soil, suffer from insufficient
available soil moisture. Consequently, apple orchards in areas of lower
rainfall, where near-drought conditions occur frequently during certain
periods in the hot summer months, generally produce smaller fruit with a
high incidence of skin cracks and poor coloring. Experience in recent years
confirms that sprinkler irrigation would be the most appropriate means of
overcoming this problem, though surface irrigation would be helpful for
some orchards. About 800 farmers, each owning 2 ha or more of producing
orchards, would be given sub-loans under this component. Sprinkler irriga-
tion normally cannot be justified on orchards of less than 2 ha. Eligible
orchards would have soil and rainfall conditions described above and have an
available supply of water sufficient for irrigation needs. Major investment
items for a 2 ha orchard would include a concrete well, diesel engine and
pump, pipes and fittings, and installation costs. Although some of the
sub-loans would be made for pear and orange orchards, most are expected to
be made for apple orchards.
23.       Greenhouses for Vegetable Production.  In response to rising in-
comes, there is a rapidly growing demand for fresh vegetables during the
cold months of the year. Existing greenhouses are inadequate to meet pre-
sent demand and many are inefficient. About 1,200 farmers would participate
in this subproject which would finance the cost of constructing and equip-
ing improved greenhouses. Major investment items would include: metal
frames for the greenhouses; ventilating, heating and irrigation equipment
and facilities; and incremental working capital required to produce the
initial crop of vegetables. Sub-loans would be made to farmers who are
experienced in greenhouse production, and have easy access to important urban
consuming centres.
24.       On-Farm Fruit Storage.  Apple, pear and orange growers with
storage facilities, who market only some of their production at harvest
time and store the larger part for sale over the following months, have



- viii -
5een able to obtain prices and financial returns which are significantly
iigher than those received by growers who sell all their output at harvest
time. As a result, there is an increasing demand for on-farm storage facili-
ties. About 1,000 sub-loans would be made under the sub-project to finance
-oncrete storage buildings, wooden packing cases, and ventilating fans.
Although the capacity of the storage buildings would vary according to sub-
,orrowers' needs, the majority would have a floor space of about 20 pyongs
(66 m-) or a maximum storage capacity of about 30 tons of apples and pears
)r 20 tons of oranges.
'roject Cost and Financing
25.       Cost Estimates.  The total cost of the project is estimated at
about W 19,978 million (US$41.2 million), of which about 31%, or W 6,207
million (US$12.8 million), would be the foreign exchange component. Es-
timates are based on current prices, including the cost of installation. A
)rice contingency of 28% had been added to the base costs on the assumption of
)rice increases of 15% in 1976 and 10% in each of the years 1977 and 1978.
Jetailed cost estimates are given in Chapter G.  They are summarized below:
Local         Foreign          Total
… ---------- US$ 000… __________
\pple Orchard Development           5,573          1,958            7,531
,ilkworm Rearing Houses             5,818         2,376             8,194
,prinkler Irrigation                2,404         1,967             4,371
Ireen liouses                       5,051         2,602             7,653
On-farm Storage                     3,411          1,137            4,548
'rice Contingency                   6,137         2,758             8,895
Total                            28,394         12,798           41,192
?6.      Financing.  The project would be financed as follows:
Am o un t
Source                              (US$ million)
Bank                                    20.0
Government                               8.8
Subborrowers                            12.4
Total                                41.2



- ix -
The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan will be on-lent by the Government to
NACF at the same interest rate as applicable to the Bank loan with repay-
ment over 17 years. The Government's contribution would also be repay-
able by NACF over 17 years with interest at 5.7%. The funds would be onlent
by NACF to participating farmers through the Kun Cooperatives.
Production and Market Aspects
27.        The annual incremental output of the project at full development
would be as follows:
Annual
Domestic
Annual        Demand
Full       Incremental    at Full       Domestic   (2) as
Development    Project    Development  Production   % of
Year         Output         Year /a    in 1974         (3)
(1)           (2)           (3)            (4)
------------('000 tons)-----------
Apple Orchard
Apples                 1990        69.2             753         297           9.2
Silk Worm Rearing
Houses
Cocoons                1981         0.81                         37.2
Sprinkler Irrigation
Apples                 1990         9.4             753         297           1.2
Green Houses
Cucumber               1980        13.1)            150 /b       49 /b        8.7
Green Pepper            9                               - 1
/a   Based on present trends in population and per capita income growth, and
estimated income elasticities of demand.
lb   Main vegetables grown in green houses consisting of cucumber, green
pepper, tomato, squash, lettuce, and melon.
28.        Incremental output from all the subprojects except sericulture
would be primarily for the domestic market. The annual incremental output of
apples and vegetables would be easily absorbed by the domestic market since
they would account for only minor proportions of the production increases
required to meet their projected demand. There would likewise be no difficulty
in marketing the project's annual incremental cocoon output since the amount
involved is small in relation to total domestic production. Moreover, the



x -
decline in Korea's silk exports in 1973/74 which resulted from the recent
world-wide economic recession, is expected to be reversed in the near future,
as Japan and the other major silk importing countries are already in the
process of recovering from the recession.
Project Implementation
29.       The National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF) would ad-
minister the project. Project loans to farmers would be made by the Kun
Cooperatives. The Technical Unit (TU) established under the First Project
would supervise and monitor project implementation. It would also advise and
train the staff of the Kun Cooperatives in proper appraisal and supervision of
project loans. In view of the larger size of the project and the introduction
of new types of sub-projects, the TU staff would be strengthened. The Project
Coordinating Committee to ensure overall coordination between NACF and other
agencies involved in the First Project will be maintained for purposes of the
proposed project.
30.       Established in 1961, NACF fulfills a dual, closely integrated role.
As.the apex organization of a three-tier agricultural cooperative structure
in Korea, it supervises and coordinates the operations of its member coopera-
tives, which comprise Kun (county) Cooperatives, Primary Cooperatives, and
Special Cooperatives for horticulture and livestock farmers. NACF also
functions as an instrument for the implementation of national agricultural
policies. It undertakes a variety of credit and non-credit activities in-
cluding the distribution of agricultural inputs and supplies, marketing,
banking, mutual insurance, guidance and training. In all these operations,
NACF receives substantial financial support from the Government and the Bank
of Korea which is the country's central bank. NACF recently embarked on a
major reorganization of the cooperative structure which is to be completed
in 1977; it would involve a reallocation of functions between the Primary
and Kun Cooperatives whereby all short-term production credit and non-credit
activities would be undertaken by the 1,545 Primary Cooperatives, while the
Kun Cooperatives would handle medium and long-term credit and exercise audit
functions over the Primary Cooperatives on behalf of NACF.
31.       The General Assembly of NACF is the representative body of the
member cooperatives (Kun and Special Cooperatives). The Representatives
Meeting elected by it approves NACF's annual business plan, budget and
accounts. The Administration Board, the policy-making body of NACF, con-
sists of the President of NACF (appointed by the President of the Republic
of Korea), representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture and Finance
and the Bank of Korea, and five delegates elected by the Representatives
Meeting. The President of NACF is assisted by an Executive Vice-President
while six Vice-Presidents supervise the various departments. NACF has a
staff of approximately 2,100 of whom about a third are professionals.
It operates an Agricultural Cooperative College and two other training
institutions, the Saemaul Leaders Training Institute for farm leaders and
the Cooperative Training Institute. tIany of the graduates of the College
and the Cooperative Training Institute are employed by NACF and its coop-
eratives.



- xi -
32.       Loans advanced by NACF and Kun Cooperatives grew from W 222 billion
in 1971 to W 449 billion in 1974 and outstanding loans rose from W 123 billion
to W 252 billion during the period. NACF's loan collection record is satis-
factory. The ratio of arrears to outstanding loans was 4.1 percent at the end
of 1974. Net income in 1975 was W 1,818 million compared with W 950 million
in 1974 and W 442 million in 1973.
33.       The Technical Unit (TU).  For effective implementation of the pro-
posed project, the TU established under the First Project would be strengthened
by the inclusion of three additional technical staff comprising an agricultural
economist, and two horticulturists specializing in green house vegetable
production and sprinkler irrigation for orchards respectively. They would be
appointed and in position within three months following Loan effectiveness.
34.       Kun Cooperatives.  The 140 Kun Cooperatives with their 211 branches
function at the intermediate level of the three-tier cooperative structure.
NACF and Kun Cooperatives are distinct legal and financial entities but
are closely integrated in regard to management, resource mobilization, and
lending operations. The Kun Cooperatives handle NACF's credit and non-
credit activities at the county level and act as a channel for funds to their
member Primary Cooperatives. In the framework of the reorganization mentioned
in para 30, the number of branches will be reduced and the Kun Cooperatives
will concentrate on banking activities such as the mobilization of deposits
and the provision of agricultural development loans. As under the First Pro-
ject, Kun Cooperatives will be required to meet the following conditions in
order to participate in the proposed project:
(a) Overdues at the end of the preceding financial year
would not exceed 10 percent of loans outstanding;
(b) There would be at least one Loan Appraisal Officer
in the Kun Cooperative working full-time on project
loans, the actual number to be commensurate with the
workload; and
(c) Adequate extension support would be available for
project farmers.
35.       Project Coordinating Committee.  A Project Coordinating Committee
was established under the First Project to ensure coordinated planning and
execution of project operations between NACF and other Government agencies.
Constituted under the Chairmanship of the Vice President of NACF responsible
for the Project, the Committee includes representatives of the MAF, Office of
Rural Development, Economic Planning Board, Ministry of Finance, and the Agri-
cultural Development Corporation, with the Project Manager who heads the TU as
its secretary. The Committee played an important role in the timely and
effective implementation of the First Project. In view of this, the Committee
is to be maintained to carry out a similar role under the proposed project.



- xii -
36.       Procurement.  Project investment items and operations on individual
farms are varied and small, and therefore would not be suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding.  The scattered location of farms and the fact
that project investments would be spread over several years, are additional
factors which would discourage interest by foreign firms. Silkworm rearing
houses, on-farm storage, and green houses are simple structures and would be
constructed by local artisans and in some cases by the farmers themselves.
There are numerous suppliers of project equipment and services, both private
companies and cooperatives. Prices are competitive. Project procurement
would consequently be through normal commercial and cooperative channels by
the individual farmer subborrower as in the First Project.
37.       Disbursement.  Disbursement of the proposed Bank loan is expected
to extend over three years.  Against appropriate statements, disbursements
would be 70% of sub-loans to beneficiaries made by the Participating Kun
Cooperatives (PKCs). The documentation for the sub-loans for reimburse-
ment certified by the PKCs would be retained on file at NACF, and be available
for review by Bank supervision missions.
38.       Relending Terms and Conditions.  The Government would make available
the Bank Loan and its share of the total project cost to NACF for on-lending
by the Kun Cooperatives to subborrowers. The TU would ensure that the Kun
Cooperatives selected to participate in the project have met the conditions
specified in para 34. Project investments would be evaluated in terms of
their technical feasibility annd financial viability based on incremental
returns. Sub-borrowers would pay an annual interest rate of 12%. This
is the maximum rate currently applicable to Government sponsored agricultural
credit programs. The interest rate charged under many of these is only 9%.
NACF and the Participating Kun Cooperatives (PKCs) would require minimum
interest margins of 1% and 3% respectively to cover administrative costs and
provisions for bad debts. The 4% percent interest margin and the 8.9% interest
on the Bank Loan would consequently require that the cost of the Government
funds to NACF would be at 5.7% interest, given the 12% interest charged to
subborrowers, and the proposed contributions to total project cost by the
partLes concerned (para 26) and the repayment of the Bank Loan and Government
funds by NACF to the Government over 17 years, including 3.5 years of grace.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. Since it is essential to
en-Ire that the incremental working capital necessary to produce the initial
output and sales from project investments is available, such capital should be
provided by the Government or NACF if not available from other sources. NACF
will establish an account called the Special Fund which would comprise proceeds
of the Bank Loan and Government loan (4,300 million Won). The Government will
deposit in the Special Fund (a) not later than April 1, 1977 an initial amount
of not less than 700 million Won to enable NACF to initiate Project lending, and
(b) thereafter at the beginning of each quarter such amounts as shall be re-
quired during such quarter by NACF for the purpose of the Project. The total
of the Government loan would be made available to NACF not later than January 1,
1980. Agreements acceptable to the Bank would be entered into between the
Government and NACF, and NACF and the PKCs incorporating these terms, and the
execution of these agreements would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The



- xiii -
term of each subloan would be determined by the repayment capacity of the
sub-borrower. Financial models for typical subloans indicate that loan
repayment schedules need not exceed the limits shown below:
Grace     Period of
Subloan                      Period    Repayment       Loan Period
------------- Years ---------------
Apple Orchard Development       7           4               11
Silk Worm Rearing Houses        2           7                9
Sprinkler Irrigation            3           5                8
Green Houses                    1           5                6
On-Farm Storage                 2           8               10
Financial and Economic Analysis
39.       The project would directly benefit about 7,900 farmer sub-borrowers
and their families or a total of some 47,000 persons. At full development,
the additional labor required annually is estimated at about 7,200 man year
equivalent (1,806,000 man-days). It is envisioned that part of the labor
required would be supplied by family labor. At current prices, the esti-
mated annual incremental output at full development, ranging from about 5 to
15 years, would amount to about US$32 million. The increased production of
fruits and vegetables and their extended marketing season would enhance the
nutritional standard and variety of the local diet. In addition to providing
increased employment and incomes to the farmer sub-borrowers, a further
significance of the project is the fact that a greater part of the increased
output would be the result of a fuller and more efficient use of existing land
and labor resources through improved technology.
40.       The financial rates of return for the subprojects would range from
27% to 35%. With appropriate adjustments for taxes and subsidies, and based
on current prices, the economic rates of return would range from 29% to 38%.
With additional adjustments using estimated shadow prices for foreign exchange,
the rates would range from 27% to 36%. An increase in the cost of the Project
investments of 200% without increasing the value of the benefits would result
in rates from 21% to 30%. The figures would be 20% to 29% if the value of the
net benefits were to be 20A lower than projected.
Conclusion, Recommendations, Loan Conditions
41.       The proposed project would support the Government's efforts to in-
crease the output of high value crops so as to increase farm incomes and to
use labor and the available resources more fully. This would assist in the
achievement of the Government's objective of eliminating the urban-income
gap and in improving the quality of life and standard of living in the rural
areas in which nearly 50 percent of the population lives. As a result of
the increase in population, rapidly rising per capita incomes and the high
income elasticities associated with such foods, the demand for fruits and
vegetables has been increasing rapidlv. The incremental output from the
proposed project will contribute to meeting this demand.



- xiv -
42.       The following are the main loan conditions on which agreement
was reached during negotiations:
(a) An agricultural economist, and two horticulturists
specializing in green house vegetable production and
sprinkler irrigation for orchards respectively, would
be appointed and in position within three months
following Loan effectiveness (para 33);
(b) Participating Kun Cooperatives would meet the conditions
specified in para 34;
(c) Subloan repayment periods would not exceed those indicated
in para 38; and
(d) Conditions of Loan effectiveness would be the execution
of agreements between the Government and NACF, and NACF
and the PKCs which are acceptable to the Bank and covering
project lending terms and conditions indicated in para 38.
43.       Since the proposed project is basically a continuation of the
First Project, which has been implemented effectively and on schedule,
there are no major risks inherent in it. However, a greater degree of
supervision and monitoring of project implementation will be necessary
in view of the introduction of lending for new types of sub-projects.
To this end, NACF's TU is to be strengthened by the addition of three
technical officers (para 42).



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
A. BANKING AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
Financial Institutions
1.        The financial sector of Korea consists of the Bank of Korea, De-
posit Money Banks, either commercial or specialized, and non-bank financial
institutions. The Bank of Korea performs regular central banking functions
including the control and supervision of commercial banks. Commercial banks
receive funds mainly from depositors. They are authorized to make various
kinds of loans but have traditionally concentrated on short-term lending.
The majority of shares in most commercial banks is held by the Government.
Specialized Banks are directly controlled by the Ministry of Finance and, as
their names imply, were founded for particular purposes such as small scale
industry financing or agricultural financing. Their major source of funds
is loans, primarily from the Government.
2.        Commercial banks consist of:  (a) six banks with a nationwide net-
work of 412 branches; (b) ten local banks each with a smaller area of opera-
tion approximately the size of a province and a network of 184 branches; and
(c) eight branches of foreign banks. Specialized banks include the Citizens
National Bank (mainly for mobilizing small savings and financing household
loans), the Medium Industry Bank, the Korea Housing Bank, Korea Development
Bank, Korea Exchange Bank, the Central Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives
and the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF).
3.        Apart from insurance companies and the postal savings system, non-
bank financial institutions consist principally of: (a) the Korean Develop-
ment Finance-Corporation (KDFC) for medium- and long-term financing of the
industrial and transportation sectors; (b) the Korean Investment Corporation
(KIC) which acts primarily as a broker on the Korean capital market; (c) the
Korea Investment and Finance Corporation (KIFC) which provides short-term
finance to the private industrial sector; and (d) the Agriculture and Fish-
ery Development Corporation (ADFC), a Government-owned agency which takes
equity participation and provides long- and short-term loans to agro-indus-
tries. AFDC also owns five manufacturing companies engaged in food and silk
processing.                                    1
4.        In coordination with monetary and credit policies of the Govern-
ment, the Bank of Korea imposes reserve requirements for all Deposit Money
Banks. Since 1971, the reserve requirement ratios have been fixed at 16%
for time deposits and 19% for demand deposits. Corresponding ratios for NACF
and Kun Cooperatives, however, are 13% and 16% respectively. This preferen-
tial reserve ratio has been established as a means to increase the transfer
of urban savings mobilized by NACF and the Kun Cooperatives for agricultural
production purposes. The Bank of Korea is also an important supplier of
short-term funds at subsidized interest rates for NACF's credit and non-
credit operations (see Chapter C).



CHAPTER A
Page 2
Agricultural Credit
5.        Sources of Agricultural Credit - NACF has a virtual monopoly in
the provision of institutional credit to farmers. The commercial banks and
AFDC provide neglible amounts of such credit. The contribution of NACF and
its cooperatives to the supply of credit and other services for agriculture
has been expanding rapidly. Loans granted to farmers by NACF and the Kun
Cooperatives increased from W 222 billion in 1971 to W 449 billion in 1974
(the agricultural cooperative system in Korea is described in Chapter C).
6.        According to a survey carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries (MAF), the average total borrowings of farm households in 1974 stood
at about W 26,091 against average total assets of W 3,226,596. Of the total
borrowings, W 5,378 (21%) originated from cooperatives and other public orga-
nizations, W 19,558 (75%) from individuals, and W 1,155 from other sources.
The application of these borrowed funds shows that agricultural production pur-
poses accounted for about 50%, with the balance going to living expenses,
ceremonies, education, etc. Of the borrowings of W 12,929 used for agricul-
tural production purposes, about 31% were supplied by agricultural coopera-
tives and other public institutions, and 64% by private individuals. The
purchase of land accounted for 37% of the private loan funds used for agri-
cultural production purposes, while cooperative funds for such purposes were
negligible. This analysis shows that for agricultural production purposes,
high interest loans from private sources were twice as important as credit
from institutional sources. These private funds, however, were mainly used
for purposes which agricultural cooperatives do not normally finance, such as
the purchase of land. For non-productive purposes (living expenses, ceremonies,
education, etc.) credit from private lenders is the main source of funds.
Sources and Uses of Farm Household Borrowings in 1974
(in Won)
Agricultural Produc-
tion Purposes
Land                        Other
Sources of Funds            Purchases       Others        Purposes          Total
Cooperatives and
Public Organizations          234         3,801          1,343            5,378
Individuals                   3,093         5,232         11,233           19,558
Others                          178           391            586            1,155
Total                   3,505         9,424          13,162           26,091
7.        Interest rates charged by private money lenders are reportedly as
high as 3 to 6% per month. The MAF survey mentioned above shows that average
interest payments per household in 1974 were W 5,872 or 22.5% of the average
total borrowings of W 26,091 (which include borrowings from cooperatives at
rates of 9 to 12% per annum).



CHAPTER A
Page 3
Interest Rates
8.        Deposits - Interest rates on deposits of banking institutions have
been adjusted from time to time but remained at relatively high levels since
1965 when an interest rate reform was adopted as part of the monetary policy
of the Bank of Korea aimed at checking inflation, promoting savings and
stimulating the flow of funds into the organized banking system. Rates on
deposits as of July 1, 1975 range from 6 to 15% per annum. In order to
mobilize rural savings, the Primary Cooperatives of NACF pay interest rates
on deposits which are slightly higher than other banking institutions, in-
cluding the Kun Cooperatives. Interest rates on time deposits of NACF and
other banking institutions as of July 1, 1975, were approximately 3% higher
than in 1973:
Interest Rate on Time Deposits
1973             July 1, 1975
1.   3 months                  8.4%                   12.6%
2.   6 months                 10.8%                   13.8%
3.   1-2 years                12.0%                   15.0%
4.   Over 2 years             12.6%                   15.0%
9.        Loans - The rates of interest charged by NACF on its short-term
loans to depositors and member cooperatives are the same as those charged
by commercial banks (15.5% per annum). NACF's other lending operations
for agricultural production purposes or for exports are subsidized with
rates to the borrowers of 9% to 12% (3.5% for irrigation associations).
Details of NACF's lending operations are given in Chapter C.



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING
1.        Although comprising a relatively small share of total lending by
NACF, the First Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 335-KO) constituted an
important source of funding of the institution's medium and long-term lending
for on-farm investments to expand production of fruits, vegetables, meat and
other non-food grain crops and allowed NACF to play a major role in implement-
ing Government programs for agricultural diversification. To NACF, the other
important benefits of the First Project are the institutional strengthening
of NACF and its Kun Cooperatives. With the experience and expertise in
project implementation acquired under the First Project, NACF is now capable
of undertaking an expanded credit operation for agricultural diversification.
This is an appropriate development strategy which is accorded high priority by
the Government (also see para 14). The proposed Project would be a continu-
ation and expansion of the agricultural development program financed under the
First Project. It would provide medium and long-term loans, through selected
Kun cooperatives of NACF to about 7,900 farmers for investments in: (i) apple
orchard development, (ii) silkworm rearing houses, (iii) sprinkler irrigation
for orchards, (iv) greenhouses for vegetable production, and (v) on-farm
storage for fruits. Except for greenhouses, the other subprojects were already
financed under the First project. The Project would be a three-year lending
program. It would be part of a high priority Government program to increase
farm output and incomes through diversification and modernization of agricul-
tural production. The Project also aims at making more efficient and fuller
use of available agricultural resources, thereby enhancing the employment
opportunities, productivity and incomes of participating farmers. Determina-
tion of Project size was based on estimates of farmer demand and the loan
processing capacity of the lending institutions (Kun Cooperatives) over a
three-year period. In making the determination, account was also taken of
domestic consumption projections and export prospects of the Project output,
and the availability of complementary resources.
1/
Project Components
Apple Orchard Development
2.        This subproject would finance expenditures for the establishment of
about 2,100 ha of apple orchard. Major investment categories would be for
land clearing, preparation, levelling and terracing; orchard establishment,
including improved planting materials, fertilizers, pesticides, and hired
1/   Detailed features of project components are given in Chapter F.



CHAPTER B
Page 2
labor; spraying facilities and other small hand tools. In newly established
orchards it is usual to intercrop with peanuts, soybeans or other vegetables
over the first few years until the area is sufficiently shaded over by the
apple trees when this practice would no longer be feasible. Sub-project in-
vestments would include financing production inputs for the initial crop.
Investments would average about W 1.74 million per ha.
3.        Most of the apple orchards to be developed would range from one to
two ha. They would be planted with improved varieties using about equal pro-
portions of standard and dwarf rootstocks. Sub-loans would only be given for
orchard establishment in soils considered suitable by the Institute of Agri-
cultural Sciences in Suweon. Although sub-loans would be made to about 1,400
farmers in seven out of nine provinces, there would be a marked concentration
of lending within the apple growing counties.
Silkworm Rearing Houses
4.        This sub-project would provide improved silkworm rearing houses and
equipment to enable sericulture farmers to expand production of cocoons. In
addition to allowing the adoption of branch feeding of the silkworms, which
is labor saving, the investment items, in permitting more effective environ-
mental control, would also enable quality improvements in cocoon production
to be obtained. The sub-project would also finance the first year's cost of
improved inputs to existing mulberry plantings in order to raise the yields
of mulberry leaves to provide sufficient feed for the expansion in silkworm
rearing. The main purpose of this sub-project is to increase the productivity
of sericulture production without the need to expand existing mulberry acreage.
5.        Sub-loans would be made to about 3,500 sericulture farmers owning
0.35 ha or more of mulberry plantings in production.  The typical sub- oan
would finance an improved rearing house of about 20-25 pyongs (66-83 m ) floor
space, and equipment, the major items of which are pivot cocoon beds, wooden
racks and trays for silkworms feeding, and a 2-wheel cart. The rearing ca-
pacity would be five cases of silkworms a crop, or 10 cases for the two-crop
year. About 0.35 ha of improved mulberry plantings would provide sufficient
leaves to feed the quantity of silkworms envisaged. Sub-project financing to
improve the mulberry plantings would mainly be for fertilizers/manure, pesti-
cides, and hired bullock power and manual labor. The typical sub-loan would
involve investments of about W 1.14 million.
Sprinkler Irrigation for Orchards
6.        Many existing orchards, especially those growing in rather sandy
soils as on river bed land, and volcanic ash soils, suffer from insufficient
soil moisture that would be available to the plants. This in turn retards
the rate of tree growth and lowers the yields and quality of fruit production.
Thus, apple orchards in areas of lower rainfall where near drought conditions



CHAPTER B
Page 3
occur quite regularly during certain periods in the hot summer months, gen-
erally produce smaller fruit (reduced yields) with a high incidence of skin
cracks and poorer coloring. Sprinkler irrigation would be the most appro-
priate to correct this problem, though surface irrigation would be helpful
for some orchards. In recent years, some of these orchards have installed
sprinkler irrigation and have experienced significant improvements in yields
and fruit quality.
7.        About 800 farmers, each owning 2 ha or more of producing orchard,
would be given sub-loans under the sub-project. Orchards of less than 2 ha
would normally be unable to justify the use of sprinkler irrigation and would
therefore not qualify for participation. Eligible orchards would have con-
ditions described above and have available supply of water sufficient for ir-
rigation needs. Major investment items for a 2 ha orchard would include a
concrete well about 6 m deep and 2 m wide, diesel engine of about 10 hp and
pump, pipes and pipe fittings, sprinkler heads, and installation costs.
Although some of the sub-loans would be made on pear and orange orchards most
are expected to be made on apple orchards. Investments would average about
W 2.65 million for a 2 ha orchard.
Greenhouses for Vegetable Production
8.        In response to rising incomes, there is a rapidly growing demand
for fresh vegetables grown in greenhouses during the cold months of the year.
Existing greenhouses are inadequate and many are inefficient. Improved green-
houses to be provided under the sub-project would raise productivity and ex-
pand output to help meet this increasing demand for vegetables during the
period concerned.
9.        About 1,200 farmers would participate in this sub-project which would
finance the cost of constructing and equipping improved greenhouses. Major
investment items would include metal frames for the greenhouses; ventilating,
heating and irrigation equipment and facilities; and incremental working capi-
tal required to produce the initial crop of vegetables. Investments would
average about W 3.09 million for 0.1 ha of greenhouses, a typical size invest-
ment to be undertaken by the individual sub-borrower. Sub-loans would be
made to farmers who are experienced in greenhouse production, and have easy
access to important urban consuming centres.
On-Farm Storage for Fruits
10.       Apple, pear and orange growers with storage facilities, who market
only some of their production at harvest time and store the larger part of
their output for sale over the following months, have been able to obtain
prices and financial returns which are significantly higher than those re-
ceived by growers who sell all their output at harvest time. However, the
majority of the growers do not have storage, but many have begun to recog-
nize the profitability to be derived from a more orderly marketing of their
output through the use of storage. Accordingly, there is now an increasing
demand for on-farm storage facilities by such growers.



CHAPTER B
Page 4
11.       About 1,000 sub-loans would be made under the sub-project for the
financing of concrete storage buildings, wooden boxes for packing the fruits
for storage, and ventilating fans. Although the capacity of the storage
ouildings would vary according to sub-borrowers' needs, the majority would
have a floor space of about 20 pyongs (66 m2) or a maximum storage capacity
of about 30 tons of apples and pears or 20 tons of oranges. This capacity,
in rlving an investment cost of about W 2.2 million, would provide sufficient
storage for the majority of apple and pear growers with 1-2 ha and orange
growers with 0.5-1.0 ha.
Cost Estimates
12.       The total cost of the Project is estimated at about W 19,978 mil-
lion (US$41.2 million), of which about 31%, or W 6,207 million (US$12.8 mil-
lion) would be foreign exchange.
Project Cost Estimate
--------W million ----- …  …     …----US$ J00-------  % Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Fcreign   Total   Exchange
Apple Orchard
Development /a  2,702.9   949.7  3,652.6   5,573   1,958    7,531            26
Silkworm Rearing
Houses /b        2,821.5 1,152.4  3,973.9   5,818   2,376    8,194           29
Sprinkler Irri-
gation for
Orchards /c      1,166.0   954.0  2,120.0   2,404   1,967    4,371           45
Green Houses for
Vegetable
Production /d   2,449.7 1,261.9  3,711.6   5,051   2,602    7,653            34
On-farm storage
for Fruits /e   1,654.5   551.5  2,206.0   3,411   1,137    4,548            25
Subtotal    10,794.6 4,869.5 15,664.1  22,257  10,040   32,297            31
Price Contingency 2,976.7 1,337.4  4,314.1   6,137   2,758    8,895
Total        13,771.3 6,206.9 19,978.2  28,394  12,798   41,192           31
/a   2,100 ha.
/b   3,500 rearing houses (each of 20-25 pyong floor space), rearing implements,
and improved inputs for 3,500 mulberry holdings each of about 0.35 ha.
/c   For 1,600 ha of producing orchard.
/d   120 ha.
/e   1,000 storage buildings, averaging about 20 pyongs storage per building.



CHAPTER B
Page 5
13.       Detailed cost estimates are shown in Chapter G.  Estimates are
based on prices prevailing at time of appraisal (November 1975), including the
costs of installation. A price contingency of 28% had been added to Project
costs. The contingency is based on the projected price increases on the
estimated amounts that would be disbursed. 1/
Financing
14.       The total Project cost would be financed as follows:
Amount
Source                            (US$ million)
IBRD                                    20.0
Government                               8.8
Subborrowers                            12.4
41.2
Of the total estimated Project cost, about 50% would be financed with pro-
ceeds from the proposed IBRD loan (US$20.0 million), including the foreign
exchange component of US$12.8 million and some 25% of the local currency
component. The Government will finance about 20% and subborrowers 30% of the
total Project cost. This Project has a number of features which justify the
proposed provision of local cost financing in an amount of about US$7 million.
The Government is placing increasing emphasis on the diversification and
expansion of agricultural production into high value foods and other non-
foodgrain commodities, since it will lead to the more productive use of
Korea's scarce agricultural resources.  As such, the Government's efforts
in this direction deserve IBRD's support to the fullest extent possible.
NACF, which is the implementing agency and the primary source of agricultural
credit in the country, is playing a major role in the implementation of this
strategy.
1/   Projected price increases of 15% for 1976 and 10% for 1977 and 1978.



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS
C. BORROWING AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
1.        The IBRD loan would be made to the Government which would lend
the proceeds of the loan and its share of Project costs to NACF for on-
lending by NACF's network of Kun Cooperatives to subborrowers. Project
lending terms and conditions for the parties concerned are given in Chapter
D. The Technical Unit (TU) and Project Coordinating Committee established
under the First Agricultural Credit Project would also be involved in im-
plementing the proposed Project as described below.
The National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
2.        Established in 1961, NACF fulfills a dual closely integrated role.
As the apex organization of a three-tier agricultural cooperative structure
in Korea, it supervises and coordinates the operations of its member coopera-
tives, which comprises Kun (county) Cooperatives at the intermediate level,
Primary Cooperatives at the village level, and Special Cooperatives for
horticulture and livestock farmers (organizational structure is shown in Chart
15623 below). NACF also functions as an instrument for the implementation of
national agricultural policies. It is partly in pursuance of this responsibility
that NACF undertakes a variety of credit and non-credit activities, including
the distribution of agricultural inputs and supplies, marketing, banking,
mutual insurance, guidance and training. In all these operations, NACF
receives considerable financial support from the Government.
3.        NACF recently embarked on a major reorganization of the cooperative
structure. To be completed in 1977 it would involve a reallocation of func-
tions between the Primary and Kun Cooperatives whereby all short-term produc-
tion credit and non-credit activities would be undertaken by the 1,545 Primary
Cooperatives while the Kun Cooperatives would handle medium and long-term
credit and exercise audit functions over the Primary Cooperatives on behalf
of NACF.
Primary Cooperatives
4.        The Primary Cooperatives have about 1.9 million member farmers and
are multi-purpose in their functions. They have a minimum membership of 20
farmers and an area of operation of one or several villages. There were about
16,000 such cooperatives in 1968. Since then NACF has been pursuing a con-
solidation program of the Primary Cooperatives into larger, more economical
units. This merger program was completed in 1972 and NACF now sponsors 1,545
Primary Cooperatives throughout Korea. Although legally separate from NACF
and the Kun Cooperatives, the Primary Cooperatives are an essential instru-
ment for the implementation of NACF's credit and non-credit operations. The



CHAPTER C
Page 2
functions of the Primary Cooperatives include storage and distribution of con-
sumer goods and agricultural inputs, collection and storage of agricultural
products, distribution of short term production loans as well as technical
guidance and general welfare activities.
5.        Most of the Primary Cooperatives also operate a Mutual Credit scheme
through which they mobilize the savings of their farmer members and make short-
term loans to their depositors for miscellaneous purposes. This mutual credit
system was initiated in 1969 in order to reduce usury financing and has made
good progress with deposits of W 57,918 million and outstanding loans of
W 34,237 million at the end of December 1974. The unused portion of the
mobilized funds is deposited with the Kun Cooperatives and channelled to
NACF for financing its banking operations. Another source of funds of the
Primary Cooperatives is their share capital. Each member farmer must own at
least one share (W 1,000) but has one voting right irrespective of his share
capital. Part of these funds is utilized by the Primary Cooperatives for
their own subscriptions to the share capital of Kun Cooperatives which in
turn subscribe to NACF's capital.
6.        NACF has initiated a "self-support" program for the Primary Co-
operatives. To be completed by 1977, the program provides for the training
and strengthening of the management of the Primary Cooperatives, and also
aims at a reallocation of tasks between the Primary and Kun Cooperatives
which will further expand the functions of the Primary Cooperatives (see
para 8). At present 735 of the 1,545 Primary Cooperatives are considered
as "self-supporting" by NACF.
Kun Cooperatives
7.        The 140 Kun Cooperatives with their 211 branches function at the
intermediate level of the three-tier cooperative structure. NACF and Kun
Cooperatives are distinct legal and financial entities but are closely inte-
grated in regard to management, resource mobilization and lending operations.
The Kun Cooperatives handle NACF's credit and non-credit activities at the
county level and act as a channel of funds to their member Primary Cooperatives.
8.        Non-credit activities represent a large part of the operations of
the Kun Cooperatives. NACF, however, plans to delegate more of these activi-
ties to the Primary Cooperatives in the frame of the "self-support" program.
The Kun Cooperatives would then assume a role of auditing and supervising the
operations of the Primary Cooperatives and in addition would concentrate on
banking type operations, such as mobilization of deposits and provision of
agricultural development loans. The Kun Cooperatives already are playing an
important role in mobilizing deposits of which approximately 30% are utilized
for short-term commercial loans, 20% kept in reserves and the rest trans-
ferred to NACF to support its operations. With deposits of W 201,380 million
at the end of 1974 of which less than 20% were from farmers, the Kun Coopera-
tives are effectively able to mobilize urban savings for the financing of
NACF's agricultural activities.



CHAPTER C
Page 3
9.        As under the First Agricultural Credit Project, Kun Cooperatives
should meet the following conditions before they would be allowed to parti-
cipate in the proposed Project:
(1) Overdues at the end of the preceding financial year would not
exceed 10% of the loans outstanding.
(ii) The Kun Cooperatives should have at least one Loan Appraisal
Officer (LAO) working full time on Project loans and more
would be provided commensurate with increases in the work
load. LAOs would be trained by the TU.
(iii) Adequate extension support for Project farmers would be
provided.
Special Cooperatives
10       The Special Cooperatives are organized outside the three-tier struc-
ture on the basis of commodities handled rather than geographical jurisdiction.
There are 45 horticulture and 97 livestock cooperatives organized for the
purpose of promoting the production, processing and marketing of specific com-
mnodities in areas in which there is a concentration of production. They have
ahout 57,000 member farmers who may also be members of Primary Cooperatives.
Special Cooperatives are members of NACF. They are also associate members of
the Kun Cooperatives in their area. Services provided by the Special Coopera-
tives include the supply of inputs, marketing, and processing of agricultural
products. Their operations are controlled and financed by NACF.
11.       The Sericulture Associations fulfill a similar role for sericul-
ture farmers but with more emphasis on the provision of extension work. They
have a farmer membership of about 4,700. Although not presently integrated
with NACF, they work closely with the local cooperatives.
Organization
12.       Management - The General Assembly of NACF is the representative
body of the member cooperatives (Kun and Special Cooperatives). The Repre-
sentatives Meeting elected by it approves NACF's annual business plan,
budget and accounts. The Administration Board, the policy-making body of
NACF5 consists of the President of NACF (appointed by the President of the
Republic of Korea), representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture and
Finance and the Bank of Korea, and five delegates elected by the Represen-
tatives Meeting. The President of NACF is assisted by an Executive Vice-
President. Six Vice-Presidents supervise the various departments (see Chart
15622 below).
13.       Staff - NACF has a staff of approximately 2,100 of whom about a
third are professionals. NACF's Agricultural Cooperative College offers a
two-year training course in agricultural cooperation. Many of its graduates
are employed by NACF and its member cooperatives. NACF also operates two
other training institutions, the Saemaeul Leaders Training Institute for farm
leaders and the Cooperative Training Institute for its own cooperative staff.



CHAPTER C
Page 4
14.     Non-Credit Functions - NACF's non credit activities are as
follows:
(a) Distribution of Agricultural Inputs and Supplies - Sales
of fertilizer, chemicals and agricultural machinery are
made at subsidized prices and on credit.
(b) Marketing - NACF collects farm products through the Kun,
Special, and Primary Cooperatives and sells by auction in
the 20 marketing centers it operates in the major cities.
NACF also purchases certain crops under a Government pro-
gram and is engaged in agricultural processing, including
the manufacture of animal feeds. In addition, NACF operates
a Government sponsored price stabilization scheme through
purchases and storage of a limited number of agricultural
products. These operations are financed from credit pro-
vided by the Bank of Korea and Government funds.
(c) Insurance - NACF's insurance activities have grown rapidly
and include life and damage insurance. This business has
proved very profitable (para 26).
(d) Other Activities - NACF is involved in a variety of other
activities such as foreign trade of agricultural products,
warehousing, and production of fertilizers.
l5S       Credit Functions - NACF makes short, medium, and long-term loans
Lor agricultural and non-agricultural purposes to member cooperatives, agri-
cultural associations, agricultural processing industries and individuals.
Terms and conditions vary with the purpose and source of funds and are strict-
ly controlled by the Government (see Table C-4). Medium and long-term loans
are made by the Kun Cooperatives. Short-term financing of agricultural inputs
is handled by Primary Cooperatives. Agricultural loans are mainly financed
from Government and Bank of Korea funds, and N4ACF's own resources. Short-term
commercial loans to depositors and cooperatives are made from deposit resources.
Loans advanced by NACF and Kun Cooperatives grew from W 222 billion in 1971 to
W 449 billion in 1974 and outstanding loans during the period rose from W 123
billion to W 252 billion. Details of loans granted and outstanding by purpose
and sources of their funding are given in Tables C-1 and C-2.
Lending Operations
16.       Types and Terms of Loans - According to their purpose, NACF loans
are in four categories:
(a) Agricultural Loans - (i) Long-term loans have been granted
mainly to irrigation associations at 3.5% interest per
annum from funds provided by the Government. (ii) Medium-
term loans at 9% interest per annum are made either from



CHAPTER C
Page 5
NACF's own resources or directly from Government budgetary
funds lent to NACF at 5% per annum. The Government gives
to NACF an interest subsidy equivalent to 6.5% when its own
deposit resources are utilized which could otherwise be lent
for commercial purposes at 15.5% interest. (iii) Short-term
loans are granted at 12% per annum for financing agricul-
tural inputs. About two-thirds of these funds come from
NACF's own resources and the remaining one-third through
borrowings from the Bank of Korea at 6% interest per annum.
(b) Loans to Primary and Special Cooperatives - Medium-term loans
at 9% are made for the construction of storage and other
facilities from Government funds lent to NACF at 2% per annum.
Short-term working capital loans are also granted at 15.5%
from deposit resources.
(c) Agricultural Processing and Export - Short-term loans at
9% interest per annum are granted for the purchase of
agricultural raw materials for export, with funds from
credits provided by Bank of Korea.
Cd) Commercial Loans - Short-term loans are granted to de-
positors as a normal banking service at a rate of 15.5%
per annum. Such service is essential to the mobilization
of urban deposits for which NACF must compete with other
commercial banks. The deposits represent an important
source of funds for NACF.
17.       Loan Collection - Collection records are satisfactory.  The arrears
position has gradually improved and the amount of loans overdue was lower at
the end of 1974 than in 1971, despite a rapid increase in credit operations
during the period. The ratio of arrears to outstanding loans was 4.1% at the
end of 1974. Details are shown in Table C-3.
18.       Credit Guarantee Fund - Established by NACF in 1972 for borrowers
with insufficient collateral, this Fund is financed from a fee of 0.5% per
annum charged to the borrowers, a Government grant and reserves set aside
from annual profits.
Lending Procedures
19.       Lending procedures vary with the origin of the funds, the purpose
of the loans and the types of borrowers. The Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries (MAF) can have a direct influence on the selection of eligible bor-
rowers when these are agricultural development organizations, cooperatives,
farming groups, the Kun, Primary and Special Cooperatives. The Bank of Korea
plays the same role for the funds it loans to NACF on short-term for the fi-
nancing of agricultural processing enterprises. NACF lends directly to the
cooperatives for their working capital or facilities, and channels Government



CHAPTER C
Page 6
funds to the farmers through the cooperative system. Loans to farmers for
productive purposes are made either from Government funds earmarked for such
purposes, or from NACF's own banking funds. Since available funds often fall
short of meeting the credit demand, NACF in consultation with MAF makes
quarterly allocations by province and county. At the cooperative level,
a Loan Committee selects eligible borrowers. This committee consists of
the President of the cooperative, the chief of the Kun or county (or village
in the case of Primary Cooperatives), the head of the local Office of Rural
Development and at least two farmers. For medium-term production loans
which are exclusively handled by Kun Cooperatives, an appraisal of the invest-
ment is carried out before a loan can be sanctioned. In the case of short-term
production loans for the financing of agricultural inputs (partly funded
by the Bank of Korea) no appraisal is made and the loan committee of the
Primary Cooperative must reconcile the needs of individual farmers with the
allocation available.
20.       As part of the instructions issued by NACF's Loan Appraisal Depart-
ment, cooperatives are required to keep a list of all the member farmers with
information concerning their resources, production, sales and credit record.
This information is used to determine the loan eligibility of borrowers. Short-
term production loans are made under the personal guarantee of each borrower
with one or two co-guarantors. Other production loans are secured by mort-
gages on land and fixed assets. Chattel mortgages are taken on livestock,
machinery and equipment.
21.       Powers of loan sanction have been increasingly decentralized by
NACF. Primary Cooperatives can approve loans up to W 300,000. Kun Coopera-
tives and Provincial Branch Offices are limited to ceilings of W 7 million
and W 10 million respectively. Loans for more than W 10 million must be ap-
proved by the President of NACF.
Resources
22.       As of the end of 1975, NACF's total resources amounted to W 663.9
billion as follows:
(In W million)
Share Capital, Unappropriated Earnings
and Reserves                                   10,413
Borrowings from Government                       70,060
Foreign Loans                                    24,416
Borrowings from Bank of Korea                   187,951
Deposits                                        367,753
Agriculture and other Bonds                       3,309
Total                                     663,902



CHAPTER C
Page 7
23.        Borrowings from Governmlent comprise loans from budgetary funds
made available to NACF at 2% to 5% interest per annum.  Borrowings from the
Bank of Korea at interest rates varying frori 2,% to 6" are used for financing
NACF's fertiLizer operations, purchase and export of agricultural products,
and credit sales of agricultural inputs. Deposit resources represent an
increasingly large share of NACF's total resources. Savings are mobilized
from farmers by the Primary Cooperatives under the Mutual Credit Scheme and
from urban depositors by the Kun Cooperatives and NACF. Excess deposit funds
after allowance for legal reserves and commercial loans are ultimately trans-
ferred to NACF for the financing of its banking operations (see Chapter A para
4). Interest rates paid on time and savings deposits are fixed by the Govern-
ment. They range from 12.6% to 15%.
Financial Condition
24.        Basis of Accounting - As is conventional in most other financial
institutions in Korea, NACF states its income on an actual receipts basis
and expenses on an accrual basis in its annual accounts. As a result income
accrued and receivable is not shown as an asset and undistributed profits
are understated. NACF's and Kun Cooperatives' balance sheets and income
statements on cash-cum-accrual basis of accounting appear in Tables C-5, C-6,
and C-7. NACF's audited accounts appear in Tables C-8 and C-9. The account-
ing system also does not provide for a clear allocation of administrative
costs among the various activities and departments. However, measures to
improve the accounting and financial reporting systems would be implemented
in the near future (para 27).
25.        Equity.  At the end of 1975 NACF's equity was as follows:
(in million IJon)
Paid-in Capital                                 3,725
Capital Surplus                                   417
Reserves                                          767
Unappropriated earnings                         5,504
10,413
Although NACF's equity is small in relation to its total borrowings, this
should not be of concern since the majority of the borrowings comprise funds
provided by the Government and Bank of Korea for the implementation of Govern-
ment directed programs (para 2, 16, and 23). NACF has also been pursuing
efforts to increase subscriptions to its share capital by the Kun Cooperatives.
By the end of September 1975, total subscriptions of the Cooperatives amounted
to W 2,943 million or 2.7% of their outstanding borrowings from NACF.



CHAPTER C
Page 8
26.       Financial Performance.  NACF's audited accounts show the following
breakdown of its profits:
(in million Won)
1973      1974      1975
General Business Department           -1,277    -2,149   -1,653
Banking Department                       644        -47       960
Insurance Department                   1,075      3,146    2,511
Total net income                         442        950    1,818
The losses of the General Business Department were reportedly due to the
expansion of NACF's non-profitable activities (such as the supply of fertil-
izers and chemicals) and the overall increase in their procurement costs
following the energy crisis.  NACF's auditors pointed out that the rate of
losses to revenues showed a reduction from 0.9% in 1973 to 0.4% in 1975.
As for the losses of the Banking Department in 1974 the explanations are:
(i)  Effective January 24, 1974, the interest rates payable by
NACF on time deposits increased substantially while the
rates applied to loans remained unchanged thus reducing
NACF's margin.
(ii)  The devaluation of the Won in December 1974 resulted in
a foreign exchange loss of W 106 million in 1974. In 1973
a foreign exchange gain of W 198 million had been recorded.
(iii)  The 1973 accounts showed as revenues interest receivable on
the total outstanding loan balance, including the doubtful
accounts. In 1974, however, uncollectable loans were identi-
fied separately from doubtful accounts and accrued interest
on uncollectable loans was not included in the revenues.
While the explanations for the losses incurred by the Banking Department
in 1974 seem reasonably substantiated, it appears that the General Business
Department should keep a closer control on its costs and obtain appropriate
compensation from the Government for the losses incurred from operations
undertaken at the insistence of the Government (para 27).
Accounts and Audit
27.       Although NACF maintains separate accounts for all its organizational
units and major activities, not all the accounts are sufficiently comprehen-
sive or independent, nor are they recorded in a manner which will allow NACF
to obtain accurate and appropriately detailed financial statements for each
of its activities. Furthermore, accounting functions are handled by various
departments entailing unnecessary duplication of work. The main purpose of
the Management Study provided for in the First Project is to correct this



CHAPTER C
Page 9
major weakness in NACF's accounting and financial reporting systems. The
Study was completed in December 1975. Major recommendations include: (i) the
need to measure and value services of centralized service departments and to
charge the cost of such services to other departments which use them; (ii)
introduction of an accounting code structure which will allow all departments
and activities to maintain independent accounting records; and (iii) creation
of a consolidating accounting function to reconcile and eliminate duplication
of transactions, and to prepare activity and other formal financial statements
at each organizationsl level and for NACF as a whole. Systems to implement
these recommendations which were developed under the Study are being tested
using a number of selected departments. Implementation of the systems, to be
phased over several months, is expected to provide NACF with, inter alia, in-
dependent financial and accounting statements by department and major activity.
This will also provide NACF with a proper basis to seek appropriate compensa-
tion from the Government for the losses incurred in the implementation of
Government directed programs.
28.       As required under the First Project, NACF's accounts have been
auditied by independent auditors acceptable to IBRD. The audit had been
satisfactory. This requirement would be maintained under the proposed Proj-
ect. NACF would maintain a separate Project account which would be audited
annually and sent to IBRD, together with a copy of the audited balance sheets
and income statements covering its total operations within four months after
the close of each financial year. NACF would also forward to IBRD quarterly
reports covering the Project's progress within two months following the end
of each quarter.
The Technical Unit
29.       Under the First Agricultural Credit Project, a Technical Unit (TU)
was set up by NACF in 1973 to supervise and monitor Project implementation.
A Project manager, at the section chief level, is heading the TU and is re-
sponsible to the head of the Foreign Loan Office who, in turn reports to one
of the six Vice-Presidents of NACF. The TU has performed satisfactorily
under the First Project.
30.       While individual loans under the First Project are appraised and
disbursed by the Kun Cooperatives, the TU supervises their project loan
operations, including the provision of technical advice and training the
Loan Appraisal Officers of the Cooperatives in proper appraisal and super-
vision. The TU is also responsible for monitoring the project in all its
aspects.
31.       No substantial change in the functions of the TU would be neces-
sary to implement the proposed Project. However, assurance should be ob-
tained from NACF that a Kun Cooperative would be allowed to participate in
the Project only when the TU is satisfied that adequate extension support
would be available to its Project farmers. The TU shall further ensure that
the extension services are satisfactory and adequate through frequent visits
to the Cooperatives and to the Project subborrowers.



CHAPTER C
Page 10
32.       At present, the TU consists of a Manager, two Assistant Managers,
two horticulturists, two experts each in sericulture and livestock, and
administrative support staff. Under the proposed Project, the TU would
be strengthened by the inclusion of at least three additional technical
staff comprising an agricultural economist, and two horticulturists spe-
cializing in green house vegetable production and sprinkler irrigation for
orchards respectively. The agricultural economist would be mainly responsi-
ble for the financial and economic aspects of the Project, including train-
ing Loan Appraisal Officers in proper appraisal which at present is done
essentially by the Manager. One of the Assistant Managers would be in charge
of administration, and the other would handle Project matters, including
training. The three additional technical staff would be appointed and in
position within three months following Loan effectiveness.
33.       In order that the TU would be able to retain its technical experts,
especially those who are experienced and whose services are therefore essen-
tial to the effective and timely implementation of the Project, it is proposed
that these officers, when promoted, would continue to remain with the TU
and would not be transferred out as is the present practice. The turnover
of the technical staff which had some disruptive effect on the TU's work
under the First Project would accordingly be minimized.
34.       The present TU Manager is a junior officer (section chief) when
compared with the officials of other NACF and Government departments whom
he has often to deal with on matters concerning the First Project. Conse-
quently, his dealings with the officials concerned had not been as effective
nor expeditiously dealt with. To correct this shortcoming, it is suggested
that the TU Manager's position under the proposed Project be upgraded to that
of a Department Deputy Manager level.
Project Coordinating Committee
35.       A Project Coordinating Committee was established under the First
Agricultural Credit Project to ensure coordinated planning and execution of
project operations between NACF and other Government agencies. Constituted
under the Chairmanship of the Vice President of NACF responsible for the
Project, the Committee included representatives of MAF, Office of Rural
Development, Economic Planning Board, Ministry of Finance, and Agricultural
Development Corporation (ADC), with the Project Manager (para 29) as its
secretary. The Committee assumed the following responsibilities:
(a) coordinate project investments with related
Government programs;
(b) assure cooperation of administrative and technical
extension staff of MAF and ADC; and



CHAPTER C
Page 11
(c) review progress, identify difficulties and recommend
measures to remove obstables to project execution.
36.       Meeting at regular intervals, the Committee had played an
important role in the timely and effective implementation of the
First Project. In view of this, it is suggested that the Committee
be maintained to carry out a similar role under the proposed Project.



JUAPT4,;2 C
I-a 3~ .2
KOREA                                             Ta'>Ie C-1
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Outstanding Loans of NACF and Kun Cooperatives by Source of Funds and Purpose
(in million won)
December 31,    1970            1971            1972           1973            1974           1975 -/
From Banking Funds
I.  Agricultural Loans
a.  Short-term Production                         5,729          7,990         13,387          11,814         14,098         24,825
b.  Medium-term Production and Equipment         17,215         21,611         23,931          26,059         31,594         35,504
c.  Short-term Loans to Institutions             5,002           7,795          8,465         10,111          20,024         21,066
d.  Other Short-term Agricultural Loans           9,224          8,336          8,435          10,532         17,612         15,178
e.  Usury Debt Settlement (Medium-term)           1,521          1,474             761            720            677             672
Total Agricultural Loans         38,691           47,206        54,979         59.236          84,005         97,245
II,  Short- and Medium-term Fishery Loans              4.634          5.134           4.024          4,228          5,222           6,118
III. Other Short-term Loans
a.  Export Loans                                  2,404          4,334          5,804           6,760         40,575         41,343
b.  Trade                                         1,830          1,305          1,015           3,756          1,133           2,621
Total Other Short-term Loans    4,234             5,639          6,819          10.516         41.708         43,964
IV.  Savings Promotion Loans
a.  Commercial Loans                             13,069         17,482         23,575          27,102         36,335         37,481
b.  Others                                       10,360         12,187          9,627          11,962         20,479          20,451
Total Savings Promotion Loans  23,429            29,669         33.202         39,064          56,814         57,932
V.  Agricultural Machinery Industry                    -               -              -              -                269            265
VI.  Long-term Credit Debentures                        -               -             3,960          3,850           3,264          3,220
Total Banking Fund Loans         70.988           7648         116.894                                       208744
From Budgetary Funds
I.  Counterpart Funds
a.  Agricultural Modernization                    1,177          2,734          2,532           2,148          1,758           1,747
b.  Assistance to Primary and Special Coops         822            510          1,415           1,159          1,206           1,325
c.  Other Agricultural Loans                        118            102              97             90             83              83
Total Counterpart Funds            2,117          3,346          4,044           3,397          3,047           3.155
II.  Budgetary Operations Funds
a.  Agricultural Production                       2,963          4,124          4,948           4,147          3,546           3,490
b.  Rural Development                               412            320             279            222             158            150
c.  Special crops                                 9,074         10,101         11,691          12,716         12,840          13,462
d.  Others                                          349            506          5,218           5,557          9,198           8,180
Total Budgetary Operations
Funds                           12.798          15,051         22,136          22,642         25.742         25,282
III.  Agricultural Price Stabilization                  1,931           1.473         1.194          .1037            1.319            673
IV.  Long-term Irrigation Loans                       13,664          11.778         14.164         16.029          17,906         20,231
V.  Foreign Loans                                     3.791           3.772          3.723          4.401           5.063         11,513
VI.  National Investment Fund                              71           -              -               -             7,790         15.717
Total Budgetary Fund Loans        34.372         35.420                         472506                         76,571
GRAND TOTAL                      105,360        123,068        148,245         164,400        252,149         285,315
1/ As of June 30.
EAP Projects Department
December 15, 1975



JHAPTER C
Page 13 -
Table C-2
KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Purposewise Analysis of Loans Granted by NACF and Kun Cooperatives During each year
(in million won)
1971        1972         1973         1974
I. Agricultural Loans
a.  Long-term (irrigation)                                   3,403        2,819        2,287        2,463
b.  Production and Farmers Increased Income Progress
(i)  Medium term                                       13,837       18,653       14,982        29,062
(ii)  Short term                                         19,855      23,995       51,910       101,454
c.  Agricultural Machinery and Modernization                 1,992        3,418          938          132
d.  Other Agricultural Loans                                 4,813        5,236        1,095          594
Sub-Total                               43.900       54,121      71,212       133,705
II. Fostering of Special and Primary Coops
a.  Short-term (operation)                                   5,147        4,682       10,378       15,504
b.  Medium-term (facilities)                                 1,998        3,210          483        5,143
Sub-Total                                7.145        7,892      10.861        20,647
III.  Agricultural Marketing                                       3,331        3.882        5,094         5,034
IV.  Export Preparation and Foreign Trade (Short-term)           22.645       29.804       51,409        88,450
V. Fishery Loans
a.  Short-term (operation)                                  18,364       17,324       16,059       33,631
b.  Medium-term (facilities)                                 1,724         -            -             -
Sub-Total                               20.088       17,324      16,059        33,631
VI.  General Commercial Loans                                   125.303      131,400      126,640       162,018
VII. Special Long-term Loan for Improvement of
Farm Enterprises                                              -           5,654        6,052         5,549
Total                                  222.412      250.077      287.327      449.034
EAP Projects Department
December 15, 1975



KOREA
SECOND AGRICLnLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Collections and Overdues of NACF and Kun Cooperatives
(in m,ill ion won)
NACF 1/                                              Kun Cooperatives                                         NACF and Kun Cooperatives
1971         1972           1973          1974               1971          1972          1973          1974                1971          1972          1973          1974
1. Loans outstanding of the beginning of
the year                                          39,094        39,957        45,173        50,318              66,267        83,112        103,072       114,083             105,360       123,068       148,245       164,400
2.  Loans advanced during the year                     76,779        98,918       124,653       224,148            145,633       151,159        162,674       224,886             222,412       250,077       287,327       449,034
3.  Loans recovered during the year                    75,916        93,702       119,508       178,710            128,788       131,199        151,663       182,576             204,704       224,900       271,171       361,285
4.  Loans outstanding at the end of the year           39,957        45,173        50,318        95,756             83,112       103,072        114,083        156,393            123,068       148,245       164,400       252,149
5.  Loans overdue at the end of the year                2,775         2,231         1,787         1,657              8,604         9,344          7,957         8,755              11,376        11,575         9,744         10,412
6.  Proportion of S to 4                                  6.9%          4.9%          3.6%          1.77.              10.4%          9.1%           7.0%          5.6%               9.2%          7.8%           5. 97         4.1%
1/ Figures exclude loans from NACF for supporting Kun Cooperatives and their business
EAP Projects Departmeet
Deceenber 15. 1975



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Typos end Tetns of NACF Loans By Source of Funds
LendinB Terms
Project           Eligible                            Selecting                Interest    Tocal Repay-  fr.ee
A. BANKLHG FUNDS                                                            Purpose                    Sp.n.sr           Borrowers                           Agueny                   Rate          meet period   Period                               Remarks
1.  PrEduction aed Equip ent (GOK 0     bsidioed opsestiems)
1.  Serieeltore                                              Silk worm rearimg hou..e               MAF              Foreieg grasps, Sertiultoro         Ls.n Coppittee             97               S            2        NACF receives free  G-vernemnt -  iste.eet sebsidy
for solleeti-c use                                      An..ciation, Primary Coops                                                                             f 6.5%  (15.5%    9E) as a  o.-pemsa tie o far t isg ite
ownReds which cou ld otherwise be leer or UBB.5%
2.  MHshroPP                                                 Reri.s honors, scodiog
materials, chemi..le                   MAF              Fatocs                              Lose Cocasittoo            97              2 to 8    up to 2 years
3.  Grreo  Rouses                                            Vinyl green ho.sce                      MAF             Farmers                             Lose Corasittco            9%               8            3
4.  Grace Fields                                             FeecieR  of 9-ons fiSlds               MAF              Farmers                             Proovicial Gpvereor        97               a            3
5.  Feed 8upply                                              Buffer stookh                           MAF             Agritultaal Coop- and Feed
Prod.cers                          NACF                       9%            4 months
6.  Rrel .nd Fishery Ares Developsent, S-em-nl               Side-lime production                    MAF             Farm-im  groups                     MAF                        97               5            2
?40-t.
7.  Wsrehessa                                                Constsuctioc of WArehooeee             MAF              NACF Marketing Centers              MAF                        9%              10            S
8.  Matel Credit                                             Assiet-soe to Primary Coops            MAF              Primary Coops                       NACF                       97               8       Lomp .s- repay ent
9.  Farm Mechb stsstise                                      Sprayer, Pumps, Tillers                MAF              Farmers, local orgI nieitiins    Kto  Coops                    9%            3 to 9        Na graee
10.  Shiitkc                                                  Purchase of Logs                   Forestry Offi-c    Farmers                               Loam Cossittes             97%              5             2
11.  Eprt                                                     Collection and processIng of                                                                Prasidemt of the
Shiitek.                          Forestry Offite       Foroatry Coops                      Forestry Office            9%               5            2
12.  Fr-it                                                    Apple, Peate Orange, Prrinsee          MAF              Farmers                             Loam Ccseittee             97,             12             7
13.  Ten and Herb.                                            Praduetion of Tea and Heebe            MAF              Fareer6                             Loat  Conittee             97,              6             3
14.  Livestock                                                Korean cattle                           MAF             Farmers                             Loam Csittee               9%               8             2
lB.  Dairy Productiom                                         Milking  -hine., Marketing             MAF              Livestock Special Coops,            Loam Cnittee               9%               8             2
Csnters                                                 F_rmers
11.  BW supeorted  Berations
Short-term Prod.etios Loans                                  Porohese of inpota                      NACF            Farmers                             Losa  Cosseittee          12%            1 year                    Frm NOR at 6% per seu  far 1 year,  epress sties
3AR to 40% af the tbta1 lo-am
Bewelapmeei of Aaro-IndastrieS                               Pro .ssoing of Agricultoral Prodects  BOK               Enterprises                         BOK                        9%            1 year                    Fram BOK at 3.5% for I year mr lees
Export Fund (Agriceltorn1 & Fishery Products)                CollstioD and storage of cocoons,
amehsamos,  lsvI ro etctA.             MDterpris.s                              BDK                                    97            180 days                  Fram BOK at 3% per          far 135 to 240 days.
FPetiliser Boi.esss                                          Starage of fertiliser                   KAF             NACF Bei.neos  Dep-rtert            BOK                    Ne on-londing                               Pram BOK at 2% per arm  for one year
III.  Operatises Fram NUF Ose Feeds OBeV
Aarineltarsl Etererises  ed Aasooiatisns
1.  Serinolture                                              Short-term seeds                        NACF            Fsdssatioe sf Forostry Coops.,   NACF                         155%           Sbhort-term
Serice1ters sed M.iberry Tree
2.  FPm Esterprise                                           Short-tees .eeds                        NACF            Farsing  aterpri...                 KCn Ceops                  13.5%         1 year
3.  Irrigation                                               ShErt-tSm  nleeds                       NACF            Leed Dsv.lope1   t   Coops          NACF                       15.5%         1 year
4.  Fishieg                                                  Short-team  mssds                   Office ef Fisheries  Fishieg E.teeprises                 Fishary A-soiatioms   155.%              1 year
5.  Primary Caop-                                            Shart-term  seeds                       NACF             Primary Coops                      Ken Ceeps                  15.5%         1 year
6.  Spesil Caspa                                             Short-t.rm  needs                       NACF             Speaial Coeps                      NACF                       155.%          1 year
Nevieme Pr_otion
1   Tsaeh.es Welfare As.ecieti.e                             Edenstiom  fees, welfare                NACF             Tec.e.sh   (depositors)            Welfare Asaciatios-   15.5h              1 year
2   LE.as o- It.tBlm ent DBposits                            Personal loses                          NACF            DBpasitors                          Ktn Coops              12 ta 15.5%       2 years
3   C      .rciL1 leers                                      Cemrcial                                NACF            Depasitors or potential clisets Kan Ceope                      15.5%          1 year                                                                     0 PM
4.  Ovsrdrfts                                                CMests                                  NACF             Chenking A-acoete                  KEn Coops                  17.5%         6   .ooths or less
NAP Pmojseta Department
D.e_br 15, 1975



KOREA
SECiTD AGRLCILTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Typos and Terps of NACF Loans BI  Scarce of Funds
Project          EliSible              seleotiog         Interest rota      Total Repay-                          Interest        Mepaynont
B.P                                                                              onoEr                                          Morronorr            kap-sx             to Por ere        se BPt Deriod      Gace Period         Rotr            Period        Gr-ne
1 Irrig-ton end Land -evnilP-ent Fond
hgbicnlt-ral Ir-igtion Davelop-seot and                  ReservoIr, Pumping Statics, River Bed          MAR              ADC, Load De.         MAF                     3.5%             35                    5             2%                35           5
AdiS.L-nce tn Land Development Associat.ont               Development                                                    Asatoni.ti-
ID    Counterpart Fund
Farm Mod-rmitietn end                                    Land r-cl1-ati-p, M-chinpry cod sto-nag        MAY              Foat. s, Primary    top Cocps                 9%           2 to 5 years         Vartiblo           22                10           5 (fr e Gmeewmn)
Facilities fot Frinary end Special Coops                 fact) ities                                                      nd Spatial Coops                     8a for --oroga                                               5h                30           5 (from  USID)
111  Bidgtarey F-nds
a.   ur-1 S-vtelpmenrt                                      Sas--t  MPvement                              MAF              Fporma-, Leading    hAF                       Gratis       8 yeO-e Pr Desa  3 years or lees    Gratia                10           5
b.  Aglrni-ve-a1 Pradant-on                                Agriculturl F-odoctio  IDnr..F-
(mainly for ric- sod blrey)                   MdAF             Parmere               MAF                     9%               5                     2              5%               10           5
c.  PnrOetry                                               Pfestration                                    Office of       FPrm.e, Federstion  Peed of Forsatry           9l                5                    2              5%               10           5
Fareesyt         of Fores ry Canpo    Offica
d.  Settlnee.t of Agrttulrl-l Eigh sabtl                   Livestock, Seri-lpt-re, CTsh Crops             Ministry of       Agricult-rol College
nd College Gradostes                                                                                  Rd-at-ion        & figh School        FIAP                     97                5                    2              5%               10           5
e   Leading Farmers Suppoting Foals                        Cash Cropn end FPrn sidelin.t                  MAF              Lsoding FP r-e        LCeading FPrmmrs        9%                5                     2             5%               10           5
Cao=git tea
f. Ginseng                                                 P-ch..es        storage of Gineeng              noopoly  ffitc  Gine.og Topper-,      M-onopoly Offic.        9%                1                    -              5%               10           5
a-me Fed-r-ins
g.  Feed                                                   Fe-d  tester instellatioo                      MPA               Farmers              Loom Caneitton          97                5                     2             57               10           5
h.  Tob..o                                                 Coantrutian of n--sery beds and                Monopoly          Toos.como-pp         M.onopaly Offine        97        4 years    . len.             1             5b               10            5
drying fentlities                             Office
IV.  Fertili-er                                                  Feetili-er Feadoction  -ed Utili-ation        MAM F-n, Pd--  MAM                                             27h              10                     5             27                10           5
V.  Fa   Che-it-l-                                              Application sad S-orege                       XAF               Faers, NACF          PA- iretia                               10                     5            Cent-s             10           5
VI.  Price Stabilia-ttne   Pond PFroP see &  n.roge of farm  prodantn                                           MAF              K.n Coops one         MAF            Gratis fer befer                                               52                1
Special Tonpa                        t-kobs;97 fPo     9  -antho ur Dnss
purchase
Vill  SeentAl Fore"sts had                                        Refone-tretlon                                 OPtion of        Fed-rati-n of                        3% during groan                                      1l  during gra-            35          15
Forestry         Forestry Coopt,                      6% thernafter            35                    15    27 th-efter
Kyn & Ri-doing CTopn
VIII.  NetieI al tDd  through (BOK)
a   Power fill- a                                           Prodnction    af Pacer Tiller-                MAF              Manof-ctarere         NACF Lon                97,       90 to 120 doys                              7. 57.             8         o grate
P-sahbse of Pacer Tillers                     MAP               Farme- n - -         C     ittee             92                7                No grate           7.5%               8
b. S1lp.jmed                                                Slopeltnd Desepmenn                           MAF               Proviociel or        lAF                     97                8                     3              "                 *'
County Govermor
t.  Gean  Ln  O   Pasture                                  Grs.elond Dvelop-ent 4 Cettl  Rearing          MAF              FP-erm                MAF                     9%                8                     3
d. Urehossing                                              Food Groin St-rage                             MAF               NACF and CTapa       KAF                     97                8                     3
EAP PreJeNjt tpt_t
D.c_b r 1!5, 1975



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CKEDIT PROJECT
Condense.d Balance Sheet of RACF
(in illion won)
- - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -     _      - A S S E T S - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -           - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  L I A B I L I T I E S - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1970       1971        1972      1973       1974                                                                                    1970      1971       1972      1973       1974
CHEDIT AND BANKIKG                                                                                                             CREDIT AND BANKING
C.n                                               2,7 02     2,533       1,604     3,882      2,410                             Onpoaita:
Dapnnit in BRkh                                   07 60      5,306      12,361    24,016    20,677                               a)  Sto- Run Copnrtiv-                               19,475    19,794    25.639    53,735    95,551
snoo. iEn d                                          52         67         114        136       175                              b)  Pro-  Pvblio                                      7,402      7,967     9,357    11,605    14,472
Bereovign:s
Loon. to Ktn Coop.retive-                        42,356     59,240      70,612    95,104   147,864                               a)  Prow BRnk of Korn:
Lo.en Fran Baaklg Foodn                          16,540     19,405      21,902    25,449    67,445                                      i)  for  -Rin  .aa   rdit                      2,673      9,765     8,500    15,770    78.565
L en. from Budgetay Fondn                        18,916     16,916      19,637    21,239    24,073                                    Fi)  foe fenotilfo bK lo                        30,000    32,000    34,000    433000    20.000
Lo.-  fro  Fo-iga Fonda                           3,638      3,636       3:634     3,631      6.238                             4b)  Fro  Go.ornat of Kor-                            4B,541    50,143    59.717    64,540    70,606
Forign Loan                                           8.117      4,957     4,908      4,724    16,818
Miseallooneoa  Claiat                               8,262      14,503     17,184    10,221    25,282                             Agei.olttral Credit D beotor2B  83                                    81     4,043      3,952      3,385
Inte-nffioe Anoowntn                                  26,407    36,620    50,455    58,281    71,769
Sob-Total                   101.226    121,606    148.048   183.677   292.164                              Yit.llanaon.  Liebilitina                              4,866    15,254      9,057    11,894    19,838
Sob-Total                         146.564   175.481   205 576   267.501   3B0.804
MMMUTUAL N8URiCE                                                                                                               MUTUAL IN8URANCE
DBpo it                                           1,945      2,272       1,967      1,845     1,509                            R...rve.  aod Other Liabilitie-                         9,409    12,677    16.943    22,750    30.196
L.o                                               2,029      2,415       3,637     4,422      6,879
Find and ath-r A..ta                              1,530       3,926      8,493      9,832    13,530                          RUSINESS
Sob-Total                     5.504      8.613      14.097    16.099    21.918                             A.co.unt Payable nnd Adva-on Ma.iptn                    6,518      8,501    12,879    15,314    22,862
Other Liabilitina                                      4,199      1,988     4,220    12,769    42,024
RenieAblan cad Advnne Paymuata                   11,700     1',617      19,490    26,156    53,725
Inventmy                                         22,741     25,910      22,022    34,538    50,874
Fixd Au..ta                                       3,116      3,634       4,218     4,944      6,652
Mieoell nwaow  Annat                             17,083      24,086     34,891    56,857    55,782
Sob-Total                    62.640     71i247      80.621   122,495   167.033                                                 Sob-Total                          10.717    10.489    17.099    28,083    64 886
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Paid-ia Capital                                           492       597        887     1,367      2,371
R. ieven (inclodiaR owdinteibotad pr-fit)               2,125     2,156      2,187     2,235      2,435
Sub-Total                         21617       2.753      3,074     3,602      4.806
Nat Profit fSe  the Year                                     63        66         74       335        423
Total Mannat                169.370    701.446    242,766   3 271   4816115                                                    Total Llabilitie                   69370   201.466   242.766   327.271          1
EAP Proje-ta Depar-ae-t
D-coober 15, 1975



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Con-ulid-Oud Balnce Sheet Ef Kun (County) Coonr-tiv-u
(In million won)
-~~~ ~ ~ ~ -  -   -   -  -  -   -   -  -_                             Assets   -    -    -  -  -  -  -   -   -   -                                                                               Liabiliti -   --     -   -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -  -  -   -
1970      1971       1972       1973      1974                                                                                    1970       1971       1972      1973       1974
CREDIT AND BANKING                                                                                                                  CREDIT AND BANKING
Cash and Deposit with Bnks                         30,248    30,428      39,395    74,316   101,418                                 Deposits                                          88,014   101,D58   123,384   157,766   201,380
Borruwigs                                         42,681    59,344    70,869    95,337   148,040
Lons:  a)  Fr-n Banking Funds                        52,928    66,770      80,321    90,727   123,160                                      winr     L- biliti                           15,505    192,904    16,543   39,119    515980
b)  Fran  Budgetary Funds                    11,665    14,732      21,901    21,866    27,856
e)  From Te-pn-ary Debentures                 1,521     1,474         761       720       677                                                Sub-Tutn1                        146 200   173.506   210.796   283.213   401.010
d) Fro-  Fareign Funds                          153       136          89       770     4,700
e)  On behalf af NACF                        12,978     9,887     12,244    14,105    16,225                               Oth-r Basins
Total Lo.se                    79,245    92,999    115,316   128,188   172,618                                  Ae..unBt Payublo and Advauns Ree.ipto             30,815    29,436    25,481    2Z,017    42,444
Mutusi Enonranro                      ~~~~~~    ~~2,929  2,418  3,642  4,412    7,016
Mi.nallaeans A ..ata                                2,113      3,801      3,855    12,840    28,648                                 Mluenilnoaus Llnbtlittss                           4,235      4,887     6,729      2,236     2,548
Ister-uffi.e Ateannta                              26,761    37,357      42,902    52,323    80,156
S.b-Tet.1                         37.079    36.741    85.852    28.665    52 808
Sub-Total                     138.367   164.585    201.468   267,667   382.840
PFid-in Capitsl                                    1,060      1,331     1.971      3,005     4,802
Other B.sut-on                                                                                                                        .eserven Including U.diatributod Profit            3,886      4,110     4,142      4,241      4,705
Anansatasu inabls and Adonas. Paynts               14,524    14,271      15,637    15,346    18,987                                 Cnpite1 oud Resne..-                               4,946      5,441     6,113      7,246     9,507
Inventory                                          21,629    21,255      17,308    16,281    36,084
FPled ASsets                                        7,360      8,697     11,604    12,755    15,444                                 Not Profit for thd  Year                             228        105        135       593     1,059
Other Assets                                        6,573      6,985      6,879      7,668    10,229
Sab-Ttal                      50.886    51.208      51.428    52,050    80D744
Tot-s  Aeats                  1           _ 215.793    24635849                                                                 Total Litbilitiea and Capital 188 453   215.793   252.896   3.971               5
IARP-bnjents D 1r97nt
hbZc er 15, 1975



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Income and Expenditure of NACF and Kun Cooperatives
(in million won)
NACF                                                                                    Kun Cooperatives
1971                1972                1973                1974                                1971                1972                 1973                1974
Income
Interest and Commission                                13,255               15,160              16,096              29,076                              27,004              29,767              31,042               37,657
Income from Business 0 eration                           9,620              10,867              12,976              20,122                              43,915              55,350              99,473              161,393
Income from the Mutual Insurance                       14,694               18,522              24,192              31,371                               6,546               7,108               8,504               10,665
Total                                       37,569               44,549              53,264              80,569                              77,465              92,225             139.019              209.715
Direct Expenditure
Interest Payment                                        11,274              13,029              13,066              25,441                              20,850              22,780               22,980              27,470
Direct Cost of Business Operation                        9,294              10,567              12,726              19,482                              41,585              53,279               97,580             158,698
Expenditure on Mutual Insurance                         14,367              18,145              23,823              30,979                               6,024               6,496                7,985               9,819
Total                                       34,935               41,741              49,615              75,902                              68,459              82_555             128,545              195.987
Gross Profit                                  2,634               2,808               3,649               4,667                               9,006                9.670              10.474              13,728
Less
Overhead Expenditures
Wages and Salaries                                     1,720               1,891               2,380               2,979                               5,684               6,327                7,252               9,221
Other Expenditures                                       891                 866                 858               1,199                               3,108               3,015                2,775               3,863
Total                                         2,611               2,757               3,238               4,178                               8.792                9.342              10,027              13.084
Net Profit from Operations                       23                  51                 411                  489                                 214                 328                 447                  645
Other Income                                              40                  47                  40                   50                                352                  333                 261                 255
Other Expenses                                            28                  60                 129                  177                                487                  597                 270                 235
Net Income from Other Period                              31                  36                  13                   61                                  26                  71                 155                 395
Total Net Profit                                 66                  74                  335                 423                                 105                 135                  593               1.059
EAP Projects Department                                                                                                                                                                                                     a H|L
December 15, 1975



CTAPTER C
Page 20
Table C -8
KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Condensed Balance Sheet of NACF 1/
(in million won)
1972         31974               1975
…----------------------------------  Assets   ------------ …------------------
Cash and Deposits                  17,226     29,044     25,o62      36,059
Receivables:
Loans and Overdrafts           117,872    149,814    251,219    333,581
Trade and others                29,300      39,811     53.457     64.912
147,172    1896250  304,676    398,493
Less allowance for doubtful
accounts and loan losses        46000       6.200      8 115      8,678
143,172    183,425               389,815
Inventories                         19,h436    18,091     37,479    109,334
Due from Government of Korea        40.,490    71,731     80,871    189,494
Property and Equipment              3,673       4,092      7,202      9,037
Securities                           7,511      9,109     11,100      9,722
Other Assets                         2,_095     3455       4,609      7,824
Total Assets            233,603    318,947    462,884    751,285
__________________---_----------  Liabilities  ---------------------------
Deposits                            85,587    131,929    196,577    367,753
Trade payable                       14,002     18,437     28,395     42,584
Claims and insurance reserves       12,082     16,788     20,994     27,839
Accrued interest and other
liabilities                         3,263     10,980      7,282     15,062
Reserve for employees severance      1,402      1,585      1,868      1,898
Borrowings and other debt         112,671    133,499    200,212    285, 736
Equity:
Share capital                       887      1,367      2,372      3,725
Capital surplus                    400         429        437        417
Reserves                            493        511        657        767
Retained earnings                 2 816      3,422      4,o90   5_504
Sub-Total R  e7                                           10r413
Total Liabilities       233,603    318,947    462,884    75L,285
1/ As audited by external independent auditors - Messrs. Arthur Young Co.
for 1972 and 1973 - Messrs. San Kyong & Co. for 1974 and 1975.
EAP Projects Department
May 6, 1976



CHAPTER C
Page 21
Table C-9
KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Summarized Income Statements of NACF 1/
(in million won)
INCOME                          1972       1973        1974        1975
Sales and service fees         48,889     77,802      169,335    235,552
Subsidized fertilizer sales   47,495      59,362      94,920     180,164
Interest income                15,928     18,903      22,391      31,815
Premiums written less
unearned premiums              3,591      4,952       6,588       8,327
Commission and other            2.887      3.267       4,863       7,677
Total Incone         118,790    164,286    298,097       463,535
EXPENSES
Cost of sales and service
Lees                          96,120    136,769    261,816      411,286
Interest charges and
commissions                   12,073     13,051      20,208      30,373
Insurance claims, reservas
and dividend to policy
holders                        4,181      6,795       6,465       9,646
Selling, general and
administrative expenses        4,300      5,041       6,832       9,718
Provision for doubtful
accounts and loan losses         670      2,200       1,915          563
Total Expenses       117,344    163,856    297,236       461,586
Operating Profit                1,446        430         861       1,949
Other income (net)                518          12         89        - 131
Net income              1,964        442         950       1 8
1/ As audited by external independent auditors - iMessrs. Arthur Young
Co. for 1972 and 1973 - Messrs. San Kyong & Co. for 1974 and 1975.
EAP Projects Department
May 6, 1976



CHAPTER C
Page 22
KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDI;T PROJtCT
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE OF
THE AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES IN KOREA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE FEDERATION
9 BRANCH OFFICES
140 COUNTY (KUN)              -                                   *        |
COOPERATIVES
211 BRANCH OFFICES               (RT142 SPECIAL COOPERATIVES )
.~ ~ ~~~0llKNCOEAIE                              (HORTICULTURAL COOPERATIVES)
1,545 PRIMARY              OF KUN COOPERATIVES               (97 LIVESTOCK COOPERATIVES)
COOPERATIVES
ABOUT 1.92 MILLION                                                    ABOUT !7000
MEMBER FARMERS                                                        MEMBER FARMERS
December 15, 1975                                                                  VVorld Bank-15623



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF NACF AND KUN COOPERATIVES
N A C F
|    GENERAA AS AEMNLY                                                                                              |      KUN COOPS
GUIANC  DPT  UN  OPRAIONDET           SLE DET                      ESMEETRCG DEP                PLNIG.PNPCINDP
RASAUL  PEROEPS MEEPIC G                                                                                                  GENERAL  ASSEMBLY
SPECIAL COOP DEPT  EANKNG DEPT  UTUAL INSURANCE DEPST LA OAN 80APPRAISAD   DEPT  LEGAL CLAARD DEPT FOREIGTDF DIRECTO
ECEER IS IA                                                                                                                 ISTANT M
|  L - E      | AUDITDRS DFFICE |                                                         H                                      |     AUDlrOR |~IR U'DANE AN
R IIPEIET1              |VC  RSDN                       IESIDESDN T  VICIC VRESDEN                             L   ICE IRESDN               VCIDENT  DET|LDN                                    EERHPCASG 
(II                         {22S 131                          |N14                                               tS                          1s                     DEPOtSITS             GIAC                  AKTN 
INBUPIANCE            UDEIG                FERI1E
ACCOU4T2G      T UTLZ TION
GUI DANCE DEPT              u           O UDOFAIN DEFT   ||SALES DEPT                 RESEARCH DEPT               PLANNING DEPT              INSPECTION DEPT                                      
SAEMAUL PROJECT DEPT ||SAVINGS PROMOTION DEPT ||MARKETING DEPT                  ||PURCH ASE DEPT                  GENERAL AFFAIRS DEPT         FOREIGN EYCHANGE DEPT|
,,EC, AL COOP DEPT     | B|ANKING DEPT                  M  UTUAL INSURANCE DEPT ||LOAN APPRAISAL DEPT  ||LEGAL CLAIRS DEPT              ||FOREIGN TRADE DEPT 
CIAIN STORE CENTER         CREOIT GUARANTEE                                     ||EDP DFFICE                ||EMERGENCY PLANNING   ||FOREIGN LDAN OFFICE            |
EDUCATION B TRAINING  ||OFFICE                                                                              ||OFFICE                         
LIVESTOCK MARKETING                                                                                                                     || 
DECEUGER 15 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W. ld B.- 166122



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.        NACF would administer the Project.  Project loans to farmers would
be made by the Kun Cooperatives. The Technical Unit (TU) established under
the First Agricultural Credit Project would supervise and monitor Project
implementation, including evaluation of the actual financial and economic
benefits which will result from the Project. It would also advise and train
the staff of the Kun Cooperatives in proper appraisal and supervision of Pro-
ject loans. In view of the larger size of the Project and the introduction of
new types of sub-projects, the TU staff would be strengthened. The Project
Coordinating Committee to ensure overall coordination between NACF and other
agencies involved in the First Project will be maintained in this Project.
Details of the responsibilities of these entities in implementing the Project
are given in Chapter C.
Procurement
2.        Project investment items and operations on individual farms are
varied and small, and therefore would not be suitable for international com-
petitive bidding. The scattered location of farms and the fact that Project
investments would be spread over several years, are additional factors which
would discourage interest by foreign firms.
3.        Silkworm rearing houses, on-farm storage, and green houses are
simple structures and would be constructed by local artisans and in some cases
by the farmers themselves. Adequate sprinkler irrigation and other Project
equipment and inputs, including facilities to service them, are available
locally. There are numerous suppliers, both private companies and cooper-
atives including NACF. Prices are competitive. Project procurement would
consequently be through normal commercial and cooperative channels by the
individual farmer subborrower according to his choice, as in the First Agri-
cultural Credit Project.
Disbursement
4.        IBRD disbursements are expected to extend over three years in
accordance with the following:



CHAPTER D
Page 2
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Quarter Ending                          Cumulative Disbursements
1977
September 30, 1977                                       1.0
December 31, 1977                                        2.5
1978
March 31, 1978                                           4.0
June 30, 1978                                            5.5
September 30, 1978                                       7.2
December 31, 1978                                        8.9
1979
Mlarch 31, 1979                                         10.6
June 30, 1979                                           12.4
September 30, 1979                                      14.5
December 31, 1979                                       16.6
1980
March 31, 1980                                          18.7
June 30, 1980 /1                                        20.0
/1   Estimated Completion Date.
5.        Against appropriate statements, disbursements would be 70% of sub-
loans to beneficiaries as disbursed by the Participating Kun Cooperatives.
The documentation for the sub-loans for reimbursement certified by the
Participating Kun Cooperatives would be retained on file at NACF, and be
available for review by IBRD supervision missions.
Lending Terms and Conditions
6.        The Government would make available the IBRD Loan and its share
of the total Project cost to NACF for on-lending by the Kun Cooperatives
to subborrowers. The TU would ensure that the Kun Cooperatives selected
to participate in the Project have met the conditions specified in Chapter C
para 9. Project investments would be evaluated in terms of their technical
feasibility and financial viability based on incremental returns. Subborro-
wers would pay an annual interest of 12%. This is the maximum rate currently
applicable to Government sponsored agricultural credit programs many of which



CHAPTER D
Page 3
are charging only 9%. 1/ NACF and the Participating Kun Cooperatives (PKCs)
would require minimum interest margins of 1% and 3% respectively to cover
administrative costs and provisions for bad debts (Table D-1). The 4% inte-
rest margin and the 8.9% interest on the IBRD Loan would consequently require
that the cost of the Government funds to NACF would be at 5.7% interest, given
the 12% interest charged to subborrowers, and the proposed contributions to
total Project cost by the parties concerned (Chapter B para 14) and the repay-
ment of the IBRD Loan and Government funds by NACF to the Government over 17
years, including 3.5 years grace. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk. Since it is essential to ensure that the incremental working
capital necessary to produce the initial output and sales from Project invest-
ments be available, such capital should be provided by the Government or NACF
if not available from other sources. NACF will establish an account called
the Special Fund which would comprise proceeds of the Bank Loan and Government
loan (4,300 million Won). The Government will deposit in the Special Fund
(a) not later than April 1, 1977 an initial amount of not less than 700 mil-
lion Won to enable NACF to initiate Project lending, and (b) thereafter at the
beginning of each quarter such amounts as shall be required during such quarter
by NACF for the purpose of the Project. The total of the Government loan would
be made available to NACF not later than January 1, 1980. Agreements acceptable
to IBRD, would be entered into between the Government and NACF, and NACF and
the PKCs incorporating these terms, and the execution of these agreements
would be a condition of Loan effectiveness. The repayment of the IBRD loan by
Government would be 17 years including 3.5 years grace.
7.        The period of each subloan would be determined by the repayment
capacity of the subborrower. Financial models for typical subloans indi-
cate that loan repayment schedules need not exceed the limits shown below:
1/   Interest rates of both the bank and non-bank financial institutions
are regulated by the Government and these rates have been adjusted
from time to time and generally upwards since the mid 1960s (Chapter A
para 8-9). Prevailing rates have been aimed, inter alia, at stimulat-
ing overall investments with preferential lending rates for agriculture
as part of Government's effort to accelerate investment in that sector
in order to help reduce the urban-rural income gap. The Government is
currently undertaking various measures, including monetary and fiscal
policy measures which emphasize restraint, to reduce significantly the
rate of domestic inflation and improve the economy's aggregate savings
performance. These measures have already proved effective and the
rate of inflation has declined quite markedly. The Government intends
to review the interest rate structure and to take the necessary
corrective measures in a timely manner if it becomes clear that a
positive rate of return on financial savings will not be achieved by
the end of 1976.



CHAPTER D
Page 4
Grace         Period of         Total
Subloan                  Period         Repayment      Loan Period
-------- years ---------------
1.  Apple Orchard Development    7               4                11
2.  Silk Worm Rearing Houses       2              7                9
3.  Sprinkler Irrigation           3              5                8
4.  Green Houses                    1             5                6
5.  On-farm Storage                2              8               10



tOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Pro1ect Cash Floe
(in =illion Won)
1,  Cash Inflow                           Year         1          2         3          4          5         6          7          8         9          10         11        12         13         14           15           16          17         TotaI
IBRD Lo.n                                     2,619      3,298      3,783                                                                                                                                                                    9,700
Govarsnent Lean                                1,161     1,46Z      1,677                                                                                                                                                                    4,300
Repayments by sub-borrowors
(i)  Principal                                 -          198        627     1,200      1,639      1,793     1,595      1,586      1,551     1,595      1,190        716       320         -            -            -           -         14,000
(ii)  Interest                                  227        728      1,291     1,509      1,339      1,133        930       739        550       362        196         86         19        -            -            -           -          94109
loca7e on revolving fods V/                                 10         51        17        181        249        315       370        423       477        512        503        452        364         260          157          53 
Total Inflow                     4,007      5,696     7.429      2,826      3.159     3.175      2.840      2.695     2,524      2.424      1.898     1.305        791        364          260          157          53       41.603
II.  Cssh Outflow
Loans no sob-borrowers                         3,700     4,760      5,460                                                                                                                                                                   14,000
Loterest on 1bbD/Govnr.3e7t foods 2/             151       495        902      1,099     1,057        954        871       788        706        623       540        457        374        291          208         125          42         9,661
spsy,sett ef IBRD/Govsr-ssst funds               -          -         -          518     1,036      156          1           6       ,036      1,036     1,036      1,036      1,036      1,036        1,036       1,036       1,050        14,000
Pro-ert Adsioistrative Expenses 3/
(i)  Teehbioel Usit                             71        79         87        94        104         75         83        90        100       110        121        133       146         35           38           42          47         1,455
(ii)  Con Cooperativ-s                         138        152        167       184        202        111        122       134        148       163         45         39         33       -            -            -           -           1,638
Provisoti  for bad debts 4/                       19        61        108        1.26      112         94         77        62         46         30        16          7          2       _             _           _          _              760
Total Outflow                    4.159      5,545     6,724      2,021     2,491      2.270      2,189     2.110      2.036      1.962      1,758     1,672      1.591      1.56         1,592        1.203       1.139       41,514
111.  Surplus (Deficit)                                 (152)       151       705        805        668        905       651        585       488        467        140       (367)      (800)     (998)      (1,022)      (1,046)    (1,086)            89
IV.  Cooolativ- Surplus                                (152)       (1)       704      1,509      2,177     3,082      3,733      4,318     4,806      5,268      5,408     5,041      4,241      3,243        2,221        1,175          89
/  Plare,neot of revolving foods asaa,ed ot 10% par anu,0.
/ Averaeo  interest rate of 87. par ennu=   (IBRD foods epreseottog 70% of the total b-ar inJtrest at 8,97. per anont and Gavoroeset fooda repre-entiog 30%. of the total bear interest at 5.7R per annot).
3/ Includes ataff salaries and othbe sdofniotratilv expenees.
4/ 1% of outstanding loa.s to sob-borrowers.
EAF Pro'i'ts lDpartceAt
Mona.t 23, 1976
in |D7



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
L   DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
1.        The annual incremental output of the Project at full development
would be as follows:
Annual
Domestic
Annual        Demand
Full     Incremental    at Full       Domestic    (2) as
Development    Project    Development  Production    % of
Year        Output        Year /      in 1974         (3)
(1)          (2)          (3)           (4)
--------- ('000 tons) ---------------
Apple Orchard
Apples                 1990           69.2         753           297          9.2
Silk Worm Rearing
Houses
Cocoons                1981            0.81                       37.2
Sprinkler Irrigation
Apples                 1990            9.4         753           297          1.2
Green Houses
Cucumber               1980           13.1         150 /2         49 /2       8.7
Green Pepper                              )        1   /
/1   Based on present trends in population and per capita income growth, and
estimated income elasticities of demand.
/2   Main vegetables grown in green houses consisting of cucumber, green
pepper, tomato, squash, lettuce, and melon.
2.        In newly established apple orchards, it is usual to intercrop with
soybeans, peanuts or other vegetables during the first four or five years.
The annual output of soybeans as the sole intercrop would be about 1,300 tons.
For sprinkler irrigation, the incremental apple production would be smaller
than indicated since some of the subloans would be made on pear and orange
orchards. This would likewise be true concerning the output of cucumbers



CHAPTER E
Page 2
and green peppers from green houses, since other vegetables would also be
grown. In the case of the on-farm fruit storage subproject, its annual in-
cremental value in the form of higher prices received from the sale of stored
fruit would amount to about W 657 million (US$1.4 million).
3.        Incremental output from all the subprojects except sericulture
would be primarily for the domestic market. Domestic demand for fruits and
vegetables have been increasing significantly as a result of population
increases, rapidly rising per capita incomes, and the high income elasticities
associated with such foods. Thus, between 1962 and 1974, annual consumption
of vegetables and fruits increased by 8% and 12% respectively. In addition,
there are also growing opportunities for the export of these products, espe-
cially to Japan and the South East Asian countries. For example, exports of
horticultural products rose from about US$0.6 million in 1965 to US$9.0 mil-
lion in 1974, with fresh apple exports increasing from US$0.2 million to
US$1.3 million. The Project annual incremental output of apples and vegetables
would be easily absorbed by the domestic market since they would account for
only minor proportions of the production increases required to meet their
projected demand. There would likewise be no difficulty in marketing the
Project annual incremental cocoon output since the amount involved is small
in relation to total domestic production. Moreover, the decline in Korea's
silk exports in 1973/74 which resulted from the recent world-wide economic
recession, is expected to be reversed in the near future, as Japan and the
other major silk importing countries are already in the process of recovering
from the recession. Demand projections cited below were made by NACF based on
present trends in population and per capita income growth and estimated income
elasticities of demand for the commodities concerned.
Demand
4.        Apples.  The annual increase in apple production averaged about
9% during 1965-74. Prices increased at a substantially higher rate (Chapter
F para 2). Demand for apples is projected to increase from 294,000 tons in
1974 to 753,000 tons in 1990 the year in which full development of the pro-
posed apple subproject is expected. At full development, the annual in-
cremental output of about 69,200 tons from the subproject and 9,400 tons
from the sprinkler irrigation subproject, would together account for about
10% of the projected demand. In fact, for sprinkler irrigation, the in-
cremental apple production would be smaller than indicated since some of
the subloans would be made on pear and orange orchards.
5.        Vegetables.  Production of vegetables rose by an annual average of
about 10% during 1965-1974 with an increasing proportion, although still
a small proportion, grown in green houses. Per capita annual consumption of
vegetables almost doubled during 1962-1973, reportedly rising from about 47 kg
to 70 kg. The rapid increase in demand for green house grown vegetables is



CHAPTER E
Page 3
particularly evident in recent years and is reflected in the substantial
increase in prices (Chapter F para 25-26). Demand for green house vegetables
has been projected to expand from about 49,000 tons in 1974 to 150,000 tons
by 1980 at which time the additional output from the subproject at year of
full development would be an estimated 13,100 tons or only about 9% of the
projected demand.
6.        Sericulture.  Subproject incremental annual output of about 810
tons of cocoons at full development (1981) represents only about 2% of the
total domestic production in 1974, and should be marketed without difficulty.
About 90% of the silk production is currently exported as raw silk and silk
fabrics. Exports increased rapidly from 1,129 tons in 1967 to 3,508 tons
in 1972. Exports declined to 3,367 tons in 1973 as a result of the world-
wide economic recession which commenced during the latter part of that
year. With the worsening of the recession, exports declined further to
2,935 tons in 1974. The decline is expected to continue into part of 1975.
However, with the economic recovery already underway in the major importing
countries, particularly Japan, which is Korea's main export market, the
decline in export demand is expected to be reversed soon. Korea's silk ex-
ports has been projected to increase by about 7% annually over the next
decade. The export projections have been based on a projected Japanese
economic growth rate of 5% - 7% annually and on the assumption of a 3% an-
nual growth in world consumption of silk. In response to rapidly rising
demand, Korean exports of silk fabrics rose from 170 tons in 1967 to 1,241
tons in 1972, or in terms of its share of total silk exports, from 15% to
37%. The share of raw silk exports declined correspondingly from 85% to
63%. The switch to the production of silk fabrics for export is expected
to continue and this in turn would result in greater value added for the
domestic sericulture industry.
Marketing
7.        Farmers' agricultural products are marketed through private trad-
ers and the NACF cooperative network. The cooperatives accounted for about
one-fifth of the total farm produce marketed in 1974. The growing import-
ance of the cooperatives as a marketing channel is indicated by the fact
that their marketing share has been increasing steadily and is expected
by NACF to account for about 30% by 1980.
8.        Fruits and Vegetables.  Marketing of the Project output of fruits
and vegetables would be conducted primarily through the Horticultural and
Primary Cooperatives, and private traders. The Cooperatives would market
their farmer members' produce on an individual consignment basis through
auction sales in urban marketing centres operated by NACF (including some Kun
and Primary Cooperatives). Farmers' produce for sale are usually picked up
at the farms by the Cooperatives and transported to the marketing centres.
The farmer is paid the auction price less commission for marketing services
rendered by NACF and the Cooperatives, and transport costs. Fixed by NACF,



CHAPTER E
Page 4
the present marketing commission is 6.5% of the auction price - 5% to NACF's
marketing centre and 1.5% to the Cooperative concerned. Farmers can expect
to receive the net sale proceeds a few days after auction sales.
9.        Cocoons.  The Sericulture Associations are currently in the pro-
cess of being organized as special cooperatives under NACF. They will soon
become a network for the collection of cocoons from sericulture farmers.
Cocoon marketing is regulated by the Government and MACF is the only agency
authorized by the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF) to buy co-
coons on its behalf. NACF resells the cocoons to licensed silk reeling
factories according to regional allocations determined by MAF and the pro-
vincial governments. There were 54 reeling factories in 1974 which are
privately owned, and together they produced about 4,240 tons of raw silk
that year. Selling prices of cocoons to NACF are fixed annually by the
Sericulture Promotion Deliberation Committee, composed of several MAF of-
ficials, and representatives from producers and reeling factories. NACF
and its Kun Cooperatives which are now undertaking the collection of co-
coons from farmers, receive a commission of W 20 per kg for the collection
services. Farmers are paid cash on delivery, but NACF sells on credit to
the reeling factories, which repay with interest (7% per annum) when the
reeled raw silk is sold. Cocoon prices paid by the reeling factories are
based on export prices for raw silk, processing costs, and a fair profit
margin to the factories.



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
F. TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
Apple Orchard Development
1.        As of the end of 1974, Korea had a total cultivated area of about
2,238,000 ha, of which an estimated 75,100 ha of 3% were under orchards. Of
the orchard area, apples accounted for 37%, peaches 16%, oranges 14%, pears
12%, grapes 11%, persimmon 7%, and other fruits 3%.
2.        The area under apple orchards increased from about 19,000 ha in
1965 to an estimated 27,500 ha in 1974, or an annual average increase of 5%.
Due to improving yields, production increased even faster from 167,000 tons
to 297,000 tons, or by an annual average of about 9% during the period con-
cerned. Increasing incomes and demand, as reflected in the steady rise in
apple prices, and the Government's efforts in promoting the development of
slopeland for orchards have been primarily responsible for the expansion in
the apple area. Retail prices for apples reportedly rose nearly three fold
from W 54/kg in 1965 to W 160/kg in 1974.
3.        Although apples are grown commercially in all the provinces ex-
cept Jeju, the bulk of the apple area is concentrated in a few provinces
with Gyeongsang-Bug accounting for about 57%, Chungcheong-Nam 15%, and Chung-
cheong-Bug 14% of the total area. Most existing orchards are planted, with
standard rootstocks spaced out at about 200 trees per ha. First fruiting
usually begins by about the 4th year, and the initial small yields increase
gradually reaching economic production levels by the 10th year and full pro-
duction by the 20th year. Full production yields at about 30 tons/ha can
be expected to continue until the 40th year or more and the tree has an eco-
nomic life of 40-50 years. Varieties grown by most of the orchards, es-
pecially the older orchards, are Ralls Janet, Jonathan, Indo, Summer Permain,
McIntosh, and Golden Delicious. Ralls Janet and Jonathan account for the
bulk of the apples produced. However, new improved varieties and dwarf
rootstocks have been introduced in recent years and they are gaining increas-
ing acceptance by growers. The improved varieties which include Fuji, Mutsu,
Aori, Starking, Early Blaze, and Star Krimson are of better quality and
generally fetch higher prices than the older varieties. The popular dwarf
rootstocks are MM-111, and M26.
4.        Trees with dwarf rootstocks are smaller and are therefore planted
closer at about 800 trees per ha. They would produce heavily after the 5th
year, reach full production of about 45 tons/ha by the 10th year, and slowly
decline in production after the 15th year. Their economic life is about
25 years. Thus, compared with standard rootstocks, dwarf rootstocks have
significantly higher output in the early years, which in turn means quick-
er financial returns. However, they cost more to establish and have a much



CHAPTER F
Page 2
shorter economic life, including a faster decline in yields, than standard
rootstock trees. Moreover, dwarf rootstocks are relatively new to Korea
and Korean farmers are not as experienced with them as they have with the
old established standard rootstocks.
5.        In view of the above considerations, it is proposed that sub-
project apple orchards would have about one half the area grown with stand-
ard rootstocks and the other half with dwarf rootstocks. The subproject
would finance the development of 2,100 ha of apple orchards over a three-
year period. Based on available land and lending for similar purpose under
the on-going Agricultural Credit Project, the majority of sub-loan demand
would be for the development of orchards ranging between one to two ha, and
the potential loan demand areas would be in seven out of the nine provinces
with Gyeongsang-Bug, Jeonla-Bug, Gyeonggi, and Chungcheong-Bug expected to
account for the bulk of the sub-loans. About 1,400 sub-borrowers would be
involved.
6.        The development cost for a 1.5 ha orchard is used for illustrative
purposes. Major investment items are land preparation, saplings, fertilizers/
manure, pesticides, power sprayer, small hand tools, and labor. Details of
the investment and operating costs are given in Chapter G. Land prepara-
tion would include terracing and construction of drainage ditches where
necessary. 600 dwarf and 150 standard root saplings would be planted in holes
of about 1.Om x 1.Om x 0.9m. 20-25 kg of manure would be incorporated in
the soil around each sapling at time of planting. 10 trees can be planted
per man day. Fertilizers, viz. nitrogen phosphate and potash, would be
applied at about 150-200 kg/ha during the first year, with the rates increasing
annually to about 500 kg/ha of N,P,K for mature trees. Increasing rates
of manure would also be applied up to 12-15 tons/ha annually for trees in
full development production. Application of lime would be 2 tons/ha at
planting time and 1 ton/ha annually thereafter. About 20 kg/ha borax would be
applied annually. Pesticide sprays would be applied 16-18 times a year. The
spraying facility would include a mixing tank, 8 horse power sprayer with
about 50m of spray hose. Small hand tools would be hauling carts, ladders,
pruning and thinning shears, spade, etc. The subproject would finance the
development costs up to first fruiting, that is over 3 years.
7.        In newly established orchards, the usual practice is to intercrop
with soybeans, peanuts, or other vegetables for several years until the
shade from the fruit trees makes this practice no longer possible. Since
intercropping, which reduces the financial burden of the grower and makes
more productive use of his land and labor, should be encouraged, the sub-
project costs would include the inputs necessary to produce the initial crop.
8.        Good quality saplings required by the subproject can easily be
supplied by the 43 registered private nurseries accredited by the Ministry
of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF). Provincial Government officers inspect
all saplings to ensure they are disease free before delivery to farmers.
The nurseries, as part of their sales service, provide technical advice on
proper cultural practices to their buyers. Extension officers of the Office
of Rural Development, MAF and horticultural cooperatives, to which many
orchard growers belong, also provide such advice.



CHAPTER F
Page 3
9.        As part of its efforts to expand and diversify agricultural produc-
tion, the Government has in recent years begun to actively promote the develop-
ment of uncultivated slopeland and reclaimed riverbed land for agricultural
purposes. Under the Government's Farmland Extension Promotion Law of
April 1975, an estimated 350,000 ha of such land would be available, of
which approximately 124,000 ha of slopeland (15 -20 slope) and some 30,000
ha of riverbed land would best be planted with fruit trees. Since most of
this land is suitable for apple production, ample land therefore exists for
the 2,100 ha of apple orchards to be developed under the subproject. More-
over, most of the land belongs to farmers. Some areas have soils that are
unsuitable, being too sandy, shallow, poorly drained, subject to a high
water table, or with insufficient moisture. To avoid planting apples on such
soils, NACF's Technical Unit should in consultation with the Institute of
Agricultural Sciences at Suweon, first determine that a subborrower's land
would be suitable for apple development before he can be granted a loan for
this purpose. Alternatively, Loan Appraisal Officers of the participating
Kun cooperatives should be trained at the Institute to do this job.
On-Farm Storage
10.       Most Koreans prefer to consume their fruit in fresh rather than
processed forms. Given this preference and the rising trend in production,
seasonal fluctuations in prices would become more pronounced unless part
of the output at harvest is stored for sale over an extended marketing
period. Farmers with on-farm storage not only receive higher prices for
the stored fruit sold during the offseason, but also help to maintain farm-
gate prices at harvest by removing excess fruit from the market. Consumers
will also benefit by a spreading out of available supplies over an extended
period, which in turn would reduce seasonal price fluctuations and lower
prices during the offseason.
11.       As their output increased, growers began storing storable fruits,
essentially apples, pears, and oranges, in cellars and semi-cellars on
their farms. Not all varieties are storable. These storage facilities
are inefficient and poorly ventilated so that the stored fruit is subject
to excessive spoilage.
12.       In recent years, improved storage facilities have been introduced.
These are concrete buildings with insulated walls and ceilings and more ef-
fective ventilation which resulted in better quality stored fruits, less
spoilage, and a longer storage period. Storage usually begins in November
for apples and pears and early December for oranges. Maximum storage
periods are 6-7 months. The harvested fruit is laid under the trees and
allowed to cool for about 24 hours before being sorted and packed into
wooden boxes for storage. Each wooden box holds 18-19 kg of apples/pears
or about 15 kg of oranges. The boxes are then placed in storage stacked
9 high for apples and pears, and 7 high for oranges. The lower stack for
oranges is due to their greater need for good ventilation.  The storage  2
capacity is about 1-1/2 ton apple/pear or one ton orange per pyong (3.3 m2)
of storage space.



CHAPTER F
Page 4
13.       Based on current practices and experiences of farmers with storage,
some 70-75% of the output at harvest is stored. For apples, about 30% of
the stored fruits would be sold at 2-3 months after storage with no damaged
or spoiled fruit, another 25% by the 4th month with 5% (1.25% of crop) dam-
aged fruit and 1% (0.25% of crop) spoiled fruit, and the remaining 20% by the
6th month with 5% damaged fruit and 5% spoiled fruit. For pear, 20% would
be marketed within three months with no damaged or spoiled fruit, another 30%
by the 4th month with 5% damaged fruit, and the remaining 25% by the 6th month
with 5% damaged and 5% spoiled fruit. For oranges which are more difficult to
store, 55-60% would be marketed by the 2nd month with no spoiled fruit, and
the remaining 40-45% by the 4th month with 20% spoiled fruit. Damaged fruit
would be sold at much lower prices and spoiled fruit are discarded. Although
seasonal increases in prices have ranged up to 150% of harvest prices, the
percentage increases in recent years for the different storage periods have
averaged as follows:
% Increase
Over Price at
Storage Period                 Harvest Time
Apples
2 months                        20
4 months                        30
6 months                        40
Pears
3 months                        15
4 months                        25
6 months                        30
Oranges
2 months                        25
4 months                        40
14.       The extent of the present and anticipated storage shortage is
indicated in NACF's projections (up to 1980) of storage needs for apples,
pears, and oranges as shown below:



CHAPTER F
Page 5
Required       Existing
Storable    Quantity to   Storage         Storage        Increase Storage
Production    be Stored   Floor Space   Floor Space    Needed Each Year
('000 tons)  ('000 tons)  ('000 pyong)  ('000 pyong)         ('000 pyong)
1975       375.4        292.3        205.1            145.0             60.1
1976       412.0        329.6        236.5                              31.4
1977       463.7        370.9        270.7                              34.2
1978       518.2        414.5        306.8                              36.0
1979       574.3        459.5        343.3                              36.6
1980       632.5        505.1        381.1                              37.9
The projections take into account the age of trees, composition of storable
varieties and increase in yields. Basic data were derived from a survey made
by MAF in 1970. Assumptions used are:
(a)  About 80% of storable production would be stored.
(b)  Storing capacities per pyong are about 1.5 tons for
apples/pears and 1 ton for oranges.
(c)  Existing storage calculated from survey made by MAF
in 1970 plus storage constructed since that year in-
cluding those financed under Government programs and
on-going Agricultural Credit Project.
15.       Under the subproject, financing will be provided to fruit farmers
to construct improved on-farm storage of about 20,000 pyong over a 3-year
period for storing mainly apples, pears and oranges. The storage space
proposed would account for only a small proportion of the anticipated
storage needed during the remainder of the decade. Although the actual
size of storage to be built would vary according to farmers' present and
anticipated needs, a 20 pyong storage for apples/pears has been selected
for illustration purposes since this is the common size currently being
built by farmers. The maximum storage capacity would be about 30 tons of
apples/pears or 20 tons of oranges. This capacity would provide sufficient
storage for the majority of apple and pear growers with 1-2 ha and orange
growers with 0.5-1.0 ha.
16.       The investment items would comprise a storage building and wooden
boxes for packing the fruits for storage. The building would have concrete
block walls, about 10 cm thick for the inside wall, 15 cm for the outside
wall and with 10 cm of sawdust or styrofoam in between as insulation. The
inside ceiling would consist of 2.5 cm styrofoam mounted on 0.5 cm plywood
sheeting. In the case of orange storage, the building would be divided into
2 rooms, each with an exhaust fan (45 watt 50 cm diameter). The low volume
fans would provide better ventilation required by this fruit. A 20 pyong
building would be about 6.6 meters wide, 10 meters long and 3.6 meters high.
A break-down of the investment cost for this size storage is given in Chapter
G.



CHAPTER F
Page 6
17.       The major areas of subproject financing would be in the provinces
of Gyeongsang-Bug, Chungcheong-Nam, Gyeonggi, and Chungcheong-Bug for
apples and pears; and Jeju for oranges. About 1,000 subborrowers are
envisioned.
Sprinkler Irrigation for Orchards
18.       Approximately two-thirds of the annual rainfall in Korea, which
has averaged about 1,200 mm, occurs during the summer. Because of this
concentration, seasonal shortages of rainfall in relation to optimum water
requirements for agricutural production occur quite regularly, which in
the absence of irrigation had resulted in lower crop production and yields.
Data collected for 1970-72 indicate that in the main orchard areas prolonged
periods of insufficient or no rainfall frequently occur from March to
October. The result is slower tree growth and production of smaller and
lower quality crops. Thus, affected apple orchards generally produce
smaller fruit with a high incidence of skin cracks and poorer coloring.
The effects tend to be more pronounced on orchards with sandy soils and
volcanic ash soils because of their low water retention capacities, and
there are many such orchards. For example, the majority of the orchards
in the main apple producing province of Gyeongsang-Buk are on riverbed
soils which are rather sandy, and many of the orange groves in Jeju are
on volcanic ash soils and this province accounts for over 90% of the
total orange output. Many orchards are also grown on heavier soils,
viz. loams, sandy loams and clay loams.
19.       Most of the orchards are not irrigated.  Although those that
are irrigated commonly use surface irrigations, some have installed
sprinkler irrigation in recent years. The fact that the irrigated apple
orchards are located essentially in Gyeongsang-Buk province may explain
why it has the highest yields, about one-third higher than the average
yield for all producing areas.
20.       Surface irrigation would not be suitable on light soils because
they are very permeable. Soil near the point where the irrigation water
is released would be overwet while soil a short distance away would be
wet insufficiently. Overwetting soils also causes leaching of fertilizers
and may result in soil erosion and drainage problems. Proper and efficient
irrigation of such soils would require use of sprinklers. Other main ad-
vantages of sprinkler irrigation are:
(a)  Rough land can be irrigated with a minimum
of levelling and disturbance of the top soil.
(b)  Light and even applications of water can be
made on sandy soils, thereby allowing effi-
cient distribution of the right amount of water.
(c)  Eliminates surface run-off.
(d)  Use can be made of small supplies of water
too small for surface irrigation.



CHAPTER F
Page 7
(e) Affords frost protection in the winter and
enables liquid fertilizer application.
21.       Yield increases with sprinkler irrigation have been estimated at
about 20-25% for apples, pears, and oranges. In addition to yield in-
creases, improved fruit quality, in the form of larger fruit, better
coloring and virtual absence of skin cracks (apples), would also be
obtained. Better quality fruits generally fetch 10-20% higher prices.
22.       The installation costs for a sprinkler system for a 2 ha orchard
is used for illustrative purposes. Major investment items would include
a concrete well, pumping station, sprinkler system and installation costs.
The well would be about 6m deep and 2m wide. The pumping station would
comprise a diesel engine of about 10 hp and centrifugal pump (2-1/2 inches
in diameter with 4 impellers), pump base, pipes, pipe fittings and sluice
valves. The sprinkler system would include about 1,500m of PVC pipes for
the main and lateral lines, steel riser pipes, pipe fittings, and sprinkler
heads. The PVC pipes to be laid underground would provide for some 104
sprinkler outlets distributed through the 2 ha orchard. The outlets would
protrude about 30 cm above the ground and be equipped with a coupling device
to which steel riser pipes 20 mm in diameter and 3 m long can be attached.
Sprinkler heads will be threaded to the tops of the riser pipes. Two sets
of 16 riser pipes plus sprinkler heads will be provided. While one set is
operating, the other would be moved to the next location. Sprinklers will
operate for about 3 hours at each location and will apply about 20 mm of
water. A total of 24 hours or 2 man days will be required to irrigate 2 ha.
About 16 irrigations would be required annually. Detailed investment and
operating costs are given in Chapter G.
23.       There are several domestic private companies which design, supply
and install sprinkler irrigation systems. These companies have qualified
personnel who in addition to designing and installing sprinkler systems,
also provide technical assistance to their clients. All the sprinkler
component parts are manufactured locally and of good quality. Sprinkler
systems required by the subproject can easily be met by the existing
suppliers.
24.       Under the subproject, 800 farmers, each owning about 2 ha or more
of producing orchards, would be given loans to install sprinkler irrigation.
To avoid premature installation, orchards should already be producing fairly
heavy crops as from 10-15 year old trees. Orchards significantly less than
2 ha would normally be unable to justify the use of sprinkler irrigation,
and would therefore not qualify for participation. Eligible orchards would
in addition be those with light soils where use of surface irrigation would
not be suitable or efficient. Most of such orchards would be on volcanic
ash soils or on riverbed soils where an adequate supply of water is availa-
ble within a few meters of the soil surface. Some orchards on slopeland
which could profit from sprinkler irrigation would also qualify, provided an
adequate supply of water for irrigation is available. Although some of the
sub-loans would be made on pear and orange orchards, the majority are ex-
pected to be on apple orchards.



CHAPTER F
Page 8
Green Houses for Vegetable Production
25.       Korea's significant increases in per capita incomes and population
growth, including its urbanization, since the mid 1960s have led to a rapidly
growing domestic demand for higher quality food, viz. vegetables, fruit and
livestock products. Thus, vegetable production rose from an estimated
1,576,000 tons in 1965 to 2,975,000 tons in 1974, an increase of about 90% or
by an annual average of 8%. Prior to the early 1960s, virtually all the
vegetables were grown as field crops from late spring to early autumn when
prevailing temperatures were sufficiently warm to permit growth. Since then,
an increasing proportion of the vegetables have been grown in vinyl covered
green houses.
26.       Vinyl covered green houses were first introduced around the mid
1960s. Located near urban centres and in the southern parts of the country
where more moderate temperatures prevail, the area under such houses increased
from about 530 ha in 1965 to 3,500 ha in 1974. Although small in relation to
the total vegetable area (274,000 ha), the real significance of green houses
is their ability to produce vegetables during the cold months when field pro-
duction would not be possible. The availability of vinyl and PVC at low
prices, and the increasing demand and consequent high prices for vegetables
particularly during the cold months had made green house production a prac-
tical and profitable undertaking. Increasing prices and sharp seasonal price
differences for green peppers and cucumbers are shown below:
Wholesale Prices for Green Peppers and Cucumbers
(WI kg)
1969           1972            1974
Green Peppers (Grade A)
Green House Production
(Dec. - June)
Average Monthly Price                     242             290           594
Field Production
(July - Nov.)
Average Monthly Price                      51              77            78
Average Monthly Price
for the year                              115             168           379
Cucumbers (Grade A)
Green House Production
(Oct. - May)
Average Monthly Price                      98             152           234
Field Production
(June - September)
Average Monthly Price                      28              48            57
Average Monthly Price                      67             118           175
for the year                               6               1             7



CHAPTER F
Page 9
The Government had also encouraged investments in green houses by providing
loans for such purposes.
27.       Of the.existing vinyl green houses, most of them use bamboo and
wood for the house frames and other supporting structures. They generally
do not have adequate irrigation, heating, and ventilation facilities which
are essential for timely and high yield production of good quality vegetables.
However, improved green houses using PVC or metal pipes for the frames and
supporting structures and with more effective heating, ventilation and irri-
gation facilities have been constructed in recent years. Although the in-
vestment costs are higher, they are more productive and profitable than the
older green houses, which in addition would have the following disadvantages:
(a) Generally susceptible to damage from heavy snowfall and
strong winds.
(b) Require excessive internal supporting structures which
in turn would reduce the space available for plants
and lowers labor productivity.
(c)  Have a much shorter life.
Yields from the older green houses are consequently low at 23-25 tons/ha for
fruit type vegetables. Substantially higher yields have been obtained from
improved green houses, e.g. about 50 tons/ha for green peppers and 55-60 tons/
ha for cucumbers.
28.       Under the subproject, financing will be provided to farmers for the
construction and equipping of improved green houses covering 120 ha. Major
investment categories are metal (iron/steel) green house frames, vinyl/
polyethylene and straw thatch to cover the frames, irrigation facility, oil
stoves for heating, electric fans for ventilation, pesticide sprayers, small
hand tools, and incremental working capital required to produce the initial
crop of vegetables. The irrigation facility would consist of a small, e.g.
0.5 hp electric water pump, and plastic tubes that rest on the soil surface
along each row of plants. Small water emitters on the tubes would release
water near each plant (trickle irrigation). Incremental working capital
would include costs for seed, seedling pots, seed bed soil, fertilizers/
pesticides, supports for the plants, fuel, and labor. Detailed costs are
given in Chapter G.
29.       The development cost for an improved green house covering 0.1 ha
is used for illustrative purposes. The green house would preferably comprise
three separate units so that production can be staggered for more effective
use of labor and equipment, and to enable crop marketings to be spread out.
About 1,200 sub-loans would be made to farmers who are experienced in green
house production, and are located near important urban consuming centers, or
in areas which have easy access to transport facilities connected to the
urban centers.



CHAPTER F
Page 10
30.       Vegetable research is conducted at the Horticultural Experiment
Stations at Suweon and Gimhae. The latter specializes in green house pro-
duction. Research results in cultural improvements, including optimum crop-
ping patterns, are relayed to farmers in the form of extension bulletins
and through the horticultural extension officers of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture. Horticultural Cooperatives to which most vegetable farmers belong also
provide advice on cultural practices.
Silkworm Rearing Houses
31.       On-farm sericulture activities comprise two types of operations,
mulberry tree cultivation and the rearing of silk worms. Both are labor in-
tensive. In 1974, there were some 88,000 ha of mulberry trees, and produc-
tion of cocoons amounted to 37,000 tons valued at about W 54 billion. 476,000
farm households are engaged in this activity. Sericulture production is scat-
tered throughout the nine provinces, but the main producing areas are Gyeongsan-
Buk with 32%, Jeonla-Bug 15%, and Chungcheong-Bug 12% of the cocoon production.
The subproject would involve the improvement of less than 2% of the total area
under mulberry production.
32.       Mulberry seedlings are produced by about 500 accredited private
nurseries. One year old seedlings are used to plant fields from which leaves
are harvested to feed the silk worms. Planting densities range from 9,000 to
9,500 seedlings per ha. Mulberry trees have an economic life of 20 years.
Production starts in the third year, and full production is reached by the
fifth year, and would continue to the fifteenth year. National yields of
mulberry leaves average 11.4 tons/ha on upland and 7.2 tons/ha on slopeland.
With adequate fertilizers (per ha annual application of 15 tons manure, 1.5
tons 24-11-15 fertilizers and 1 ton lime), and good cultivation practices,
yields of about 19 tons have been obtained.
33.       Silk worms are raised in rearing houses from silk worm eggs pur-
chased by farmers from 54 private companies regulated by the Goverrment. Tra-
ditional rearing houses are poorly constructed with insufficient space and
without proper ventilation and temperature control. Some are lean-to sheds
without walls. Cocoon production under such conditions is generally low and
of poor quality. Improved concrete rearing houses which allow proper tempera-
ture and humidity control and adequate ventilation, are essential for produc-
tion of higher yield and good quality cocoons.
34.       Silk worms are usually raised and their cocoons harvested during
spring and autumn, or twice a year. These two crops are generally timed to
avoid competition with peak labor requirements for food grain production.
There are two methods of feeding silkworms. The traditional and most com-
monly used method involves the picking of mulberry leaves to feed the silk
worms. The other is the branch-feeding method whereby instead of picking
leaves, branches are cut from the mulberry trees and the silk worms are al-
lowed to feed on the leaves of the branches. This method which was intro-
duced in recent years, would reduce labor use to about one-half of that
required under the traditional method. Branch-feeding which requires more



CHAPTER F
Page 11
space is used essentially by farmers with improved rearing houses. The op-
timum space requirement for such houses using branch-feeding is about 4.5
pyongs per case of silk worms. Improved rearing houses with branch-feeding
and use of improved rearing tools have been able to raise a substantially
larger number of silk worms and obtain significant improvements in cocoon
production in terms of yield and quality than under traditional facilities
and practices (para 36). In view of its greater productivity and profit-
ability, the Government has begun to encourage farmers to invest in improved
rearing houses and to adopt the branch-feeding method of raising silk worms.
35.       The subproject would finance improved rearing houses and equipment
to enable sericulture farmers to expand production of cocoons. It would also
finance the first year's cost of improved inputs to existing plantings in
order to raise the yields of mulberry leaves to provide sufficient feed for
the expansion in silk worm rearing. Accordingly, the main purpose of the
subproject is to increase the productivity of sericulture production without
the need to expand the existing mulberry acreage.
36.            Sub-loans would be made to about 3,500 sericulture farmers
owning 0.35 ha or more of mulberry plantings in production. The typical sub-
loan would finance an improved rearing house of 20-25 pyongs floor space,
and rearing equipment, the major items of which are pivot cocoon beds, wooden
racks and trays for branch-feeding of the silk worms, litter cleaning nets,
a two-wheel cart, and small hand tools. The rearing capacity would be five
cases of silk worms a crop, or 10 cases for the two-crop year and cocoon
yields are expected to be at least 35 kg per case of silk worms with quality
improvements amounting to about a 15% higher price than that for the average
grade cocoon. (Farmers with 0.35 ha of producing mulberry with traditional
facilities and practices are generally rearing about 4 cases of silk worms
a year and getting an average of 30 kg of cocoons per case of worms.) Inputs
to improve the mulberry plantings would mainly be for fertilizers/manure,
pesticides, hired bullock power and manual labor. Leaves from the 0.35 ha
of improved mulberry would be sufficient to feed the quantity of silk worms
envisaged. Detail investment costs are given in Chapter G.
37.       Research is carried out at the Office of Rural Development Seri-
culture Experiment Station at Suweon to (a) improve mulberry varieties and
cultural practices, (b) breed improved silk worm strains which are also
disease resistant, and (c) improve rearing and silk reeling techniques.
Extension services to farmers are provided by the field extension officers
of the local governments and leading farmers who have undertaken intensive
training courses at the Sericulture Training Centre. Sericulture Associations
also provide technical advice and other extension services, in addition to
farm inputs.



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
G. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
1.        Current prices have been used in estimating Project returns.
These prices and details of the financial benefits and cash flow projections,
derived from typical investment models, are presented in Tables G-1 to G-10.
As indicated in the models, the incremental incomes and financial returns
would be sufficiently high to make the proposed investments attractive.
Incremental incomes would be higher to the extent that the labor requirements
would be accounted for by family labor. The financial rates of return for
the subprojects would range from 27% to 35% as shown below:
Financial Rate of
Return (%)
Apple Orchard                            33
Silk Worm Rearing Houses                30
Sprinkler Irrigation                    35
Green Houses                             32
On-farm Storage                          27
In calculating these returns, current prices for both inputs and outputs were
assumed to continue at their present levels.
2.        Since it is a relatively new technology in Korea, the use of sprink-
ler irrigation would entail some risks which, however, would be minimized
through careful selection of subborrowers and close supervision of such in-
vestments by NACF's Technical Unit. The financial rate of return at 31% would
still be satisfactory even if yield improvements are up to 20% lower than ex-
pected.
3.        The value of total incremental production would be about US$32 mil-
lion per annum at full development. The level of investments and expansion
in output can be expected to generate substantial increases in employment,
both family and paid labor (Chapter H para 2).



,hAKz, G
Pape 2
KOMR                                  Tar,l G-I
S8OD AGRICLTLTURAL COMIT PAJJSJT
Farm Imdel
Appe and Pear Storag
1       2       3        4       5       6                8       9-23    21 -25
?pics1l 11.dm   Mt/Ha
Apples                      24.0    26.0    28.0    29.0    30.0    30.0    3(X0    30.0    30.0    30.0
Pears                       11.3    12.5    15.0    16.5    18.0    19.5    2:.0    22.0    23.0    23.0
1/
Produotion Mt
Apples                      30.0    32.5    35.0    36.3    37.5    37.5    37.5    37.5    37.5    37.5
Storable 75% of production    22.5    24.4    26.3    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0
Marketed at harveet under
Project                    7.5      8.1     8.7      9.3    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5
Pears                        2.8      3.1     3.8     4.1      4.5     4.9      5.3     5.5      5.8     5.c
Storable 75% of production   2.1      2.3     2.8     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0
Marketed at harvest under
Project                     0.7     0.8     1.0      1.1     1.5      1.9     2.3     2.5      2.8     2.8
Salea                                           (won '000)
A. Without Project
Apples * W 97/kg      2,910.0 3,152.5  3,395.0  3,521.1  3,637.5 3,637.5  3,637.5  3,637.5  3,637.5 3,637.5
Pears O W 88/kg         246.4   272.8   334.4   360.8    396.0  4L31.2    6f.4   48L.o   510.4   510.4
Total            3,156.4 3413  3  3 729.I 3,881.9  4,033.5  4,o68.7  4 03.9  4,121.5  4 107.9 4147.9
2,/~~~~~~~~L_ - L _ _                        _    i 
* W 97/kg              727.5   785.7   843.9   902.1  1,018.5  1,018.5  1,018.5  1,018.5  1,018.5 1,018.5
Apple mold after 2-3
mo.storage a W 116/kg 1,044.0 1,131.0  1,218.0  1,252.8  1,252.8  1,252.8  1,252.8  1,252.8  1,252.8 1,252.8
Apples sold after It
w.storage * W 126/kg   888.3   962.6  1,037.0  1,066.0  1,066.0  1,066.0  1,066.0  1,066.0  1,066.0 1,066.0
Damaged fruit * W 38/kg   14.4    15.6    16.7    17.1    17.1    17.1    17.1    17.1    17.1   17.1
Apples sold after 6 mo.
storage O W 135/kg     729.0   789.8   850.5   874.8   874.8   874.8   874.8   874.8   874.8  87h.8
Damaged Fruit S W 41/kg   12.3    13.9    15.2    14.8    14.8    14.8    11.8    14.8    14.8  _14.8
SLib-total     3,415.5  3,698.6 3,981.3  4,127.6  4,244.0 4,244.0 4,244.0 4,244.0 4,244.0 4,244.0
Pears sold at harvest
1 W 88/kg               61.6    66.2    83.6    96.8   132.0   167.2   202.4   220.0   246.4  246.4
Pears sold after 3 mn.
storage * W 102/kg      57.1    63.2    77.5    81.6    81.6    81.6    81.6    81.6    81.6   81.6
Pears sold after 4 D.
storage i W 110/kg      88.0    97.2   119.1   125.4   125.4   125.4   125.4   125.4   125.4  125.4
Damaged fruit * W 31/kg    1.2    1.5     1.8      1.9     1.9      1.9     1.9     1.9      1.9    1.9
Pears mold after 6 so.
storage S W 115/kg      72.5    80.3    98.3   103.5   103.5   103.5   103.5   103.5   103.5  103.5
Dmaged fruit S W 35/kg    1.4     1.4     1.7      1.8     1.8      1.8     1.8     1.8      1.8    1.8
Enb-total         281.8   311.8   382.0   411.0   446.2   481.4   516.6   534.2   560.6  560.6
Total           3,697.3    10.4 4,363.3  4,538.6  4 690.2 4,725.4 4,760.6  4,778.2  4,804.6 4,804.6
Incremental Incorm From
Project                    540.9   585.1   633.9   656.7   656.7   656.7   656.7   656.7   656.7  656.7
Invemtent
3/
Storage Building 20 pyong  1,646.0
Storage Boxes 1600 t w350/
box                        560.o                     56.o    56.0   56.o    56.0    56.0    56.0
Stb-total      2,206.0     -                56.o    56.0   56.o    56.o    56.o    56.o
Operating Casts
Storage,bidling & re-
packing                    60.4    65.5    71.4    73.6    73.6    73.6    73.6    73.6    73.6   73.6
Rspsir & YAintance Boxes    23.0    24.9    27.2    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0    28.0   28.0
Repair & Maintenance Building   -    32.9    32.9    32.9    32.9    32.9    32.9    32.9    32.9   32.9
Sub-tetal         83.4   123.3   131.5   134.5   134.5   134.5   134.5   134.5   134.5  134.5
Total Cost      2a89.4   123.3   131.5   190.5    W.5    V0.5   190.5   19.5   190.5  13IJ5
Net Incremental  (1748.5)  461.8   502.4   h66.2  466.2   466.2   466.2   466.2   466.2  522.4
Finsancisl Rate of Ftumrn - 27%
1/ Production bmaed on 1.25 ha of typical 15-18 year old apple orohar4$s and on 0.25 ha of typioal 10-12 year old
pear orchards in Korea.
2/ Apple crop sold as followst 25% at harvest, 30% aftar 2-3 tunths storage, 25% during the 4th umth of which 5%
(1.25% of crop) ia oonsidered dmged and 1% lost (.25% of orop) and the remaining 20% mac  t by the oi of the
6th onth of wich 5% (1% of crop) is ornsidered damaged mnd 5% (1% of the crop) is lost.
Poar oap sold as follows: 25% at harvest, 20% after 3 inths of storae, 30% after 4 months of which 5% (1.5% a
crop) is oounidered as disd m*d the remaining 25% marketed ster 6 mnths of torage with 5% (1.25% of the
crop) conmidered dsmaged md 5% (1.25% of crop) is lost.
3/ mhe storage building of 20 pyeong (66 mq.meter) h  a opacity of 30 mt of apples or pears. 1st year storage is
oonsidered 80% full reaching full oapacit' in the 4th year onward.



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Apple and Pear Storage
Farmer's Loan Cash Flow
(in W '000)
Year       1      2       3      4       5       6      7       8      9       10    11-23  24-25
Inflow
Loan                1,544.2
Incremental Sales           540.9  585.1  633.9  656.7  656.7  656.7  656.7  656.7  656.7  656.7  656.7  656.7
Total            2,085.1  585.1  633.9  656.7  656.7  656.7  656.7  656.7  656.7  656.7  656.7  656.7
Outflow
Investment and
Replacement            2,206.0                   56.0   56.0   56.0   56.0   56.0   56.0   56.0   56.0    -
Operating Costs-
Storage                   83.4  123.3  131.5  134.5  134.5  134.5  134.5  134.5  134.5  134.5  134.5  134.5
Debt Service (Interest
and Principal            185.3  185.3  378.3  355.1  332.0  308.8  285.7  262.5  239.3  216.4    -             -
Total            2,474.7  308.6  509.8  545.6  522.5  499.3  476.2  453.0  429.8  406.9  190.5  134.5
Surplus or (Deficit)       (389.6) 276.5  124.1  111.1  134.2  157.4  180.5  203.7  226.9  249.8  466.2  522.2
Cumulative                 (389.6)(113.1)  11.0  122.1  256.3  413.7  594.2  797.9 1p24.8 1,274.6 7)335.2 8,379.6
w)  m



CHAPTER G
Pag~e 4
Table G-3
KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
0.1 Ha Green House (Cucumber and Green Peapers)                       (W 000's)
Year                     1         2 - 5          6         7 - 10          11         12 - 15
I. Sales
Cucumber 1/                          807          965          965         965           965           965
Green Pepper i/                    1.628       .1.9L2        1.9          1.93         1.3           1
Sub-total                     2,           2,902        2,902       2,902         2,902        2,902
II.  Investment and Replaceent Costs
Metal Frame                        1,205
Irrigation Facility                  212                        94                       212
Electric Fans                        180                       180                       180
Heating Facility
Oil Stoves                         260                       260                       260
Thatch, Polyethylene film/band    307
Sprayers                              77
Small tools/implements                32
Incremental Working Capitals'
Seed/seed pots                      10
Seed bed soil/heating material    174
Supports                            59
Fertilizer/pesticide                34
Fuel/electricity                   228
Labor                              315
Sub-total                     3,093                       53                        652
III. O9entiw  Costs
Seed/seed pots                        13            22          22           22           22            22
Seed bed soilAheating material        43          216          216          216          216           216
Supports                              40           40           40           40           40            40
Fertilizer/Pesticide                  37            70          70           70           70            70
Fuel/electricity                     516          744          744          744          744           744
Thatch, Polyethylene fila/and        165          ]65          165          165          165           165
Labor                                452           767         767          767          767           767
Miscellaneow  (repairs/maintenance)_10             106         106          106          106           106
1,372        2,130        2,130       2,130         2,130        2,130
IV.  Benefit (I - II - III)              (2,030)          772         229          772           120          772
V. Opportunity Cost of Land 6            ____    44             44           44           44               _1
VI. Net Benefit (IV - V)                 (2,074)          728         194          728            76           728
FINAMCIAL RATE OF RETRU: 32%
L/  5,380 Kg x W 150 in 1st year; 5,850 Kg x W 165 in subsequent years.
2/ 4,650 Kg x W 350 in 1st year; 5,030 Kg x W 385 in subsequaent years.
/  Includes pump, plastic pipeline, and installation cost. Pipeline replaced year 6, whole facility year 11.
For produxction of initial crop of cucumbers
i/ For initial crop of green peppers in year 1, md both crops (cucumber and green peppers) in subsequent
years.
6/ Net production value from 0.1 ha taken fron  rice production.



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
0.1 Ha Green House: Farmer's Cash Flow-/
(W 000's)
1        2         3        4         5         6      7 - 10      11      12 - 15
I. Inflow
Loan                          2,165
Sales                         2,435      2        2,902    2,902    2,902    2,902    2 902    2,902    2.902
Sub-total               4,600    2,902    2,902    2,902           2,902    2,902    2     2,902    2,902
II. Outflow
Investment and Replacement
Costs                        3,093                                              543                652
Operating Costs               1,372    2,130    2,130    2,130    2,130    2,130    2,130    2,130    2,130
Debt Service
Interest                      260       260       208      156       104        52
Principal                               433       433      433       433       433
. Sub-total              4,725    2,823    2,771    2,719    2,667    3,158    2,130    2,782    2,130
III.  Surplus or (Deficit)              (125)       79      131       183      235      (256)      772      120       772
IV.  Cumulative                        (125)      (46)      85       268      503       247    3,335    3,455    6,543
1/ Growing cucumbers and green peppers.
I4 C)
'U 9
c) '-1



0cG
sage 6
Table *-
KOREA
3300ND AGriCULIURAL CREDIT PRJECT
Fam. Mbdel
Silk Worm Rearing Hbuse
Year                  1      2      3      4      5      6    7-10     11     12     13    14-15      16     ,W
Without
Project
Area-Hectares
%lberry           .35      .35
Yield                       ----(kg/ha----                                   -
Conoy  @ W 1400    2/
/kg_,r    W      340    o50    970   1000   1000   1000   1000  I}00   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000        1000
-Mhlberry Branches
0 W300/bundle     70     100   l1o 1   10   110             no 1   110    110    no    110    110    110        110
Silkworm Litter
@ w 6/kg        2000    4500  5000   5000  5000   5000  5000   5000   5000   5000   5000  5000   5000          5000
Increase qocoon
quality ' 0
w 200/kg
e------------ (v  '000)-------------.------------------
Sales
1.  Sericulture
Cocoons        166.6  476.o  543.2  560.0  !6.  560.0  560.   0  560.0 5600.   560.0  56c.o  560.0 560,0   560.0
By-products     11.6   20.0   2?.l  22.1  22.1  22.1  22.1  22.1  22.1  22.1  22.1  22.]  22.]    22.1
Total        178.2  496.o  565.3  582.1  582.1  50.1  582.1  5R2.1  582.1  582,1  582.1  5P2.1  5P2.1  592.1
Investment5/ and
Replacement Cost
Rearing House
(22.5 pyongs)             765.0    -    -        -       .     _       _      .      _         _                   -
Equipment for
rearing house              186.o    -            -            178.0    -   186.0    -                   178.0 o
Fertilizer                   26,4
Manure                       26.3
Pesticides - (]8ilberry)      9.9
Labor (field)a/              45.5
Hired Animals                19.6
Lime                          0.7
Silk worm eggs, 4 cases       9.1
Sterilizers                   9.7
Other materials               2.0
Labor - (W/rms)-            35.2
Establish mulberry fields     -                                                      b3.2  62.4
Sub-total                1135.4                              178.0         186.0   83.2  62.,          178.0
Operating Costs
A. ?hilberry field
Fertilizers      -       -     26.4  26.4  26.4  26.4  26,,4  26.4  26.4  26,4  26.4  26.4  26.4    26.4
Manure          17.5     -     26.3  26.3  26.3  26.3  26.3  26.3  26.3  26.3  26.3  26.3  26.3    26.3
Pestigides       -       -      9.9    9.9    9.9    9.9   9.9    9.9    9.9   9.9   9.9   9.9    9.9          9.9
Lsbort./        35.0     -     45.5  45.5   1.5 5   45.5  45.5  45.5  45.5  45.5  45.5  45.5  45.5            45.5
Hired Animals   10.5     -    19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6   19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6               19.6
Lime             0.5     -      0.7    0.7   0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7   0.7   0.7   0,7    0.7    0.7          0.7
Sub-total          63.5     -   128.L  12b.4 128.4  128.4  128.4  128.4  126.4 128.4 128.4 126.4  128.4    128.4



,UPTZRt G
Page 7
Table G-5
KOREA
SeW,(   AcDICULTURiL C0BDIT POJRCT
Farm Nbdel
Sllk Worm Hearing House
Witbout
Operating Costa (Cont'd)  Project    1       2       3       4      5       6     7-10      11    12    13    14-15   16    17-20
B. Silk Wbrm Fearing
Silk WDrm !ggs        9.1    11.3   22.7    22.7    22.7   22.       22.7    22.7   22.7   22.7   22.7   22.7   22.7    22.7
Sterilizers           8.0    12.1   24.2    2h.2    24.2   24.2    24.2    24.2   24.2   2L.2   2h.2   24.2   24.2    2h.2
Other "aterials       2.0     2.5    5.0      5.0     5.0    5.0      5.0     5.0    5.0    5.o    5.0    5.0    5.0       5.0
Labor6,/             57.4   44.o   88.0    88.0    88.0   88.0    88.0    88.0   88.0   88.0   88.0   88.0   88.0    88.0
Maint. & Repair       -        -     23.0    23.0    23.0   23.0    23.0    23.0   23.0   23.0   23.0   23.0   23.0    23.0
Sub-total          76.5    69.9  162.9   162.9   162.9  162.9  162.9   Ib2.9  102.9  162.9  162.9  162.9  162.9   102.9
Tbtal             40 0  1205.3  291.3   291.-32 91.3   469.3   291.3  4 7.3  374.5  353.7  291.3  469.3  291.3
Net Value                  38.2 (709.3) 274.0   290.8   290.8 290.8   112.8   290.8  104.8  207.6  228.4  290.8  112.8   290.8
Increumetal Value              (747.5)  235.8   252.6   252.6  252.6    74.6   252.6   66.6  169.4  190.2  252.6   74.6   252.6
Rate of Return 30%
I/  Project based on farmer already having established ilhberry plantings but in need of improved rearing facilities.
2/ Price below average due to lower quality cocoons as a reomlt of inadequate space, aaitation, rearing methods and
disease control.
3/ Young nulberry, L year old, low production, little or no fertiliser or insecticid-- used. 4 oase without project,
9 casea first year of project nd 10 cases each year tbiueafter. rield per case before project 30 kg/came,lst year
of project, 33kg/case, 2nd year 34 kg/came and 3rd year am 35 kg/case.
4/  Improve quality as a result of proper housing, pivot coooon-bed, improve sanitation and disease control.
5/  Investment provides financing for one year's impute and improved cultural practies for the *ulberry field
and for the rearing costs of the first batch of h casm of silk worms in the nev rearlng house.
6/ Family labor is included and makes up 80% before the project and 72% after the project of the total labor
remireents.



CHAPTER G
Page 8
Table G-6
KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Silk Worm Rearing House
Farmer's Loan Cash Flow
(W 000's)
Years       1        2         3         4        5       6        7        8        9        10      11       12       13
Inflow
Loan               794.8       -         -         -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -
Sales              496.0    565.3    582.1    582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1
Sub-total  1,290.8    565.3    582.1    582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1
Outflow
Investment and
replacement cost 1,135.4                                           178.0                                       186.0    83.2    62.4
Operating cost         69.9    291.3    291.3    291.3   291.3   291.3   291.3   291.3   291.3   291.3   291.3   291.3   291.3
Debt Service
Interest            95.4      95.4      95.4      81.8    68.1    54.5    40.9    27.3    13.7         -        -        -        -
Principal            -         -       113.5    113.5   113.5   113.5   113.5   113.5   113.8          -        -        -        -
Sub-total  1,300.7    386.7    500.2    486.6   472.9   637.3   445.7   432.1   418.8   291.3   477.3   374.5   353.7
Surplus or
(Deficit)           (9.9)   178.6      81.9      95.5   109.2   (55.2)  136.4   150.0   163.3   290.8   104.8   207.6   228.4
Cumulative             (9.9)   168.7    250.6    346.1   455.3   400.1   536.5   686.5   849.8 1,140.6 1,245.4 1,453.0 1,681.4
Years               14        15        16       17      18       19       20
Inflow
Loan
Sales                        582.1    582.1    582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1
Sub-total              582.1    582.1    582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1   582.1
Outflow
Investment & Replacement
Cost                                              178.0
Operating Cost                 291.3    291.3    291.3   291.3   291.3   291.3   291.3
Debt Service
Interest                      -         -         -       -        -        -        -
Principal                     -         -         -        -       -                 -
291.3    291.3    469.3   291.3   291.3   291.3   291.3
Surplus or (Deficit)           290.8    290.8    112.8   290.8   290.8   290.8   290.8
Cumulative                   1,972.2  2,263.0  2,375.8 2,666.6 2,957.4 3,248.2 3,539.0



KOREA                                                                                                            N" '000)
SECONID .AIRICULTORAL CREDIT PROJECT
APPLE ORCRSARD (1.5 Ha): FAIN NOD9
1      2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9      10        11       12       13       14       15       16       17        18       19       20       21       22       23       24       25
APPIa Or-hard 1.5 ha
Int--crp Soyb.- I ha
II. Prod-cton
Apple (tons)
Standard tree  (0.75 ha)                               0,2    0.7    2.2    3.7    4.8    8.5    9.6            11.0    12.2    14.7    16.2    17.7    19.2    20.7    21.7    22.7    22.7    22.7    22.7    22.7    22.7    22.7
D..rf trene (0.75 ha)                                 j..      5 5   IL 4,  18.8   24.8   27.7   31.7           31.7     31.7    31.7    31.7    31.7    277          267  26 .7 26 .7 26 .7    2          3.7      20.7    16 9      12.9    11.9
6g2o16    22.                 29.6   38.    41.3        4.       43.9     4.       47.9    49.4    46.9    47.          48.4    49.4    49.        464      43.4    39.5    35.6    34.6
Syan(Kg)                    900    900    90                                       __    __    ___           42_ 7        9    46
APpIe - a120/K&                                          2W8    74.4  1.632  2,700  3.552  4,344  4,956          5,124   5.268   5.566   5,748   5.928   5.628   5,688   5.808   5,928   5,929    5.568   5,208   4,740   4.212   4,152
Soybean-w   160/Kg               144_                                                                                 _ 1_ _ _4_ 144_                                  _  __
Subtotal                    144                                    632              _     .     496           4     ~         58      _           _        _     568         ~        2       fl      ~                    _     ~         .5
0,.aef 600 (8 5 70 each    342        34
Standard 130 (9 a 300  a    45         5
Land Prep-rtIon                437
Labor                          320    235    223
Pertlll-clanr./1.              102      78      82
Petkindee/b raa                 52      85      8
0611 han  tool.               60       9       8
Poses ap-eyst                          210                                     155                                        275                                          125                                           350
Concrete ieliln  tank           40
Hlanel la.....                  15      17      26
Soybean D-evlop-t              114 
Subtotol          ~~1.527    69                                       05231250
V.  Oaaigbt
Applaa:                                    66~~~~~~~~~~a    99    106    117    131    142    160   166      170      175      160      1.80     190       IS1O     190      190      190      190      190       190      190      190
Peastilida/borax                                        90    132    182    237    277    312    361             379      396      405      418      424      438      438      438      4-38     438      438       438      436      438      438
.,l for sprayer                                        20      25      35      30     60      70      85         85       85       65       85       95       85       83       95       83       85       83        85       85       85       85
B.oe.  for apple .ale                                   23      63    139    228    300    360    410           433      4.45      455      465      500      475      480      490      500      500      470       440      400      360      350
Labor                                                  304    340    410    475    535    560    633             649      664      664      690      731      712      717      719      723      723       714      705      696      691      678
Mlanellaeaooa                            ~~~    ~~~~20  20  20fl 20      20      20      25 0            ,,,,20                 3                20       20   ....0.L      20       20        20       20       20   --20   ...A
Snbtotal                              54~~~~~~~~35    67  901  1.12    1.32     1.484  1.669  ±7"1                            a.7:    TI      910    .920       -     j.        1.956   1.1    i1  78   1929    1 784   L
Soybean:
Prtilieer/m.anre                       25      25      25      25
Labo                                    79      79      79      79
VI.      btotal                           1174            14      11
VI.  Total Cota (IV & 7)     1.527     766    544    659    792    901  1,232  1,323  1,494  1,669            1,732   2,057   1,804   1,878   1,940   1,910   2.054    1,942   1.956   1,956   1,917   2,229    1,529   1,794   1,761
vii. 9et ecretal
Value (111-511)        (1,373)  (622)  (400)  (2273    96    731  1,468  2,229  2,860  3,287             3,392   3.211   3,764   3,870   3,988   3.718   3,643   3,866   3.972   3.972   5,651   2,980   2,911   2,688    2,391
FINANCIAL RATE OF nTUR13:  331



KOREA
SECOND A8RICULTURAL CREDIT PRJECT
Apple Orchard (1.5 Ha):  F      ,er'. Cah Flow
(W '000)
1        2        .3        4         5        6        7       8        9       10       11      12       13      14       15      16       17       18      19       20      21       22      23       24      25
1. Inflw
Lo.n                       1,069      456       301
Sale.                       --144      144      144      432       888    1.632   2 700   3.552   4.344   4 956   514 5 268   5.568   5.748   5_928   5.628   5.688   5.808   5.928   5.928   5.568   5 20                      4    4 272   4  5
Sabtota1             1423       600       445      432       888    1,632   2,700   3,552   4,344   4,956   5,124   5,268   5,568   5,748   5,928   5,628   5,688   5,808   5.928   5,928   5,568   5,208   4,740   4,272   4.152
I.  Oatflw
Inve-t- nt and
Rap lanaent Coata         1,527      652       430                                  105                                        275                                       125                                        350
Optlartng Co Ct.                         114      114      659       792      901   1,127   1,323   1,484   1,669   1,732   1,782   1,804   1,878   1,940   1,910   1,920   1,942   1,956   1,956   1,917   1,878   1,829   1,784   1,761
Debt Servic.
Interest                     128      183       219      219       219      219      219     219      164      110      55
tian.ipal                                                                                    456      456     456      458
Subtotal             1.655      §       _763       878    1.011    1.120   1, 4 1 998 25 104              56    245      057   1.804   1.878   1.940   1.910   2.045   1.942   1,956   1.956   1.917   2.2a28   1.829   1.784   1761
III.  Surplus or (Deficit)          (442)    (349)    (318)    (446)    (123)        512   1,249   1,554   2,240   2,721   2,879   3,211   3,764   3,870   3,988   3,718   3,643   3,866   3,972   3,972   3,651   2,980   2,911   2,488   2,391
IV.  Camolativ-                    (442)    (791)  (1,109)  (1,55S)  (1,678)  (1,166)        83   1,637   3,877   6,598   9,477  12,688  16,452  20,322  24,310  28,028  31,671  35,537  39,509  43,481  47,132  50,112  53,023  55,511  57,902
~I Z



IEA
SACCENR J RICUMLTURAL CREDIT HROJ£CT
SPRINKLER IRRIGATION (2 HA APPLE OtCHARD)  FARN MODEL
Year   1          2        3         4        5         6        7         8        9         10       11       12-15     16       17-19      20       21       22-25
I.    Production (tons)
With Project                         27.7       34.6     40.2     44.6      53.4      58.1     61.7      64.0     66.4      68.8     70.0      71.1     71.1      71.1     71.1      71.1      71.1
Without Project                      27.7       32.6     36.6     40.5      44.5      48.4     51.4      53.4     55.3      57.3     58.3      59.3     59.3      59.3     59.3      59.3      59.3
II.   sales
1.   With Project - w 107/Kg             2,964     3,702    4,301    4,772    5,714    6,217    6,602    6,848    7,105    7,362    7,490    7,608    7,608    7,608    7,608    7,608    7,608
2.   Without Project - v 97/Kg           2,687      3,162    3,550    3,929    4,317    4,695    4,986    5,180    5,364    5,558    5,655    5,752    5,752    5,752    5,752    5,752    5,752
3.   Gross Benefits (1-2)                  277        540      751       843    1,397    1,522    1,616    1,668    1,741    1,804    1,835    1,856    1,856    1,856    1,856    1,856    1,856
III.  Investment and Replacment
Costs
Well             1/                   500                                               45                                             45                 45                           45
Pimping Station - 2/                  S80                                                                                   150                                             150
Sprinkler System  -/                1,390                                             120                                             120                120                          120
Installation cost                     ISO
2,650                                             T65                                    150      165                165
IV.   Operating Cost
Labor                                  45        45        45       45        45       45        45        45       45        45       45        45       45        45       45        45       45
Fuel                                   91         91       91        91       91        91       91        91       91        91       91        91       91        91       91        91        91
Maintenance/repairs                    28                  28        28       26        28       28        28       28        28       28        28       28        28        28       28        28
164       164       164      164       164        4       164      164       164      164       164      164       164      164       164       164      164
V.   Net Benefit (II 3-III-V)              (2,537)       376      587       679    1,233    1,193    1,452    1,504    1,577    1,490    1,506    1,692    1,527    1,692    1,542    1,527    1,692
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN: 35%
2/ Diesel engine, pump, pump base, sluice valves, and pipes.
2/ PVC pipes for main lines and lateral lines, steel riser pipes, pipe fittings and sprinkler heads.



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Sprinkler IrriRation (2 a 4Apple Orchard): Farmer's Cash Flow
(W '000)
Year        1        2       3        4        5          6          7         8          9         10         11      12-15        16       17-19        20        21       22-25
I.  Inflow
Loan                                   1,855
Increases in sales                       277     540      751     843      1,397     1.522      1,616     1.668      1,741      1,804     1.835      1.856      1.856     1.856      1.856      1.856     1.856
Sub-total                      2,132      540     751      843     1,397      1,522     1,616      1,668      1,741     1,804      1,835     1,856      1,856      1,856      1,856     1,856      1,856
II. Outflow
Investment and Replacement
C  ts                                2,650                                            165                                       150        165                  165                  150        165
Operating Costs                          164     164      164     164        164        164       164        164       164        164        164       164        164        164       164        164        164
Debt Service
Interest                               223     223      223     223        178       134         89         45
principal                            ____371                               371       371        371        371                                                                      
Sub-total                      3,037      387     387      758        713       834        624       580        164       314        329        164       329        164        314        329       164
rII.  Surplus or (Deficit)                      (905)    153      364      85        684        688       992      1,088     1,577      1,490      1,506     1,692      1,527      1,692     1,542      1,527      1,692
IV.  Cumulative                                (905)   (752)   (388)   (303)        381      1,069     2,061      3,149     4,626      6,116      7,622    14,390    15,917    20,993    22,535    24,062    30,830
a 01
o cL



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
H. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.        Direct benefits of the Project would come from the increase in
production resulting from the various subproject investments. At current
prices, the estimated annual incremental output at full development, rang-
ing from about 5 to 15 years, would amount to about US$32 million. The
increased production of fruits and vegetables would improve nutritional
standards of the local diet. Mainly for export, the incremental out-
put of cocoons would generate an export income of about US$3.4 million at
June 1975 prices, although the farmers involved would receive about US$2.8
million in terms of their cocoon sales. The increased availability to the
consumer of vegetables and fruits during the offseason are added benefits.
In addition to providing increased employment and incomes to the farmer sub-
borrowers, the significance of the Project is further enhanced by the fact
that a greater part of the increased output would be the result of a fuller
and more efficient use of existing land and labor resources through improved
technology.
2.        The Project would directly benefit about 7,900 farmer subborrowers
and their families or a total of some 47,000 persons. At full development
production, the additional labor required annually has been estimated at
about 7,200 man year equivalent (1,806,000 man-days). It is envisioned that
part of the labor required would be supplied by family labor. Additional
employment resulting from expanded marketing activities would also add to
Project benefits.
3.        The economic rates of return from the Project investments have
been calculated based on the following assumptions:
(i) Current prices received by farmers have been used to
estimate the benefits.
(ii) Cost streams have been adjusted by deducting taxes and
import duties, and adding on subsidies.
(iii) A shadow rate of foreign exchange estimated at 1.135 or
W 550 per US$ have been used in the economic analysis.
The shadow rate for foreign exchange was estimated
using the following formula:



CHAPTER H
Page 2
SCF =M + X
M(1 + tm + tQm) + X(1 - tx)
where:    SCF  = Standard Conversion Factor
M = Five-year average of merchandize imports
X = Five-Year average of merchandize exports
t   = Taxes on imports
m
t = Net value of taxes/subsidies on exports
x
tQ = Tariff equivalents of import quotas
Using 1969-1973 values, the SCF was estimated at 0.881.
The shadow rate of foreign exchange is the reciprocal of
the SCF multiplied by the official exchange rate.
4.        Based on the above assumptions but without the use of the estimated
shadow price for foreign exchange, the economic rates of return would range
from 29% to 38% as shown below and in attached Table H-1:
Economic Rate of
Return (%)
Apple Orchard                                   30
Silk Worm Rearing House                         32
Sprinkler Irrigation                           38
Green House                                     38
On-farm storage                                 29
Using the shadow price concerned to adjust the cost streams, the rates would
be from 27% to 36% which are satisfactory.
5.        To test the subprojects against changes in investment costs and
production results, a sensitivity analysis has been carried out. By in-
creasing the cost of the investments by 20% without increasing the value
of the benefits, the rates would be from 21% to 30%. The figures would be
20% to 29% if the value of the net benefits were to decline by 20% without
changing the costs of the investments.



.REPUBLIC OF ~KOREA
SECOND AGiICUIJTURE CREDIT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
Year       1       2       3       4        5       8       7        8       9       15        11       12        13        14       15       16        17        18       19        20       21        22      23       24       25
-  -  -  -  -       -       -       -        -       -         -~~~~~~~~T HO0U SA ND   WO0N           -       -         -        -         -        -          -        -       -       --
1. Apple Orchard Develomnet
a. Iccre-s-m-tal Sales                       144     144      144     432     888   1,632    2,700  3,25.2  4,344  4,956    5,124   5,268    5,588    5,748    2.923    5,628    5,688    2,808    5,828    5,828    5,568    5,208  4,740  4,212   4,152
b. Investment &Replaceomot Coats    1,699            724     470                                 125                                         327                                             149                                             417
o. Iperating Coata                                   122      125     709     846       548    1,179  1,380  1,546  1,739    1,805    1,857    1,881    1,856    2,018    1,988    1,998    2,025    2,041    2,041    2,000   1,863  1.913  1,846    1,845
Net Benefits  (a-h-c)                  - 1,552     715-  451-  277            42      684    1,396  2,172  2,798  3,217   3,319   3,084    3,687    3,892   3,905   3,640    3,541    3,783   3,887   3,887    3,568    2,828  2,827  2.4*4    2,307
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURBN  30.07,
2. Sericulture ResrinR House
a, Encresuntel Sales                         317     388     404      404     404      404       404      404     484     404       404      404       404      404       404      404       404       404      404       404
b, Invstment 4 Replacemet Costs    1,064                                               178                                          186       87        85                         178
c. operating Costs                           -69     164     164      164     164      164       164      164     164     164       164      164       164      164       164      164       164       164      164       164
Net Benefits (a-h-c)                    -  678      224     240      240     240       62       240     240      240     240       54       155       175      240      240        62       240      240       240       240
3. Greenhooses
a. Bales                                  2,435   2,802  2,902  2,902  2,902   2,802    2,902  2,982  2,902  2,902    2,902    2,902    2,902    2,802    2,902
b. 1ovetmest & Replacment Costs   2,844                                                471                                          574
r. Operating Costs                        1,382  2,169  2,169  2,169  2,169   2,169    2,169  2,189  2,169  2,169    2,169    2,169    2,169    2,169    2,169
Hot Benefits (a--c-)                   - 1,824      700     788      780     788      229       700     700      708     700       126      780       708      788       708
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN  =38.0%,
4. DO-Farm SternaR
a. In-re,sental Bales                        541     581     634      657     657      657       657      857     657     657       657      657       817      657       657      657       657       657      657       657      657       657     657      657       657              .
b. 1nvetment Coats                        2,0888                       53      53        53       53       55      53      53        53       53        53       53        53       53        53        53       55        53        55       53      53~
c. Operating Costs                            83     125     152      155     155       135      135      135     155     135       135      135       135      135       135      135       135       135      135       155      133       155     135      133       135
Net Benefit. (s-h-c)                    -1,822      462     582      469     469      469       469     469    469       469      469       469       469      469      469       469       469      469       469       469      469       469     469     322        522
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN - 29.07,
5, Sprinklier Irrigation
a. Increme-c-ta1 Bales                       277     540     751      843  1,397   1,522    1,616  1,668  1,741  1,804    1,835    1,856    1,836    1,856    1,856    1,856    1,856    1,856    1,856   1,856    1,856    1,856  1,856  1,856                       1,856
b. Investment 4 Beplacomect Costa    2,375                                              155                               134       153                                            153                                    134       153
c. Operating Coats                           155     155     155      155     155       153      155      151     155     155       155      155       155      155       155      155       155       155      155       155       155      155     155      155       155
Net Benefita  (a-h-c)                   -2,253      385     596      688  1,242    1,214    1,461  1,513  1,586  1,515    1,527    1,701    1,701    1,781    1,781    1,548    1,701    1,701    1,701    1,567    1,548    1,701  1,781  1,701                     1,701
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN   =  38.0%



KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS
1.        The following are the main loan conditions on which agreement
was reached during negotiations:
(a) Participating Kun Cooperatives would meet the conditions
specified in Chapter C para 9 and 31;
(b) An agricultural economist, and two horticulturists spe-
cializing in green house vegetable production and sprinkler
irrigation for orchards respectively, would be appointed
and in position within three months following Loan effect-
iveness (Chapter C para 32); and
tc) Subloan repayment periods would not exceed those indi-
cated in Chapter D para 7.
2.     Conditions of Loan effectiveness would be the execution of
agreements between the Government and NACF, and NACF and the PKCs which
are acceptable to IBRD (Chapter D para 6).
3.     Given agreement on the abovementioned conditions, the proposed Project
is suitable for an IBRD loan of US$20 million.



ANNEX I
KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Additional Reports and Data Related to the
Project Available in the Bank
1.        THE SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT, AUGUST 1975
(Project preparation report by the National Agricultural
Cooperative Federation, Seoul, Republic of Korea).
2.        Tables on economic rates of return by subprojects and the
Project as a whole.



IBRD 10375
, , ,. ._. U5.SR.SR,  % (                   127'                             2                            129-                      APRIL 973
.        ,  X   vm                 N O R T H   K    R E A                                        , 
C H I N.A     IV               e                    ,- 
|/  < >4KREA               t1                                                                                                       Cy/<     A59  s t  Se a7
Se-
r    Sy>R /4  S)    NsZ9   ngeum<;:3~ ~~~~~~~~~Gngnun
.0~~< PC                                                                                       Erpressways
Chin   5e,                                                                                                                  Mukhoilry
_34-~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~~Rh                                                             on-u|Ralesude  osrut                                         4
cW       X                                                     ,,1;n,a   eorgsec
.-   Pr3vincic. boundririe5
-37. ~   ~         ~       ~           w g       p                  °n0seiongs                                                               , eo
Y e/l w L - - Y                 32b w7                                                            1 8                              129'
23'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
36'                                                J  h
35'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~. p
O4~~~6/                                ______ ~Espresswcys
Wsedn                               -- -~~~~~~~~~~~~Expressways unde construction
rib~~~~~~~~~   &3i ~~~~~~~~Primory rocads
-..                                            ~~~~~~~~~~-_- Raiways
P--aiways under conlstructias
-34'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Airports
4,Ports
.--Rivers
Special cities
Provincial boundaries
i   nternational boundaries
0     20    40      60    80    100    20    140   160
KILOMEOERRS
0          20         60         60          20         100
MILES
136'                            136'                             127'                             128'                            129'



