174*1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1328 KO
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 12, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 12, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF
KOREA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the National Agri-
cultural Cooperative Federation (hereinafter called NACF) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to NACF the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and NACF;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "NACF" means the National Agricultural Cooperative Federa-
tion established and operating pursuant to the Agricultural Coop-
erative Law of the Borrower, dated July 29, 1961 as amended, or
any successor thereto;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and NACF of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan made by the Borrower
to NACF pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;


﻿-3-
(d) "Government Loan" means the loan made by the Borrower
to NACF pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(e) "First Agricultural Credit Project" means the project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(f) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement dated
September 29, 1972 as the same may be amended from time to time,
entered into between the Borrower and the Association in connec-
tion with the First Agricultural Credit Project;
(g) "Gun Cooperative" means a cooperative established pursuant
to the provisions of Chapter III of the Agricultural Cooperative
Law of July 29, 1961, as amended;
(h) "Participating Gun Cooperative" means a cooperative which
meets the eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule 1 to the Proj-
ect Agreement and which has entered into the arrangements with
NACF set forth in Section 2.02 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(i) "Beneficiary" means any farmer or group of farmers to
which a Participating Gun Cooperative has made a Sub-Loan;
(j) "Sub-Loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by a Participating Gun Cooperative to a Beneficiary out of
the proceeds of that part of the Subsidiary Loan and the Govern-
ment Loan relent to it by NACF in accordance with Section 2.02 (a)
of the Project Agreement;


﻿(k) "Special Fund" means the account to be established and
maintained by NACF in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.01 (b) and Schedule 5 of this Agreement; and
(1) "Won" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for disburse-
ments made under Sub-Loans included in the Project and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, goods
financed under Sub-Loans shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and ninety hundredths per cent (8.90%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿97
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause NACF to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable NACF to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall cause NACF to establish and maintain
the Special Fund in accordance with the provislons set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall, under arrangements and on teims and
conditions satisfactory to the Bnk (including, inter alia, those
set forth in Schedules 4 and 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedules
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank,
the Borrower and NACF), lend to NACF and deposit in the Special
'Fund the equivalent in terms of currency of the Borrower of the
proceeds of the Loan withdran from time to time by the Borrower.
(d) Without any limitation or restriction upon the generality
of the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Bor-
rover shall, under arrangements and conditions satisfactory to the


﻿-8-
Bank (including, inter alia, those set forth in Schedules 4 and 5
to this Agreement), lend to NACF, not later than January 1, 1980
or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, an amount of
not less than 4,300 million Won. To this end, the Borrower shall
deposit in the Special Fund (i) not later than April 1, 1977 or
such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, an initial amount
of not less than 700 million Won and (ii) thereafter at the begin-
ing of each quarter such amounts as shall be required during such
quarter by NACF to fulfill its obligations with respect to the
implementation of the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to ensure efficient cooperation of its
agencies and departments with NACF in the implementation of the
Project, the Borrower shall maintain the Project Coordination
Committee referred to in Section 3.04 and Schedule 6 as amended,
of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes that whenever it shall
cause NACF to perform any services on behalf of the Borrower, the
Borrower shall provide sufficient funds to NACF to cover the costs
incurred by NACF on account of such services.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, jpso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-10-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) NACF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or under the arrangements referred to
in Section 3.01 (c) and (d) of this Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that NACF will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Agricultural Cooperative Law of July 29, 1961, as
amended, or NACF's by-laws shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of NACF to carry out its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of NACF or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-12-
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and NACF; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement jhall occur.


﻿-13-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
NACF has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corpo-
rate and governmental action; and
(b) the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (c) and (d)
of this Agreement have been agreed upon between the Borrower
and NACF.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NACF, and is legally binding upon NACF in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (c) and
(d) have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NACF,
respectively, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and NACF
in accordance with their terms.


﻿Section 6.03. The date January 10, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Economic Planning Board of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister, Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-' 16-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /s/ Yoon Sae Yang
Authorized RepresentatAve
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S.S. Kirmani
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Apple orchard devel-       3,600,000          70% of Sub-Loan
opment (Part A of                            disbursements
the Project)                                 made by Partici-
pating Gun Coop-
eratives
(2) Silkworm rearing           4,000,000          70% of Sub-Loan
houses (Part B of                            disbursements
the Project)                                 made by Partici-
pating Gun Coop-
eratives
(3) Sprinkler irriga-          2,200,000          70% of Sub-Loan
tion for orchards                            disbursements
(Part C of the                               made by Partici-
Project)                                     pating Gun Coop-
eratives
(4) Greenhouses for            3,800,000          70% of Sub-Loan
vegetable produc-                            disbursements
tion (Part D of                              made by Partici-
the Project)                                 pating Gun Coop-
eratives


﻿-18                                       0
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) On-farm storage for        2,200,000          70% of Sub-Loan
fruits (Part E of                            disbursements
the Project)                                 made by Partici-
pating Gun Coop-
eratives
(6) Unallocated                4?,00,000
TOTAL     20,000,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.


﻿-20                                       0
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project shall be a continuation and expansion of the
agricultural development program financed under the First Agri-
cultural Credit Project.
The Project consists in the provision of medium and long-term
Sub-Loans, over a period of three years, through Participating Kun
Cooperatives, to about 7,900 farmers for the following parts:
Part A:   Apple orchard development, including land preparation
and provision of improved planting materials using
approximately equal proportions of standard and dwarf
rootstocks, fertilizers, pesticides and tools, together
with the provision of inputs required for the initial
production of peanuts, soybeans or other vegetables
intercropped in the newly established orchards.
Part B:   Construction and equipping of improved silkworm rearing
houses, including improvement of existing mulberry
plantings.
Part C:   Sprinkler irrigation for apple, pear and orange
orchards.
Part D:   Construction and equipping of improved greenhouses for
vegetable production, together with the provision of
farm inputs requiied for the initial production of vege-
tables.


﻿Part E:   Construction of storage facilities and provision of
wooden packing boxes and ventilating fans for on-farm
storage of fruits.
*              * P  
The Proj ect is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿-23-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 1980                        740,ooo
through   February 1, 1993
On August 1, 1993                                    760,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿124-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.55%
More than three years but
not more than six neIrs
before maturity                          3.15%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          5.75%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                          7.85%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                          8.90%


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Lending Terms and Conditions Applicable to
the Subsidiary Loan and
the Government Loan
1.   NACF shall pay interest at a rate identical to the rate speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement on the principal amounts of
the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
2.   NACF shall pay interest at a rate of 5.7% per annum on the
principal amounts of the Government Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
3.   The repayment period of the Subsidiary and the Government
Loans shall be 17 years, including a grace period of 3.5 years.
4.   The Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk of the
Subsidiary Loan.


﻿-26-
SCHEDULE 5
Establishment and Operation
of the Special Fund
1.   For the purposes of implementing the Project, NACF shall
establish an account called the Special Fund and shall maintain
such Fund for a period of not less than 17 years from the Effective
Date of this Agreement.
2.   The Special Fund shall be credited from time to time with:
(a) the equivalent in terms of currency of the Borrower of
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from time to time by the
Borrower;
(b) the amounts lent by the Borrower to NACF under the
Government Loan; and
(c) the repayment monies received from the Beneficiaries of
Sub-Loans.
3.   Monies standing to the credit of the Special Fund shall be
uset by NACF for relending to Participating Gun Cooperatives in
accordance with Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.


