CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1328 KO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE FEDERATION
Dated October 12, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 12, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank) and NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE FEDERATION
(hereinafter called NACF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween Republic of Korea (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars
($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but on' !. ckiotondition that NACF agree to undertake such
obligations toward   a Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to NACF on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank; and
WHEREAS NACF, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth,
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the Gen-
eral Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings there-
in set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "First Project Agreement" means the agreement dated
September 29, 1972, as the same may be amended from time to time,
entered into between the Bank and NACF in connection with the
First Agricultural Credit Project; and
(b) "Technical Unit" means the unit established within NACF
pursuant to Section 2.11 (i) of the First Project Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NACF shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, en-
gineering and agricultural practices.
Section 2.02. NACF shall:
(a) relend to Participating Gun Cooperatives the funds lent
by the Borrower to NACF in accordance with Section 3.01 (c) and
(d) of the Loan Agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including, inter alia, interest at the rate of 9% per
annum (except as the Bank, the Borrower and NACF shall otherwise
agree); and
(b) cause the said Participating Gun Cooperatives to make
Sub-Loans to Beneficiaries under terms and conditions consistent
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Bank, the Borrower and NACF.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all
farm machinery and implements, tools and other materials financed
under Sub-Loans included in the Project shall be procured on the
basis of local shopping through normal commercial and cooperative
channels.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. For the purposes of making Sub-Loans to Benefici-
aries, NACF shall cause Participating Gun Cooperatives to select
such Beneficiaries in accordance with criteria that, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall include the following:
(a) Beneficiaries of Sub-Loans to be made under Part A of
the Project shall establish orchards in soils considered suitable
by the Institute of Agricultural Sciences in Suweon;
(b) Beneficiaries of Sub-Loans to be made under Part B of
the Project shall own not less than 0.35 ha of mulberry plantings
in production;
(c) Beneficiaries of Sub-Loans to be made under Part C of
the Project shall own not less than 2 ha of producing orchards
which shall have available supply of water sufficient for irriga-
tion needs; and
(d) Beneficiaries of Sub-Loans to be made under Part D of
the Project shall be experienced in greenhouse production and
shall have easy access to important urban consuming centers.
Section 2.05. NACF shall:
(a) maintain the Technical Unit, which shall be responsible
for the supervision and the monitoring of the implementation of
the Project, including the evaluation of the actual financial and
economic benefits resulting from the Project;


﻿-5-
(b) not later than three months from the Effective Date of
this Agreement, or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Bank, employ:
(i) an agricultural economist to be responsible, inter
alia, for the training of the Sub-Loan appraisal
officers of the Participating Gun Cooperatives; and
(ii) two horticulturists specialized in greenhouse
vegetable production and sprinkler irrigation for
orchards, respectively;
these three experts to work on a full-time basis within the Tech-
nical Unit and to have qualifications and experience acceptable
to the Bank; and
(c) take all steps required on its part to enable the Tech-
nical Unit to have at all times such experienced and competent
staff as shall be required for the said Technical Unit to carry
out its functions and responsibilities under paragraph (a) of this
Section with due diligence and efficiency.
Section 2.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, NACF
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) NACF shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project,


﻿-6-
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) NACF: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to iden-
tify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan so relent to it and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) NACF shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of NACF and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.08. (a) NACF shall, at the request of the Bank, ex-
change views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Proj-
ect, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and
the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (c) and (d) of the
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.


﻿7
(b) NACF shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by NACF of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (c) and (d)
of the Loan Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NACF
Section 3.01. NACF shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. NACF shall at all times conduct its business
and operations, maintain its financial position and plan its fu-
ture expansion in accordance with appropriate agricultural, ad-
ministrative and financial practices, and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management.
Section 3.03. NACF shall take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the carrying out of the Project
or in the conduct of its business.


﻿*                         -9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.Ol. NACF shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. NACF shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by in-
dependent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of NACF and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. NACF shall: (a) establish and maintain a sep-
arate Project Account with sub-accounts for each Part of the Proj-
ect; (b) have such Project Account for each fiscal year audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied; ad (c) fur-
nish to the Bank (i) as soon as available, but in any case not


﻿-10-
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report
of such audit by said auditors and (ii) not later than two months
after the end of each calendar quarter and in respect of such quar-
ter, a detailed report on the progress of the Project, including
the cost thereof, in a form acceptable to the Bank.


﻿*                                        - 11 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of NACF thereunder shall terminate on the date -on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿-12-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For NACF:
President
National Agricultural Cooperative
Federation
75, 1-Ka Choongjung-ro, Jung-gu,
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:
KONACOF
Seoul


﻿- 13 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NACF may be taken or executed by NACF's
President or such other person or persons as NACF's President shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. NACF shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evi-
dence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of NACF, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by NACF pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agr'ement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! S.S. Kirmani
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE FEDERATION
By /s! Yoon Sae Yang
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Selection of Gun Cooperatives
Eligible to make Sub-Loans to Beneficiaries
under the Project
A Participating Gun Cooperative shall meet inter alia the fol-
lowing eligibility criteria:
(1) the real value of its assets shall be sufficient to
meet its liabilities and its financial condition is not likely
to be materially and adversely affected as a result of any
litigation;
(2) its overdues, at the end of the financial year preceding
its application, shall not exceed 10% of its loans then
outstanding;
(3) it has adopted standard procedures and principles for
extending the maturities of its loans so as to limit such ex-
tensions to situations of crop failure due to natural calamity
or any other cause beyond the control of Beneficiaries;
(4) its management is satisfactory and its staff shall in-
clude loan appraisal officers in adequate numbers, suitably
trained by the Technical Unit, and working on a full-time
basis on Sub-Loans to be provided to Beneficiaries under the
Project; and
(5) it shall be able to provide adequate extension support
to Beneficiaries.


﻿- 16-
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions of the Sub-Loans
to be made by the Participating Gun Cooperatives
to the Beneficiaries
1.   Beneficiaries shall pay interest at the rate of 12% per
annum on the principal amounts of the Sub-Loans withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
2.   The repayment and grace periods shall not exceed the limits
shown below:
Grace               Repayment
Categories of Sub-Loans       Period               Period
(in years)
Part A of the Project           7                    11
Part B of the Project           2                     9
Part C of the Project           3                     8
Part D of the Project           1                     6
Part E of the Project           2                    10
(The grace period is included in
the repayment period)
3.   A Sub-Loan to any Beneficiary shall not exceed 70% of the
estimated cost of the investment to be financed out of such
Sub-Loan.
4.   All Sub-Loans shall be made against adequate security. Sub-
Loan applications shall be evaluated in terms of projected incre-
mental returns from the investments to be financed out of such
Sub-Loans and the resulting repayment capacity of the applicants.


﻿- 17 -
5.   No Sub-Loans shall be made for refinancing investments financed
from other sources.


