RETURN  T                                                 R E S T R I C T E D
RE poRTS DESK
WITHIN                 FILE   111y                          R e p o rt N o. TO-.80t
This report was prepared for use within the Bank. It may not be published
nor may it be quoted as representing the Bank's views. The Bank accepts no
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the contents of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
APPRAISAL OF
THE PORT OF CALCUTTA RIVER MAINTENANCE
AND PORT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
INDIA
June 27, 1961
Department of Technical Operations



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 U.S. Dollar = Rs. 4. 762
1 Indian Rupee = U. S. $0. 21
Rs. 100, 000    = U. S. $20, 000
Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta's Fiscal Year
April 1 through March 31



C A L C U T T A
Table of Contents
Page
Appraisal of the Port of Calcutta River
Maintenance and Port Inprovement Project.
Summary                                                   i-i
I.        Introduction
II.       The Port of Calcutta
A.  General                                               1-2
B.  Organization and lanagement                           2-3
C.  Labor                                                 3-4
D,  The First IBRD Loan to the Port-
No. 198-IN                                       4
E, Existing Port Facilities                               5
F.  Siltation Problems                                    5
G.  Present Traffic Handled                               6
III.      Traffic Prospects                                         6-7
IV.       The Proposed Project                                      8
A.  Items in the Project                                  8-9
B.  Execution of Project                                  9
C.  Projects Deferred in the First
IBRD Loan to the Port                            9
D.  Long Term Aspects of the Project                      9
V.        Plan for Financing the Project                           10
The Financial System of CPC                         10-11
Recent Financial History                            11-12-13
Port Charges                                        13
Financial Projections                               13-14-1.5
VI.       Economic Justification                                   16-17
VII.      Conclusions and Recommendations                          17-18
Appendix Tables 1 - 13:
1.  Productivity of primary gang shore labor working
general cargo.
2. Productivity of piece rate labor at the coal dock.
3.  Actual Tonnage of Traffic Handled During the Years
from 1956-57 to 1959-60.
4. Traffic Forecast.



Table of Contents (continued)
5. Postponements of, or Savings in Items from Loan 198-IN.
6. Development Projects Included in the Second Loan
Application.
7. Scheduled Disbursements of Foreign Txchange.
8. Estimate of Funds Available end Requirements for the
Principal Capital Works During the Period 1960-61 to
1965-66.
9. Income Statemerts 1946-47 to 1959-60.
10. Pro Forma Balance Sheet as on 31st March 1960.
11.  Future Financial Position (Revenue and Debt Cc,verage).
12. Forecast of Debt Service.
13. Forecast of Major Changes in Assets and Liabibilities
Between 1960 and 1965.
Appendices:
14. Description and Comments on the Project.
15. Siltation of the River Hooghly and Its Effect on the
Future Development of the Port of Calcutta.
16. Projects Deferred in First I.B.R.D. Loan to CPC.
Maps:
1. India - Hooghly River
2. India - Port of Calcutta - General Plan of Docks.



- i -
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE PORT OF CALCUTTA RIVER
I4AINTENANCE AND PORT IP@ROVEMENT PROJECT
i.        This report is an appraisal of a project for the maintenance and
improvement of the Port of Calcutta, which is directed to the basic need of
maintaining access to the port and was submitted to the Bank by the Govern-
ment of India as a basis for a loan equivalent to about US$21 million. The
project is complementary to, and a continuation of, that partly financed
by the Bankts first, US$29 million, loan to the port (No. 198-IN) of June
1958.
ii.       The Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta (CPC), consisting of
twenty-four members, is an autonomous port authority under the control of
the Government of India. It represents a variety of local interests and
exercises considerable independence in managing the port. CPCIs staff is
generally capable and efficient.
iii.      The siltation of the River Hooghly continues to threaten the
Port of Calcutta and imposes severe limitations on the size of vessels
that can use the port. PiJaintenance of access is imperative for the cur-
rent trade and future development of this economically important region
of India. Consequently the project includes the purchase of four new
dredgers to supplement the existing, inadequate CPC dredging fleet, as
well as other vessels to be employed on river conservancy and operation-
al duties. In King George's Dock, the western arm is to be extended to
provide holding space for four ships and four dolphin berths for ships
undergoing repairs. In Kidderpore Docks a water recirculation scheme is
planned to help eliminate the siltation problem in the docks, an-d the
70 year old No. 2 swing bridge is to be replaced. Additional cranes, fork
lift trucks, tractors and trailers are to be provided as a modest addition
to the mechanical-handling equipment of the port. CPC's repair and mainte-
nance facilities are to be irmroved by the installation of rmodern plant and
machinery in the portts workshops and shipyards. The cost of the hydraulic
and engineering studies required for a better appreciation of the regime of
the River Hooghly and the dredging thereof, and of the problems connected
with the establishment of a satellite port, are also included. Great im-
portance is attached to the setting up, by CPC, of a Hydraulic Study Depart-
ment and an agreement has been reached between the Bank and CPC to ensure
that a satisfactory scheme to undertake the hydraulic studies is worked out
and implemented.



- ii -
iv.       The cost estimates and engineering aspects of the proposed project
have been examined and are satisfactory, and it is estimated that the project
will be completed in four years. The total cost amounts to the equivalent
of US;i31 million. Of this, US§21 million is required in foreign currency,
which, it is proposed, should be met by a Bank loan.  The local currency
requirements are to be met from Government loans and from the Commissioner's
own funds. Procurement on all major contracts will be on the basis of in-
ternational competitive bidding.
v.        CPC's record of net earnings in recent  years has not been good
anl has not come up to the expectations of the Bank's 1957 Port itission
largely because of increased expenditures. Net revenue, after operating
expenses but without allowing for depreciation, is only sufficient to
service debt, leaving little margin for financing investments, whether
for replacements or additions. Some improvement of operating results is
expected from the forecast growth of traific from the current 9-10 million
tons a year to 13 million by 196a/65. However, if the practice is continued
of financing both replacements and additions almost entirely through debt,
the expected increase in net revenue, before interest and depreciation, will
barely suffice to cover the increased debt service.
vi.       CPC's balance sheet of March 31, 1960, shows a reasonably satis-
factory condition.  Current assets are high, amounting to Rs. 121 million
(US125.4 million) - over twice the total of current liabilities. There
are fixed assets of about Rs. 1,000 million (US;,2iO million), of which
about half are holdings of land,  Total debt a.nounts to Rs. 313 million -
about 60% of the value of fixed assets other than land. If present prac-
tices of CPC were continued, this proportion vould increase to some 75%
by 1965.
vii.      The Government has established a Committee which will report
later this year on the measures to be taken to improve CPC's financial
prospects.  The CommEittee's report will be submitted to the Bank.  Mleantime
CPC has agreed to take the following action:
a)  to continue striving for attainment of optimum financial
benefit from land holdings;
b)  to reduce stores of spare parts and consumables to econoiic
proportions;
c) to utilize the cash and security holdings of the Revenue
Reserve Fund in order to minimize the need to borrow;
d)  to revise the rate structure as ard when required; and
e)  to set up auxiliary accounts based on modern commercial
practice which would help to improve control of costs and
make it possible for CPC to assess better its financial
position.
viii.     The project is suitable as the basis for a Bank loan to CPC
equivalent to US'P21 million.  An appropriate loan term would be 25 years,
including five years' grace.



I. INTRODUCTION
In loan No. 198-IN of June 1958, the Bank undertook to provide
US$29.0 million for the rehabilitation and improvement schemes then being
undertaken by the Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta (CPC). Later in
1958, rapid and unexpected siltation gave rise to serious deterioration
of several of the bars of the River Hooghly and gravely limited the draught
of ocean-going vessels using the port. CPC's dredging fleet was unable to
deal adequately with the worsened riverine conditions,and the Bank, when
approached, agreed to change the Description of the Project in the loan so
that the funds could be diverted to provids increased dredging capacity to
deal with the new situation. Several items in the List of Goods were post-
poned and others modified in order to provide the finances needed for the
purchase of additional dredgers.
Siltation of the River Hooghly remains the major problem of CPC
and the objective of this project is to keep the Port of Calcutta open and
maintain it in good working order. The project, which was examined in the
field in January-February 1961, is an expansion of CPC's floating craft
required for the continuous dredging of the River Eooghly, the procurement
of additional vessels required for operational purposes, and further rehabil-
itation of the port.
Acting on the recommendations of several independent experts and
in particular on those of the United Nations' adviser to the Indian Govern-
ment on port matters, the Government now agrees in principle that a satellite
port to the Port of Calcutta, possibly at Haldia, will be established as soon
as practicable. Such a development will not affect the need for the present
project. This report is based on the findings of the 1961 mission and on
information supplied by CPC and the Ministry of Transport of the Government
of India.
II. TEE PORT OF CAICUTTA
A. General
1.         Calcutta has been an important trading center since the eight-
teenth century,and today Greater Calcutta with an estimated population of
six and one-half million inhabitants is one of the world's largest cities
with acute attendant problems of over-crowding, water shortage, traffic con-
gestion, etc. It also ranks among the world's twenty largest ports. The
original advantages of a sheltered, upstream site on the River Hooghly have
been largely negated by the difficulties of access to the port and by the in.-
creasing size of modern ships.  The 120 miles' approach from the Bay of Benga)
is hampered by sandbanks in the estuary and 11 major sandbars in the meanderin~-
riverine stretches. Navigation for ships of a draught above 26 feet is im-
possible on most days of the year,and thus modern vessels of 10,000 deadweight
tons or more, when fully loaded, are excluded from using the Port of Calcutta.
Shipping in the river is subjected to hazardous bore tides during most months
of the year.



2.        Despite the limitations of access the Port of Calcutta in 1959/60
handled about 30% of India's sea-borne imports and 37% of exports. Measured
by volume of dry cargo handled, Calcutta is India's largest port. It serves
one of the most densely populated and economically important regions in India
and continues to grow in importance as a result of the continued industrial-
ization of its hinterland, the most important industrial region in India.
3.        Since the middle of the nineteenth century sea-borne traffic through
the port has increased with the substantial increase of trade in the area.
Berthing facilities, which, before 1884, consisted of eight wharves of open
construction, have been supplemented by jetties, riverside wharves, and two
dock systems until a total of 45 berths are available today. Three general
cargo berths were added to the Kidderpore Dock system during the Second World
War and, during 1958/60, three additional berths were constructed in King
George's Dock.
4.        There is no other deep-sea port near to Calcutta to rival it in
serving its hinterland. Its future importance is allied with the growing
trade of the valley of the Ganges, the expanding steel industry, and other
impressive industrial development taking place in its service area.  The scope
of these developments and their effect on the prospects for the growth of
traffic through the port are discussed in Sections III and VI of this report.
B. Organization and Management
5.        The Port of Calcutta is administered as an autonomous port auth-
ority by a board of Commissioners representing local public and private inter-
ests and called the Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta (CPC). The day-to-dey
operations of this body are not subject to outside interference. Government
sanction is required for all expenditures above Rs. lO,OOO; alterations in port
charges, budget estimates and major staff appointments. CPC is legally compe-
tent to incur debt and raise money on the local market. CPC has jurisdictio-n
over the land and facilities within the port boundary, and on the waterways
considerably beyond the northern and southern limits of the port (see Drawing
No. 1). This is at present ample for operational and navigational requirements.
6.        The board of Commissioners consists of twenty-four members, including
the Chairman and Deputy Chairman, appointed as follows:
Ex officio
The Collector of Customs, Calcutta
The Chief Executive Officer of the Municipal
Corporation of the City of Calcutta
The General Manager, Eastern Railway
The Director of the Railway Board at Calcutta
One representative of the Mercantile Marine Department
One representative of the Defense Services
One representative of the State Government



-3-
Nomination
Two representatives of labor chosen by the Central Government.
Election
a) One by the Municipal Corporation of the City of Calcutta.
b) One by the Howrah Municipality.
c) Ten by various Chambers of Commerce in Calcutta.
d) One by the Indian National Steamship Owners' Association.
7.      A variety of local interests are thus represented on the board of
Commissioners.  The Ministry of Transport appoints both the Chairman of
the Commissioners and the Deputy Chairman. CPC ts staff is generally capable
and efficient.
8.       Although information is occasionally received from various indus-
tries seeking to utilize the services of the port and occasional studies
are made by the Chief Accountant's or Chief Engineer's departments, CPC are
not well informed on the overall industrial development in the port's hinter-
land or on world trade in commodities important to the port. More compre-
hensive information on trade and a more up-to-date accounting system would
be beneficial to CPC management.
C. Labor
9.       The problem of labor in the Port of Calcutta continues to be a com-
plicated one. Work on board ship is performed by private stevedoring labor
regulated under the Dock Labour Board scheme, whilst labor on shore is employ-
ed directly by CPC. The Dock labour Board has some 11,700 men on its books,
while CPC have 10,600 workers handling cargo on shore. There are many differ-
ent labor unions vying with each other as representatives of the various labor
groups. The majority of the shore labor is on a piece-rate basis, whereas
the stevedoring labor working on the ships is entirely on a time-rate basis.
In 1958 a committee was set up to apply the piece-rate system to the port as
a whole (as has been done in Bombay and Madras), but the recommendations of
the committee were not accepted by the stevedore unions.
10.      Labor has been reasonably contented during the past three years and
there have been no major strikes to disorganize work. Utilization of facili-
ties is kept high by working on the three-shift system. Productivity has
been fair and at least equal to the performance of previous years (see Appen-
dix 1). The introduction of a modest amount of new mechanical-handling equiprne;rt
has had no disturbing effect. The average handling per man per day at the coal
berths is much lower than on general cargo working - for 1960, an average of



2,1 tons for coal con7ared with 5.4 tons for general cargo (see Appendix 2).
T'his is the result of over-staffing occasioned by CPC1s being obliged by union
agreements to retain men surplus to the requiremaents of the trade.  The posi.
tion is being slowly rectified by suspension of recruitmuJent of labor.
D. The First IBRD Loan to the Port - No, 198-IN.
11.       When the Bankts port mission inspected the Port of Calcutta in
October 1957, severe congestion existed in the port. During the previous
twelve months an average of at least 15 ships had been waiting at the moutth of
the Hooghly and thousands of tons of cargo were stacked on the quays and in the
sheds awaiting removal. CPCts project at that time was designed to elimLinate
the congestion and rehabilitate and improve the port as weIl as to provide a
modest expansion of berthing capacity to provide for the expected growth in
traffic.
12,       Because of the difficulties of maintaining the target draught of
26 ft. for vessels using the port, CPC undertook an investigation to determine
the possibility of developing a deep-water port in the Calcutta area.  These
investigations received a considerable fillip in 1958 when severe and unexpect-
ed deterioration of the Balari bar resulted in even more severe limitations in
draught being placed on vessels.  The number of days in a year on which shlips
of 26 ft. draught or greater could not enter the port jumped to 355 from the
previous four-year average of 21.
13.       Dispositions of CPCTs dredging fleet were made in order to cope with
the emergency conditions brought about oy the siltation of the river and very
slowly imorovements were effected - 353 days in 1959 and 300 (through November)
in 1960 for the exclusion of 26 ft. draught vessels.  However it was made evi-
dent that CPCts dredging capacity was totall.y inadequate for the worsened con-
ditions in the river, and increased dredging capacity ard a reappraisal of the
development project for the existing Port of Calcutta were necessary.
14.       The reappraisal led CPC to approach the Bank and request changes in
the Loan Agreement of Loan No. 198-I_NT so that funds could be made available for
expanding the dredging fleet by modifying some or indefinitely postponing other
schemes that would not be required in the event of a satellite port being es-
tablished, The Bank agreed to the loan being amended accordingly and those
items in the Loan that were postponed or modified are shown in Appendix 5 ard
commented upon in Appendix 16,
15.       As a result of improved management plus the effect of the facilities
provided to date by Loan No, 198-IN and combined with the lower tonnages of
goods handled, the congestion to ships waiting for berths and to goods in the
port has been virtually eliminated. Today, port users are generally satisfied
with the services provided by CPC and, while disappointed at the continued in>
ability of CPC to achieve the target draught of "126 ft. on any day of the yeaar%:
are appreciative of the improved efficiency of cargo-handling operations and
the reduced turn-round time of vessels in the port,



- 5 
E.e xisting Port Facilities
16.       In 1957, the Port of Calcutta had 42 berths distributed as follows:
25 in Kidderpore Docks, 7 in King Georgets Dock, 5 at Calcutta Jetties, and
5 at riverside berths at Garden Reach. Some of the proceeds of the first Bank
loan to the port have been used to construct 3 additional berths in King
Georgets Dock and have helped in the reconditioning of the Kidderpore Docks.
However, due to the increasing difficulties of using the Calcutta Jetties at
periods of bore tides and the dilapidated condition of the jetty structures
the gain has been minimized and the present net operational berthing capacity
of the port is not much greater than in 1957 although considerable moderniza-
tion has been achieved.
17.       These facilities, augmented by various moorings and buoy berths,
have a capacity for handling about 81 million tons of dry cargo imports and
exports a year, of which about half is bulk cargo. Greater tonnages have been
achieved in the past and are being handled occasionally today but only at en-
hanced working cost. The port is presently working beyond its economical capaac-
ity just as it was doing during World War II, when dry tonnages of the order of
11 million tons were handled.
18.       Because of its location some 120 miles from the sea on a changing,
treacherous river, the Port of Calcutta must employ a large fleet of floating
craft on navigational and river conservancy duties, Nqew vessels for replace-
ment and expansion purposes are currently in process of being added to the
fleet. Contracts have recently been signed for the supply of 62 new cranes
wtich, when delivered, will ensure the port being well-equipped for the along-
side loading and unloading of ships. A1elchanization of cargo-handling on shnore
has not, so far, been extensive in the port, but mobile cranes and fork lift
trucks purchased during the past three years are operating successfully, and
the application of mechanical handling equipment is to be extended, Heavy-liLft
capacity is sufficient for the port s requirements.
F. Siltation Problems
19.      M,lechanical dredging of the River Hooghly started in 1907 and has con-
tinued since.  Siltation of the river is the most serious problen of CPC and
the greatest threat to the continuance of the Port of Calcutta as a major deep-
sea port.  This project includes floating craft to augment and consolidate
CPC's dredging craft so as to provide a balanced fleet better able to deal with
the foreseeable siltation problems of the river up to Calcutta and with those
bars that have a governing influence on navigation Ln the estuary.
2D.       In order to expedite a corprehensive, progressive study of the hy-
draulic mechanism of the River Hooghly the Bank has recommended, and CPC hatwe
agreed, that a Hydraulic Study Department be set up to undertake the directioin-
and implementation of such a study so that the latest scientific equipment and
knowledge can be brought to bear on the problems of access to the Port of
Calcutta. An item has been included in the present project for this study, (For
further details of the siltation problem see Appendix 15.)



- 6-
G. Present Traffic Handled
21.       In the recent peak year of 1957/58 a total of 1.0,157,000 tons of
traffic passed through the port (see Appendix 3).  Thils figure includes im-
ports of P.O.L. (petroleum, oil and lubricants) - averaging 11 million tons
in recent years - and coastal traffic, but is predominantly overseas imports
and exports of dry cargo.  Imports ha-ve been kept down by Government restric-
tions on the use of foreign exchange and this trend is reflected in the de-
creased tonnages of the past three years.  Imports of cement have declined
noticeably iwith the increase of local supplies.  On the other hand, foodgrains
have continued to be imported in the last three years in tonnages in excess of
1,000,000 annually. Imports of iron and steel and of machinery remained con-
sistently high up to 1958/59 as large quantities of industrial equipment were
brought into India and, although imports declined in 1959/60, these items still
rank high in the list of tonnages handled.
22.       There have been no significant trends in the pattern of export ton-
nages except for the fall in the 1960/61 prelidinary figures to 3,795,000 tons,
which irll be the lowest for at least fifteen years (see  Appendix 4).  This
was mainly attributable to a 17%5 drop in coal exports, which declined for a
variety of reasons including increased local demand for the higher grades which
formed the b-ulk of the export trade, and a reduction in the amount of coal mov-
ed by coastal shipping for Indian Railways.  The export of ore was also down
some 40% because of difficulties of transport to shipside and the diversion of
traffic to other ports.  However in recent months there has been a considerable
iMprovement in overall exports and the 4h  million tons average of recent years
is expected to be achieved.
23.       In 1957/58 congestion to ships using the port was severe and over-
crowded conditions existed in the sheds and warehouses and roadways on shore.
Improved organization and the introduction of a modest amount of mechanical-
handling equipment have greatly improved the situation until today congestion
afloat and ashore have been eliminated.  Effective use of the 200-ton heavy
lift crane and better co-operation with the Indian Railways have resulted in
the clearance of the backlog of heavy lift goods that wJas a serious bottleneck
in the 1957/58 period and have left the port free to handle heavy lift packages
with speed and efficiency.
24.       During 1960, the utilization of berths was good.  General cargo han-
dled per meter of quay per year frequently amounted to over 1,000 tons at the
modernized berths; and even at the dilapidated Calcutta Jetties, with only
189 ship-working days in the year, a tonnage of 423 per meter was achieved..
Tonnages for the semi-mechanized ore and coal handling berths were frequently
above 2,200 tons per meter per year,
III. TR_LFIC PROSPECTS
25.       The Port of Calcutta is the only deep-sea outlet for its service
area and, notwithstanding studies being made and schemes being prepared for a
satellite port in the area, will remain the main seaport of the region for many
years to come.



- 7 -
26.       The hinterland of Calcutta continues to develop rapidly and the in-
creasing activity of the area can be expected to bring greate-r trade to the
port.  Imports, including P.O.L. products, have been averaging about 5 million
tons for the past four years. Although changes in the pattern of trade are to
be expected, reflecting the changing needs of a developing economy, total im-
ports as forecast by CPC are likely to remain at about this figure for the
foreseeable future (see Appendices 3  and 4),  Imports of foodgrains and iron
and steel products are likely to decrease in volume as local agriculture and
industry increase their outputs.  On the other hand, imports of machinery and
materials for the equipping and supplying of local industry are forecast to in-
crease and will largely offset the above decreases.
27.       Exports are expected to increase rapidly from the recent average of
about 4h5 million tons, through 6.4 million tons in 1965/66 to 7.5 million tons
in 1970/71. Iron ore exports are forecast to increase to 2.5 million tons by
1970/71, as a result of increased production to meet higher foreign denand par-
ticularly from Japan.  Coal shipments, as forecast in Appendix L, are expected
to increase to 300 million tons per year during this period as foreign markets
are recaptured with low-priced coal resulting from the Improvements now being
undertaken in the mining and transport industries.  The latest forecasts re-
flect an additional movement of 1 million tons of coal per annum by coastal
shipping, which the Government recently authorized to be subsidized so as to
relieve congestion on the inland transport system.  No increase is foreshadowed
in shipments of jute textiles (gunnies), which at present rank second after
coal in terms of the export tonnage handled. On thie other hand it is reason-
able to look for a fairly steady growth in exports of general merchandise re-
sulting from the development of new maanufacturing capacity in the Calcutta re-
gion.  The total of exports and imports for 1965/66 is forecast at 13.1 millicn
tons and that for 1970/71 is 14.0 million tons (including P.O.Lo products).
28.       The largest individual tonnages to be handled in the future by the
port will still be the bulk commodities: foodgrains, coal, ore and oil. It
is planned that such commodities will be handled mainly by modern mechanical
installations at a satellite port as soon as one can be established, while
most of the remainder of Calcutta's traffic continues to be handled with great-
er economy in the present port, which does not require any mhajor expansion in
capacity.  The above forecasts are for total traffic which would be handled
jointly by the present Port of Calcutta with a satellite port.



- 8 -
IV.  THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Items in the Project
29.       The new project being considered for a second Bank loan to CPC is
not designed to provide a sizeable increase in cargo-handling capacity.
Rather is it intended to maintain access to the port and its ability to han-
dle traffic of present day magnitude (10 million tons) and to do so with
greater economy and efficiency.  The total cost is estimated at Rs. 147.4 mil-
lion (US$31.0 million), of which US$21.0 million is the equivalent foreign ex-
change component - some 68% of the total, largely accounted for by the number
of floating craft which are to be purchased and which, as yet, cannot be b-uilt
in India.
30.       The project includes the purchase of 20 floating craft,of which four
are dredgers and six are auxilliary dredging vessels.  With this addition to
their dredging capacity GPC hope to be able to deal with the foreseeable dredg-
ing requirements in the river and in the estuary.  The renainder of the float-
ing craft will be engaged on navigational and operational duties connected
with the port. In King Georgets Dock, the western arm is to be extended to
provide holding space for four ships and four dolphin berths for ships under-
going repairs. In Kidderpore Docks a water recirculation scheme is planned to
help eliminate the siltation problem in the docks and the 70-year old No. 2
swing bridge is to be replaced.  Additional cranes, fork lift trucks, tractors
and trailers are to be provided as a modest addition to the mechanical han-
dling equipment of the port. CPC's repair and maintenance facilities are to
be improved by the installation of modern plant and machinery in the port's
workshops and shipyards. The cost of the hydraulic and engineering studies
required for a better appreciation of the regime of the River Hooghly and the
dredging thereof and of the problems connected with the establishment of a
satellite port, are also included. A detailed description and comments on
the project are given in Appendix 14.
31.       The main categories and estimated costs are as follows (for details
see Appendix 6):
Local  Foreign   T O T A L    0 of
Cur.   Cur.     Hs. (MEquiv.) Total
Rs.
A. Floating Craft
i) For dredging purposes (4 dredgers,
5 hopper barges, etc.)              20.7     9.0    63.5  (13.4)    43
ii) For operational purposes (4 tugs,
2 pilot vessels, etc.)               4.7     5.1    29.0  ( 6.1)    20
B. Roads, Bridges, etc.
(Renewal of iIo. 2 swing bridge)          1.2     o.6     4.0  ( 0.8)      3
C. Port Equipment
tRecirculation of Kidderpore Docks
water, mechanical Equip. and Mach.)      4.4     1.7    12.5  ( 2.6)      8
D. Docks and Berths
(Extension of one arm of King George's
Dock)                                   7.0     o.6    10.0  ( 2.1)      7
E. General
(Hydraulic studies, consultants,
fees and contingencies)                  9,4    hi;0   28.4  ( 6.o)    19
Total                47s14.   21.0   147.4  (31Q0)  100



-9-
Included in E. General above is an amount of Rs. 12.9 million (US$02.7 million)
to provide for such contingencies as price increases, underestimating of costs
and unforeseeable circumstances.  The total amounts to about 9.673 of the esti-
mated cost and is considered suXficient since the cost estimates are reason-
ably firm and are in many instances based on recently-accepted comparable ten-
ders. The foreign exchange component of the contingencies item amounts to
US$1.8 million equivalent.
B. Execution of Project
32.       The engineering aspects of the proposed project have been examined
and are satisfactory.  Mechanical equipment and floating craft will be provided
with a reasonable amount of spare parts.  Procurement on all major contracts
will be on the basis of international competitive bidding. Present CPC staff,
assisted as required by their consultants and, for the hydraulic and engineer-
ing studies, by foreign experts, are considered capable of carrying out the
work. The proposed project will not be at variance with the Haster Plan for
the development of the Calcutta metropolitan area which is to be prepared, dur-
ing the next three years, by the West Bengal Government with the assistance of
consultants provided by the Ford Foundation.
C. Projects Deferred in the First IBRD Loan to the Port
33.       The following items of the List of Goods in the first IBRD loan to
CPC 9198-IN) were deferred or postponed in 1958 (see Appendix 5):
1) Construction of warping jetty at entrance to King George's Dock.
2)  Construction of a general cargo berth and a laying-up berth in
King Georgets Dock.
3) Modified extension of the Harshalling Yard.
4)  Purchase of mechanical equipment - end rock tippler.
5) Purchase of one pilot vessel,
6) Purchase of salvage equipment, including four camels.
The funds earmarked for the above items were diverted to the expansion of CPC s
dredging capacity in order to maintain access to the port, which was threatened
at that tinme. Except for the purchase of one pilot vessel the above items are
excluded from the present project. The reasons for the exclusions are largely
the likelihood and need of a satellite port development at Haldia (see hap No.2),
which has become more urgent as a result of the deteriorated condition of the
River Hooghly.  Mlore details are given in Appendix 16.
D. Long Term Aspects of the Project
34.       After completion of the project it is visualized that CPC will have
an expanded and more up-to-date fleet of floating craft fully employed on con-
servancy and navigational duties. In the light of more knowledge of the hy-
draulic characteristics of the river it is hoped that the dredgers w.ill employ
better-conceived and improved techniques and will be able to master any changes
in the navigable channel introduced by the vagaries of various bars. 'The port
will be reasonably up-to-date and modestly provided with modern cargo-handling
equipment and have a total capacity of the order of 10-12 million tons Der year,
It is expected that there will still be limitations on the draught (up to 26
feet) and length (not much greater than 500 feet) of vessels that can use freely
the Port of Calcutta, but that the hazards of the river access and the dangers
from bore tides will have been considerably reduced.



- 10 -
V. PIAN FOR FINANCING TEE PROJECT
35.        The investment raquired for the project amounts to Ps. 147.4
million (US$31.0 million equivalent) spread over the financial years
1961-62 to 1964-65. (Financial years end on March 31.) The phasing of
the expenditures is estimated as follows:
Expenlditures in million rupees (For details see Appendix 7)
1961-62  1962-63    1963-64   1964-65    Total
Foreign                    1.6     27.3        54.4      16.7       100.0
Local Currency             2.5     14.0        16.0      14.9       47.4
Total                      4.1     41.3        70.4      31.6       147.4
Foreign Currency (in
million dollar equiv.)    0.33      5.73       11.42      3.52       21.0
36.        It is proposed to finance the foreign currency requirements from
an IBERD loan equivalent to US$21.0 million (Rs. 100.0 million) to be made to
CPC. The loan, which is reflected in the forecasts given in Appendix 8, is
assumed to have a term of twenty-five years including a five-year period
of grace and to have an interest rate of 5-3/4%.
37.        The local currency requirements amount to approximately US$10
million equivalent (Rs. 47.4 million). The information presented in Appendix
8 shows that, on the basis of current income projections, the funds generated
by CPC are insufficient to make any substantial contribution to the financing
of the project, and that the local currency component must be provided main-
ly from further borrowing from the Government. CPC assume that after 1960/61
new Government loans will bear interest at 5%, be of thirty years' life, witsh
no amortization payments for the first seven years, but the question of
Government policy in lending to CPC is being reviewed by a Committee which
will report later this year.
The Financial System of CPC
38.        The double account system is used, under which the balance sheet
is divided into two parts, the first showing receipts and expenditures on
capital account and the second the general balance sheet. The accounts are
designed to show the derivation and use made of all funds and not to assess,
in a commercial sense, the profitability of operations.
39.        Capital expenditure is generally financed through borrowing.  As
in the case of some other public authorities, no standard depreciation allow-
ances are made, but debt repayments are, in principle, phased so as to main-
tain a reasonable ratio between outstanding debt and the residual value of
fixed assets. The main source of funds has been the floating of 30 and 60
year debentures on the local market. The debentures are redeemed by purchases
through the operation of a Sinking Fund, but there has been some refinancing



- 11 -
by issuing new debentures. Fixed assets are kept on the books at original
cost until they are retired, the principle being that the life of an asset
is related to the term of the debt incurred for its purchase, ao that both
are expected to be retired simultaneously.
40.       In practice, the life of the debt is sometimes longer than that of
the asset. In order to compensate for such discrepancies and to insure against
certain eventualities, various funds have been created and credited with sur-
pluses from operations. These funds include: (i) the Vessels Replacement Fund
designed to meet the cost of major repairs to vessels and to compensate for the
unamortized portion of the debt in case of premature loss; (ii) the Fire In-
surance Fund intended to meet the difference between the replacement cost and
the amount accumulated in the Sinking Fund in respect of an asset lost by fire;
(iii) the Renewals and Replacement Fund intended to compensate for the unamortized
part of a 30-year debt incurred for the purchase of an asset of less than 30
years' service life when that asset is retired. This fund was initiated in 1959
after an IBRD request that the then existing system should be reviewed to provide
for depreciation.
41.       Assets of relatively short life are generally paid for directly from
revenue. There is also a Revenue Reserve Fund designed to make good any losses
after the cash requirements of operations and the servicing of debt have been
met. Security holdings in the several above-mentioned funds amounted to about
Rs. 66.6 million (US$14 million equivalent) on March 31, 1960.
42.       Formerly, CPC debentures were the almost exclusive source of capital
funds, but since 1954 there has been substantial recourse to Government loans
and in June 1958 a US$29 million loan was obtained from the IBRD. No Sinking
Fund applies to these loans which are to be repaid in regular installments.
It is the opinion of CPC that amortization payments for such loans are an
adequate substitute for the charges which would be made for depreciation were
it counted, so that the average outstanding debt would at no time be greater
than the residual value of the assets which it was used to finance. Although
the principle may hold in the very long run, distortions have been introduced
in the accounts of recent years because of grace periods involved, 7 years for
Government loans and 5 years for the IBRD loan (l98-IN).  As of March 31, 1961,
outstanding amounts on Government and IBRD loans are expected to be Rs. 148
million and Rs. 48 million respectively, a total of Rs. 196 million (US$41
million) on which practically no repayments will have been made, although most
of the assets purchased are already in use, some since 1954 or 1955 (see
Appendix 12 ) .
Recent Financial History
43.       The earnings record of CPC since the end of World War II is given
in Appendix 9.  CPC has earned some net income after interest charges and Sinking
Fund allowances every year since 1955/56, although there have been wide fluctua-
tions with a maximum of Rs. 15.6 million in 1957/58 and a minimum of Rs. 2.6
million in 1959/60. Although gross revenue since 1957/58 has reached the level
expected in the 1958 TOD Report, there has been a shortfall of net income due
to a sudden rise of expenditure in a period when there has been no proportional
increase of traffic through the port. The costs of labor, living allowance,
police protection, housing allowances, dredging, etc., have all shown large



- 12 -
percentage increases over the past five years, particularly in 1957
and 1958 because of the introduction of piece-rate working, a gen-
eral rise in the cost of living in the area and increased dredging
activity.
44.       In 1959/60, the net earnings of Es. 2.6 million were ob-
tained after charging to revenue interest of Rs. 14.0 million and
payments into the Sinking Fund of Ps. 2.2 million. Due to the con-
tinuous financing of investment through borrowing, interest payments
were higher than in any previous year, in spite of the fact that
Es. 49.1 million of the Government debt paid no interest because of
7 year grace periods. The Rs. 2.2 million paid into the Sinking Fund
amounted to only 0.7% of the then outstanding debt of Rs. 313 million
and there were no other amortization payments. As explained above,
CPC's accounting practices are such that in recent years one of the
effects of the grace periods in the Government and IBMD loans has been
to charge revenue with no other amortization than Sinking Fund pay-
ments for the debentures, which were very much less than service
life depreciation had it been counted. Therefore, the accounts for
1959/60 show net earnings of Rs. 2.6 million only because of substantial
deferment of debt service. In spite of this virtual moratorium, the
net earnings amounted to only 0.3% of the value of total fixed assets,
or 0.5% if land holdings are excluded from the assets.
45.       A pro forma balance sheet as of Merch 31, 1960 is shown in
Appendix 10. Working capital, i.e., current assets less current li-
abilities, amounted to Ps. 62.3 million. The current ratio is 2:1,
because CPC has accumulated and keeps on holding large amounts of cash
and securities in its various Funds. CPC's audited accounts indicate
fixed assets of Rs. 526 million, including Ps. 176 million for works
in progress. An attempt has been made to revalue the fixed assets at
current prices allowing for deterioration and the result is indicated
in the balance sheet by a net appreciation of Rs. 474 million, which
brings the value of assets to Rs. 1,000 million. On assets other than
land, the effects of revaluation and deterioration largely cancel out.
The adjustment therefore mainly represents an estimate of the value of
land owned by CPC, which is valued at only Ps. 25 million in the audited
accounts.
46.       Because ef the practice of financing capital investment through
borrowing and the 30 and 60 year periods for debt amortization, debt has
increased in recent years by about the same amount as new investment.
Debt, net of the amount held in the Sinking Fund, increased by 22%
from Rs. 256 million at March 31, 1957 to Rs. 313 million at March 31,
1960. It would be undesirable for this trend to continue indefinitely.
Most of the large postwar investment (about Rs. 526 million, equiva-
lent US$110 million, over the period 1946/47-1959/60) has been for
replacement of aging plant and equipment at higher postwar cost. The



- 13 -
position has been aggravated by the financially-nonproducing additional invest-
ment made necessary by the siltation of the River Hooghly.  The result has been
and still is a continuously increasing investment and indebtedness in order to
maintain the existing capacity of the port, rather than to increase its ability
to earn additional revenue.
47.       The debt/equity ratio at Hiarch 31, 1960 was 28/72 (see Appendix 13)G.
However, the greater part of the equity has its origin in the unrealized appre-
ciation of the value of land in the assets which were shown revalued in the pro
forma balance sheet. In 1959/60, the debt service cover amounted to 1.2 only,
equal to the average for the 14-year period 1946/47-1959/60. Estimates for
1960/61 indicate a ratio of 1.3 (Appendices 9 and 11).
48.       Though the life of debentures is related in principle to that of the
assets in the accounts, several of the postwar issues have shorter periods and
are refinanced when they mature. CPC has had no difficultyr in refinancing debt.
Port Charges
49.       Port charges were raised in January 1960 and are currently higher
than at any other port in the Bay of Bengal.  HIowever Calcutta, as a terminal
port and the only sea outlet for a large hinterland, has virtually a rmonopo-
listic position withn respect to many of the commodities passing through it
(e.g., coal, gunnies and tea). There is no other Indian port within 500 miles
capable of berthing deep-draughted vessels. Overland transport costs are such
that considerable increases could be made in the Calcutta port rates before
serious consideration would be given by shippers to the diversion of traffic
to other ports. The congest-on th-at p'lagued the port in 1957 and 1958 has been
eliminated and good service is nowr provided for port users.  it is estimated by
CPC that charges in respect of the handling and storage of goods could possiblDy
be raised so as to increase annual revenue by about Rs. 10 million (US<$2.1 mil-
lion) on present traffic. Given increased port charges and the projected in-
crease in traffic a significant betterrment could be made in the financial posi-
tion of the port.
Financial Projections
50.       A revenue forecast is shovm in Appendix ls, which is based on the
assumption of (1) a growth of traffic to 13.2 million tons in 196a/65 from an
average of 9.4 million tons over the past five years (1956/57 - 1960/61), and
(2) no changes in rates. The projected growth of traffic assumes that there
will not be any significant diversion of traffic to Haldia before 1967/68.
The forecast shows a narrowT earnings -margin for the next six years (1961/62 -
1966/67). The debt service coverage would, as in the past, continue to average
about 1.2.



- 14 -
51.        The results of the above forecast have been incorporated in
the estimated cash flow for the next five years, shown in Appendix 8,
and summarized below:
Totals 1961/62 through
1965/66
-Rs.000,000-
Available Funds
Net current assets (at April 1, 1961)                 75.4
Net revenue before interest and debt pay-
ments                                             210.6
IBRD Loan 198-IN (balance undisbursed at
April 1, 1961)                                     90.0
Proposed IBRD loan                                   100.0
Government loans                                     105.5
Total Available                 581.5
Fund Requirements
Loan 198-IN project (from April 1, 1961)             157.5
Proposed project                                     147.4
Other investments                                     23.7
Total investments               328.6
Debt service                                         177.4
506.0
Closing net current assets
(March 31, 1966)               75.5
52.         According to the above, total cash generated from revenue
before interest and debt amortization would amount to Rs. 210.6 million for
the 5-year period.  This would cover the debt service requirements estimated
at Rs. 177.4 million and leave a small surplus (Rs. 35.8 million) which
could be used to finance new investment.  The bulk of the investment would
be financed through IBRD and Government loans (Rs. 295.5 million).  A small
percentage increase of expenses or shortfall of traffic could reduce the
above-mentioned surplus to insignificant proportions. In such an event
some of the-investment could be financed by drawing down on the large closing
balance of net current assets (Rs. 75.5 million) shown in the projection.
53.         Because of the continued financing of new investment almost
entirely through debt, interest and amortization requirements would increase
from Rs. 17.7 million in 1960/61 to Rs. 44.0 million in 1965/66 and Rs. 47.6
million in 1966/67 (Appendix 12). They would rise from 13% of estimated
gross revenue in 1960/61 to 24% in 1964/65 and  26%  in 1966/67.  The com-
parison of balance sheets at March 31, 1960 and 1965 made in Appendix 13



- 15 -
shows an increase of indebtedness of more than 100% from Rs. 313 million
to Rs. 631 million, while surplus and reserves would increase by 4% only
to Rs. 822 million. The debt/equity ratio is shown to pass from 28/72 to
43/57 and it must be remembered that much of the equity represents the
appreciated value of land.
54.       The above forecasts do not make any allowance for the effects of
the construction of a proposed satellite port at Haldia. It is likely that
the first phase af the Haldia project would cost roughly $60 million, in-
cluding interest during construction. On the present basis, it would appear
unlikely that CPC could make any contribution to the financing of Haldia.
Financing by 30-year loans with a 5-year grace period and 5-3/4% interest
could result in an annual debt service requirement of about US$4.6 million
(equivalent Rs. 22 million). If such loans are negotiated in say 1963,
CPC's total debt service in 1968 would be of the order of Ps. 75 million.
Although the construction of Haldia would help to develop trade for certain
commodities, e.g. iron ore, the immediate effect would rather be to divide
between the two ports that traffic which is now handled by Calcutta alone.
The more efficient handling at Haldia would result in immediate economies
to trade and shipping. Eowever, in the early years of operation the financial
benefits to CPC would be unlikely to cover the added debt service. Therefore,
if present financial practices and present port rates are maintained, it is
probable that CPCts financial position would deteriorate further from the
not too satisfactory position shown in the revenue projection of Appendix 11.
55.       As mentioned above, the projections indicate that, unless action
is taken, CPC would not earn sufficient surplus to make any substantial
contribution to its continuing investment program and the burden of debt
would become increasingly heavy as necessary investments are made. Because
of these weaknesses in respect of CPC's finances, the Government has estab-
lished the Ratnam Committee to review CPC's financial position and prospects.
The Committee will report in about three months and the Government has agreed
to consult with the Bank before acting on the Committee's recommendations.
56.       Meantime CPC has agreed to take steps to improve its financial
position, which would include among others:
(i) to continue striving for attainment of optimum financial
benefit from land holdings;
(ii) to reduce stores of spare parts and consumables to economic
proportions;
(iii) to utilize the cash and security holdings of the Revenue
Reserve Fund in order to minimize the need to borrow;
(iv) to revise the rate structure as and when required; and
(v) to set up auxiliary accounts based on modern commercial
practice which would help to improve control of costs and
make it possible for CPC to assess better its financial
position.



- 16 -
VI.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
57. The proposed project is designed to keep the Port of Calcutta open and
working efficiently. Calcutta is the most important port and the largest
city in India. There is no other major port capable at present, or in the
foreseeable future, of serving the rapidly growing industrial complex which
has been built up on the basis of the coal and iron ore deposits in West
Bengal, Bihar and Orissa.  Moreover, Calcutta is the centre of the tea and
jute trades, which between them account for over one-third of Indiats export
earnings, and it is of rising importance as a centre for the manufacture of
engineering and metal goods.
It is clear that, as a port, Calcutta is irreplaceable, and it is
therefore essential that it should be kept open for ocean-going vessels. Any
reduction in its capacity or efficiency resulting from siltation of the River
Hooghly would be a direct economic loss to the country. As it is, ships en-
tering the port are restricted in draft and length, and the time of their
river passage is protracted by the difficulties of navigation, If the depths
of water in the channels and basins can be increased through improved dredging,
ships wi1l be able to enter and leave more heavily laden, they will not be
compelled to load or unload so much of their cargo by lighterage in the stream,
and resulting delays in turn-around will be reduced,
S9.      Costs directly attributable to siltation are reflected in the high
rates for charter hire, surcharges on shipping tariffs, demurrage and handling
charges0 It has been estimated that, for the average ocean freighter calling
at Calcutta, every extra 24 hours of idle time spent in the river costs about
$1,500. If one dayts delay at this rate is applied to the number of vessels
using the port in 1959/60, which is not an unreasonable assumption for pre-
sent day conditions in the port, the total loss involved is p2.7 million a
year. In addition, extra charges of, say, 50 cents a ton (a small percentage
on charter rates) for coal, ores and grain alone would be worth about $2.1
million a year for the present volume of traffic.
6c.      About two-thirds of the project cost  is for expansion or replacement
of equipment  or provision of facilities required to deal with the problems
related to the siltation of the River Hooghly. These include the suction
dredgers, grab dredgers, and hopper barges (Rs. 57.0 million), the pumping
plant for Kidderpore Dock (Rs. 6.5 million), and the extension of an arm of
King George's Dock (Rs. 10.0 million) as a sheltered holding area.  The hydrau-
lic studies of the River Hooghly and its estuary (Rs. 9.5 million) may also be
considered, for the most part, as anti-siltation expenditure.
61.      The other main purpose of these studies is to help in determining the
feasibility of  locating    a deep-water satellite port further down the Hoogh-
ly at Haldia.  Such a port would be complementary to, but very far from a com-
plete substitute for, the present port of Calcutta. It would probably be used
mainly for bulk cargoes - coal and ore exports, foodgrain imports - and would
among other things enable ships using the port of Calcutta to be lightened and
topped up on their way up and dowm the river. If a port could be developed at
Haldia for use by vessels of 30 foot draft or more, it would be a valuable ad-
dition to the existing port facilities in the area.



- 17 -
62.       About one-third of the expebditure envisaged under the present
project is for renewal of over-age equipment on shore and afloat and for
the provision of modest additional cargo handling capacity. In all, Bs.
37.0 million will be spent on a swing bridge, workshop and shipyard
facilities and floating craft other than dredgers and barges. The pur-
chase price of these items will be recovered in due course from economies
in expenditure on maintenance and repairs. The additional cargo-handling
equipment (fork lift trucks, mobile cranes, tractors, etc.) will pay for
itself by faster loading and discharge of general cargo.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
63.       This project for the maintenance of the River Hooghly and improve-
ment of the Port of Calcutta is sound and justified because it provides the
means of maintaining a facility vital to the continued growth of the largest
and most important economic region in India. Only a small increase in cargo-
handling capacity is provided for as the project is essentially intended to
keep the port operating efficiently. As a result of the scientific studies
to be undertaken costs of river conservancy Bhould be reduced and the loca-
tion of a satellite port in the estuary determined with confidence. Great
importance is attached by the Bank and CPC to the hydraulic studies of the
River Hooghly. CIPC have agreed to set up a Hydraulic Study Department with-
in the framework of its own organization, utilizing foreign experts, and
the Bank is to employ an eminent hydraulics engineer as consultant from time
to time to report on perforiance.
64.      The present traffic of the Port of Calcutta, apart from any in-
creases generated by the economic growth that is forecast for its service
area, requires the port to be kept open regardless of any development of a
satellite port at Haldia. The equipment to be provided, and the schemes to
be executed, in the present Droject are required independently of any future
satellite port development.
65.      Calcutta is a high cost,1low profit port with a large debt burden.
Financial forecasts based on the projection of present trends do not show
a satisfactory future position. Because of this, the Government has set
up the Ratnam Committee to review the financial condition of CPC and to
make recommendations for its improvement. The Government has agreed to make
the Committee's report available to the Bank and to advise the Bank of action
proposed to be taken as a result of its recommendations. Meantime, CPC has
agreed that steps to be taken to improve its financial position would in-
clude among others:
(i) to continue striving for attainment of optimum
financial benefit from land holdings;
(ii) to reduce stores of spare parts and consumables to
economic proportions;
(iii) to utilize the cash and security holdings of the
Revenue Reserve Fund in order to minimize the need to
borrow;



- 18 -
(iv) to revise the rate structure as and when required; and
(v) to set up auxiliary accounts based on modern commercial
practice, which would help to improve control of costs
and make it possible for CPC to assess better its
financial position.
66.       It is recommended that a loan equivalent to US$ 21 million be
made to CRC to cover the foreign exchange cost of the project. A term of
25 years with a grace period of 5 years is considered appropriate.



Anpendix 1
Productivity of primary ?ang shore labor
working general cargo in Port of Galcuttal/
Tonnage
Pay             Total     ln long      Average handling      6-monthly
Period        man-days       tons       per man per da-y      average
in long tons
1957     August            63,778      346,716           5.4 )
September         93,952      472,712          5.0 )
October         104,815      535,545           5.1 )               5.2-
ilovember        98,280      507,002           5.2 )
December        103,275      524,138           5.1 )
1958     January           88,699      447,657           5.0 )
February          81,507     393,656            4.8 )
March             88,946     520,136           5.8 )
April             74,380      454,214          6.1 )               5.5
11ay              76,392     450,340           5.9 )
June             47,678      260,250           5.5 )
J-uly            84,741      421,955           5.0 )
August            86,022      425,225          4.9 )
September         85,388     387,265           4.5 )               5.4
October           83,356    1463,837           5.6 )
November          83,0143    527,783           6.14 )
december          86,603     506,338           5.8 )
1959     January           06,033      427,493           5.0 )
February          81,842     457,1994          5.6 )
Mlarch            83,863     4457,600          5.5 )               5.8
April             73,400     496,706           6.8 )
Mlay             68,86o       450,847          6.5 )
June             69,068      397,047           5.7 )
July             83,946      467,234           5.6 )
August            85,890     476,980           5.6 )
September         83,910     416,955           5.0 )
October          81,047      W18,478           5.2 )               5.0
November         82,936      388,060           4.7 )
December          87,240     358,868           4.1 )
1960     January           85,544      372,760           4.4 )
February          80,540     342,416           4.3 )
Mlarch            80,380     456,613           5.7 )
April             69,888     409,124           5.9 )               5.4
Hay               66,°15     3'?1,183          5.8 )
June             71,329      449,534           6.3 )
July              79,983     485,612           6.1 )
August            85,057     368,715           4.3 )
September         78,654     351,086           4.5 )               5.5
October          81,429      541,730           6.7 )
Novenber          79,448     391,465           4.9 )
December          83,232     534,631           6.4 )
1/  Presently being paid on a piece-rate basis.        * Based on 5-montlhs period.



Appendix 2
Productivity of piece rate labor at the coal dock
in the Port of Calcutta
Tonnage     Average handling      Six monthly
Pay         Total       in long      per man per day         Average
period      man-days       tons         in long tons        in long tons
1957     July         45,198       129,627            2.9   )
August       45,916      117,841             2.6   )
Septenber    46,882      122,101             2.6   )            2.6
October      50,399      127,947             2.5   )
November     46,410      114,935             2.5   )
December     48,276      128,172             2.7   )
1958     January      44,788       107,295            2.4   )
February     44, 896     114,184             2.5   )
MIrch        47,146      107,777             2.3   )            2.4
April        38,061        932043            2.4   )
May          37,453       90,734             2.4   )
June         23,022        49,905            2.2   )
July         40,806      102,508             2.5   )
August       40,045        95,721            2.4   )
September    40,184      103,343             2.6   )            2.5
October      39,519        90,282            2.3   )
November     40,706      104,707             2.6   )
December    )41,121       100,346            2.4   )
1959     January      39,256        95,963             2.4   )
February     36,904        75,275            2.0   )
March        38,044       93,097             2.4   )            2.2
April        36,259        81,298            2.2   )
ilay         33,835        78,568            2.3   )
June         33,086       56,957             1.7   )
July         37,598        72,653            1.9   )
August       40,474        75,215            1.9   )
Septemiber    38,067      69,001             1.8   )            2.1
October      39,138        95,670            2.4   )
November     38,723        90,131            2.3   )
December     40,717        88,504            2.2   )
196o     January      39,058        84,942             2.2   )
February     36,588        75,964            2.1   )
March        36,262       69,698             1.9   )            2.2
April        33,225        72,559            2.2   )
Ma y         31,682        78,547            2.5   )
Jume         33,418        71,582            2.1   )
July         37,183        75,798            2.0   )
Auf';ust     38,426        80,281            2.1   )
September    35,725       68,238             1.9   )            2.0
October      37,965        82,103            2.2   )
November     36,105        71,675            2.0   )
December     37,667        75,626            2.0   )



Appendix 3
Actual Tonnage of Traffic Handled at Port of Calcutta
During the Years from 1956-57 to 1959-6o
(Figures rounded up to nearest thousand)
1956-57        1957_58         1958-59         1959-6o
(000 tons)     (000 tons)      (000 tons)      (000 tons)
Imports:
Cement                         52            184              66               2
Foodgrains                    721           1,111          1,292           1,308
Petroleum, Incl. L. oil    1,211            1,267          1,189           1a828
Iron and steel                780             839            549              22
Machinery                     192             394            431             237
Metals other than iron
and steel                    93            192             102             112
Rly. plant and machinery       79             150            246             170
Timber                         47              82             54              43
Salt                          419             466            384             354
Other cargoes                 759            831             752             878
Total                  h4353          5,516           5,065           4,954
Exports:
Coal                        2,106           2,10          1,855           1,678
Ores                          774            987             774           1,098
Gunnies                       937             918            900             988
Manure                         17              12              5               7
Tea                           189             1L3            173             172
Sugar                          28              89             30              16
Scrap                         125              39             91             187
Bones and bone meal            35              31             36              30
Lac                            28              26             28              29
Other cargoes                 277             256            242             470
Total                  4,516          h,641           4,134           4,675
Total Imports and Exports  8,869          10,157           9,199           9,629



Appendix 4.
THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA
TRAFFIC FORECAST
(in 1,000 tons)
1959_60        1960-61          1961-62         1962-63         1963-64         1964-65         1965-66         1970-71
Actual. ............             .    .        .      ........ Forecast,.....
Imports of Dry Cargo
Foodgrains and flour                       1,308             1,800           1,500           1,500           1,400           1,500           1,300             900
Fertilizers                                   63               41               35              30              30              25              25               20
Iron and steel                               422              400             400             430              500             300             300             200
Metals other than iron and steel             112               100             100             100             100             100             100             100
Chemicals other than soda                     73               65               65             62               60              60              60              55
Machinery                                    237              200              200             200             300             400             400             500
Other dry cargo imports                    1,311            1.269              350           1 108           1,110    1.415                                  1.830
Total dry cargo imports                    3,526            3.875           3:650                           3.500            3.800             640           3.605
Exports of Dry Cargo
Iron ore, manganese ore)
and other ores        ) Ores             1,098              650           1,000            1,700           1,900           2,000           2,100           2,500
Scrap                                        187              175             170             200              200             120             130             150
Coal                                       1,678            1,400           2,400            2,400           2,600           2,800           2,800           3,000
Tea                                          172              160             180             180              180             200             200             230
Cotton including cotton waste                  4                4                3               3               3               3               3                3
Oil cakes                                      54               55              55              60              60              65              65               70
Jute                                          36                36              38             40               40              40              40              45
(Oils other than petroleum)
Vegetable oils                                19                20              20              21              21              22              22               25
Hides and skins                                 8                8               8               8               8               9               9                9
Other dry cargo exports                    1.               1.287           1,526                8           1 638           2,391           2.381           2,618
Total dry cargo exports                    411                              5400            6,150                     ,650           77508,650
Total dry cargo imports and exports        8.137            7.670           9,050          9.SS,           10,150           11,450          11,390          12,255
P.O.L. (petroleum, oil and lubricants)   1,492              1.330           1,650           1,650            1.71,0 11750                                    1,750
Total All Cargoes                      9.629            9.000          10,700          11.200          11.900          13.200           13.140          14,00S
.  The export of gunnies through the port vary from 950,000 to 980,000 tons
per annum and has been included under the head "Other dry cargo".



Appendix 5.
PORT CF CALCUTTA
Post,   aents of, or Savings in ItesL                      Savings        Items now included in         Foreign Exchange
froe   an 198-IN when asended                              US$1,000       Second Project                Cost US$1,000                              Remarks/Explanations
1    onstrcotion of warping jetty at approac.                       )    Extension of the w-stern
to King Gewgela Dock                                        510 )    arm of King George's                1,680                   Because of the difficulties indoced by siltation the 1957
Dock (item No. 14).                                       schemes have been replaced by item No. 14 ill the present
Construction o0f a general cargo berth snd a                    )                                                                project.
laying-up berth in King George's Dock                       915 )
3  Hodified extension of rsrshalling yard (essential                                                                                 Transfer of bulk cargoes to Haldia will reduce mivrshalling
parts to be carried out and rest deferred)                                                                                       yard capacity required in Calcutta.
(Savings)                                                   650
I   Purchase of mechanical emsipsent:  end rock
tippler                                                     336                                                                  Facility planned to be provided at Heldia.
5. P.irchaso of one pilot vessel                              1,833       Two pilot vessels                  3,570
6. Purchase of salvage equipient, including tour                                                                                     CPC have decided not to extend their oum salvage Zacili.-
camels                                                      525                 _                        _                       ties in the port.
7. Purchase of t,D fire floats (Savings)                        504                 -                        -                       Vessels are being built locally vith considerable sav-
ings in foreign exchange.
8. Purchare of two water boats (Savings)                         63                 _                        _                                                                       U a
9. Purchase of three laenches for Dockmastsr                                                                                         Government sanction is awaited for placemert of order in
(Savings)                                                    63                -                                                 local shipyard with consequent reduction in foreign ex-
change comeponent of cost.
10. Fulta Point scheme (Savings)                                 231                                                                  CoGnract price is proving less than estimate.
U. Reconditioning quay wval of Kidderpore Docks
(savings)                                                   271                _                         _                       Actual repairs are less than anticipated.
5,°01
/ The origina  imaLlecated item was   S2,674,0o0
The revised unallocated item is          24k,o000
Savings                  2,433,000           2.433
TOTAL    .3314



Appendix 6
The Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta
Development Projects included in the
Second Loan Application
Total       Foreign
Serial                                              Estimated     Exchange
Number           Name of Project                      Cost        Component
(Rs. OGO,OOO)
A. Floating Craft
1.      1 Suction dredger to replace "Balari"
and suitable for estuarial dredging
(400 ft. long)                           19.0           17.5
2.      1 Suction dredger (260 ft. long)             10.0            9.0
3.      2 Grab dredgers (225 ft. long)                8.o            5.0
4.      2 Pilot vessels (270 ft. long)               18.0           17~0
5.      1 Light vessel (117 ft. long)                 3.0            2.8
6.      4 Dock tugs (95 ft. long)                     8.0            4.5
7.      5 Hopper barges (220 ft. long)               20.0            7.5
8.      1 Survey vessel (130 ft. long)                3.5            2.0
9.      3 Launches (78 ft. long)                      3.0            1.8
92z5          67.1
B. Roads and Bridges
10.        Rerewal of No. 2 swing bridge               4.0            2.8
C. Port Equipment
11,        Pumping plant for recirculation of
Kidderpore Docks Water                     6.5           4.0
12.        Plant and machinery for workshops and
shipyards                                 4.0            2.15
13.        Purchase of mechanical cargo-handling
appliances                                2.0            1.9
12.5           8.05
D. Docks and Berths
14.        Extension of one arm of King George's
Dock                                     10.0            3.0
E. General
15.        Additional hydraulic studies of River
Hooghly and estuary and satellite
port site                                  9.5           5X3
16.        Consulting engineers' fees for all proji-
ects and additional engineering studies
for satellite port                         6.o           5.0
17.        Contingencies (appro.ximately 9.675)       12.9            8.75
28,4          19.05
Total Project                  147t4          100.0
Dollar Equivalent (millions)   31.0            21-0



Appendix 7.
PORT OF CALCUJTTA
Scheduled Disbursements of Foreign Sbxchange
(Rs. 000,000)
Foreign
Ser .1                                                               Total       Exchange
No,       Name of Prolect                                            Cost        Component         1961-62        1962-63       1963-64        1964-65
NIew suction dredger to replace "Balari"' and
suitable for estuarian dredging                          19.0           17.5                             5.25         11.4           0.85
2.      One suction dredger                                         10.0            9.0                             -             4.5           4.5
3.      Two grab dredgers                                            8.0            5,0              -              -             5'0            -
4.      Two pilot vessels                                           18.0           17.0              _              5.1           11.05         0.85
5.      One light vessel                                             3M0            2,8              -              -             0.85          1.95
6,      Four dock tugs                                               8.0            4.5              -              2,4            2e1          -
7.      Five hopper barges                                          20.0            7.5              -              -              5.0          2.5
8.      One survey vessel                                            305            2.0              -              -             1.0           1.0
9.      Three launches                                               3,0            1.8              -              0.9            0.9          -
10.      Renewal of No. 2 swing bridge                                40o            2.8              -              1.2           155          0.05
11,      Pumping plant for recirculation of Kidderpore
Docks' water                                             6.5             4.0              -             0.8            3.2           -
1'.      Plant and machinery for workshops, shipyards, etc.           40o            2.15             -              0.8            1.35         -
13.      Purchase of mechanical appliances                            2.0            1.9              -              1.8           0.1           -
14,      Extension of one arm of King George's Dock                  100            300              -              2,0           0.5           0c5
15.      P.dditional hydraa]ic studios of River Hooghly and
estuary and satellite port site                          9.5             5.3              o.6           3.5.           1.2           -
16.      Consulting Engineers' fees for all projects and
additional engineering studies for satellite
port                                                      6,0            5-0 1°0                         2.0           1.0           1.0
17,      Contingencies (approximately 9,6%)                          12.9            8.75             -              1.55           3.7          3.5
TOTAL   (Rs. 000,000)                       147.4          100.0              1.6           27.3          54.4          16.7
(ITS; 000,000)                       31.0           21e0              0.3           5,7           1105           3.5;



The Conimissioners for the Port of Calcutta
Estimate of Funds Available and Requirements for CaT ita1 Uorks and Servicing of Debt
- Rs. 000,000 -
5 Yr.total
1961-62
through
1960-61 ' 191 -62   1962663   1663164    1964-65       1965   '  L965-66
Available Funds                         */
Funds available at beginning of period-  62.3  t   75.4         55.6      49.0       54c4         67.7        75.4
Additions during year:
Net revenue before interest and debt          '
payments                             23.7        32.0      35.7      40.5       50.6         51.8  '  210.6
IBRD loans:  198-IN                       29.0       70.0       20.0       -          -            -    ,   90.0
Proposed                      -          1.6      27.3      54.4        16.7          -        100.0
Government loans                       36.5  '   30.0       20.0       20MO       20.0         15.5  ' _10.5
Total Additions             _89.2      L13.6    103.0      114.9        87.3         67.3      506.1
Total Available             151.5  I  209.0      158.6     163.9       141.7        135.0  '  581.5
t                                                       I
Fund Requirements
IBRD loan projects:
198-IN: Foreign expenditure            29.0        70-0      20.0      -          -              -         90.0
Local expenditure              20.0       4705      20.0  _-                                  ,   67.5
Proposed: Foreign expenditure              -          1,o6     27.3      54.4       16e7           -        100.0
Local expenditure             -___2.5               14.0      16.o        14.9         4-.
Total Projects               49.0      121.6      81.3      70,4        31.6          -        304e9
Non-project investment                      _4_          8.2       -        -          -             15.5      _La z
Total Investment             58n4      129.8       81.3      70.4       31.6         15.5       328.6
Debt service                                17.7?       23.6      28.3      32.1       42.4          44.0      172.4
Total Fund Requirements                      76.1      153.4    109.6      109.5       74.0          59.5      506.0
Funds available end of period                75.4       55.6      49.0      54.4       67..          75.5       75.5
_/  Net current. assets, i.e. current assets in the form of                                                            C
cash and Go'vernment securities, minus current liabilities,                                                       ff
PI



The Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta
Income Statements  1946-1960
(Rupees 000
1946-47     Q4-7 4Z4  1948-49    1949-50    1950-51    1951-52    1952-53    1953-54    1954-55    1955-56    1956-57    1957-58    1958-59    1959-60
2nue:
From goods             31,711      43,041        268     48,046      39,137     45,382     49,727      45,068     50,246     58,609      66,300     79,753      79,905     77,774
From vessels            7,509       8,361        :01     11,114      9,627      11,448     12,019     11,929      14,172     13,709     16,904      19,393      18,821     18,659
Income from lands
and buildings         5,940       6,455      7,163      8,207      7,851       7,787      8,352      8,709       8,822      9,480       9,599     10,155     11,981      11,519
Income from railways    4,662       5,719      7,154      7,489      9,483      11,412     13,776     13,O58      12,491     12,585     13,079      15,199     15,584      17,949
Other revenue           1.005       2.246     27215       2,028 39 057           2,654      24LL        3.009      2.522      510         2,772      3,091    _33201        3,812
Total Revenue           50,827     65,828     75,801     76,984      69,155     78,683     86,890      81,773    89,253      99,693    108,661    127,581    129,592    129,712
Expenses:
Administration         14,776     13,287      15,603     16,368     16,091      16,840     18,009     19,002      19,994     21,165      22,185     23,712      26,483     27,765
Stores                  1,412       1,949      2,300      2,681       2,426      2,816      3,501       3,496      3,455      3,609       3,908      4,443       4,807      5,399
Maintenance & repairs   4,855       5,007      5,067      6,B53       7,816      9,223      9,373      10,726     11,563     13,206      13,224     16,812      18,827     15,098
Labor                   4,610       7,579      8,817     10,299      9,775      11,555     11,607     10,324      10,957     11,341     12,303      15,868      17,099     15,888
Dredging                2,216       2,724      2,809      3,239      3,511       3,741      5,160       5,064      5,345      5,505       6,377      5,757       8,144      8,484
W'crkshop               1,058         960      1,100      1,475      1,589       1,742      1,627       1,888      1,812      2,152       1,472      1,959       2,236      2,128
Electric light
and power               710         767        845        929        982       1,023      1,099      1,099       1,166      1,218      1,321       1,568       1,725      1,794
Municipal taxes         1,769       1,921      2,050      2,066       2,084      2,024      2,403       2,157      5,902      3,378       3,393      3,450       3,600      3,510
Cost of living
allowance             6,111       6,059      5,289      6,762      6,684       7,635      7,817      7,693       7,959      B,2e4       8,569      9,942     10,854      11,273
Police protection,
housing allowance,
other Misc. Exp.      4,454      8,163       l,_180     8,617      9513        9.78      10533    15,610        10,825     10.432     10.759      15.096     16.602      19.602
Total Operating
Expenses             41,971      48.4       53.060     59.289      60,361     66.387     71.118      77,059     78.978     80.290       3.511     98,607    110,377    110.941
Net before interest
and depreciation     89,56      17,075      22,741     17,595      8,794      12,296     15,711      4,714       9,275     19,403      25,150     28,974     19,215      18,771
Depreciation charges 1/12,595)     3,116       2,879      3,190      3,522       4,223      2J075      2,368       2,569      2,805      2,743       2,454      2,190       2,206
Interest expense                  _2963        9.60       9999      10.481      10.825     .9946      10,612      10.602     10,346      973        10.891     12.270      14.002
Net Incare             PM)         4,324      10.182      4406       (5209)        7)       3,690      (8.266)    (3.896)     6,252     12,673      15,629      4755        2,563
Debt Service           12,595     12,751      12,559     13,189     14,003      15,048     12,021     12,980      13,171     13,151     12,477      13,345     14,460      16,208
Debt Service Ratio         .7        1.3         1.8        1.3         .6          .8        1.3         .4          .7        1.5         2.0        2.2        1.3         1.2
J  The CPC does not provide for depreciation but charges sinking fund                                                                                                                       I
contributions for repayment of debt against income.



Appendix 1C
THE COMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA
PRO FORMA BAL6NCE SHEET as on   st Harch 1960
(In thousands of Rupees}
CAPITAL AND rEVENUE ACCWfiFS
Assets                                                                                                Liabilities. Reserves and Surplus
Rs.                                                                                                Rs.
Current Assets                                                                            Current Liabilities
Cash                                                           23,607                     Accounts payable                                                         57,904
Unclaimed C.P.C. debentures                                                 596
Investments:                                                                               Contingent liability
Commissioners' Funds-
Revenue Reserve Fund                   50,497                                                                        Total Current Liabilities                   59,045
Vessels Replacement Fund               15,309
Renewals & Replacement Fund               833                66,639                   LonAt Term Debts:
Rupee debentures                                                        204,917
Accounts receivable                                              31.084                     Sterling debentures                                                      35,049
Government loan                                                         111, 600
Total Current Assets             121.330                    I.B.R.D. loan                                                            3709
Deferred Charges                                                                                   Deduct: Accumulation in Sinking Fund                              58.108
Stock of stores                                                29,075
Unamortized debt expense                                       12.313                                                                                             312.S50
41.388
Surplus & Reserves
Property, Plant & Ecuipmemt:                                                               Capital account surplus                                                  185,929
Port facilities                                               350,603                    Revenue Reserve Fund                                                      56,116
Construction & progress                                       1                           Vessels Replacement Fund                                                 15,478
526,275                    Renewals & Replacement Fund                                               1,710
Add: Appreciation of fixed assets on revaluation                473.725                     Revenue account balance                                                      57
1.000.000                    Sinkirg Fund                                                             58,108
Appreciation of Fixed Assets on Revaluation                             473,725
Total                          1.162.718                                                  Total                                   _.l62.718
OTHER RESERtVES
Reserve Balances
Cash                               3,074                                                    Fire insurance                             7,667
Antedated Providend                          24
Invastuents                       11,034                                                    Interest equalization                     1,386
Welfare (Superior & Inferior)               643
Other assets                           1                                                    Indian Seamen's Home                      1,735
Unclaimed matured debenture                 410
Loan                                      1,755
4,,109                                                Pilotage                                    489
Grand Total: Liabilities, Reserves
Grand Total: Assets            1,176,827                                                               & Surplus                  1,176.827



COi4,IS1SION'TS FOR 1HE PORT OF CALCUTTA
FUTURE FINANCIAL POSITIGN (REVEIqUE AND DEBT COVERAGE)
-000,000 -
1960-61   1961-62   1962-63   1963-64   1964-65   1965-66   1966-67
Tons      Tons       Tons       Tons      Tons       Tons      Tons
Estimated tonnage (including P.O.L.)             9.0        10.7'11.2           11.9       13.2      13.1       13.2 _
Rs.       Rs.        Rs.        Rs.       Rs.        Rs.       Rs.
Income
Income frora goods                            85./4      96,5      100.0     104.5      114.7     115.5     117.0
Income from vessels                           20.0       22.6       22c8      23.5       25.9      26.1       26.5
Income from land and buildings                11.8       12.3       16.0      18.0       18.5      18.5       19.5
Income from Railways                          15J1       15.5       15.5      16.0       16,8      17.0       17.0
Miscellaneous income                           3.8        3.8        4,0       4.0        4.5       4.5
136.1      150.7     158.3      166,0     180.4      181.6     184.5
Expenditure
Establisiment including allowances            46,4       48e1       47.5      48.5       50.0      50.0       50.5
Stores of consumables and spares               5.1         5.3       6.0       6.3        6.8       6.8        6.8
Maintenance and repairs                       14,3       14,5       15.5      16.0       16.5      16.5       16.5
Labor                                         15.9       19.2       20.1      20.7       21.5      21.5       21.6
Dredging                                       8,8        10.4      11.8      12.0       12.5      12.5       12.5
Mviiscellaneous                                 21.9        21,2      21.7      22.0       22.5      22.5       22.5
Direct Operating expenses                      112.4       118.7     122.6     125.5      129.8     129.8      130.4
Net revenue before interest & debt
amortization*                                   23c7        32.0      35.7      40.5       50.6      51.8       54.1
Interest and amortization                       17,7        23,6      28,3      39.1       42.4      44.0       47,6
Surplus or deficit                               6.0         8.4       7.4        1.4       8.2        7.8       6.5
Debt service ratio                              1.34        1.35      1.26       1.03      1.19 1_18            1.14
* in lieu of depreciation.



Calcutta Port Conmissioners - Forecast of Debt Service
- Rs. 000,000 -
1959/60  1962/61  1961/62   1962/63   1963/64   1964/65  1965/66   1_966/        1967/68
A. Outstandina Debt at End of Period
a) CPC debentures-gross amount    239.9   239.9    239.9    225.6        225.6     225.6    225,6      225.6      225.6
Less: Sinking Fund            _8.1    60.2       62.3     50.1      _ 52.2     54.3      56.4      58.5       60.6
Net Amount              181.8   179.7    177.6    175.5      173.4      171.3    169.2      167.1      165.0
b) Gcvernment loans */             111.6   148.1    177,9    197.1       215.6     234.1    247.4      244.6      241.5
c) IBRD loans **|                   19.1    48.1    112.Z   167.0        25Y.4     225.9    219.4      210.0      200.1
Total Debt             312,5   375.9    475,2    539,6       604.4      631.3    636.0      621.7     606.6
B3. Interest on:
a) CPC debentures                   10.2   10.4       1102     10.2        9.9       9.9       9.9       9.9        9.9
b) Government loans                  2,3      3.3      5e3      7.2        9.0      10.4      11.0      11.6       11.6
c) IBRD loans                        1.4      1.9      4.8      8.0       10.6      12.3      12.3      11.8       11.3
Total Interest           13o9   15X6      21v_      25-4      29.5      _226      32.6       33.3      32.8
C. Repayment of.:
a) CPC debentures into Sinking
Fund                            2.2     2.1       2.1      2.1        2.1       2.1       2,1       2.1        2.1
b) Government loans                  -        -         .2        .8       1.5       1,5       2,2        2.8       3.1
c) IBRD loans                        -        -_                           6o          .2      6.5       9.4 9.9
Total Repayments          2.2     2.1     223       .29        j6           8     10.8       14.3      15.1
Total Debt Service (B + C)             16.1    17        23.6      28.3 34_1            42.4     44.0                 47.9
*i/ After1960/61 all new Government loans are assumed to pay 5% interest and to have a life of 30 years with a
grace period of 7 years.
*/ Proposed I9RD Loan assumed at Rs. 100 million (equivalent USt;21 million) with life of 25 years, a
grace period of 5 years, and 5-3/4% interest.



Appendix l 3.t
Forecast of Major Changes in Assets and Liabilities of
The Commissioners for the Port of' Calcutta Between 1960 and 1965
- Rupees 000,000 -
Mqarch 31     March 31
1960          1965
Assets
Current Assets                                          121e3         1355.5
Stock of spares and consumables                          29.1           23.5
Deferred charges                                         12.3          10.0
Port facilities including construction
in progress and appreciation on re-
valuation                                         1,000.0        1,34458
Earmarked funds                                          1401           16.5
Total Assets                         L1,76_8        1,530_3
Liabilities, Reserves and Surplus
Current Liabilities                                      59.0          60eO
Debt:  Government loans                                 111.6          234.1
IBRD loans                                       19.1          225.9
CPC debentures, less Sinking Fund               181.9          171.3
Surplus and reserves                                    791.1         822.5
Earmarked reserves                                       14,1           16.5
1,176.8       1,530.3
Debt/Equity Ratio                                         28/72         43/57



Appendix 14.
Page i.
Description and Comments On the Project
A. Floating Craft
The main vessels in CPCts fleet totaled 84 in Janujary 19610  They
varied from survey launches, 36 ft. long, to suction dredgers, 371 ft. long,
and included such diverse vessels as floating cranes, hopper barges, tugs,
light vessels and various types of dredgers.  The maJority of vessels were
acquired before World War II, the oldest dating back to 1883.  Because of
the difficulties peculiar to navigation on the River Hooghly, a large fleet
of floating craft is required with a considerable emphasis on the vessels
needed for dredging, maintenance and survey work, The first Bank loan to
CPC took into consideration the heav7y use that Tvas made of CPC's vessels
during the war, when craft were subject to long periods of work often with-
our adequate maintenance, Efforts are being made to replace the aged ves-
sels and to provide new and improved craft, particularly to cope with the
increased dredging required to maintain access to the Port of Calcutta. It
is now proposed that 20 new vessels be purchased, 10 of which would be en-
gaged directly or indirectly on dredging operations and the remainder on
operational duties within the harbor and in the estuary (see Appendices 6
and 15)o
The large (400 ft.) suction dredger will be a sister ship to the
estuarial dredger being provided in the first Bank loan. It is intended to
replace dredger "Balari", which was built in 1913 and whose usefulness is
now being impaired by thne increasingly long periods spent on necessary over-
hauls.  The new vessel will be capable of dredging in the exposed estuary and
when delivered, and the "Balari" writhdrawn from service, CPC will have a com-
plement of 8 suction dredgers, which it is estimated arill provide sufficient,
w.ell-maintained vessels for the foreseeable dredging requirements in the
river and in the estuary.
Tne smaller (260 ft.) suction dredger is to be designed for the
specific requiremlent of dredging in those reaches of the river in the Calcut-
ta area where it is impracticable to use a larger suction dredger or one of
the bucket dredgers. The dredging requirements in the Calcutta area have
greatly increased in recent years and none of the exis-ting dredgers are cap-
able of undertaking the commitment satisfactorily.
Crab dredgers are used in the various nooks and crannies of the port
where the larger bucket and suction dredgers cannot operate.  Today, there is
one small grab dredger in operation and a second is nearing completion under
the first Bank-financed project.  Because of the increased silt being deoosit-
ed in the harbor area the acquisition of two additional grab dredgers is con-
sidered necessary for its remzoval.  These two new vessels will fill this n---e
and eventually take over some of the work done at present by the bucket dre g--
ers,
The twonew pilot vessels to be purchased are to replace the convert-
ed frigates "Bengall" and "Hooghly", which are described in Appendix 16.  Both
existing vessels are beyond economic repairs and are even considered danger-
ous for service in the lower estuary.



Appendix 14e
Page 
The new light vessel is to replace "L. V. Start", which was built
about 1923 and has a wooden hull  which is sholwiing signs of deterioration,
It is considered that the replacement for "L. V. Stiar" should be provided as
soon as possible.
The daily operational requ,irement of the port is six serviceable
dock tugs. INine tugs are now in service but one is 53 years and four are
38 years old.  ITith five of the nine tugs requiring ti-ime-consuming overhauls
and repairs, CPC frequently have difficulty in meeting the daily operational
requirement.  In order to improve efficiency of operations, allow for reason-
able maintenance and overhauls it is essential that four new tugs be acquired
to replace any four of the five old tugs now in comimission.
By 1965, it is estimated that three buclcet dredgers will be in ser-
vice, each requiring three attendant hopDer barges.  This would require a conple-
ment of nine hopper barges and, with an addituional one for rotational repairs,
would make a total of Len.  Of the present fleet of hopper barges only one is
in good condition and of recent construction. Four newT barges are on order
which, along with the above vessel in good condition, will provide half the re-
quirement of ten vessels leaving five hopper barges now to be acquired.
At present thiere are three survey vessels working on the River Kooghly
and this is considered t'ne minirm. for efficient conservancy purposes. The old-
est vessel is 56 years old, is in bad condition, and is being replaced by a ves-
sel now under construction.  A second vessel is 34 rears old and is also showing
signs of wear and tear, and is to be replaced by the survey vessel in the pres-
ent application.
There are at present eighteen launches in CPC's fleet engaged on
operational and conservancy duties.  This number of vessels is required and to
replace two that are beyond their economic life and provide one additional for
the Harbor MIaster at Budge Budge for his duties, a total of three are now to be
acquiired.
B. Roads, Bridges, etc.
Renewal of No. 2 swing bridge6   As shoTwn on hiap No. 2, swing brldge
No. 2 carries one of the main roads traversing the dock area across the neck of
water joining KI-dderpore Docks 'o. 1 and No, 2.  The bridge was constructed in
1892 and is a double-leaved, 80 ft. clear span, hydraulicallv-operated, swing
bridge.  The original roadwLTay was 21 ft. wide, flanked by sidewalks each  ft~-
6 in. wide.  Plthough the bridge has been well maintained, over the years cer-
tain deterioration has set in and unequal wear and tear in the rolling tracks
has resulted in a twist of the main girders.  Increases in the class of load-
ing in recent years necessitated the introduction of single line traffic over
the bridge. These restrictions disorganize traffic flow and constitute a bot-
tleneck on this very iTmortant thoroughfare.  The bridge has given good service
over a long life and its replacement is overdue.



Appendix 14
Page 3
C. Port Equipment
Pumping plant for recirculation of Kidderpore Docks water.
With the increased siltation encountered in recent years in the dock
area it has been increasingly difficult to ensure the supply of silt-
free water for maintaining the level in the Kidderpore Docks. Water
used to be obtained by allowing water from the River Hooghly to be
retained in the Chetlas boat canal until it had deposited its silt
content therein. The clear water was then pumped into the dock and
the silt was removed from the canal by dredging.
Because of the reduced quantities of relatively clear
water now available from the Chetla canal, make-up water has to be
pumped direct from the River Hooghly to the docks resulting in in-
creased siltation in the docks and difficulties in removing silt
from a relatively narrow and busy area. Increased traffic through
the port in recent years has meant more frequent use of the dock
entrance with consequent increased losses of water due to leakage
and lockage.
Investigations have been carried out by CPC in consultation
with Messrs. Rendel, Palmer & Tritton (RPT), their consulting engineers,
and the proposed recirculation scheme has been evolved. Water from the
emptying lock is not released into the river but is instead pumped
back into the dock basin for re-use. Thus the volume of silt-laden
water will be considerably reduced and the problem of siltation in the
dock basin will be largely eliminated.
In the proposed scheme the pumping installation at the boat
canal will be transferred to the riverside pumping station to replace
the present pumps which are considerably worn. There is some apprehension
regarding the effect of continual use of the same dock water and ex-
periments are in progress to determine the best method of aeration of
the water to ensure that it will not become stagnant.
Plant and machinery for workshops, shipyards, etc. A
certain amount of modernization and re-equipment of CPC's workshops and
shipyards is currently being carried out. The scheme is intended to
extend the modernization and improve further the efficiency of the work-
shops and ship repair yards by replacement of older and less efficient
plant and machinery so as to expedite the repairs of CPC's locomotives,
wagons, cranes, floating craft, etc.
In addition the scheme includes replacing old steam pumps
dating back to 1892, in the machinery house of Kidderpore Docks, which
are used for de-watering the dry docks. Further, the large pumps in
King George's Dock used to maintain the dock water at impounded level
are 33 years old and are to be provided with a standby installation for
emergency purposes.



Appendix 14e
Page 4
Purchase of mechanical appliances.   During the past few years a
number of mechanical cargo-handling appliances were purchased and have given
good service and increased the efficiency of cargo-handling operations. It is
now intended to add to the cargo-handling equipment in the port and to replace
some secondhand equipment purchased over 16 years ago. The following equipment
is to be provided:
7 - 6/10  tons diesel electric mobile cranes
2 - 1.5   tons diesel electric tower cranes
4 - 3     tons fork lift trucks
6 - 40-95 h.p. tractors
20 - 5/10  tons trailers
D. Docks and Berths
Extension of one arm of King George's Dock (Appendix 16 describes
two schemes previously proposed for King George's Dock).
With the progressive deterioration of, and increased siltation in
the River Hooghly, the intensity of the bore tides has increased. This has
necessitated the provision of safer moorings for ships than it has hitherto
been possible to provide in the river. The only feasible sheltered area is
inside the existing dock systems and, as Kidderpore Docks are long and narrow
and surrounded by a densely built-up area, they do not lend themselves to
expansion. The most practical scheme is to extend the western arm of King
George's Dock and there provide holding space at moorings for four slhips,
which can handle cargo overside, and berthing facilities for four additional
ships undergoing repairs.
As the circular Garden Reach road skirts the present dock it will
require to be diverted. The western arm will be extended by excavation and
dredging and the spoil obtained will be utilized to reclaim adjacent low-lying
areas. The ship repair berths will be of relatively light construction, con-
sisting of dolphins and operating platforms with gangways to the shore. The
scheme is justified by the protection that will be afforded to shipDing from
the bore tides and by the increased operational flexibility that will result
in the working of King George's Dock.
E. General
Additional hydraulic studies of the River Hooghly and estuary and
Satellite port site.
Fuller details of the problem of siltation of the River Hooghly to-
gether with the difficult factors associated Twith the siting of a satellite
port at Haldia,are described in Appendix 15. Up-to-date scientific studies of
the hydraulic regime of the River Hooghly in its upper and estuarial reaches
are required. It is alsocoiriered necessary to have carried out promptly, as
thorough and comprehensive an investigation of the hydraulic conditions in the
Haldia area as is practicable before major expenditures are made there on heavy
engineering works for a satellite port.



Appenaix 14.
Page 5.
CPC intend to set up a Eydraulic Study Department (ESD) which
will work closely with the departments of the Chief Engineer and Deputy
Conservator and provide the best available information on the problems
of the River Eooghly. With such information it may be possible to improve
present dredging techniques, indicate beneficial river training works and
determine the feasibility of maintaining deep water alongside the Haldia
port site, and of maintaining or inproving deep water access thereto and to
the existing port.
The new HSD will be staffed by CPCOs own officers assisted and
directed by foreign experts and will be provided with survey vessels and
scientific instruments. The Indian staff would understudy the foreign ex-
perts and, when sufficiently trained in modern analytical techniques, would
take over the wvork and continue it as a progressive study of the river. The
cost is based on the salaries of the personnel for a period of two years and
the.provision of one survey vessel, three launches, one house boat, survey-
ing equip-ment and laboratory appliances.
Great importance is attached to a scientific investigation of the
River Hooghly and to the setting up of the HSD.  The Bank should ensure that
the best possible organization is set up and is put to work on approved lines,
and with this in mind should consider the retention of an eminent hydraulics
expert of international standing as a consultant, who would report on progress
of the HSD and be available for advising on any outstanding problems0
Consulting Engineerst Fees, Engineering Studies and Contingencies.
As in the past, CPC intend to retain the services of foreign consulting engi-
neers, whose fees are included in this item. Although CPC?s staff is entirely
competent to supervise the execution of the project it is intended to retain
consulting engineers for all technnological questions relating to civil engineer-
ing work and mechanical equipment and, where necessary, for the preparation of
plans and specifications and the analysis of tenders   In addition, the services
of an expert in port planning would be retained to coL ent and advise on the
final layout and.siting of the satellite port at Haldia.



Appendix :15
Page 1.
Siltation of the River Hooghly and Its Effect
on the Future Development of the Port of Calcutta.
A. Background
The River Hooghly is the name given to the lower section of the most
westerly branch of the delta mouths of the River Ganges (see inset Hiap No. 1).
It extends about 300 miles from the Ganges to the sea but today only carries
fresh water seawards in the four-five months "freshet" season, when the sand
bars damming its connections to the Ganges are overtopped or dispersed by the
rising waters of the Ganges. At other seasons the Hoog,hly is little more than
a tidal creek with the tide extending as far as 180 miles from the sea.  The
riverine section (upstream from Diamond Sands), because of the physical, hy-
draulic and tidal characteristics of the waterway, is subject to bore tides.
In its riverine section the River Hooghly is relatively narrolw with
a number of sharp bends and with eleven sand bars over which water depths are
subject to substantial seasonal and even considerable daily variations.  Today
there is no important accession of water from tributaries nor are t'nere any dan,e
or barrages moderating the flow.  From Diamond Sands, some 70 miles from the
sea, the Hooghly becomes a funnel-shaped estuary with many extensive sand bars
which are subject to seasonal variations and considerable cyclic movements.
The Port of Calcutta was founded in the late seventeenth century on
the left bank of the River Hooghly, some 120 miles from the sea.  Since 1803
the difficulties and dangers of navigation of the river have been a cause for
concern to Calcutta port users. In the present century, access of ships to
Calcutta has been maintained only by extensive dredging of the riverine sections
and a limited amount of river training works. In recent years, despite the an-
nual expenditure of over US'J2 million on maintenance dredging, in both the river
and the estuary, it has only been possible to ensure access to Calcutta of ves-
sels of 26 ft. draught and not much greater than 500 ft. in length during a few
periods of any year. Such limitations are unacceptable for a port serving a
rapidly developing hinterland, especially when the trend of modern ship design
is to larger, deeper-draughted vessels.
B. The Problem
If it is taken as axiomatic that the present Port of Calcutta (whose
replacement value alone must-be greaterthTaSa -3u250 million) will remain a major
port and that access thereto must be maintained and improved to the economic
limit of so doing, the problem is one of maintaining and, if possible, improving
access.
If the problem of access is unlikely to be solved satisfactorily then
the problem is how to find and construct port facilities that will serve the
Calcutta hinterland and yet be established in a location free from intolerable
restrictions on access..



Appendix 15)
Page 2.
C. Attempts to Solve the Problem
From 1907, when bars shoaled to such an extent as to impose limita-
tions on navigation, mechanical dredging has been employed to restore navig-
able depths. In recent years, the dredging effort has been increased but the
navigable depths decreased and investigations have been made to supplement the
dredging with river training works * As a result of experiments on models of
the river made by the Governmentts Central WTater and Power Research Station at
Poona, training works were successfully constructed at Akra, a short distance
below Calcutta, and a major realignment of the channel is at present being un-
dertaken at Fulta Point Reach.
The promptings of the Bank MIission in 1957, coupled with the sudden
deterioration of the Balari Bar in 1958, spurred CPC and the Indian Government
to increased efforts to solve the problem of access of deep-draughted vessels
to the Port of Calcutta.  CPCts consu-lting engineers, Messrs. Rendel, Palmer &
Tritton (RPT) were asked to report on the feasibility of a new deep-water port
in the area and, in addition, opinionis have been obtained from a nuzber of ex-
perts, including the following: Hr. Posthuma, Director of the Port of Rotter-
dam; Professor Pierre Danel, Director General of the Sogreah Hydraulic Labora-
tory in Grenoble, France; Professor Larras, a French expert; and .ir. TWichers-
Hoeth, a Dutch dredging expert. It should be emphasized that none of these in-
dividual experts was able to spend mnore than a few days on tie problem and that
their opinions were necessarily based on an examination of existing data and a
brief inspection of the river.  RPT's reports, althnough more comprehensive, are
also based on existing data,  4ithout any new scientific studies of thle hydraulic
problenis involved.  In addition, t-so United .Nations Technical Aid Organization
(UNTAO) experts, Dr. D. M. 14cDowell and Kr. P. Szalwernowski, have been engaged
full time since April 1960 on the study of the Hooghily.
All the experts that have examined the problem, including RPT, have
strongly emphasized the need for further information and additional study of
tne hydraulic mechanism of the River Hooghly.  The consensus of opinion is that
no great improvement of the depths of water up to Calcutta can be reasonably
expected but that by employing modern, scientific investigation and the latest
research techniques it should be possible to increase the efficacy of dredging
methods and suggest beneficial river training wTorks.
D. Thpe Proposed Satellite Port Site at Haldia
In the absence of any optimistic forecasts regarding significant im-
provement of depths available up to the present Port of Calcutta, CPC have in.-
vestigated the possibility of constructing a satellite port with as many of the
following desirable site characteristics as possible:
(i) As near to the present port as possible, for economy and
efficiency of operation.



Appendix 1p
Page 3.
(ii)  As far from the Bay of 3engal as practicable, to avoid the
normal tracks of typhoons.
(iii)  WThere materially deeperdraugts are available without exten-
sive dredging both at the site and in its access chaninels
than can be provided in thne present riverine section of the
Hooghly, and where, if possible, depths to accommnodate ships
drawing up to 35-4O feet could be attained later by dredging
and/or training works.
(iv)  On the west bank of the Hooghly so as to permit easier access
by railroad and road fro,m th-e industrial and mining areas
which TTill furmish a large part of the satellite port's future
traffic.
(v)  W4ith sufficient readily-available area to provide not only for
the future e-pansion of the new port but also for the indus-
trial and housing estates that may be expected to develop in
the vicinity.
(vi)  ZJhere geological conditions are such as to facilitate econom-
ical construction of the port and provide adequate local water
supply.
After studying possible sites between Calcutta and the mouth of the
Hooghly and along the west shore of the Bay of Bengal below the mouth, RPT
have concluded that a site on the riglht bank of the Hooghly, just above the
confluence with the Haldia River and a short distance below the Balari Bar,
meets the principal desired characteristics more nearly than any other site.
None of the experts mentioned has expressed disagreement with the pronosed
Haldia site, wrhich has also been accepted by the CPC and the Indian Govern-
ment as the best site available. oTowever the most important obstacle to the
full apnproval of the Haldia site at this time is the lack of solidly-based
data on the future depths that can be expected at the site itself and in the
channels between the site and the Bay of Bengal as the result of natural forces,
and the possibilities of attaining greater depths by economically-feasible
dredging or training works.
E. The Possible Solutions
It appears today that the most practical and hopeful solution to the
problem of siltation of the River Hooghly and of improved access to port facil-
ities in the Calcutta area will be indicated by additional and intensified
studies of the hydraulic mechanism involved. As a result of representations by
the Bank in February 1961 it has been agreed by CPC and the Government of India
that a programr of scientific studies of a type not heretofore attempted be iurj
dertaken promptly to determine the long term effects of different dredging te3h.
niques on the hydraulic regime of the river in both its riverine and estuarial
sections.



Appendix_ 15.
Page 4.
Such a program is to include an extensive and probably prolonged hydro-
graphic study of the river, involving scientific observations f the
results of actual dredging operations and employing modern techniques
such as the use of aerial surveys, radioactive and fluorescent tracers,
mathematical analyses of ri-rer conditions and possibly further model tests.
The effects of an improved flow of fresh water as a result of any Farakka
Barrage on the Ganges would also be simulated and the whole looked upon
as the start of a progressive and continuing research program for the
River Hooghly.
These studies would be especially important for, and in the
first instance are to be specifically directed towards, estimating what
future depths might be attained by natural forces operating at the Haldia
site and in the estuarial approaches thereto, and the possibilities of
achieving and maintaining greater depths by properly-directed dreding
operations. Only after considerable clarification has been obtained re-
garding the practicability of maintaining deep water alongside the pro-
posed satellite port site at Haldia and in its approaches should irrevoca-
ble expenditure be incurred on expensive civil engineering structures
at the site.
CPC intend to set up a separate Hydraulic Study Department using
their own technical staff and foreign experts to undertake the investiga-
tions in the river and in the estuary.
In addition to the hydraulic studies still required to provide a
fuller appreciation of the accessibility of the Haldia port to ocean-going
vessels it is considered important that the very best layout of the site
be obtained. The scheme adopted should be modern and provide the optimum
facilities for the handling of the ships and the commodities involved and
be capable of planned expansion as required.  A master plan should be
conceived and adopted at this time for the ultimate co-ordination of all
foreseeable users of the satellite port and its surrounding area. The
Bank has suggested and CPC have agreed that the satellite port scheme,
prepared in conjunction with their consultants, RPT, will also be examined
and commented on by an experienced expert in the planning of commercial
ports.
The Bank has indicated its willingness to help finance the hy-
draulic and engineering studies involved in the above paragraphs and
accordingly item 15 has been added to the list of projects and item 16
(Consultants' fees) has been increased to include a "second opinion" on the
satellite port layout:
Total         Foreign
Estimated     Exchange
Serial                                                Cost          Component
No.      Name of Project                                   - Rs. 000,000
15.      Additional hydraulic studies of the
River Hooghly and estuary and
satellite port site                             9.5           5.3
16.      Consulting engineers' fees for all
projects and additional engineering
studies for satellite port                      6.o           5.0
1-5.5        10.3
Dollar equivalent (millions)              3.25          2.16



Appendix 15.
Page 5.
F. The Haldia Port Scheme
In September 1960, CPC issued a "Project Report on the proposed
subsidiary port at Haldia".  The scheme described provides two riverside
berths, one for oil and the second for grain, and three berths in a dock
system to handle coal, ore and general cargo. The estimated cost of the
scheme is US$52.5 million (of which about US$29.5 million would be in
foreign exchange) and does not include a rail connection to the main line
at Kharagpur nor the necessary connections and improvements to the road
system. Once the hydraulic and engineering considerations that govern the
scheme have been satisfied it is considered that a project on the lines of
that described in the report can be proved necessary and justified economical-
ly.



Appendix 16,
Page 1.
PORT OF CALCUTTA
PROJTFCTS D7F17RgD IN FIRST I.B.R.D. LO.ANl TO CPC
1.        Construction of warning jetty at entrance to King Georgets Dock,
At present there are 11 cargo-harndling berths in King George's Dock,
7 being alongside berths and h buoy berths. -Not more than tlo deep-laden ships
can be moved through the existing lock entrance of the Dock per tide. If the
nurnber of cargo-handling berths inside the Dock wlere to be increased - as was
intended in 1957 when the first loan project was appraised - an improvem,^ent
would be required to the entrance lock to enable a greater number of ships to
pass through per tide. In view of the possibility that a subsidiary port will
be established at Haldia, it is no longer considered necessary to increase the
cargo-handling berths in King George's Dock, and therefore the warping jetty in-
provement is not now required,
2.        Construction of a general cargo berth and a laying-up berth in King
George's Dock.
In the proposals for a satellite port at Haldia a general cargo berth
is to be provided and so the construction of this facility in King George's Dock
is meantime postponed indefinitely. In the same way when coal and ore traffic
is shifted to the proposed facilities at a satellite port, lo. 5 berth in King
Georgets Dock, which is presently reserved for ore handling, could be converted
lnto a general cargo berth.  Sinilarly those berths in Kidderpore Docks which
are at present used for coal loading could be used for the repair and laying-up
of ships.
3.        l47odified extension of the 7.arshalling Yard.
Wlith the proposed re-routing of the coal and ore exporting traffic to
Haldia the number of freight trains using the Calcutta i4arshalling Yard will be
considerably reduced. One of the limitations of the present marshalling yard is
its inability to receive the 70-wagon trains that are presently being sent to the
port by the railways. It is essential to lengthen the tracks in the receiving
sidings and modernize the yard and this is at present being done.  Tne improve-
ments being carried out will serve all the present traffic of the port and the
designed capacity of the modified layout will be about 10 million tons per year,
4.        Purchase of mechanical equipment - end-rock tippler,
Included in the item for the purchase of mechanical handling equipment
was an end-rock tippling plant, which was to be added to the existing coal load-
ing facilities at No. 18 berth Kidderpore Docks.  This additional plantwoulctd in-
crease the efficiency and expedite the loading of coal into ships because of its
ability to handle closed wagons which frequently  are supplied in the mnixed trains
bringing coal for export. With the proposed removal of the coal traffic to
Haldia where a more modern and powerful installation will be provided for the
trade, the additions to the existing plant in Calcutta are no longer reouired.



Appendix 163
Page 2.
5.        Purchase of one pilot vessel,
At present CPC have two pilot vessels built in 1942 as frigates arA
used as such during World War IIe They were purchased in 19h9 and converted
into pilot vessels, but the light construction of their hulls has, as they grow
older, made repairs and maintenance very expensive.  Both vessels have now ex-
ceeded their economic life and their replacement is recommended0 Originally re-^
placement of both pilot vessels was sought but because of the limitations of
foreign exchange it was scheduled that one vessel be obtained by 1961-62 and
the other be replaced immediately thereafter. As the purchase of the pilot
vessels has been delayed it is now considered essential to replace both vesseis
as soon as possible.
6.        Purchase of salvage equipment3 including h camels.
Improvement and expansion of the limited salvage facilities in the
Port of Calcutta was sought in 1957. However the immediate necessity of hav-
ing their own equipment has been deferred as the urgent salvage work in the
port has been undertaken by a foreign salvage company and this arrangement is
being continued for the present.



MAP 1
It18.0 milels lo
INDIA                                                        Northe- Limit of Port
HOOGHLY  RIVER                                                        Witlngdon Bridge
Bally
H w r a      C A L U  T
N
Budge Budgie        EXTENSION  OF
KING GEORGE'S DOCK
Future rail connection                                    Z/
a 1                    iomond Harbor                 FARRAK
APRIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w 19r61a IBRD-792Ro
~~        C~~ALCUTTA
APRIL 1961                                                                                        IBRD-792R






MAP 2
W         ~~~~~~~Port Bondary\>                                     
2 '@ED1LeS, ARM o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w  . .  'IZ ...:........A
MtING GEOP.-SES, 0  0  F                          |,
\\\   \  /  \:°o < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CR C U LATION 
;~~~~~~~~~~~
SVINNIG PRi")GE'~~~~~~~~~~~N
INDIA~~~~~~~
i~~~~~~~PR OF CALCUTTA'O )
iFFT I D  . -  I  Tal
MARCH 1961                                                                     IBRD-796



