R E S T R I C T ED
Report No. P-
This report was prepared for use within the Bank. It may not be published
nor may it be quoted as representing the Bank's views. The Bank accepts no
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the contents of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA
June 28, 1961



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPCRT AND RECCMMEMDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE COtISSIONERS FOR
THE PORT OF CALCUTTA
1.     I submit herewith the following report and recommendations on a
proposed loan to the Commissioners for the Fort of Calcutta (CPC) in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to U.S. $21 million.   This loan
would be the Bank's second loan to CPC and it would assist in the financ-
ing of a project to maintain access to and improve the operations of the
Port of Calcutta.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.     Aided by facilities financed by the Bankts $29 million loan of
June 25, 1958, CPC has been able to alleviate congestion at the Port of
Calcutta.   However, a serious problem of siltation in the river approaches
to the Port has come to the fore in recent years.   As a result, ships with
a draft of over 26 feet have been able to obtain access to the port on a
very limited number of days.   As CPC's dredging fleet has been unable to
cope with these conditions, they requested the Bank's agreement to allo-
cate approximately $8.6 million from the existing loan to the purchase of
additional dredging craft, postponing certain improvements in the Port
itself.   This proposal of CPC was set forth in the Secretary's Memoran-
dum R60-71 and approved by the Executive Directors on June 16, 1960.
3.     Siltation is still a major threat, to the Port of Calcutta, and
further improvements of port facilities are still required.   CPC has
therefore requested Bank assistance in financing works for the mainten-
ance of access to the port and equipment for the port's modernization.
This project was examined by a Bank Xission early this year.
4.     Negotiations for the proposed loan began on June 1, 1961 with
representatives of CPC and the Indian Government and were completed on
June 21, 1961.
5.     This loan would be the Bank's twenty-sixth loan to India and would
increase the total of Bank loans to India to $721.6 million.   The status
of the previous loans is as follows:



-2-
As of June 26, 1961
($ million)
Total loans made:  1/                           700.6
net of cancellations     22.3
less amount sold         60.2                 82.5
618.1
Amount repaid:             65.8
less repayments to
third parties            35.8                 30.0
Net amount held by the Bank                     588.1
1/ Including $120.6 million
not yet disbursed
PART II  - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.     The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange cost of
floating craft, particularly dredgers for maintaining navigation in the
Hooghly River, and of equipment and works designed to expedite the pro-
cessing of cargo and service to ships in the port area, including the
extension of one arm of the King George's Dock.    The loan would also
finance the foreign exchange cost of a hydraulic study to oatain a better
knowledge of the regime of the Hooghly River, particularly as related to
the establishment of a satellite port further downstream at HIaldia to
accommodate large-tonnage bulk cargo vessels.
7.     The principal features of the proposed loan are:
Borrower:               Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta
Guarantor:              India, acting by its President
Amount:                 The equivalent in various currencies
of $21 million
Interest rate:          5-3/4 per cent per annum, including
1 per cent commission
Commitment charge:      3/4 of 1 per cent per annum
Term:                   25 years, including 5 years of grace
Amortization:           41 semi-annual payments commencing
May 15, 1966 and ending May 15, 1986



- 3 -
PART III - LEGAL INSTRU MINTS ANlD LEGAL AUTHORITY
8.     A draft Loan Agreement betwreen the Cormnissioners for the Port of
Calcutta and the Bank (No.1) and a draft Guarantee Agreement between
India and the Bank (No.2) are attached.   The provisions of the Loan and
Guarantee Agreements follow those applicable to the Bank's previous loan
to CPC of June 28, 1958, except that a default under the Loan Agreement of
June 28,11958 would constitute a default under the proposed loan, and a
default under the proposed loan would also be a default under the earlier
loan (Sec. 7.01 and Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement, and Sec. 5.03 of
the Guarantee Agreement).
9.     With reference to Sec. 5.01(a) of the Loan Agreement, a letter
from CPC setting forth the arrangements to be made for the hydraulic
study, is attached (No.3).
10.    The report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank is attached
(No.L ) .
PART IV - APPRATSAL OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
Justification of the Project
11.    A report "Appraisal of the Port of Calcutta River Mlaintenance and
Port Improvement Project" (TO-280b) is attached (No.5).
12.    The Port of Calcutta is vital to the economy of India since its
hinterland is India's largest industrialized region.    Calcutta, the
largest city in India, is the center of the countryl's tea and jute trade,
which between them account for one third of India's exports.    Calcutta
must remain one of the main ports of India and is, in fact, irreplaceable
as a general cargo port.   Cargo volwue has reached 10 million tons-per
annum and is expected to increase by about 3 m.illion tons over the next
four years.   Unless the River Hooghly from its mouth to the Port of
Calcutta can be dredged to a depth enabling ships of 26 feet draft and
500 feet in length to have access to the Port of Calcutta on most days
of the year, shipping lines will continue to experience difficulties in
the use of the Port.   With the help of the dredging craft to be pur-
chased with the proposed loan it is hoped that this objective will be
reached.   Although a substantial amount out of the proposed loan would
be related to the alleviation of the siltation problen, someiihat over one
third of the loan proceeds will be devoted to improvements at the Port
itself.
13.    Since the trend of bulk-cargo freighters is towards larger and
larger vessels, it is considered necessary to develop complementary
facilities well dowmstream from the Port of Calcutta to handle the export
of such bulk products as coal and iron ore and the import of grain and
oil.   The hydraulic study which CPC has undertaken to carry out is there-
fore important not only with a view to keeping open the river approaches



to the Port of Calcutta, but also in examining the feasipility of
establishing a satellite port downstream at Haldia.
Execution of the Project
14.    CPC is an autonomous organization and well administered.
Restrictions on imports, higher labor costs and the growing cost of
maintaining the Hooghly River have however weakened its financial
position.   River dues though high are only just sufficient to cover
CPC's expenses in this respect and may not be so in future.    CPC has
indicated to the Bank that it plans to improve its financial position
by the more effective development of its land holdings and a reduction
of excessive cash reserves and stores of spares, and by a revision of rates
if this should be required. The overall financial position is currently
being examined by a Committee established by the Goverrment and its
conclusions are expected to be available to the Bank within about three
months.
15.    As will be noted from the letter from CPC (paragraph 9), a
Hydraulic Study Department is to be established within the CPC organi-
zation.   This department will be responsible for the proposed study of
the river.   It will be aided by highly qualified hydraulic experts from
abroad who would have the support of the leading laboratories in this
field.   These experts will work with and train Indian hydrologists and
personnel generally familiar with the behaviour of the Hocghly River with
a view to having Indian personnel eventually take over the work.
16.    The cost of the project is reasonable and the contingencies
allowed are likely to cover any cost increases that may occur during the
project's execution.
Method of Procurement
17.    Equipment to be financed by the proposed loan will be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding.
Economic Situation
18.    The progress of India's economic development was reviewed in the
recent report of March 17, 1961 "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of India" (SecMem 61-21).
19.    During the ten years covered by the First and Second Five-Year
Plans India's national income has risen by about 40 per cent in real terms.
Over the same period, according to the preliminary results of the census
taken early this year, the population of India has risen by 211 per cent
to a total of 438 million.   These statistics indicate that real income
per caput has risen by an average of only about 11 per cent a year,
though the statistics almost certainly understate the pace of economic
expansion.



- 5 -
20.    The Second Five-Year Plan ended on March 31, 1961 with a year of
record production in both agriculture and industry.   The upwiard trend
of industrial production has shown no sign of slackening in recent
months.   There has been no zignificant change in the internal price
situation since the last economic report.
21.    At the end of March 1961 the Reserve Bank's holdings of foreign
exchange stood at Rs. 1.36 billion ($286 million) and gold ho'ldings
amounted to Rs. 1.18 billion ($247 million).   The six months from April
to September are the season when India's exports usually decline and the
Reserve Bankts holdings of foreign exchange fell by $27 million during
April.   This loss was made good in May when the reserves were fortified
by receipts of fresh external assistance from Germany and the United
Kingdom, but early in June the reserves fell again, and on June 9 the
Reserve Bank's holdings of foreign exchange amounted to Rs. 1.25 billion
($263 million).
22.    With new loans and credits comnitted at the recent meeting of
countries and institutions interested in development assistance for
India, India's outstanding debt, now estimated at the equivalent of
about $2.8 billion, may rise to about $4.5 billion by April 1, 1963.
AsFuming aid from Consortium members on the bases indicated at the recent
meeting, annual service paym,ents on this debt wrill reach their peak in
the Indian fiscal years 1968/69 - 1970/71.   As the attached graph (No.6)
shows, amortization and interest combined wjould then average approximately
$370 million a year, equivalent to about 17-18 per cent of Indials esti-
mated foreign earnings on current account in these years.
23.    This is a very high proportion and I feel it is essential to the
interests of Indiats crediworthiness that development assistance to
India should come to rely increasingly on IDA-type financing.   As long
as the present pattern continues under which a large part of the bilateral
assistance to India is extended in the form of conventional loans ranking
pan  passu with Bank loans, I would feel concerned at having the Bank
build up substantial additional investment in India. However, in the
light of the fact that India will be repaying approximately $180 million
of its present indebtedness to the Bank during the period of the Third
Five-Year Plan, I expect to propose loans from the Bank amounting in
total to $200 million be made in the years 1961/62 and 1962/63.   The
loan under consideration would be the first under this program. A graph
is attached (No.7) showing on certain rough assumptions how the Bank's
net investment in India would evolve as the result of such a loan
program.
PART V - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
24.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the require-
ments of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



PART VI - RECMIRET-DATIONS
25.    I recommend that the Bank make a loan to the Commissioners for
the Port of Calcutta to be guaranteed by India in an anount in various
currencies equivalent to $21 million for a term of 25 years, with an
interest rate of 5-3/4 per cent per annum and on such other terms as are
specified in the draft Loan Agreement and draft Guarantee Agreement and
that the Executive Directors adopt a resolution to that effect in the form
attached (No.8).
Washington, D.C.                                 Eugene R. Black
June 28, 1961                                       President



