LOAN NUMBER 294 IN
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Calcutta Port Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED AUGUST 17, 1961


﻿LOAN NUMBER 294 IN
Guarantee Agreement
(Second Calcutta Port Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED AUGUST 17, 1961


﻿(uarante Agrermut
AGREEMENT, dated August 17, 1961, between INDIA,
acting by its President (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEL-
OMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta
(hereinafter called the Borrower), which agreement and
the schedules therein referred to are hereinafter called the
Loan Agreement, the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
one million dollars ($21,000,000), on the terms and con-
ditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obli-
gations of the Borrower in respect of such loan; and
WHEREAS the Government of India has approved the
terms and conditions of such loan as hereinafter and in the
Loan Agreement set forth and, in consideration of the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the
Borrower, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obli-
gations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as herein-
after provided;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
f ollows:
ARTICLE I
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Guarantee Agreement
accept all the provisions of Loan Regulations No. 4 of the
Bank dated February 15, 1961, subject, however, to the
modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 3 to the Loan
Agreement (said Loan Regulations No. 4 as so modified
being hereinafter called the Loan Regulations), with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
SECTION 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of the other covenants on its part in this Agreement con-
tained, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees,
as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and
punctual payment of the principal of, and the interest and
other charges on, the Loan, the principal of and interest
on the Bonds, the premium, if any, on the prepayment of
the Loan or the redemption of the Bonds, and the punctual
performance of all the covenants and agreements of the
Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement and in
the Bonds.
SECTION 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for
carrying out the Project, to make arrangements, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or
cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as
are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
SECTION 3.01. It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any
priority over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental
assets. To that end, the Guarantor undertakes that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be
created on any assets of the Guarantor or of any of its
political subdivisions or of any agency of the Guarantor
or of any such political subdivision as security for any
external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made
to that effect; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as


﻿security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; (ii) any pledge of commercial goods to secure
debt maturing not more than one year after its date and
to be paid out of the proceeds of sale of such commercial
goods; or (iii) any pledge by the Reserve Bank of India
of any of its assets in the ordinary course of its banking
business to secure any indebtedness maturing not more
than one year after its date.
SECTION 3.02. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan
will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the Loan.
On the part of the Guarantor, such information shall include
information with respect to financial and economic con-
ditions in the territories of the Guarantor and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Guarantor.
(b) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the pu..poses of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof. The Guarantor shall
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes
with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the service
thereof.
(c) The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any
part of the territories of the Guarantor for purposes related
to the Loan.
SECTION 3.03. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid without
deduction for, and free from, any taxes (including duties,
fees or impositions) imposed under the laws of the Guaran-
tor or laws in effect in its territories; provided, however,
that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to
taxation of, or duties or fees or impositions levied upon,


﻿6
payments under any Bond to a holder thereof other than
the Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned by an indi-
vidual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
SECTION 3.04. This Agreement, the Loan Agreement and
the Bonds shall be free from any taxes (including duties,
fees or impositions) that shall be imposed under the laws
of the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories on or
in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or regis-
tration thereof.
SECTION 3.05. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid free from
all restrictions imposed under the laws of the Guarantor
or laws in effect in its territories.
ARTICLE IV
SECTION 4.01. The Guarantor shall endorse, in accord-
ance with the provisions of the Loan Regulations, its
guarantee on the Bonds to be executed and delivered by
the Borrower. A Secretary to the Government of India in
the Ministry of Finance is designated as the authorized
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 6.12 (b) of the Loan Regulations.
ARTICLE V
SECTION 5.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 8.01 of the Loan Regulations:
For the Guarantor:
The Secretary to the
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi
India
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Finance Ministry
New Delhi


﻿7
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington 25, D. C.
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Intbafrad
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 5.02. A Secretary to the Government of India
in the Ministry of Finance is designated for the purposes
of Section 8.03 of the Loan Regulations.
SECTION 5.03. For the purposes of the guarantee agree-
ment (Calcutta Port Project), dated June 25, 1958, between
the Guarantor and the Bank, paragraph (c) of Section 5.02
of Loan Regulations No. 4 of the Bank, dated June 15, 1956,
is hereby amended to read as follows:
" (c) A default shall have occurred in the perform-
ance of any other covenant or agreement on the part
of the Borrower or the Guarantor under the Loan
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement or the Bonds or
under the loan agreement dated August 17, 1961, the
guarantee agreement of even date therewith, or the
bonds therein provided for.";
and the term "Loan Regulations" as used for the purposes
of said guarantee agreement shall mean Loan Regulations
No. 4 of the Bank, dated June 15, 1956, as hereby amended.
IN WITNESS WITEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Guarantee Agreement to be signed in their
respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia,


