Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17017-TH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR
IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 8, 1997
Thailand Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 34 bahts/dollar)
Currency Unit = baht
1 baht = US$0.0294
US$1 = 34baht
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AME           Asset Management Entity
BOI           Board of Investment
BOT           Bank of Thailand
DGA           Deposit Guarantee Agency
FIDF          Financial Institutions Development Fund
FPO           Fiscal Policy Office
IFCT          International Finance Corporation of Thailand
MOC           Ministry of Commerce
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOI           Ministry of Industry
NESDB         National Economic and Social Development Board
PLMO          Property Loan Management Organization
SEC           Securities and Exchange Commission
SET           Stock Exchange of Thailand
SME           Small/Medium Sized Enterprise
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
SSO           Social Security Office
Vice President: Mr. Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director: Mr. J. Shivakumar
Sector Director: Mr. Jonathan Fiechter
Task Team Leader: Mr. Jonathan Fiechter



Thailand
Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                             2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices     3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                    4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project          4
3. Benefits and target population                                        4
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                          5
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection             5
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies    6
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design              6
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                       6
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                            6
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                              6
2. Financial                                                              6
3. Technical                                                              7
4. Institutional                                                          7
5. Social                                                                7
6. Environmental assessment                                               7
7. Participatory approach                                                7
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                        7
2. Critical risks                                                        8
3. Possible controversial aspects                                         8



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                               8
2. Other                                                                  8
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                  8
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                 9
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary                                             10
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description                                       12
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs                                            19
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary                                      20
Annex 5.     Financial Summary                                                  21
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                          22
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                        23
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review              24
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                      25
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule                             26
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File                                          27
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits                                     28
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance                                                29



Thailand
Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Thailand Country Management Unit
Date: September 8, 1997                            Task Team Leader: Jonathan Fiechter
Country Director: J. Shivakumar                    Sector Director: Jonathan Fiechter
Project ID:            Sector: Financial Sector    Program Objective Category: Financial Sector
Management                                     Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan      Program of Targeted Intervention:   []  Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data             [X] Loan        [  Credit      [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): 15
Proposed terms:                       []  Multicurrency     [x] Single currency
Grace period (years): 3 years    []   Standard Variable  [x] Fixed           []   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75 %
Financing plan (US$rn):
Source                            Local              Foreign           Total
Govemment                                                7.0                0.0              7.0
IBRD                                                     3.7                11.3             15.0
Total        10.7               11.3             22.0
Borrower:   Royal Thai Government
Responsible agency: Ministry of Finance
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m): 1998      1999       2000
Annual 9.0        4.0        2.0
Cumulative 9.0        13.0       15.0
Project implementation period: October 1, 1997, to March 31, 2000
Expected effectiveness date: October 1, 1997    Expected closing date: September 30, 2000



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
The objective of the proposed project is to provide implementation assistance to the Royal Thai Government in
improving the structure, resiliency and soundness of the financial sector, and to address the immediate need to
resolve finance companies which have been suspended during the recent economic crisis.
The proposed project would be part of a broad effort supporting the stabilization and structural adjustrnent program
that Thailand has embarked upon to restore sustainable levels of economic growth. It would complement the
standby facility provided by the IMF and the emergency financing package from bilateral and multilateral sources.
The project is the initial component of the World Bank's contribution to this effort which proposes an expanded
lending program centered on two consecutive structural adjustment loans. The first structural adjustment loan
(SAL) would focus on the financial sector, and the second SAL on broader structural measures designed to enhance
the competitiveness of the Thai economy.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 13458-TH Date of latest CAS discussion: August 9, 1994
The last CAS prepared for Thailand was discussed by the Board in 1994 and, given the changed circumstances of
the country, needs to be revised. A new CAS is under preparation and is expected to be presented to the Board in
1998. Meanwhile, an outline CAS will be presented to the Board together with the documentation for a structural
adjustment lending operation. The centerpiece of the new CAS will be support for the development of a medium
term macroeconomic framework, through reform of the financial sector, reform of the public sector, and
strengthening the enabling environment for private investment. The CAS will also encompass a series of real sector
interventions focusing on energy, infrastructure, environment and human development, designed to enhance
Thailand's intemational competitiveness. The present implementation assistance operation will help to build the
analytical and institutional foundation for measures directed toward this effort, with particular emphasis on the
financial sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main sector issue is the need to increase the efficiency of financial intermediaries to resume sustainable
economic growth. This requires (i) strengthening the financial sector, especially through resolution of the
suspended fnance companies; and (ii) strengthening private investment and competitiveness; supported by (iii) a
sound macroeconomic and fiscal strategy.
The Thai financial sector has come under increasing stress due to several factors that include a weakening of the
demand for real estate, the recent depreciation of the baht by over 30 percent, high domestic interest rates, and
related problems of asset quality in finance companies and commercial banks. The pressure on the financial sector
has resulted in loss of confidence as demonstrated by the cutting of foreign credit lines and .depositor runs on
weaker frnancial institutions. To restore confidence, the Royal Thai Government has agreed to a stabilization
program with the IMF, which is being supported by a US$17 billion emergency financing package. Addressing the
financial system crisis is a key element in the program. A comprehensive approach will be taken for restructuring
including changes in the regulatory, tax and governance policies.
Within the financial sector, it is critical that the Royal Thai Government immediately begin to address the issue of
the suspended finance companies. This needs to be followed by actions to improve the structure, resiliency and
soundness of the financial sector to minimize the risks of the recurrence or deepening of the present crisis and to
restore confidence.



3
The Royal Thai Government's comprehensive strategy to restructure the financial sector includes the following:
* identifying and taking measures to strengthen all weak financial institutions;
*  extending, under emergency conditions, a comprehensive but temporary guarantee of liabilities in all remaining
financial institutions until it can be replaced by a self-financed limited deposit guarantee program;
*  adopting measures to minimize the moral hazard risks of the temporary guarantee through a combination of a
special guarantee fee, interest rate caps and intensive prudential monitoring of asset growth in individual
institutions;
* conditioning future liquidity support for financial institutions on concurrent actions by the institutions to
recapitalize; for those institutions unable to recapitalize, taking appropriate holding actions including non-
payment of dividends and no asset growth to stem losses and to reduce the exposure of the Financial
Institutions Development Fund (FIDF);
* requiring all remaining financial institutions to bring their capital bases to an adequate level in an expeditious
manner;
*  improving the procedures for supervision and examination, including asset classification, regulatory
accounting, income recognition and provisioning; and
* implementing broad-based structural reforms to strengthen the framework for a sound financial sector.
Increasing the competitiveness of the private sector is the second key element of the Government's recovery
program. This medium term issue will be a focus of subsequent projects. Thailand's comprehensive reforms over
the past decade have allowed the private sector to become the main engine for growth. In the future, further
structural measures will be needed to facilitate the absorption of technology, upgrade the skills of the labor force,
and address rising unit labor costs to improve export performance and create sufficient jobs. Thailand's
competitiveness will also significantly depend on further improving the enabling environment for the private sector,
especially for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs).
Thirdly, in the medium term, the Government needs to ensure coherence of macroeconomic policy making and
strategy, especially for the fiscal sector. Given the need for fiscal retrenchment, the Government has to prioritize
public expenditures, streamline budget implementation and develop focused interventions for state owned
enterprises and social security.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Given the urgency of the present situation, this project would focus on the financial sector and on issues related to
corporate governance and finance that affect the investment climate. Other economic areas would be covered in
subsequent adjustment lending. The proposed project would support short and medium term financial sector reform
by (i) providing immediate assistance to address the resolution (e.g., through recapitalization, closures, sales and
mergers) of troubled financial institutions and recovery of assets; (ii) improving the regulatory and supervisory
environment designed to enhance capacity to deal with banking institution problems and their underlying causes;
(iii) implementing policies to improve the timeliness and quality of information and to develop institutions (such as
the Deposit Guarantee Agency) with the aim of creating much stronger incentives for market discipline of financial
institutions; and (iv) undertaking several longer term studies to assess options for future financial sector
development that affect the investment climate.
The regulatory and supervisory environment would be strengthened by (i) developing supervisory systems and
regulations to more quickly identify future problems in financial institutions; (ii) restructuring and upgrading
supervision and examination functions; (iii) improving market discipline and transparency by enhancing accounting
practices, and the availability of accurate information; (iv) replacing the present comprehensive government deposit
guarantee with a permanent more limited deposit guarantee program; (v) strengthening incentives for corporate
governance; and (vi) upgrading the legal framework for bankruptcy and foreclosure.



4
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Coponn                       Category           Cost          %of        Bank-         % of
Total   financing       Bank-
___________________ (US$')  _(US$m)    financing
1. Financial sector
1.1 Strengthening financial institution   Technical          14.5          66.0        9.2          63.6
resolution processes                  assistance
1.2 Improving capacity to identify future  Technical          3.1          14.3        2.3          73.5
problem financial institutions in an  assistance
appropriate timeframe and raising
supervisory standards
1.3 Rationalizing the supervisory regime  Institution         0.2          0.9         0.2         100.0
building
1.4 Strengthening market discipline      Institution          2.2          10.0        1.6          72.3
building
1.5 Improving the bankruptcy and          Institution         0.5          2.3         0.4          80.0
collateral foreclosure processes       building
1.6 Implementing financial infrastructure  Institution        1.0          4.6         0.9          91.0
and institutional changes              building
2. Project coordination and
implementation
2.1 Consulting services for studies        Project            0.4           1.8        0.4          100.0
management/
TA
2.2 Equipment                              Physical           0.1           0.2        0.0          40.0
Total            22.0         100.0       15.0         68.2
NOTE: Rounding affects totals
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support the Govermuent's capacity to address the present financial sector crisis, which threatens
to undermine economic stability and growth. Important policy reforms embedded in the govermment financial
restructuring program will be supported including: (i) design of an overall resolution policy for addressing the
problems of troubled fmancial institutions; (ii) policies to create incentives for greater market discipline via
enhancement of accounting practices, public disclosures, and improved corporate governance by shareholders,
Directors, CEOs and senior advisors; (iii) improved supervisory policies to limit discretion of authorities and to
introduce better processes of "prompt corrective action" in cases of problem fmancial institutions; and (iv) efforts to
phase out the present comprehensive guarantee program via development of a self-financed deposit guarantee
scheme.
Institution building will focus on: (i) development of the institutions needed to support immediate efforts to resolve
the suspended finance companies such as an asset management entity; (ii) intensive programs for building
institutional capacity to undertake more effective supervision of financial institutions by the Fiscal Policy Office
(FPO) of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Bank of Thailand (BOT); and (iii) actions to develop a Deposit
Guarantee Agency (DGA) as part of government efforts to phase out the present emergency comprehensive
guarantee provided to depositors and creditors of financial institutions.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project is aimed at reducing the fiscal costs of the financial sector restructuring program through design of
policies and institutional arrangements to resolve the suspended fmance companies quickly and limit the extent of
contagion to non-suspended financial institutions. Other benefits will include a much stronger institutional
framework for banking supervision; improved market discipline; and much more effective procedures for corporate
bankruptcy and foreclosure on collateral. Finally, the project supports development of policies that will place the



5
financial system on a sounder footing, increase confidence, and gradually reduce the credit crunch in the real sector
of the economy.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The implementation period of the loan would cover a period of approximately two and a half years to complement
the proposed structural adjustment lending to be provided by the World Bank. The executing agency under the
project would be the Ministry of Finance (MOF) with the Fiscal Policy Office (FPO) within the Ministry acting as
the lead project implementation unit. FPO would assign a task manager who would act as the Government's main
technical counterpart for the project. This task manager would be allocated part of the implementation assistance
budget to achieve effective project management, procure equipment and engage local and international consultants.
There would be several other implementation agencies under the project, including the Bank of Thailand (BOT). A
Project Coordination Committee would convene regularly to monitor progress and project implementation,
consisting of MOF, BOT, the Board of Investment (BOI), the National Economic and Social Development Board
(NESDB), Ministry of Commerce (MOC), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other agencies involved
in the project. On the Bank's side, supervision would be carried out by the Country Management Unit based in
Bangkok in coordination with more specialized staff in units at headquarters.
Project records and accounts would be maintained by the FPO to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures for each project activity. The accounts will be consolidated
annually into financial statements for the project as a whole. Supporting documentation will be made available to
the Bank's Country Management Unit and independent auditors as required. For expenditures incurred on the basis
of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), all records providing evidence for such expenditures will be retained by the
FPO until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account is made, whichever is later. Project
records and accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs, will be audited annually in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles that are consistently applied by auditors acceptable to the Bank, with terms of
reference for auditors and reports approved by the Bank. The Bank's Financial Accounting, Reporting, and
Auditing Handbook (FARAH) published in January 1995 would be used by the auditors in accordance with Bank's
auditing guidelines. Audit reports will be furnished to the Bank within four months after the close of the
Government's fiscal year.
Monitoring of project execution will be undertaken by FPO which will provide the Bank with an annual working
plan not later than December 31 of each year, starting 1997. Annual reviews of the project will be carried out not
later than March 31 of each year, starting in 1998. A mid-term review will be conducted by March 1999 to assess
progress in meeting agreed performance indicators and to identify additional implementation support as needed.
Semi-annual progress reports will be presented to the Bank no later than 30 days after the conclusion of each
calendar semester, starting 1998.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The present state of Thailand's economy makes it imperative to provide focused implementation assistance to the
Government for implementing its financial sector restructuring program. The groundwork also needs to be laid for
improving the efficiency with which investment is allocated. The Royal Thai Government has requested the Bank's
support for its macro-stabilization and structural adjustment programs through implementation assistance and
structural adjustment lending. The proposed implementation assistance loan is a critical element of the Bank's
operations in response to that request. It is heavily focused upon the financial sector in line with an agreement
between the Bank and the Government to implement urgent financial sector reforms to build confidence and
enhance credibility of the Government's economic policies. Finally, the operation has been designed in close
coordination with the IMF under the new collaborative agreement for financial sector work that has been endorsed
by both Boards.



6
2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned):
Financing Agency                   Sector issue                   Project
IBRD                              Structural adjustment           Structural Adjustment Loan(s)
IFC                               Investments in private sector   (see Annex 9)
fnancial intermediaries
IMF                               Macroeconomic stabilization     Stand-by Facility
ADB                               Policy-based lending            Capital Markets Development
Loan
ADB                               Policy-based lending            Social Sector Program Loan
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Projects need strong stakeholder commitment organized in an effective fashion to ensure that project objectives are
met. In urgent situations, project preparation, as well as subsequent implementation, has to be swift and project
design should allow for considerable flexibility to meet the complex changing requirements of a rapidly evolving
situation. Moreover, in fnancial institution restructuring, it is essential to address the underlying causes of the
problems and the resulting capital inadequacy, illiquidity or insolvency.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Royal Thai Government has urged the Bank at the highest levels to initiate the proposed project within a very
short time frame. The Government has a strong, commitment to the existing IMF program which is supported by the
objectives of this loan. There is a clear recognition on the part of the Government that prompt action through
structural adjustment is required to linit wider adverse repercussions of the fnancial crisis and return Thailand to a
sustainable growth path. Evidence of government commitment can be seen in recent efforts to establish a high level
Resolution Steering Committee with public and private sector representation that will have overall responsibility for
resolution of the suspended finance companies. In addition, the Government has agreed to immediately establish a
dedicated and small multidisciplinary, multi-agency unit (the Resolution Management Unit) with private sector
representation to work with external consultants and Bank staff in order to define and implement the resolution
strategy.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank can add value by (i) making a contribution to the restoration of international confidence in the
government's economic policies and in its program of support to financial sector restructuring; (ii) drawing on its
wide international experience in design of financial sector reforms and in assisting in strategies for resolution of
troubled fnancial institutions; (iii) drawing on its experience in combining macrostabilization and structural
adjustment programs; and (iv) sourcing international consultants with specialized expertise in the appropriate
project component areas.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic:
Not Applicable
2. Financial:
The project is expected to augment the Royal Thai Government's efforts to begin to (i) achieve macrostabilization
of the economy; (ii) strengthen governance of the financial sector; (iii) resolve the problem of suspended financial
companies; (iii) better protect shareholders, depositors and creditors of banking and financial institutions;
(iv) promote financial transparency through an enhanced legal framework; and (v) improve the framework for
allocation of investment resources.



7
Fiscal impact:
The project is expected to assist in minimizing the fiscal impact and increasing the fiscal revenue base by providing
support for (i) resolution of the suspended fnancial companies; (ii) shortening the adjustment period; (iii) reducing 7
the risk that the crisis will spread to additional financial institutions; and (iv) enhancing the framework for corporate
finance.
3. Technical:
The project will ensure that the Royal Thai Government obtains access to high quality international expertise
available from external consultants.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The project is expected to help Thailand build its institutional capacity through implementation assistance, training,
studies and institution building. In particular, the project is targeted at improving the Ministry of Finance's and the
Bank of Thailand's capability to formulate and implement policies to deal with the financial crisis, strengthen the
regulatory and supervisory environment and to face the challenges posed by the exposure of Thailand to increasing
globalization.
b. Project management:
The project will be coordinated by forming an inter-agency Project Coordination Committee. Project
implementation, procurement and disbursement will be managed by FPO, which would act as the government's
main counterpart for the project.
5. Social:
Not Applicable
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category        [] A    [] B    [x] C
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Due to the short time for project preparation, extensive consultation could not be held with a wide range of
stakeholders. However, discussions were held on a selective basis with representatives from financial institutions,
corporations, government agencies, industrialists and bankers. In addition, the project has been designed to build
consensus with other stakeholders (e.g. private market participants) in the process of implementing the
contemplated tasks.
b. Other key stakeholders:
See above.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability is an intrinsic element of the project development objective, in that the implementation assistance loan
aims to improve macroeconomic management leading to sustainable long-term growth of the Thai economy. While
the immediate focus of the assistance is to deal with the financial work-out of troubled financial institutions, the
program includes a more fundamental set of measures designed to improve the supervisory, legal and enabling
environment to improve the long-term soundness and resiliency of the financial system. Moreover, it is anticipated
that subsequent structural adjustment operations will provide considerable follow-up in areas addressed by this
project.



8
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Political instability                              H        Ensuring broad ownership of the
operation by different levels in various
institutions
Wavering political commitment                      H        Dialogue on the operation with highest
levels of government
Adverse social impact of adjustment                M        Measures to shorten adjustment period
Lack of interagency coordination                   S        Establishment of interagency
Resolution Steering Committee
Increased fiscal impact of financial work-outs     S        Strong counterpart team led by FPO for
because of delays in this operation                         implementing the operation
From Components to Outputs
Inappropriate choice of counterparts               N        Strong leadership for operation
provided by FPO within the MOF
Inadequate allocation of government funds for      M        Establishment of strong project
operation                                                   management capacity in FPO
Overall Risk Rating                   H        Intense project supervision in the field
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Controversial aspects of the project comprise:
(i) perception that financial resolution may be neither open nor fair;
(ii) possible conflicts of interest in resolution of troubled financial institutions;
(iii) public resentment against economic stabilization package in general and further loss of public confidence in
Government's capacity for economic management; and
(iv) lack of coherence in articulation of government policy, which may lead to conflicting interpretations.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
None.
2. Other:
Covenants in the Loan Agreement are: (i) to maintain the Resolution Steering Committee; (ii) to establish and
maintain a Resolution Management Unit; and (iii) to furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, proposed
policies, guidelines and procedures for the resolution of troubled fnancial institutions, and proposed measures to
enhance early detection and corrective actions for troubled financial institutions.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The project has been prepared in close consultation with a project team consisting of the different government
agencies concerned. The Government is ready to implement the project, with the FPO taking leadership. While the
costs involved in delaying implementation are unacceptable, the risks in proceeding with the immediate
implementation are high because of political instability and wavering political commitment.



9
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task T    Leader: J. Fiechter
Sector Director: J. Fiechter
Country Director: J. Shivakumar



10
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Thailand: Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation                 Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                            (Goal to Bank Mission)
Development of a medium term
macroeconomic framework,
through reform of the financial
sector, reform of the public sector,
and strengthening of the enabling
environment for private
investment.
Project Development                                                                                 (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Support for the Royal Thai                                                                          *   Political stability
Government in implementing a                                                                        *   Unwavering political
stabilization and structural                                                                            commitment
adjustment program to restore                                                                       *   Minimal social impact of
sustainable levels of economic                                                                          adjustment
growth.
Outputs:                         Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation             Critical Assumptions
(Outputs to Objective)
I. I strengthened financial     - overall structure of resolution  Quarterly reviews and progress  *   Strong interagency
institution resolution         process defined                reports                               coordination
processes                   - operating guidelines for                                         *   No unforeseen fiscal impacts
suspended finance companies                                         of financial work-outs
established
- established procedures and
operational guidelines for
creditors
- enabling legal and regulatory
framework in place
- guidelines and criteria for
resolutions in place
- communications strategy on
resolutions operational
- due diligence process in place
and initiated for relevant
companies
- Asset Management Entity
(AME) established and
operating
- processes for selection of
investment advisors in place
- investment advisors selected
1.2 improved capacity to identify  - early warning procedures and  Quarterly reviews and progress
future problem financial       systems in place               reports
institutions in an appropriate   - accounting and reporting
timeframe and raised          treatment of nonperforming
supervisory standards         loans agreed and announced
- process for diagnosing high risk
institutions in operation



11
Outputs:                       Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
(Outputs to Objective)
1.2 (continued.)               - training program for
supervisory capacity completed
- new techniques for asset
classification, provisioning and
liquidity management in place
- prompt corrective action against
problem banks established in
law, supervisory policy and
procedures
- FPO training program for
examiners of specialized banks
complete
1.3 rationalized supervisory   - review of supervisory structure   Quarterly reviews and progress
regime                        completed                     reports
1.4 strengthened market        - Deposit Guarantee Agency       Quarterly reviews and progress
discipline                   (DGA) implementation plan      reports
finalized
- newv corporate govemance rules
established
- newv auditing, accounting and
public disclosure guidelines
established
- newv standards for self-
regulatory associations
established (e.g., credit bureaus,
appraisers/valuers, auditors,
accountants)
1.5 improved bankruptcy and    - new bankruptcy, collateral     Semi-annual progress report
collateral foreclosure        foreclosures and dispute
processes                     resolution procedures proposed
1.6 financial infrastructure and    - modemization of financial  Quarterly reviews and progress
institutional changes         structure completed           reports
implemented                - development of government
debt market completed
- debt management and
monitoring of capital flows
completed
Project Components/Sub-        Inputs: (budget for each         Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
components: (see Annex 2    component)                                                          (Components to Outputs)
for project description)               (US$ million)
1. Financial sector
1.1 Financial institution                   14.49               Project Coordination Committee    .   Appropriate choice of
resolution                                                  and consultant reports, draft        counterparts
1.2 Future problem financial                3.13                legislation and regulations, audit    *   Adequate allocation of
institutions and supervisory                               reports, training reports and        govemment funds for
standards                                                   evaluations, procedural guideline,  operation
1.3 Supervisory regime                      0.20                and procurement records
1.4 Market discipline                       2.20
1.5 Bankruptcy and collateral               0.50
foreclosure processes
1.6 Financial infrastructure and             1.00
institutional changes
2.  Project coordination and                 0.45               Employment, procurement and
implementation                                             training records



12
Annex 2
Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
Project Description
Project Component 1. Financial Sector - US$21.5 million
The financial sector component of the implementation assistance loan is designed to meet two overriding objectives. First,
the assistance program is intended to support Royal Thai Government actions to resolve (i.e., recapitalize, merge, sell or
liquidate) troubled financial institutions. Second, the program is intended to support a package of actions to improve the
structure, resiliency and soundness of the financial sector. To meet these two objectives, six distinct components for
implementation assistance have been identified. The areas of assistance to the Government include:
1.1 expert advice to assist in refining the process to address the resolution of troubled financial institutions. Given the
scope and complexity of the overall resolution process, a government unit specifically dedicated to this task is essential;
1.2 strengthening the supervisory process by upgrading the supervision and examination bodies through training and
enhancement of supervisory systems (e.g., supervision, examination, reporting, and off-site monitoring systems) and
regulatory policies, with an initial concentration on enhancing supervisory capacity to identify problems in financial
institutions on a timely basis and on instruments and rules that will result in prompt corrective actions;
1.3 rationalizing the supervisory and examination structure of financial institutions through an analysis of alternatives
to the present structure and allocation of responsibilities among the various authorities;
1.4 developing recommendations for MOF consideration to improve market discipline by enhancing accounting practices
and the timelines and quality of information that market participants receive, and by creating better- incentives for proper
corporate governance by shareholders, directors, and advisors to Boards and to CEOs;
1.5 recommending improvements in the legal framework for bankruptcy and foreclosure in credit contracts by improving
the scope for loan recovery and to ensure that voluntary debt restructurings can be more easily facilitated.
1.6 undertaking several high priority studies related to the financial infrastructure and institutional changes to support
the safe and orderly development of the structure of the financial system; improving external debt management and
exchange rate management; and improving government monitoring and management of capital flows in the future--
inclusive of privately contracted external debt.
The Bank intends to coordinate its assistance program closely with other multilateral lenders including the International
Monetary Fund and the Asian Development Bank.
1.1 Strengthening Financial Institution Resolution Processes
The Government of Thailand has established a high level Resolution Steering Committee to develop the restructuring and
resolution policies of the Government for the suspended finance companies. The Committee is responsible for decisions on
specific restructuring and resolution proposals and for coordinating the activities of the related government entities. More
broadly, the authorities have recognized the need to define more clearly the precise parameters to be adopted for the
resolution process applied to all financial institutions.
This component is designed to assist the Committee, and authorities more generally, by providing expert advice in the
following specific areas:
(i) developing procedures to supervise, manage, conduct due diligence of the troubled institutions, and prepare resolution
strategies;
(ii) establishing explicit criteria and procedures as well as institutional arrangements among the relevant agencies (e.g.,
FIDF, BOT, PLMO, and AME, etc.) to plan and implement resolutions;
(iii) establishing the legal and regulatory framework to enable the Government to resolve the suspended institutions;
(iv) establishing the institutional capacity for asset disposition and sales through development of an asset management entity;
and
(v) proving the Government's communications strategy for explaining the resolution process for troubled financial
institutions, including suspended fnance companies.



13
Interim Financial Supervision and Institutional Due Diligence: The status of the suspended finance companies requires
immediate evaluation. Action is required to develop basic guidelines governmg the operations of the suspended companies
prior to their resolution. Guidance will be provided to the Government on necessary supervisory actions to be taken
including establishing rules governing any extensions of credit by troubled institutions prior to resolution, replacement of
weak management and ongoing supervisory monitoring.
Immediate steps also need to be taken to initiate due diligence to determine the value of the assets, liabilities, net worth of
each institution, and some assessment of viability and saleability. The sequencing of institutions chosen for due diligence
and resolution should be prioritized to begin resolving the stronger institutions first as this can be important in building
"confidence" among market participants. The results of each due diligence will be necessary prior to the time when a
company is put up for sale, merged, restructured or liquidated.
Structure of the Resolution Process: The objective of this sub-component is to assist the Resolution Steering Committee and
related government agencies in establishing explicit criteria, procedures, and policies as well as the institutional arrangements
to conduct resolutions of the suspended companies. Specifically, assistance will be provided through retention of specialized
advisors and consultants to assist the Resolution Steering Committee in:
(i) organizational arrangements for establishing proper coordination and staffing of a centralized multi-disciplinary unit
employed by the Committee to assist in implementing and overseeing the resolution process';
(ii) development of practical criteria to assess rehabilitation or other restructuring/resolution plans presented to the
Committee;
(iii) criteria, trigger points, and processes for liquidation of finance companies or asset disposition; and
(iv) choice of sale-side, financial, and other advisors to assist in evaluating resolution proposals and in undertaking asset or
financial institution sales.
Supporting Lea. Regulatory and Accounting Framework for Resolutions: The process of resolving troubled financial
institutions will require a review and, in some cases, amendments to the existing legal and regulatory framework. This
component will support retention of consultants and legal advisors to assist the authorities in ensuring that the legal and
regulatory framework provides sufficient flexibility to permit the Government to resolve troubled financial institutions using
a variety of options. The areas to be reviewed will include: processes for intervention of the suspended institutions; the
supervisory steps needed to bring them to resolution including receivership and conservator actions; transfer of legal claims
to collateral, asset disposal, litigation management, and pursuit of those individuals responsible for losses. Finally, the
accounting and tax treatment will be reviewed to ensure the existing framework is consistent with the timely and efficient
resolution of insolvent institutions at minimum cost to the Government.
Establish an Asset Management Entity (AMEL: As part of strengthening the process of resolution for troubled financial
institutions, the Government may need to remove nonperforming assets and other hard-to-sell-assets from individual
fnancial institutions before they are resolved. These assets will need to be managed in an organized manner until they are
sold or liquidated. The concept of an AME will be evaluated and a template developed describing its possible organization,
management, and staffing. Expert advice will also be provided to the Resolution Steering Committee on various methods for
asset disposition, risk management, internal controls, and accounting and tax issues. Finally, assistance will be provided at
various points in the process of establishing and running the entity.
Communications Strategy: Establishing an effective communications strategy that enhances Government credibility will be a
key element within an overall approach to resolution of troubled financial institutions and management of the various classes
of depositors and creditors. Advice would be provided in designing a communications strategy for the appropriate body and
official spokesman that includes a program of regular briefings to explain the Government's approach to addressing
problems in the financial sector and the status of the resolution process. The target audience would be the general public,
legislators and both domestic and foreign investors and creditors.
This will include assistance in establishing the skill mix of the working group, defining the functions of its members and defining how the group can
coordinate roles of different government agencies involved as well as defining the exact lines of decision-making.



14
1.2 Improving Capacity to Identify Future Problem Financial Institutions in an Appropriate Timeframe and Raising
Supervisory Standards
Improving the supervisory function, particularly in BOT and FPO is an essential aspect of the Government program to place
the financial system on a sounder footing. These two entities together have responsibility for the supervision of close to 95
percent of total financial system assets. If the economic downturn intensifies as a consequence of weakness in the real estate
market, high domestic interest rates, and the recent drop in the exchange rate, it will become increasingly important that Thai
authorities, the BOT, and other financial institution supervisory officials improve their capacity to identify risky and troubled
institutions. Early detection will also limit the risk of weak institutions engaging in rapid growth or acquiring other problem
companies.
This component will assist the Government to: (i) better assess the condition of all financial institutions including
commercial banks; (ii) strengthen financial institution supervision; and (iii) enhance the supervisory regime governing the
specialized financial institutions and provident funds.
Expert advice would be available to the Government to assist in establishing procedures for more effective and timely
handling of any future problem financial institutions. Assistance will take the form of secondments of bank supervisors and
other experts, and training. Specific areas addressed below include: (i) strengthening the capability for early detection of
problem institutions; (ii) establishment of prompt corrective action rules; (iii) diagnostic reviews to augment regular
examinations; (iv) improved methodologies for off-site assessments of financial institutions; and (v) strengthening financial
institution supervision through a medium term program of implementation assistance and training.
Strengthening the Capability for Early Detection of Problem Institutions: Strengthening early detection capability and early
warning systems will require development and enforcement of a uniform set of strict rules for all financial institutions to
improve the basic information used by the supervisory officials to assess financial operating condition. These rules (e.g.,
asset classification, income recognition, provisioning guidelines, loan concentrations, liquidity management and interest rate
risk management), will allow supervisors to better assess the true quality of loan portfolios and liquidity positions. In
addition, enhanced income recognition and provisioning guidelines will provide a more realistic picture of capital and its
adequacy relative to risk-adjusted assets.
Establishment of Procedures and Capacity for Prompt Corrective Actions: Implementation assistance will be provided to
design procedures and to enhance the capacity of the Government to take prompt corrective actions when banks, finance
companies, and other financial institutions are not in compliance with certain rules. Assistance will be provided to develop a
set of rigorous enforcement rules with supervisory sanctions commensurate with the degree of legal or regulatory violations.
These rules would be aimed at restricting supervisory discretion in order to minimize supervisory forbearance. Over the
medium term, these rules could be introduced as legislation and include trigger points that would require supervisory and/or
governmental action. In addition, assistance will be provided to review, and if required, modify a series of administrative
actions (such as management letters, Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), formal agreements, and cease and desist
orders) that would escalate in severity according to the nature and risk of the financial institution. Finally, expert advice and
training will be provided to strengthen supervisors' capacity to develop remedial programs for weak financial institutions.
Diagnostic Reviews to Augment Regular Examinations: Expert advice will be provided to design and finance special
diagnostic reviews of commercial banks and non-suspended finance companies to improve the underlying quality of
information available to supervisory agencies in their assessment of banks, finance companies, and other financial
institutions. These reviews could be conducted by special examination teams comprised of on-site examiners as well as
consultants and auditors. Focused training would be provided to a special group of examiners for this specific purpose.
Consultants and participation of auditing firms would be financed under the loan.
Improve Methodologies for Off-Site Assessments of Financial Institutions: Assistance will be provided to improve the off-
site examination and monitoring processes used to assess the condition of financial institutions. A process of more rigorous
pre-identification of problem institutions will be developed through use of existing information such as financial statements,
examination reports and any required regulatory reports. This will allow supervisory authorities to prioritize fimancial
institutions according to the severity of their risks and problems. Staff training will be provided to assist them in making
these assessments and recommendations will be made for enhancing the infonnation reported by financial institutions to
supervisory authorities.



15
Strengthen the Financial Institution Supervision Function: Assistance to the Government in this area will be designed to
improve the overall functioning and efficiency of the supervision areas within the BOT, the FIDF, and the FPO.' This
assistance will be provided over a three year period and will place strong initial emphasis on improving enforcement of loan
classification, provisioning rules, liquidity management and monitoring, and licensing. The initial program will also focus
upon criteria for change of control and licensing and on development of a plan to upgrade on-site and off-site supervision
processes. This will also include an evaluation of changes in certain reports and information processes.
Assistance will be provided to the FPO within the Ministry of Finance to: (i) design prudential regulations for the
specialized financial institutions and strengthen regulations that apply to private and public provident funds particularly with
respect to investments, (ii) to strengthen the examination function, and (iii) to strengthen capacity to enforce the new
regulations via an intensive training program. Expert advice to be provided in these areas will be supported via financing of
a seconded high level advisor(s) and consultants to assist the Goverrnent develop and implement an institutional
development plan.
1.3 Rationalizing the Supervisory Regime
The focus of this component is the supervisory framework, regulatory jurisdiction, independence and possible integration of
the supervisory functions. The areas of focus will be the separate supervisory bodies and regimes in the BOT for finance
companies and commercial banks, and the supervision of specialized financial institutions by FPO.'
Supervisorv Framework. Regulatory Jurisdiction, Independence. and Integration of Supervisory Functions: Two specific
forms of implementation assistance will be provided to the MOF in sequence. First, an in-depth review of the Thai legal and
regulatory framework for supervision will be conducted including the roles of the Ministry of Finance, the BOT, SEC,
Ministry of Commerce, and the Agriculture Ministry. An analysis will also be conducted of alternatives for locating and
organizing the two supervision functions within the BOT for banks and finance companies. As part of this effort, areas such
as consolidated supervision and streamlining of regulatory reports will be addressed. This will be carefully coordinated with
the IMF and ADB. The output of this report will be a blueprint for defining regulatory jurisdiction and evaluating the
prospects for an integrated independent supervisory function. In addition, this work will assist the authorities by exploring
options for creating better incentives for action by regulatory authorities by examining how to more effectively match
responsibilities and powers, changing governance arrangements, minimizing conflicting areas ofjurisdiction, harmonizing
prudential regulations for similar transactions, and by altering required disclosures by the agencies themselves.
Subsequently, assistance will be provided to implement the recommendations coming out of the blueprint.
1.4 Strengthening Market Discipline
Five characteristics of the Thai financial system hinder the effectiveness of market discipline as a deterrent to unsafe and
unsound banking practices and have created incentives for excessive risk taking. First, as recognized by the Government, the
moral hazard introduced by the comprehensive guarantee program for all depositors and creditors of financial institutions
(other than those recently suspended) can weaken market discipline. Second, existing corporate governance rules are weak
and reduce the discipline placed on management by the Board of Directors. Third, unsatisfactory financial information in
terms of accuracy and timeliness available to market participants due to lax accounting practices and prudential classification
guidelines that are more lenient than international standards, has likely increased market volatility. It has hindered incentives
for the proper monitoring of financial institutions by market participants and other providers of financial services (e.g. rating
agencies). Fourth, public disclosures are inadequate in several critical areas (e.g., non-performing loans, ownership
information. risk concentrations, etc.), thereby impeding the ability of the markets to discipline financial institutions. Fifth,
key ancillary information services such as accounting. appraisers/valuers, credit bureaus, and credit rating agencies, need to
be strengthened so that the market can exercise more discipline on management of weak financial institutions.
The ADB will provide support to the SEC and to the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture that currently have jurisdiction over securities firms and
SROs, insurance companies, and commodities exchanges respectively.
This institutional development plan would address issues such as training to introduce specialized skills, and advice on composition of personnel, skill
mix and overall organization of the supervisory function.
3 These are the Govemment Savings Bank (GSB), the Govemment Housing Bank (GHB), the IFCT, the BAAC, SICGC, SIECT, Secondary Mortgage
Corporation. Export-Import Bank, PLMO, and Security Finance Corporation.



16
This component will provide support via training and financing of specialized consultants to assist the MOF in designing and
implementing a package of actions to improve incentives for the markets to discipline financial institutions. This may
include support to: (i) design and establish a Deposit Guarantee Agency; (ii) improve corporate governance within financial
institutions; (iii) upgrade auditing and accounting standards; (iv) strengthen standards for public disclosures; and (v) develop
other key ancillary private information services (credit bureaus for small debtors, credit ratings, etc.)
Design and Establishment of a Deposit Guarantee Agency (DGA): A key element within the Government financial sector
restructuring strategy is to phase out the comprehensive guarantee that was provided to all non-suspended financial
institutions as an emergency measure to restore confidence and forestall a major banking crisis. Expert advice will be
provided to design a Deposit Guarantee Agency that will be put in operation once confidence is restored and interest rate
caps and asset growth restrictions within individual institutions are lifted. The DGA is expected to be self-fnancing.
Assistance will be provided to develop an initial blueprint for the form of coverage to be granted, the level and structure of
the deposit guarantee fee, the functions and organization of the new agency, draft charter, governance arrangements, and
options for the phase-in of a limited explicit deposit guarantee regime. Expert advice will also be provided to assist the MOF
in setting up the new agency and making it operational in coordination with the FIDF, BOT and other related government
agencies.
Improve Corporate Governance in Financial Institutions: This component would focus on improving the incentives for
Directors to exercise their responsibilities to shareholders by increasing the legal liability of members of Boards of Directors,
Board advisors, and advisors to CEOs vis-a-vis shareholders, creditors, depositors and supervisors. Advice would also be
provided on delineating the responsibilities and roles of Boards of Directors and advisors to Boards and CEOs vis-a-vis
senior managers and external auditors. In addition, possible requirements related to the appointment of independent
Directors without links to main shareholders would be explored, public company discipline imposed on these directors, and
imposing limits on insider lending to Directors and Officers of the financial institution.
Up2grading Accounting and Auditing Standards: A review and evaluation of the current accounting standards and auditing
standards for external and internal auditors will be undertaken with a view to recommending improvements.' Areas to be
reviewed will include accounting for nonperforming loans, capitalized interest treatment, troubled debt restructuring,
consolidation of subsidiaries, institutional acquisition provisions, loss booking, reserve accounting, and mark-to-market
conventions in the case of the trading and investment portfolios of banks and securities or finance companies. Finally, this
work would explore how supervisory authorities can establish certain minimum standards for certification of accountants and
auditors. Such assistance would also aim to clarify as clearly as possible the responsibilities of auditors, accountants,
financial analysts etc., vis-a-vis bank supervisors or other management and Directors of commercial banks or finance
companies. The guidelines would also establish procedures whereby examination processes would be triggered by such
events as a qualified opinion by a bank auditor. Finally, a review will be undertaken of the accounting and auditing
standards for firms in the non-financial sector.
Streng.hening Public Disclosures: The transparency and quality of financial information in Thailand needs to be upgraded
and strengthened to meet international standards. Assistance will be provided to the Government to bring accounting
requirements for financial institutions up to international standards and to strengthen public disclosure. Financial institution
disclosures will be assessed with a focus on the timeliness, and quality and level of detail of profit and loss statements, cash
flow statements, risk concentrations, off balance sheet and other contingencies, ownership structure, affiliate relationships,
insider transactions, and material events disclosure via a review of law and BOT as well as SEC disclosure regulations.
Public disclosure standards for firms in the non-financial sector will also be reviewed.
Improving Other Key Ancillarv Financial Services: Many types of key ancillary services that are critical to improving the
quality of financial information could be enhanced such as accounting and auditing (noted above) or appraisal and valuation,
credit bureaus, and credit ratings agencies. Expert advice will be provided to identify areas where this infrastructure should
be strengthened. Specific recommendations will be made for amendments to regulation and law, etc. to improve the quality
of these important fmancial information services. Support will be provided to establish new regulations and/or guidelines in
close coordination with relevant self-regulatory organizations (the credit bureau, credit rating agencies) or associations in the
case of specific professional areas (e.g. auditors, accountants, financial analysts). The objective of this work will be to
develop standards and regulations (e.g., procedures for certification or code of ethics) as well as better incentives for
collection and disclosure of higher quality and more timely information.
IThis work would be coordinated with ICAAT that is already developing new auditing standards.



17
1.5 Improving the Bankruptcy and Collateral Foreclosure Processes
The overall legal framework and processes for dispute resolution under bankruptcy remain underdeveloped and are
cumbersome with delays averaging several years. Similarly, collateral foreclosure can take between 3-4 years on average.
The existing framework is thus not conducive to efficient restructuring of troubled non-financial enterprises or to timely
foreclosure. This can harm loan recovery rates and increase the overall costs of the Government's financial sector
restructuring program.
This component will finance assistance to recommend: (i) streamlined bankruptcy processes and (ii) improved collateral
foreclosure processes.
Streamline Bankruptcy Processes: Well functioning bankruptcy proceedings are essential to ensure that resources can be
reallocated rapidly and efficiently when enterprises fail. With the macroeconomic downturn, the number of enterprises that
are unable to service their loans may increase significantly. Any measures that can ease processes for voluntary debt
restructuring of loans to failing enterprises will help to improve the liquidity of financial intermediaries. A revised
bankruptcy act is currently being presented to the Thai legislature. The project would support a review of the proposed
bankruptcy act and would suggest any changes to the legislation that might help facilitate voluntary debt restructuring and
speed asset liquidation. This would include an assessment of alternative frameworks for out-of-courtl workouts and
arbitration awards.
Improve Collateral Foreclosure Processes: Difficulties with foreclosure on collateral pledged against enterprise credits can
arise not only in the legal and regulatory framework governing foreclosures, but also in the institutional mechanisms for
dispute resolution. The result is to raise the cost of credit and the risks associated with lending. The project would finance a
review of legal, regulatory and institutional mechanisms for foreclosure proceedings (particularly related to real estate) and
propose ways of facilitating more rapid foreclosure and dispute resolution. The immediate focus of the implementation
assistance would be on speeding the process of foreclosure proceedings and related barriers.
1.6 Implementing Financial Infrastructure and Institutional Changes
The current Thai financial crisis has interrupted the previously rapid development of the financial system and highlighted the
susceptibility of the financial sector to certain types of sudden shocks (e.g., real estate price increases, exchange rate shocks,
sudden capital flow reversals). In part this susceptibility is due to the structure of the financial sector itself where there has
been a lack of incentives for risk diversification. In addition, the very rapid build-up in private sector debt that was not well
monitored also played a role in increasing the vulnerability of the Thai economy to capital flow reversals. Lack of a well
developed government debt market has complicated the ability of the Central Bank to develop indirect monetary policy
instruments (e.g., open market operations and use of repurchase agreements) and hindered overall development of the Thai
private debt market given the lack of a benchmark yield curve. Finally the process for establishing exchange rate policy and
exchange rate management in Thailand may need to be better coordinated with export, inflation control, and overseas
investment policies of the country.
This component will finance several studies and related institutional capacity improvements to reform and develop
mechanisms and systems to permit the Thai economy to reduce its vulnerability to macroeconomic shocks. These activities
will include: (i) an analysis and review of the existing structure of the financial system and actions that might be taken to
improve both financial sector efficiency and resiliency to macroeconomics risks; (ii) a study and related blueprint of how to
develop the domestic debt markets, especially the Government debt markets; and (iii) an examination of how to improve
government external debt management and better monitor capital flows, particularly privately contracted external debt.
Modernization of Financial Sector Structure and Services: This study would examine the role, competitiveness, and
efficiency of financial services provided within the Thai financial system. This would include banking and non-banking
services provided by banks, finance companies, securities firms, specialized banks, etc. The study would examine the
efficiency of the provision of financial services and impediments to the development of a broader range of financial services
(e.g. , payment services, leasing, factoring, money brokerage, foreign exchange brokerage, etc.). It would also examine the
various sectors of the financial system and the forms of institutions to be permitted and degree of specialization to foster (e.g.
Islamic banking, locally incorporated foreign bank subsidiaries) to mobilize savings in both domestic and offshore banking
centers (IBFs). The study would make recommendations for specific actions and suggest follow-up legislation (e.g., the
issuance of an offshore banking act or leasing law). A related study would make recommendations on removing bottlenecks
in accessing bank finance by firms in the real sector to increase the efficiency of investment.



18
Development of Government and Private Debt Markets: A nascent government debt market currently exists, but the private
corporate and municipal debt markets are not well developed. The financing needs of the Thai Government under the
present crisis present an opportunity to systematically develop the domestic debt markets as the need to issue government
debt is becoming increasingly important. Development of the Government debt market and a benchmark yield curve would
in turn create a more conducive environment for developing the private corporate debt market. An analysis would be
conducted of the major impediments to development of a broader debt market including establishment of a private long-term
fixed-rate market. This will include: examination of market structure including the regulations applied to broker/dealers in
the bond dealers club, tax treatment, nonexistence of instruments to promote liquidity (i.e., repurchase agreements), lack of
competition in the primary or secondary market, and inadequate infrastructure in the area of clearing, custody and settlement
arrangements, quality of information.
The Government of Thailand's efforts to develop the primary issue- underwriting system will be supported via assistance to
evaluate the processes being proposed. This will include: an evaluation of alternative mechanisms for auctioning/pricing the
securities, the preferred structure of the market (e.g., who will be eligible to act as a primary dealer), and what entities can be
final purchasers. Of particular importance will be establishment of guidelines relating to the purchase of securities by the
Central Bank given the implications for monetary policy.
External Debt Management and Monitoring of Capital Flows: To help enhance the management of economic policy through
improved information about aggregate private and public sector external indebtedness, this study would assist in developing
a process through which to measure and manage the country's aggregate external debt position. This would require specific
recommendations for reporting and measuring the outstanding external debt in both sectors and provisions for the monitoring
of debt levels. Recommendations would be provided for enhanced monitoring mechanisms to provide the information
necessary for assessing the economic impact of the composition and structure of capital flows as well as related policy
actions.
Project Component 2. Project Coordination and Implementation - US$0.5 million
This component would provide sufficient resources for project coordination and implementation, and include provision for
project management, implementation assistance and studies from consultants. From the borrower's side, the project would
be managed by the Fiscal Policy Office (FPO) of the Ministry of Finance. FPO would assign a task manager who would act
as the Government's main counterpart for the project. This task manager would be allocated part of the implementation
assistance budget to achieve effective project management, procure equipment, and engage local and international
consultants. A Project Coordination Committee would convene regularly, comprising the Bank of Thailand, Ministry of
Finance, BOI, NESDB, Ministry of Commerce, SEC and other agencies involved in the project. On the Bank's side,
supervision would be carried out by the Country Management Unit based in Bangkok.



19
Annex 3
Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                                Local             Foreign         Total
--------------------US $ million--------------------
1. Financial Sector
1.1 Strengthening fnancial institution resolution processes       7.55               6.94          14.49
1.2 Improving capacity to identify future problem fnancial        1.47               1.66           3.13
institutions in an appropriate timeframe and raising
supervisory standards
1.3 Rationalizing the supervisory regime                          0.00               0.20           0.20
1.4 Strengthening market discipline                               1.00               1.20           2.20
1.5 Improving the bankruptcy and collateral foreclosure           0.20               0.30           0.50
processes
1.6 Implementing financial infrastructure and institutional       0.30               0.70           1.00
changes
2. Project Coordination and Implementation
2.1 Consulting services for studies                               0.10               0.30           0.40
2.2 Equipment                                                     0.05               0.00           0.05
Total Project Cost                                                10.67              11.30         21.97



20
Annex 4
Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Not Applicable



21
Annex 5
Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
Financial Summary
(US$ millions)
Foreign              %               Local               %                Total               %
IBRD                   11.30              51.4              3.70               16.8             15.00              68.3
Royal Thai              0.00               0                6.97               31.7              6.97              31.7
Govenment
11.30             51.4              10.67              48.6              21.97             100.0



22
Annex 6
Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement of consultants would be done according to the provisions of the "Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997) and of equipment according to the provisions of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans" (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996). For complex time-based assignments and for
contracts based on lump-sum price, such contracts will be based upon the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
Table A of this Section shows the project costs by procurement arrangements. Since the total expenditure on equipment is
limited to US$150,000, there will be no international competitive bidding (ICB) in the project. Equipment estimated to cost
US$25,000 equivalent or more but less than US$150,000 equivalent per contract may be procured using national competitive
bidding (NCB), up to an aggregate amount of US$150,000. Goods estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent per
contract may be procured through national or international shopping up to an aggregate amount of US$150,000.
Requirements of prior review of other contracts for consulting services and equipment are summarized in Table B.
Disbursement
Expenditures for individual contracts of equipment and services, for which prior review by the Bank is not required, will be
disbursed against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). For expenditures incurred on the basis of SOEs all records evidencing
such information must be retained by the project entity until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the loan account is made. Full documentation for all contracts requiring the
Bank's prior review will be submitted. Disbursements, representing mainly expenditures under short term implementation
assistance, will be made over a period of three years. Since the Government wishes to advance rapidly, with respect to the
resolution of suspended finance companies, retroactive financing, not to exceed US$1.50 million (10% of the loan amount),
would be applied to finance eligible expenditure made after September 11, 1997, but no more than three months before loan
signing.
A special account in US dollars might be established at a bank acceptable to the World Bank with an authorized allocation of
2.0 million. The amount of this initial deposit, however, would be limited to US$1.0 million, until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the loan plus outstanding special commitments will equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$4.0 million to
correspond to anticipated expenditures in the first months of project execution. The special account will be replenished
monthly to assure liquidity of funds, and all replenishment applications would be accompanied by reconciled bank
statements from the depository bank showing all transactions in the special account.
The allocation of loan proceeds is provided in Table C of this Section.



23
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                         Procurement Method                     Total Cost
ICB         NCB          Other       N.B.F
1. Consultants' Services and                                18.6                       18.6
Related Expenses                                       (11.9)                     (11.9)
2. Training                                                  2.2                        2.2
(1.9)                     (1.9)
3. Equipment                                    0.1                                     0.1
(0.1)                                  (0.1)
4. Unallocated                                               1.1                        1.1
(1.1)                     (1.1)
Total                                        0.1         21.9                       22.0
(0.1)       (14.9)                     (15.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as
"N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan, and figures affected by
rounding
'For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD1 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment Operations.



24
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure           Contract Value          Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)              Method               Prior Review
US $ thousands                                 US $ millions
1. Equipment           25 - 150               NCB                     First two contracts
<25                    Shopping               None
2. Services
Firms               > 200                   QCBS, QBS              All. Additional review of
Borrower's evaluation of
proposals.
100 - 200              QCBS, QBS              All.
<100                   CQ                     TORs only.
Individuals            > 50                   Consultant guidelines   All.
Section V
<50                    Consultant guidelines  TORs
Section V



25
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amount in US$         Financing
million           Percentage
Consultants' services and related expenditures   11.9         100% of all
expenditures
Training                                          1.9         100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
Equipment                                         0.1         80% of local
expenditures
Unallocated                                       1.1
Total        15.0



26
Annex 7
Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                         Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Not Applicable        40 (estimate)
B. Project Schedule                                Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Not Applicable
Time taken to prepare the project (weeks)                                  2
First Bank mission (identification)                                     8/28/1997
Appraisal mission date                                                  9/1/1997
Negotiations                                                            9/4/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                           10/1/1997
Prepared by: Fiscal Policy Office, Ministry of Finance with other agencies
Preparation assistance: None
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
J. Shivakumar                              Country Management
Jonathan Fiechter                           Financial Sector Specialist
Ijaz Nabi                                  Economist
Thomas Glaessner                           Financial Sector Specialist
Stefan Koeberle                             Economist
Laura Ard                                   Banking Specialist
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                             Legal Specialist
Paul Murgatroyd                             Financial Sector Specialist
Calum Gunn                                 Project Management



27
Annex 8
Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
A project implementation plan containing detailed cost breakdowns for each sub-component.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
None
C. Other
None
*Including electronic files.



28
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
A. Thailand
Statement of Bank Loans and Credits
(As of 7/31/97, in US Dollar Millions)
Loan/Cr   Fiscal  Borrower                     Purpose                                  Bank       IDA      Undis-
Number   Year                                                                                               bursed
L41990    1997   Royal Thai Government         Metropolitan Dist Reinforcement         145.00       0.00    145.00
L41600    1997   Royal Thai Govermnent         Univer Sci & Eng Education              143.40       0.00    143.40
L40670    1997   Royal Thai Government         Distribution Autom & Reliability        100.00       0.00    100.00
L40520    1996   Royal Thai Government         Secondary Education Quality Improvement  81.90       0.00     81.90
L39680    1996   Royal Thai Government         Highways V                              150.00       0.00    150.00
L40530    1996   Royal Thai Government         Technical Education                      31.60       0.00     31.60
L37990    1995   Royal Thai Government         Second Gas Transmission                 115.00       0.00      4.58
L38890    1995   Royal Thai Government         Clean Fuels & EA Quality                 90.00       0.00     90.00
L38840    1995   Royal Thai Government         Lam Takhong Pump Storage                100.00       0.00     71.79
L37980    1995   Royal Thai Government         Distribution System Reinforcement        50.00       0.00      9.85
L37970    1995   Royal Thai Government         Land Titling III                        118.10       0.00     79.86
L35980    1993   Royal Thai Government         Distribution Systems and Energy Efficiency    109.00  0.00    33.75
L34460    1992   Royal Thai Govemment          Highway IV                              177.50       0.00     25.15
L34040    1992   Royal Thai Government         Distribution System Upgrade              40.00       0.00     12.70
TOTAL                                                                                 1,451.50      0.00    979.59
B. Thailand
Statement of IFC Investments (since 1992)
(As of 6/30/97, in US Dollar Millions)
FY                                                   Committed                              Disbursed
Approval   Company                         Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic       Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic
1997       PhatraThanakit                 26.29      0.00     0.00      0.00     13.15     0.00      0.00     0.00
1996       Thai Petrochem                 80.00      0.00    20.00    400.00    76.67      0.00    20.00    383.33
1996       NFS                            30.00      0.00     0.00    250.00    30.00      0.00     0.00    190.00
1995/96    BTSC                           50.00      9.83     9.83      0.00     0.00      9.83      9.83     0.00
1995       UPOIC                           0.00      1.08     0.00      0.00     0.00      1.08     0.00      0.00
1995       Saha Farms                     25.00      9.90    10.00    25.00     25.00      9.90     10.00    25.00
1995       Finance One                    30.00      0.00     0.00    150.00    30.00      0.00      0.00    150.00
1994       Vinythai                       39.65      0.00     0.00     54.33    39.65      0.00      0.00    54.33
1994       Dhana Siam                     26.00      0.00     0.00      4.00    26.00      0.00      0.00     4.00
1993       TUNTEX                          12.00     4.92     0.00    134.50     12.00     4.92      0.00    134.50
1993       Sukhontha                       2.00      0.00     0.00      5.00     2.00      0.00      0.00     5.00
1993       Star Petroleum                 100.00     0.00     0.00    350.00    100.00     0.00      0.00    350.00
1993       Samui Beach                     3.00      0.00     0.00      5.00     3.00      0.00      0.00     5.00
1993       Central Hotel                   0.00     13.95     0.00      0.00     0.00     13.95      0.00     0.00
1993       Bumrungrad                     25.00      2.24     0.00    35.00     25.00      2.24      0.00    35.00
1993       Advance Agro                    10.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     10.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1992       KrungThai IBJ                   0.00      0.35     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.35      0.00     0.00
TOTAL                                    458.94    42.47    39.83  1,412.83    392.47     42.27    39.83  1,336.16



I
I



Thailand at a glance                                                              918197
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             East  middle-
Thailand     Asia  income       Developmentdiamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                       58.7      1,726    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                           3,020       890    1,750                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                             177.3      1,542    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                        0.9        1.3      1.4     GNP                              Gross
Labor force (X)                                       1.3        1.3      1.8     per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of populaton)              13
Urban population (% of total population)               20        31       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       69        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               35        40       41               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             13
Access to safe water (% of population)                 81        49
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    6        17
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschoolage population)    87       117      104            -   Thailand
Male                                                          120      105                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               ..       116      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1996     1996   ,                                       _
Economic ratios
GDP (billions USS)                          14.9    38.9       167.5   184.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP               26.7    28.2       43.3     42.5             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP           18.4    23.2       41.1     38.0                e
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  22.1     25.5       36.2    36.0
Gross national savings/GDP                  22.7    24.2        34.9    34.3                       T
Current account balance/GDP                  -4.1    -4.0       -8.1     -8.0
Interest payments/GDP                        0.7      2.3        1.2       *-    Savings                      Investment
Total debtVGDP                               12.5    45.1       34.0
Total debt service/exports                   12.0    31.9       11.3       .
Present value of debUGDP                       ..      ..       34.4
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..       86.0                         Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1996      1996  1997406
(average annual growth)                                                                     Thailand
GDP                                 6.5      9.6      8.7        6.7
GNP per capita                      4.1      8.3      7.7        5.1                        Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       9.5     15.9     14.8       2.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(%ofGDP)                                             1986      1995    1996       Growth rates of output and investment(%)
Agriculture                                 26.9     15.8       10.6     10.4    40-
Industry                                    25.8     31.8      39.5    40.0    30-
Manufactunng                               18.7    21.9       29.0    29.3    20-
Services                                    47.3    52.3       49.8    49.6    10            .-           z =:
0
Private consumption                         67.6     61.0      54.4     54.8             91   92   93   94   95   96
General government consumption              10.3    13.5        9.4      9.3
Imports of goods and services               23.0    25.9       48.2    44.5                      GDI     GOP
1975-86  1986-96     1996    1996
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  4.1      3.7        3.1     3.1    25
Industry                                     7.9    13.2        11.4     8.2    20
Manufacturing                               7.0    13.6       12.4      8.0    15_
Services                                     6.7      9.1       7.6      6.1
10 
Private consumption                          5.2      8.2       8.3      6.2      s
General government consumption               9.1      5.1       0.8      4.5      a i -- _      , 
Gross domestic investment                    6.1     15.1      13.3      8.2             91   92   93   94   95   96
Imports of goods and services                6.2     17.8      16.9      2.8
Gross national product                       6.3      9.4       8.3      6.4                 Exports    imports
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Thailand
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1985       1995      1996
Domestic prices                                                                         Inflation
(% change)                                                                             8 -
Consumer prices                                  5.3      2.5        5.8       5.9     6
Implicit GDP deflator                            3.5      2.2        6.5       4.8     4.
Govemment finance                                                                      2 -
(% of GDP)                                                                              ----
Current revenue                                          15.2       18.9      19.2            91    92    93    94    95    96
Current budget balance                            .,    -0.6         8.0       8.6              -     GDP def.  -C--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..        .        2.6       2.3
TRADE
1976     1985       1995      1996    . Epr and ipr l             l
(millions US$)                                                                          Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                               ..   7,120      56,729   55,992      80,000
Rice                                                    829      1,928    2,012       70,000
Otherfood                                       ..        ..     4,312    4,239       60,000
Manufactures                                    ..   2,920      46,445   45,653    j 509000
Total imports (cif)                               *-   9,248      71,493   72,768       40000
Food                                            ..      38..                   .               DIGI
Fuel and energy                                 ..    2,696      4,620    6,203       200  IJiIii
10,000   1I101
Capital goads                                   ..    2,598     31,950   3349            0  llLJlr
Export price index (1987=100)                     ..       73        139      138              90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                     ..       72        154      153                    ;Exports   ag Imports
Ternms of trade (1987=100)                        ..      101         90       90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                        | Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 2,780    9,100      70,590   71,725        _  _,        __
Imports of goods and services                 3,478   10,160      82,169   83,617    ,         90   91   92   93   94   9 a  96
Resource balance                               -698    -1,060    -11,579  -11,892      -
Netincome                                        11      -643     -2,114   -3,257      -3 1,
Net current transfers                            80       165       487       780       4 IT
Current account balance,                                                              ,6
before official capital transfers             -607   -1,537    -13,206  -14,369                                     ,
Financing items (net)                           555     1,620     19,954    16,066     -5
Changes in net reserves                          52       -82     -6,748    -1,697     -9-
Memo:                                                                                 |
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           2,008    3,003      37,027   38,725
Conversion rate (localUUS$)                    20.4      27.2       24.9      25.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                        E Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          1,865   17,552      56,789
IBRD                                          270    2,202       1,805    1,607                       B
IDA                                             4      105        102       100                      100
Total debt service                              357    3,263       7,533
IBRD                                           32      232        336       318
IDA                                             0        1          3         3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                11      120         99
Official creditors                             93      556        511         ..               \
Private creditors                             107      956       4,921
Foreign direct investment                      22      163       2,068
Portfolio equity                                0       44       2,154        ..                            A
1607
World Bank program
Commitments                                    95      113        190       250    i A-IBRD                        E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                  44      285        146       138    1 B-IDA    D-Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           13       75        203       198       C-IMF                        G-Short-term
Netflows                                       31      210         -57      -60    i
Interest payments                              20      158        136       122
Net transfers                                  12       51       -193      -183
Development Economics                                                                                                       9/8/97



