                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 27986

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (SCL-42330)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                 KINGDOM OF THAILAND

                                          FOR A

              FINANCIAL SECTOR IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE PROJECT.




                                        May 26, 2004




Southeast Asia and Mongolia Country Unit
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management/Financial Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective April 2004)

                         Currency Unit = Thai Baht (TB)
                                   1 TB = US$ 0.0253
                              US$ 1.00 = TB 39.5050

                               FISCAL YEAR
                         October 1      September 30

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AMC                       Asset Management Corporation
BOT                       Bank of Thailand
BRO                       Business Reorganization Office
CDP                       Country Development Partnership
CDP-FC                    Country Development Partnership - Financial & Corporate Competitiveness
CDRAC                     Corporate Debt Restructuring Advisory Committee
COJ                       Court of Justice
DGA                       Deposit Guarantee Agency
FIDF                      Financial Institutions Development Fund
FPO                       Fiscal Policy Office
FRA                       Financial Sector Restructuring Authority
GHB                       Government Housing Bank
ICAAT                    Institute of Certified Accountants and Auditors of Thailand
MOC                       Ministry of Commerce
MOF                       Ministry of Finance
NESDB                     National Economic and Social Development Board
NPL                       Non-performing Loan
NREIC                     National Real Estate Information Center
OOJ                       Office of the Judiciary
PDMO                      Public Debt Management Office
PHRD                      Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIU                       Project Implementation Unit
PLMO                      Property Loan Management Organization
SEC                       Securities and Exchange Commission
SET                       Stock Exchange of Thailand
SFI                       Special Financial Institution
SME                      Small and Medium Enterprise
TACIG                    Technical Assistance Coordination and Implementation Group
TFASB                     Thailand Financial Accounting Standard Board



                        Vice President:       Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                     Country Director         Ian C. Porter, EACTF
    Chief Economist and Sector Director       Homi Kharas, EASPR
                      Sector Manager          Khalid A. Mirza, EASPR/FS/PS
     Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Thomas A. Rose, EASPR/FS

                                          THAILAND
                      Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38

Project ID: P053616                                                  Project Name: TH-Fin Sector Impl. Assist.
Team Leader: Thomas A. Rose                                          TL Unit: EASFS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 25, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: TH-Fin Sector Impl. Assist.                              L/C/TF Number: SCL-42330
   Country/Department: THAILAND                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Corporate governance (P);
                            State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Standards
                            and financial reporting (P); Legal institutions for a market economy
                            (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/01/1997                                     Effective: 10/01/1997                12/05/1997
     Appraisal: 09/01/1997                                         MTR: 03/15/2002                  06/15/2002
      Approval: 09/11/1997                                      Closing: 09/30/2000                 09/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Royal Thai Government/Ministry of Finance/Fiscal Policy Office
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  J. Shivakumar
Sector Director:                Homi Kharas                                    Pieter Bottelier
Team Leader at ICR:             Thomas Rose                                    Jonathan Fiechter
ICR Primary Author:             Thang-Long Ton


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1. Background. In the aftermath of the 1997 currency and banking crisis that adversely
affected the country's economy, the Royal Thai Government implemented a program of economic
stabilization and structural adjustment to restore sustainable and high rate of economic growth.
This program was broadly supported by bilateral and multilateral donors who contributed to a
US$17 billion emergency financing package under the leadership of the IMF, following the
government's request for international assistance. The role of the Bank and the IMF in
supporting Thailand's recovery from the economic crisis and the reform program was discussed at
length in the project appraisal documents and the implementation completion reports for the
Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan and the Financial Companies Restructuring Loan.(1)

        (1) Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan, Report 7240-TH, Financial Companies Restructuring Loan, Report
           No. 19245, and Implementation Completion Reports for the two loans.

3.1.2. The World Bank contribution to this program included a package of assistance consisting
of a series of fast-disbursing policy-based loans, buttressed by technical assistance loans.                   (2)The
Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Loan (FSIAL) is the first of the two Technical
Assistance (TA) projects in the Bank's package.             (3)The lending program was designed to focus
first on the financial sector and subsequently on broader structural measures to revive economic
growth, including improvement in export performance and in bolstering the effectiveness of the
public sector with improved governance and the competitiveness of the Thai private industry.

        (2) These included a series of three Economic and Financial Adjustment Projects and a Public Sector Reform Loan.
        (3) The second TA project, the Economic Management Assistance Loan (EMAL), supported fiscal-related reforms.

3.1.3. Subsequently, once the emergency lending operations were completed, the Bank and the
Royal Thai Government agreed on a new form of assistance framework, a rolling three-year
program called the Country Development Partnership (CDP). This new relationship is based
upon moving away from a borrower-lender relationship toward a partnership. This partnership
framework is within the Bank's Comprehensive Development Framework to support the
government-led-and-identified areas of development and/or reform agenda envisioned in the
government's own Holistic Development Framework. The CDP was initiated as a
knowledge-based partnership, which sets out a medium-term framework for program reforms. It
attempts to ensure that reforms gain momentum from forces within the country by recognizing
that the government is in the driver's seat and by garnering the participation of the private sector,
civil society, and other development partners. The CDP brings together technical assistance and
capacity building needs identified by the government, private sector and civil society involvement,
other development partners, and grant resource mobilization, all under one umbrella. The Bank
also plays the role of a coordinator of activities under the CDP, and only engages in selected
activities as requested by the government. In this context, the FSIAL has, in many ways, acted as
a connecting bridge between the two phases of development assistance approaches and served as
a building block for the CDP in Thailand, especially in the strengthening of the financial sector and
corporate competitiveness.




                                                          - 2 -

Box 1: The Country Development Partnership (CDP)


  What is the CDP?

  The CDP, launched in 2000, is a knowledge-based partnership. The CDP is a three-year integrated framework for actions
  in key areas of the country's development agenda.         Each CDP is led by the government with support from other
  stakeholders, including the Bank and other donors. The CDP serves as a vehicle for engaging civil society, the private
  sector, and other partners in the policy design, implementation, and monitoring process. Depending on where support is
  needed, the Bank's engagement in a CDP can take the form of analytical and advisory activities, technical assistance, donor
  coordination, and/or partnerships. In addition, as appropriate, investment projects can selectively support implementation.

  How does the CDP work ?

  Step I. The government selects key priority areas for the CDP
            ·  An outcomes-oriented action plan with a clear timeline, milestones, and accountabilities is formulated, based
               on strong analytic work, as laid out in a Development Matrix which describes the CDP objectives, output
               benchmarks, and capacity-building inputs.
            ·  Division of labor and support from other partners is agreed, as laid out in a Partnership Matrix which details
               the inputs of partners and identifies potential resources to be tapped, as well as any funding gap. Arrangements
               for specific Analytical Advisory Activities (AAA), TA, and capacity-building support are determined.
  Step II. Progress is monitored through public workshops with stakeholders annually or biannually
            ·  Specific action plans are fine-tuned and adjusted based on the progress review meeting.
            ·  Interim implementation reports are completed and disseminated to stakeholders.
  Step III. CDP progress is integrated in a comprehensive progress review on the national agenda.



3.1.4. Objectives. Overall, FSIAL aimed to provide implementation technical assistance to the
government to improve the structure, resiliency and soundness of the financial sector. The project
sought to strengthen the government's capacity to address the existing financial sector crisis with
important policy reforms within the financial restructuring program. Specifically, the project
focused on the immediate needs to resolve finance companies which were suspended during the
1997 economic crisis.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1. None.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1. To fulfill the above objectives, the project aimed to support the following components,
grouped under the following categories:

Part 1. Strengthening the Financial Sector
    · Technical Assistance for policy reforms
         o strengthening the resolution processes for financial institutions
         o improving the capacity to identify future problem financial institutions within an
         appropriate timeframe and raising supervisory standards




                                                         - 3 -

    · Institution-building activities
         o Rationalizing the supervisory regime
         o Strengthening market discipline
         o Improving the processes for bankruptcy and collateral foreclosures
         o Implementing financial infrastructure and institutional changes

Part 2. Project Management and Coordination
    · Project coordination and implementation
         o Strengthening the capacity of the Fiscal Policy Office (FPO) through consultants'
         services and equipment
         o Consulting services for studies

3.3.2. The table below summarizes the project's components and the proposed measures and
actions to be undertaken to address the problems and constraints in the sector.

FSIAL: Components and Measures/Actions

                     Component                                          Measures/Actions
Project Component 1. Financial Sector
· Strengthening financial institution resolution  · Design of an overall resolution policy to address the
processes                                         problems of troubled financial institutions;
                                                  · Policies to create incentives for greater market discipline
                                                  via enhancement of accounting practices, public
                                                  disclosures, and improved corporate governance by
                                                  shareholders, Directors, CEOs, and senior advisors.
· Improve the capacity to identify future problem · Improved supervisory policies to limit discretion of
financial institutions within an appropriate      authorities and to introduce better processes of "prompt
timeframe and raising supervisory standards       corrective action" in case of problem financial institutions;
                                                  · Efforts to phase out the present comprehensive guarantee
                                                  program via development of a self-finance deposit guarantee
                                                  scheme.
· Institution-building activities                 · Development of the institutions needed to support
                                                  immediate efforts to resolve the suspended finance
                                                  companies such as an asset management entity;
                                                  · Intensive programs for building institutional capacity to
                                                  undertake more effective supervision of financial institutions
                                                  by the Fiscal Policy Offce of the Ministry of Finance and the
                                                  Bank of Thailand;
                                                  · Actions to develop a Deposit Guarantee Agency as part of
                                                  government efforts to phase out the present emergency
                                                  comprehensive guarantee provided to depositors and
                                                  creditors of financial institutions.
 Project Component 2. Project Coordination
 and Implementation
· Coordination and Implementation                 · Consulting services for studies;
                                                  · Equipment financing.




                                                   - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1. As the project was being implemented, there were some changes in the components above
to respond to the evolving needs of the government. In addition, other sources of funding, such
as the Bank's Trust Funds and other grant aids, were mobilized and financed certain components
of the project.  (4) Thus, the government requested some additional activities to be included in the
project and the project was restructured twice (in December 1999 and in November 2000) to
accommodate these changes. The new activities which were deemed crucial to consolidate the
financial and corporate sector restructuring reforms adopted by the government included
    - the accelerated voluntary corporate debt restructuring program; and
    - the economic law reform program.
Other components were added later, including
    - the capacity building of the Public Debt Management Office (PDMO) to support a road map
    for an institutional capacity building, technical assistance and information technology systems
    upgrading,
    - in-court mediation for financial disputes program; and
    - support to the Government Housing Bank (GHB) to implement the following activities:
        (a) the establishment of a National Real Estate Information Center (NREIC) aimed at
        upgrading the national information system for property markets, and
        (b) a study to assess and propose measures for the adoption of a Home-Owner Assistance
        Project to provide recommendations and schemes for expanding the access of the poor to
        homeownership.

          (4) Substantial grant-financed technical assistance in support of financial sector by the Bank included: (i) a PHRD
          Trust Fund for financial sector advisory services ($1.26 million); (ii) an ASEM Trust Fund for the same purpose
          ($0.74 million); (iii) a PHRD-Miyazawa fund for financial sector reform ($2.4 million). Other bilateral donors
          provided grant assistance as well.

3.4.2. The voluntary corporate debt restructuring program sought to accelerate the resolution of
non-performing debt in the Thai corporate sector and subsequently to strengthen the banking
sector. This component was deemed to contribute to the Bank's assistance program to renew
competitiveness, improving corporate governance, and improving the operational performance of
Thai firms. These would help to minimize business failures and the associated employment and
social costs. This sub-component was implemented by the Office of the Corporate Debt
Restructuring Advisory Committee (CDRAC).(5)

        (5) Even while this component was added, there was funding made available later from other sources and
        subsequently the funding allocated by this loan for this component was not used, and the proceeds was reallocated to
        support the in-court mediation for financial disputes program.


3.4.3. The Economic Law Reform Program aimed at strengthening the country's institutional
framework and capacity for strategic coordination/leadership of economic law reform. It also
sought (i) a consensus-based consultative process for economic law reform (new laws
development, implementation of existing laws, and adjudication/dispute settlement), (ii) the
preparation and development of a comprehensive, detailed and time-bound strategy for economic
law reform; (iii) the identification of key priorities and a proposal for longer term institutional
mechanisms for coordination of economic law reform, including a strategy and a proposed



                                                            - 5 -

investment proposal for judicial reform.

3.4.4. Other revisions and amendments in the project's loan agreement addressed the
re-allocation of funds among the categories to reflect the developments in the implementation of
the program.   (6)



        (6) The re-allocation amendments included: (i) Category Goods increased to $1.2 million; (ii) Category Consultants'
        Services increased to $12.75 million; (iii) Category Training decreased to $150,000; (iv) Category Incremental
        Operating Costs increased to $15,000; and (v) Category Unallocated was cancelled.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1 In 1997, the government wished to take the strategic advantage of the economic crisis to
address some institutional and structural weaknesses in the financial and banking sectors that may
affect economic performance. Given the urgency of the situation, the government urged the
World Bank to initiate this project within a very short time frame. The project was subsequently
prepared under the guiding principle of quick and constructive response to immediate needs of the
government, in lieu of comprehensive proposals with limited coverage. The preparation time was
a record time in the Bank's history.

3.5.2 The above approach provided a positive environment for strong collaborative partnership
that was crucial in strengthening institutions and competitiveness in Thailand. The nature of the
project created an opportunity where government agencies collaborated and worked closely with
Bank staff on individual components chosen by the government to insure operational relevance
and to bring about desired results.

3.5.3 The design of this technical assistance project took into account the requirement of strong
political and stakeholder commitment, expeditious preparation, and flexibility. The project was
also structured with separate lead counterpart agencies and the terms of reference for each
component reflected the priorities of each of the key agencies. Bank staff also undertook close
consultations with government agencies at all levels which helped to enhance the strong
ownership of the project among participating agencies.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1 Overall, the project provided timely technical assistance to the government on a broad
front and achieved its development objectives, i.e., to resolve the problem of suspended finance
companies and to carry out institutional reforms in the financial and banking sectors that were
needed following the 1997 crisis. The activities supported by the project ­ which totaled 54
sub-components for those in the original loan and those added through amendments during the
project's life ­ were implemented satisfactorily by 11 participating agencies, albeit the
implementation speed and performance varied among the components and somewhat uneven in a
few instances (see below) due to the unfamiliarity of the Borrower with Bank's procedures and
coordination among the government agencies involved in the project. Few activities were



                                                            - 6 -

cancelled or dropped because alternative grant funding was made available and thus financial
support from the project was no longer needed. With the restructuring of the project and several
components were brought on board during the implementation stage, the government needed two
extensions of the closing date (for a total of three years) to complete all these activities. Overall,
technical and advisory services were provided to meet the critical needs of the agencies concerned
on a timely basis in the aftermath of the crisis. The major support from the project was for the
then newly-established Financial Sector Restructuring Authority (FRA) and its urgent work with
the suspended finance companies.

4.1.2 Throughout the series of interviews and meetings with officials involved in the project, the
ICR mission found that once the activities were set up and initiated, recipient agencies understood
the development objectives of their component and the potential benefits and were committed to
complete them to their satisfaction. In all instances, once the initial difficulties due mostly to the
unfamiliarity with the Bank's guidelines and procedures were conquered, the sub-components of
the project were carried out successfully.

4.1.3 In this project, there were some components ­ though quite small in nature and amount ­
contributed nevertheless a great deal to the government and relevant agencies by providing timely
assistance to meet their specific needs ­ funding was available at the right time in the right place.
These activities enjoyed a high sustainability rate with several unexpected but positive
by-products. For example, the sub-component of the In-court Mediation for financial disputes at
the Office of the Judiciary was successfully achieved and sustained, given the attraction of
mediation to the court and the parties in dispute; others included the Thailand Legal Development
Project with the Thailand Research Fund (TRF); the study of Securities Borrowing at the
Securities Exchange Commission (SEC), and the sub-project with the Economic Law Reform
Institute (see below).

4.1.4 Other activities were envisaged initially by the project but were funded by other financial
sources provided by bilateral donors in grant forms. These activities were therefore dropped from
the project. The government cancelled the unused balance totaling about US$ 5.2 million, given
the availability of grant funds from bilateral and multilateral sources.

4.1.5 This operation also helped move the reform discussion to the actual implementation stage
though practical measures and steps, addressing practical follow-up issues after the suspension of
financial companies and institution-building and improving the financial and banking system.
Most importantly, the project helped strengthen and reconfirm the government ownership of the
reform agenda and the commitment of relevant agencies which undertook these reform activities.
These factors helped ensure the sustainability of several project components in the future, either
through continued funding from the government budget or through recommended institutional
changes.

4.1.6 This technical assistance further provided an effective venue for the World Bank to advise
and maintain an active dialogue with the government on post-crisis financial and banking reforms.
This project played an important role in supporting and following up on the Bank's structural
adjustment lending operations which were part of the financing package funded by the Bank to



                                                  - 7 -

help Thailand address the aftermath of the 1997 crisis.

4.1.7. Beyond the crisis, the project provided one of the effective building blocks toward the new
assistance framework formed between the Bank and the Royal Thai Government, the CDP. The
CDP, being a rolling three-year participatory program of technical assistance and grant funds, will
ensure the momentum toward improvement in the financial and corporate sectors
competitiveness.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1. The project provided funding for 11 agencies and institutions in the government, as
mentioned above, both to support the resolution of suspended finance companies and reforms
related to the financial and banking sector. These activities were completed and their outputs
were delivered at different time periods during the life of the project, depending on the timing and
the changes and additions to the project. Some were accomplished almost immediately in the
beginning of the project, some were cancelled due to availability of alternative grant funding; still
others ­ which were added during the project life and some near the end of the project -- were
only recently completed at project closing. Below is the summary of the activities and outputs
achieved for each component.              (7)




    (7) A detailed list of activities is provided in Annex No. 7.


Financial Sector ­ Strengthening financial institutions.

4.2.2. Support for the Financial Sector Restructuring Authority of Thailand (FRA) on
resolution process for finance companies. The major component of this project focused on the
effort of the government to design an overall resolution policy to address the problems of troubled
financial institutions in order to complete the resolution of the suspended finance companies and
to liquidate their assets on behalf of creditors. The project assisted the FRA, established in
October 1997, to rehabilitate or liquidate the suspended finance companies through a series of
advisory services and activities that began in late 1997 and largely completed by the end of 1999.
These covered the overall process of resolution of the finance companies with a wide range of
activities ­ 33 in all accounting for over fifty percent of total project cost ­ from a basic study of
the Thai financial service industry, support to FRA management, advice on asset valuation, asset
disposition methods and processes, takeover training, due diligence, procedures and policies on
asset sales, transaction structuring, auction processes, sale processes, and adjudication of creditor
claims, distribution and windows. FRA completed the sale of core assets of the 56 finance
companies and the distribution of their proceeds (58 cases were reviewed). It completed its
mandate and closed its doors in 2002. One sub-component ­ the consultant work on FRA
liquidation process ­ was considered not relevant to FRA needs and remuneration was
accordingly revised.

4.2.3. The Asset Management Corporation (AMC) was also established in October 1997 to sell
the assets of non-viable suspended finance companies and other financial institutions. The project
provided some funding for third-party review of AMC in 1998 after it was established and
operating. However, the AMC chose not to use the support from the project, and instead used


                                                             - 8 -

their own funding, provided by the government.

4.2.4. Restructuring and recapitalization of the core financial institutions. The project
provided policy advice on the restructuring and privatization strategy for intervened banks and the
recapitalization of the other core financial institutions. World Bank staff supported the authorities
and the private sector on the public dialogue concerning the Strategic Assessment of the Financial
Sector and Corporate Debt Restructuring in Thailand. Advisory services were made available to
the Bank of Thailand (BOT) on the restructuring of debts owned by finance companies, to
develop a model to estimate the recapitalization need of the suspended finance companies, and to
monitor financial performance of financial institutions. Proceeds from the project were also used
for a comprehensive review providing inputs for the restructuring of the BOT by a high level task
force appointed by the government to meet the new challenges in shepherding the financial sector
in the country.

4.2.5. Implementing infrastructure and institutional changes. The project supported the
establishment of a medium-term strategy for a sound and efficient banking sector. This draft
strategy was prepared by the Financial Services Task Force and was submitted to the Ministry of
Finance in 2000. The World Bank organized the Conference on Reform of the Commercial
Banking Sector and round-table discussions for the Task Force. Further, the project supported a
series of round-table discussions and conferences ­ with participants from the private sector and
Thai government officials ­ to reassess the clearing of NPLs, to enhance competitiveness for Thai
firms, lenders and borrowers in the new economy, and to improve investor interest in Thai
securities. These activities contributed to providing an encouraging environment for a sounder
banking sector.

4.2.6. Developing capital markets. The project helped to further develop the bond market to
ensure successful placement of large volume government bond issues through a series of
activities. These included the assistance to MOF in the establishment of a Domestic Bond Market
Committee and the operation of its eight sub-task forces. The Bank provided advisory services
in: (i) the removal of tax impediments to bonds and derivatives market development; (ii) real time
delivery versus payments settlement system project (in two phases); and (iii) initial study and
recommendations for the architecture of a secondary bond market. Other activities under this
sub-component included support to MOF (specifically the Public Debt Management Office or
PDMO) and BOT to convey cross-country experiences in an appropriate institutional structure to
manage the country's public debt through the use of the Bank's Global Distance Learning
Network (GDLN) facilities, and organize "Global Dialogues" between government debt managers
from several countries; to assess their Debt Management TA and information systems needs;
comments on the draft public debt law; and to provide the authorities with Policy Notes on
demand covering issues related to the management and monitoring of public debt and contingent
liabilities in Thailand. This project component also facilitated expert advice from the IFC on the
draft Derivatives Bill (legalizing derivatives transactions), and the amendment to the Securities
Act (allowing mutual funds to engage in future and forward transactions for risk management
purposes). Both laws were approved by the Thai Cabinet in 2003. This loan funded consulting
services to develop the regulatory framework and market for securities borrowing and lending,
another key component of risk management infrastructure. The Securities and Exchange



                                                  - 9 -

Commission (SEC) oversaw the study on securities borrowing and lending market in Thailand in
2003. It indicated to the ICR mission its satisfaction with the results and recommendations of this
timely study that helped to further SEC research into this area. Activities in this area were
continued after FSIAL within the CDP framework (Section 6.2.4).

Institution Building ­ Raising supervisory standards, strengthening and improving supervision
and market discipline.

4.2.7. Introduction of a comprehensive supervisory framework. The project provided advisory
assistance to a high-level task force of all supervisory authorities, established by MOF, on
international experience on options for supervision of deposit-taking institutions. Advisory
services and workshops were organized to support the implementation of the recommended and
approved regulatory changes needed to supervise effectively financial companies and to ensure
consistency in prudential regulations and supervision of all financial institutions.

4.2.8. Strengthening supervision and regulation of financial institutions. Originally, the plan
called for the project to support the preparation of the new supervisory regulations through
extensive advisory services and training. While the preparation still benefited from advisory
services and training, it was however funded by grants, especially from the PHRD Grant
associated with the project. The preparation included the development of specific rules on
accounting, disclosure and auditing for financial institutions, training of supervisory staff, both
locally and abroad, development of best practice in supervision process and manuals. Specifically,
these included (i) specialized training of examiners in risk-focused supervision, information system
supervision, and implementation of the new on-site manual; (ii) off-site supervision; (iii)
preparation of guidelines on external audit of commercial banks consistent with international
standards; (iv) advisory services for SEC on supervision of electronic data processing capability of
securities intermediaries; and (v) advisory services for SEC to set international standards for
methodology and certification of property valuation in Thailand.

4.2.9. These activities contributed in many ways to further actions beyond the support of the
project, such as the drafting of the Central Bank Act and the Financial Institution Act which were
approved by the Cabinet and the Council of State. Subsequently, BOT prepared prudential
regulations in line with best international practices, and accounting rules for financial institutions
based on international accounting standards; it also developed and implemented streamlined
regulatory reporting based on which an effective Early Warning System was to be established.
The SEC issued administrative guidance on its examination of intermediaries' capacities of
electronic data processing, risk management and internal control; a policy for the resolution of
distressed or bankrupt intermediaries and for investor protection against intermediary bankruptcy.

4.2.10. Introducing deposit insurance scheme. The project did not fund this sub-component as
envisaged. Activities under this section were financed by the PHRD Grant funding which
contributed to the drafting of the Deposit Insurance Act, including (i) funding for a study on
deposit dynamics in Thailand; (ii) advice on organizational design and development of manuals for
key functions of a deposit insurance agency (which was funded by grant aid later), (iii) public
information to facilitate the transition to deposit insurance; (iv) study tour; and (v) tele-seminar on



                                                 - 10 -

deposit insurance (thought the World Bank Institute - WBI). The government drafted the
Deposit Insurance Act and completed a time-bound action plan for the institutional arrangements
and staffing of the Deposit Insurance Agency.

4.2.11. Strengthening supervision of insurance companies. Advisory services were planned by
the project to review legal framework, supervisory regulations and institutional strengthening of
the Department of Insurance of the Ministry of Commerce (MOC).                       (8)However, this activity was
subsequently funded by alternative grant aid. The project only funded the program to develop
new directions in regulations and structural organization of the Department, its skill mix and
information systems.

        (8) As a result of this activity, MOC adopted a program to develop new direction in insurance supervision to follow
        international practices, including a review of current insurance acts.


Institution Building ­ Improving the bankruptcy, collateral foreclosures and economic law
reforms

4.2.12. Improving legislative framework for debt collection and security enforcement and
economic law reforms. The project supported the Economic Law Reform program by providing
technical assistance for (i) strengthening the institutional capacity of the foreclosure and debt
collection regime; and (ii) capacity building program for the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) to facilitate
business reorganization of distressed firms. These activities contributed to the Provision of Loan
Default in the Civil Procedure Code which became law in 2000.                    (9)



    (9) The secured lending activity was dropped by the government, and the Bank did not support the law drafting or
    reviewing process.


4.2.13. Improving the legislative and institutional frameworks for corporate bankruptcies and
business reorganizations and participatory legal reforms. To address the increased volume of
insolvency filings, the legislative and institutional capacity of the court system needed to be
consolidated. Supporting activities included technical assistance for the MOJ's Legal Expert
Committee to review the Bankruptcy Act, public participation activities in the Thailand Legal
Development Project, development of plan to enhance IT capability of the Central Bankruptcy
Court to manage court filings and court processes.

Institution Building ­ Strengthening the restructuring process and enabling environment.

4.2.14. Introducing greater flexibility for state-owned banks to address the losses on debt
restructuring. The project provided support to the Financial Insurance Development Fund
(FIDF) in the development of (i) the principles and guidelines for the valuation of debt structuring
by state-owned banks; (ii) an industry database as benchmark for financial forecasts for reference
for state-owned banks in restructuring loans; and (iii) training for the state-owned banks and asset
management companies in the roll-out phase. The Principles and Guidelines for the Valuation
was approved as a manual for state-owned banks in the debt restructuring. Amendments were
made to the State-Owned Enterprise Legal Code of 1956 to protect staff of these banks from
potential legal liability arising from the restructuring loan processes.


                                                            - 11 -

4.2.15. Removing tax disincentives to corporate restructuring. Technical assistance was provided
to the Thailand Legal Development Project ­ Judicial Reforms to simplify the processes for
business consolidations or mergers. Advisory services were well received and timely and the
government is undertaking further steps to simplifying these business processes. The government
continues with a MOF task force to review other potential tax impediments to mergers and
acquisitions.

4.2.16. Facilitating information sharing among creditors on debt services performance by
individual companies. The project's original intention was to provide advisory services to help
with the establishment of the Corporate Restructuring Database (Sectoral and Profitability Data),
following the approval of the Credit Information Act. However, these activities were later funded
by grant aid made available to the government. Under the program, there were two credit
bureaus established by the Thai Bankers Association and the Government Housing Bank (GHB).

4.2.17. Enforcing Voluntary Debt Restructuring. To accelerate and encourage corporate debt
restructuring, the project provided funding for expert advice to the Corporate Debt Restructuring
Advisory Committee (CDRAC) to facilitate the voluntary restructuring process under its mandate,
and to train creditors, debtors, and regulators and to organize public campaigns to better
understand the nature and scope of voluntary agreements. CDRAC oversaw its target cases from
the initial 702 cases in 1999 to over 12,000 cases toward the end of its mission. However,
alternative grant funding was available for this sub-component. Consequently, the project did not
support this activity. A follow-up program was requested by the government to support the
Mediation Center for Financial Disputes of the Office of the Court of Justice, the agency
responsible for the in-court mediation process for corporate debt restructuring. This
sub-component was completed successfully and the result was welcome by the court as mediation
has helped to reduce court cases. Statistics for the past two years show that the number of
mediation requests and settlements through mediation has been increasing. Furthermore, other
courts have requested training and advice with mediation. The campaign to encourage mediation
and to raise awareness among the public also includes a brochure on mediation which is sent to
the disputed parties in cases brought to the court and advertisements through media and
television.

Institutional Building ­ Legal and Judicial Developments

4.2.18. Building institutional capacity to undertake comprehensive reforms of economic laws.
The project provided technical assistance to build and strengthen institutional framework and
capacity to coordinate the economic law reform efforts under the leadership of the Council of
State. This component was made available after the FSIAL was amended to reflect the
government wish's to reallocate funding for this activity. However, due to the change in both the
government and the Bank's team on legal issues, this component was much delayed with only a
short time for implementation. The unfamiliarity with procurement guidelines also compounded
the difficulty in carrying out the planned activities. At the project closure, the establishment and
capacity building - equipment procurement - were completed for the Economic Law Development
Institute (ELDI); the Thailand Economic Law Database (TELD) was also set up and subscribed.



                                                 - 12 -

However, due to the time constraint, only two legal researches (out of five planned) were
completed.(10) The last sub-component on law drafting and/or law amending activities were not
implemented.

        (10) The two are: Mergers and Acquisitions and SME Promotions.


4.2.19. Modernizing public debt management. This is one of the revised components of the
project following the loan amendment at the request of the government. The government's
intention was to establish a debt management decision-making structure in the government to
monitor judiciously vulnerability, risk, and cost in a sovereign balance sheet framework. The
proceeds from the project would provide advisory services on project implementation
management, information technology, sovereign debt and risk management, through workshops,
training programs and study tours. However, this sub-component was never carried out as grant
funds materialized for the FPO and the PDMO. Consequently, this component was cancelled.

Institution Building ­ Strengthening the business environment

4.2.20. The project supported the strengthening of the business environment in general, through
(i) advisory services and capacity building on setting standards and regulating accounting and
auditing practices; (ii) improving quality and reliability of financial information; (iii) improving
accountability of boards of directors, management and shareholder rights of public companies;
(iv) strengthening the financial oversight role of the boards of directors and internal control of
listed companies; and (v) rationalizing the regulatory framework and improve enforcement of laws
and regulations for public companies.

4.2.21. For the first sub-component, the project contributed to the development of a plan to
establish Thailand Financial Accounting Standard Board (TFASB) and provided capacity building
program to support the Institute of Certified Accountants and Auditors of Thailand (ICAAT),
including WBI distance learning tele-seminar on implementing financial standards.

4.2.22. Alternative grant funding also helped to provide for the improvement in the quality and
reliability of financial information, including review of accounting and auditing practices in banks
and financial institutions, advisory services in the preparation of the new supervisory regulations
on accounting and disclosures for banks, technical assistance to improve accounting and auditing
standards according to international practices. Seminars on these subjects were also organized.

4.2.23. The project supported the capacity building program to improve accountability of board of
directors, management and shareholder rights of public companies, to improve corporate
governance practices in banks and financial institutions.

Project Coordination and Implementation

4.2.24. The project was coordinated and managed by the Fiscal Policy Office (FPO) of the
Ministry of Finance through the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) ­ later renamed Technical
Assistance Coordination and Implementation Group (TACIG). The FPO assigned a task manager



                                                       - 13 -

who acted as the government's overall counterpart for the project. Resources were provided by
the project to ensure coordination and implementation, including provisions for project
management, implementation assistance, and studies from consultants.

4.2.25. As with any newly formed unit, the PIU was learning by doing during the initial stage of
the project, while its staff were being constituted. The group built up its experience and
familiarity with the Bank's guidelines on procurement and consultant employment under its task
managers. It was instrumental in coordinating with the Bank and government agencies that
participated in the project. However, due to the temporary nature of the unit, it was difficult to
avoid a high staff turnover rate and there was a continuing effort to keep the knowledge in project
management current among its staff.

4.2.26. Under this component, the capacity of the FPO was strengthened in two ways: first, the
project supported the effort of the FPO to modernize its IT system with equipment and software
design. Secondly, this sub-component also included funding for the web page for FPO which
helped to disseminate the work of the unit (www./fpo.mof.go.th).

4.2.27. This sub-component also supported the activity to modernize government-owned
specialized financial institutions (SFIs) through studies related to structural adjustment of the
economy. A time-bound action plan was developed to rationalize the roles, scope of activities
and fiscal treatment of the eight key SFIs, given that the government planned to use them to
catalyze lending. The project provided support for the SFIs to fund a comparative study and the
development of a time-bound plan for the establishment of the Thai National Real Estate
Information Center (NREIC) which will reduce information inefficiencies in the market. The
comparative study was completed and the NREIC was subsequently established. The database
structure was designed and prepared and the NREIC webpage was launched ­ www.nreic.or.th.
Under the business plan for NREIC, significant expenditures would be required for IT
infrastructure. During the ICR mission, while management of the GHB appreciated the provided
advisory services, it noted that it had to fund equipment for the Center to make it operational. As
the cost of computers was a large item, GHB has rationalized the strategy. It will first focus on
linking existing property and transaction data from various sources, and will make it available to
the market. Once a revenue base is built, infrastructure will be developed as needed. Further
assistance from the Bank to GHB was provided through CDP framework (Section 6.2.4).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1. Not applicable. However, the project would improve the efficiency of resource allocation
and hence returns on investment generally.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1. Not applicable. However, the project would yield significant returns by augmenting the
Royal Thai Government's institutional capacity.




                                                 - 14 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1. The project's institutional development impact was high. It provided the means for the
government to improve the capability of key financial agencies to formulate and implement
policies, at first to deal with the financial crisis and later to move beyond the crisis for better
management of the financial and banking sectors. Institutional development activities
strengthened the regulatory environment for financial management and state enterprises and
helped government agencies to face the challenges posed by the exposure of Thailand to
increasing globalization. The project helped institute modern and more efficient processes, legal
measures and framework required for effective management of the financial sector and
formulation of needed financial policies by the government.

4.5.2. FSIAL in effect initiated many of the first steps in institutional reforms and changes that
constituted a continuing process to improve institutional management of the country after the
project closed. The impact on institutional development is still developing as many activities are
continued by the responsible agencies, some with already positive results and responses from both
the management and the recipients of these activities.

4.5.3. The FRA, which was supported by the project, carried out its mandate successfully and
completed its resolution of 58 finance companies in a record time, thus preparing a good
foundation for the financial sector to build on these achievements.

4.5.4. The sub-component for GHB has helped to focus management on risk management in
banking practices as a by-product of the project. While the project did not support the credit risk
management of GHB per se, the ICR mission noted that the Chief Financial Officer now
emphasizes the awareness of risk and how to manage risk and acknowledged that the change in
focus was initiated with the support from this project. It also brought knowledge about
international banking and financial practices, such as mortgage insurance, credit reference for loan
applications, etc. GHB benefited further from Bank assistance under the CDP umbrella (see
Section 6.2.4).

4.5.5. The sub-component which supported the Economic Law Reform Program added valuable
experience to the work at the ELDI. Despite the brief implementation period, this activity has
brought new approaches and opportunities that would not have been available due to lack of
manpower and resources. The work for an on-line economic law database has been initiated with
positive feedback from the users (at the web page address: www.lawreform.go.th). One private
company has already agreed to donate funding to help sustain the web site. Thammasat
University is cooperating with ELDI on further legal research and law database.

4.5.6. The sub-project on promoting corporate restructuring with the TRF has helped to develop
a good participatory approach in the drafting of legal documents which proved to be highly
effective in getting the public involved as well as interaction between researchers and lawmakers.




                                                    - 15 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1. Similar to projects that provide assistance for a large number of agencies, coordination
among Thai agencies and ministries presented a challenge to the government and the principal
implementing agency. The degree of familiarity with project implementation guidelines and
procedures varied across these agencies and these could not be solved in the short term.

5.1.2. The unfamiliarity with Bank procurement guidelines at the beginning of the project was
also a challenge as the Borrower had not borrowed from the Bank for a long time. This was
addressed later when the Bank appointed a procurement specialist and the procurement team in its
office in Bangkok to help with this process.

5.1.3. The procurement of timely services from international consultants depended on the speed
and response of the latter to the government's advertisements and the consultants' availability for
the assignment, as well as their familiarity with local conditions. Thus, there were delays in
getting some consultants on board in time and also for the delivery and quality of their services.

5.1.4. Some activities which depended on the approval of the legislative branch of the
government may be beyond the government's (executive branch) control.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1. Most of the activities to be implemented were under the government control and its
implementing agencies. As there was strong ownership among them, the project was completed,
albeit with two extensions totaling three years. But the government delivered its promises and
most of the activities were carried out and completed satisfactorily.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1. The PIU, under the overall FPO guidance was responsible for the coordination between its
departments and with other relevant agencies and ministries to carry out the activities. The initial
unfamiliarity with Bank's procedures and diverse components of the project among many
ministries and agencies created some challenges at times for the implementation of the project.
However, the learning-by-doing process improved with time while the project was implemented.


5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1. The total cost of the project was estimated at $22 million, $15 million of which was
financed by IBRD with a interest rate equal to LIBOR plus ½ of 1 percent, a three-year grace
period and 15 years to maturity; a commitment fee of 0.75 percent was also charged. The
government committed a $7 million. About $5.2 million which was to be financed by IBRD was
cancelled because the government was able to use grant aid for some of these activities which



                                                     - 16 -

were supposedly funded by the project. This came about because at the time the project was
approved, bilateral donors were not yet ready to provide assistance. As the project continued,
more and more grant funding was made effective to help address Thailand's crisis. Consequently,
some components in this project were supported subsequently by these grant funds, some of
which were Trust Funds administered by the World Bank.

5.4.2. The project followed the Bank procurement guidelines and there are no issues with
procurements. There were however some delays at the beginning of the project due to the
Borrower's unfamiliarity with Bank's guidelines in general and of the procurement guidelines in
particular. But these were improved through learning by doing and by Bank's staff on
procurement in the Bank's Country Office. The Borrower followed and complied with the
covenants under the Loan Agreement.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1.   The overall project sustainability is rated likely. The project objectives have been
achieved despite the large number of tasks and activities funded by the project. All the
sub-components have been completed at the closure of the project. Some sub-components were
successfully achieved with clear and sustainable results after the project's closure. Many of the
implementing agencies continue the activities funded under this project with their own budget
after the project closed.

6.1.2. For some activities, the new processes and instruments which were introduced by the
project were adopted subsequently by the implementing agencies as part of their regular
businesses and administration processes or inputs. For example, the BOT completed the Financial
Sector Blueprint (medium-term strategy) under their own funding; the successful mediation
process in the Office of the Judiciary (OOJ) has developed to the satisfaction of OOJ. Other
examples on sustainability of the project include ELDI, TRF and GHB as discussed earlier. For
other activities, the results have been used for further actions within their agencies or continued to
serve as a tool in their reform agenda or program. New administrative units were established that
now serve the government in the management of the country's financial sector.

6.1.3. All together, the project's components have instituted valuable and practical building
blocks that contributed to the government's overall reform program and the project's
development objectives. In the aftermath of the 1997 crisis, the project helped the government to
focus directly its attention on specific measures to be undertaken immediately to address the
shortcomings in the financial sector as revealed by the crisis. It introduced practical measures to
resolve urgent and key issues at hand. Further, the government demonstrated its commitment to
carry out the reform activities as called for in the project through its requests for extensions of the
closing date in order to complete them in a satisfactory manner.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1. FSIAL was part of a larger package designed by the Bank to help the Borrower to


                                                  - 17 -

weather the 1997 crisis. This project served as a platform for Bank's dialogue and assistance in
the financial sector with the government in conjunction with the series of Economic and Financial
Adjustment Loans and the Public Sector Reform Loan to Thailand and a vehicle for positive
contributions to these structural adjustment operations. FSIAL buttressed Bank's policy-based
lending in the areas of competitiveness, privatization and financial sector reform. It is however
unlikely that conventional lending operations will be under consideration by the Bank. Thailand
has now emerged from the financial crisis and the country's needs for further reforms are being
undertaken by the government's own resources.

6.2.2. As conventional lending instruments are no longer appropriate, the Bank has instituted a
new form of support, the CDP (as discussed earlier), in its program of assistance to the
government. The CDPs are led by the government with the Bank and other partners supporting
the development of the overall reform framework, analytical work, capacity building and
provision of technical assistance. The government and the Bank will engage in CDPs very
selectively and in only a few specific areas. The Bank, through the CDP, is supporting the
government in four reform areas: financial and corporate reform, knowledge economy,
modernizing infrastructure regulatory framework and SOE reform, and strengthening the business
environment. By FY 04-05, the Bank will complete its support to the current CDPs for
Governance and Public Sector Reform, Social Protection, Financial and Corporate
Competitiveness, and Poverty Analysts and Monitoring. It may continue to engage in a limited
number of new CDPs, possibly for education, knowledge economy, environment, or
infrastructure.

6.2.3.    Within the financial and corporate reform, FSIAL has served as a good foundation for
the CDP to maintain the momentum toward further strengthening the financial structure,
enhancing the regulatory and supervisory regime, and an enabling environment for corporate
restructuring and legal and judicial development. The Bank is working with Thailand to develop
the capital markets through the Capital Market Master Plan so as to diversify means for
mobilization of domestic long-term sources of financing, reduce the reliance on the banking sector
and enhance the economy resiliency to shocks. The Capital Market Master Plan aims to (i)
enhance corporate governance, (ii) expand the investor base, (iii) reform the supervision system to
support the market development, (iv) strengthen the market intermediaries, (v) enhance the
quality and quantity of securities in the market, and (vi) enhance the efficiency of the market
infrastructure and reduce transaction cost. Specifically, the Bank is providing capacity building
assistance to MOF in the design and implementation of pension reform as part of the CDP for
social protection within the aim to strengthen the investor base.

6.2.4. FSIAL supported many activities in CDP-FC (CDP ­ Financial and Corporate
Competitiveness) including technical assistance to the SEC to identify impediments to securities
borrowing and lending and make recommendation to remove those impediments. This is an
activity under capital market development of CDP-FC. Some activities, initiated by FSIAL, had
been carried forward under the CDP-FC. Those activities include technical assistance to help (i)
promote sound intermediation and new lending on a risk-adjusted basis to support sustainable
growth; (ii) insure a level-playing field among state-owned and private financial institutions, and
(iii) separate subsidies from finance on the balance sheets of state-owned financial institutions.



                                                - 18 -

Specifically, the CDP helped the GHB in modeling its portfolio and deciding on whether to
support private mortgage insurance in Thailand. The CDP also supports the NREIC to implement
its action plan to begin operations, acquire necessary MIS, and deliver its first reports to clients
and the public.

6.2.5. The World Bank and Thailand have, in the past few years, worked closely together within
the CDP framework to move the relationship to a newer and richer stage. The Executive
Summary of "Thailand-World Bank Group Partnership for Development" noted that the
relationship between Thailand and the Bank Group has progressed from primarily a
borrower-lender relationship toward a true development partnership today. While financial
support remains an important part of this partnership ­ especially for IFC and MIGA transactions
­ the Bank's role has evolved more toward facilitating knowledge sharing and providing policy
advice on medium-term structural issues. Building on this evolving approach, the new
Thailand-World Bank Group partnership focuses on diagnostic and monitoring work and a limited
amount of implementation support for selected critical issues in Thailand's overall national
development agenda.

        11
         . Thailand-World Bank Group Partnership for Development, Executive Summary, 2002.



7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1. The Bank's performance in project preparation is rated satisfactory. The instrument was
prepared in record time during the height of the crisis, which gave the authorities the funding tool
needed to start up the FRA and to deal with the suspended finance companies, the immediate
priority. Bank staff were able to identify key activities in various agencies and ministries to be
supported under this project. The Bank's Country Office with its resident Country Director and
financial analyst, served as an efficient vehicle to identify on a timely basis necessary and relevant
components for the project and allowed for its preparation and appraisal in a very short time
frame.


7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1. The Bank's performance in the overall supervision of the project was satisfactory, despite
a change in task managers. A key to success was the senior and integrated team, based in the
Bank's Country Office, which helped the authorities to implement and amend the loan to reflect
the changing needs of the government in this sector. The presence of financial staff and
procurement staff in the field contributed greatly to the smooth supervision and disbursement of
the project. The frequent missions from the Bank's headquarters ­ usually led by the task
manager ­ facilitated the supervision process and allowed for quick responses to government
requests and additional funding requirements and reallocation of some parts of the loan.

7.2.2. However, the project experienced difficulties in the disbursement process, as a result of


                                                       - 19 -

the unfamiliarity of the staff in the PIU on the Bank's disbursement guidelines and procedures in
the management and monitoring of the special account and the change in task manager. The high
turnover of staff in the PIU did not help to minimize these difficulties and necessitated close
supervision and monitoring by the Bank's disbursement staff.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1. The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory in this project. The Bank anticipated
the activities and the actions that were needed by the Borrower following the 1997 crisis for the
financial sector. It provided close support, supervision and coordination with the government, the
TACIG and the implementing agencies in order to carry out the planned activities. Importantly,
Bank staff was asked by the government to coordinate technical assistance by all the partners and
periodic review meetings to discuss future needs and each partner's assistance. This service eased
the burden on the authorities of managing information and the assistance during the crisis.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1. The government's role in the preparation was satisfactory, given the urgent needs for
technical assistance support to address the economic challenges in the aftermath of the crisis.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1. The government performance was satisfactory. The project reflected the strong
ownership of the technical assistance program among the government and its implementing
agencies for each of the components actually supported by the project. The government was
committed to carrying out the activities supported by the project to their successful completion
and the two extensions allowed for the completion of reform activities in the financial sector.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1. The performance of the main implementing agency, the Ministry of Finance, was
satisfactory. As the project has several components which were managed by different agencies,
the FPO was the supervising unit in charge of this project. FPO oversaw the coordination and
cooperation between all the government agencies and with the Bank through the PIU which
administered the loan.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1. The government overall performance was satisfactory. There was close cooperation
between the government and the Bank during the implementation of the project, facilitated by the
Bank's Country Office, the task manager and the resident financial and procurement team
members. MOF, through the FPO and the PIU, provided strong leadership and facilitated the



                                                 - 20 -

implementation of this project which covered many agencies and ministries, as shown by its
determination to complete successfully these activities.


8. Lessons Learned


8.1.     The major lessons are:

·        Overall strong support and ownership from the government contributed to the successful
completion of the project (as now defined), especially in the introduction of important changes in
key agencies and ministries.
·        Clear ownership from each individual agency helped to carry out the anticipated reforms
and ensure the outcome of the activities supported by the project.
·        In this project, there was a high turnover of the PIU staff that adversely affected the
project implementation in some activities, in addition to the unfamiliarity of the Borrower's
implementing agencies with Bank's guidelines and procedures. Thus, special attention is needed
in such projects to ensure properly established and staffed PIU.
·        Close supervision by the Bank's task manager ensured that the project met its objectives
and allowed the Bank to be flexible to meet the changing needs of the government through
amendments to the loan. Such activity is especially required in technical assistance projects with
many different and seemingly unrelated components.
·        The Bank's resident staff greatly facilitated the implementation process while the resident
procurement staff contributed to the smooth processing of disbursements. The flow of
information on Bank procedures, especially on Bank procurement procedures, and good transfer
of knowledge ensures effective project implementation.
·        Close coordination and cooperation between the Bank and the PIU helped to ensure the
project was implemented according to schedule and changes were accommodated on a timely
basis.
·        Capacity building and institutional development activities have been sustained with
continuing efforts beyond the project life by the agencies and ministries concerned. This project
has provided basic building blocks for the realization of these activities. In such projects, care
should be taken to insure knowledge transfer from consultants to the country to strengthen
capacity building.
·        Time frame required for institutional building operations: the project was extended twice
(for a total period of three years) so that activities under various components could be completed.
The time actually taken to introduce changes in government processes and required for adequate
institutional building as well as the time to select well-qualified consultants will need to be taking
into consideration in planning similar technical assistance projects.
·        The project supported many activities and some were completed a long time before the
project's closing. For the completed activities, there was a long lead time before the ICR was
prepared. Consequently, it was difficult for those government officials ­ many of whom had
moved on to other responsibilities ­ to remember what was achieved and how it was
implemented. For such projects, some mechanism would be needed to assess such activities
immediately upon completion to facilitate the subsequent preparation of the ICR.



                                                  - 21 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


        FINANCIAL SECTOR IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE LOAN (FSIAL)

                                      LOAN No. 4233-TH

                                  Borrower's Evaluation Report


9.1. Project Background

9.1.1 Background. On September 11, 1997, the Executive Directors of the World Bank
approved a US$ 15 million equivalent loan to the Kingdom of Thailand to finance the Financial
Sector Implementation Assistance Project (FSIAP). The Loan Agreement was signed on October
9, 1997 and was effective on December 5, 1997. The original closing date was September 30,
2000, which was extended first to September 30, 2001 and later to September 30, 2003 in order
to provide adequate time for effectively implementing the new programs added in two consecutive
restructurings of the project.

9.1.2 Original Objectives and Components. The original objectives of the project were to
provide implementation assistance to the Royal Thai Government for the improvement of the
structure, resiliency and soundness of the financial sector and to address the immediate need to
resolve financial institutions, which were suspended during the economic crisis. The project
originally comprised of the following main components:

·       Strengthening the Financial Sector (Component A)
·       Project Management and Coordination (Component C)

9.1.3 Project Restructuring. After completing the main activities to strengthen the financial
sector, commitments and disbursements of the loan started to slow down. Therefore, the project
has been restructured twice to include programs that previously were not included in the overall
program and were crucial for consolidating the financial sector reforms. The first restructuring
was in December 1999 to include the program for Promoting Corporate Restructuring
(Component B), aimed at accelerating the resolution of non-performing debts in Thailand's
corporate sector. The second restructuring was in November 2000 to include the Economic Law
Reform Capacity Building (Component D), aimed at strengthening Thailand's institutional
framework and capacity for strategic coordination/leadership of economic law reform.

9.1.4 Under the project's components, there were 54 sub-projects, which were complementary
and designed to reach the overall project objectives. The project was, thus, implemented by 11
participating agencies under the supervision of the Technical Assistance Coordination and
Implementation Group (TACIG) of the FPO (See Annex).



                                              - 22 -

9.2. Achievement of Project

Component A: Strengthening the Financial Sector

9.2.1 The key areas supported by this component included: (i) resolution of troubled financial
institutions; (ii) strengthening of supervisory process; (iii) improvement of the legal framework for
bankruptcy and foreclosure processes; and (iv) studies of the role, competitiveness and efficiency
of the current structure and activities of the financial sector. One additional program to strengthen
the institutional capacity of the Public Debt Management Office (PDMO) was initiated in late
1999 and later cancelled due to the availability of other grant funds. In May 2003, another new
program to study the securities borrowing and lending (SBL) market in Thailand was identified
and carried out by the Office of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) during the last four
months of the project.

(i) Resolution of Financial Institutions

9.2.2 Financial Sector Restructuring Authority (FRA). This component was the main purpose
of the project supporting 33 activities to resolve the troubled financial institutions through FRA,
accounted for over fifty percent of total project cost. The work of this component was completed.
All technical assistances supported by the loan were successful, except for the FRA Liquidation
Process: Adjudication, Distribution and Wind Down. In this case, the FRA determined that the
work delivered by the consultant did not serve FRA's needs and payment was adjusted
accordingly.


9.2.3 Bank of Thailand (BOT). The project provided advice on the restructuring of debts owned
by finance companies and the restructuring and privatization strategy for four intervened
commercial banks. Proceeds of the loan were also used to conduct the BOT's training seminars
on financial analysis model and intervention methodology.

9.2.4 Asset Management Corporation (AMC). The AMC was established in 1997 as a special
organization to purchase, manage and dispose of the distressed assets including those from the
FRA that could not be sold. Currently, the AMC is still working to resolve the acquired assets.
The loan proceeds were used to conduct a third party review of the AMC.

9.2.5 Fiscal Policy Office (FPO). To further strengthen the resolution of financial institutions,
the project also supported the hiring of FPO's supporting staff to work in its restructuring of
specialized financial institutions program.

(ii) Strengthening of Supervision

9.2.6 Bank of Thailand (BOT). The loan proceeds were used to conduct the TORs and testing
for diagnostic review of finance companies that signed the MOU with the BOT as well as to
support the diagnostic review of suspended finance companies. The project also provided a
comprehensive review for the restructuring of the BOT including a study - Looking to the Future:



                                                 - 23 -

Opportunities for Improved Effectiveness of the Bank of Thailand. The overall efforts to
strengthen the BOT have been well received.

(iii) Support to Bankruptcy and Foreclosure

9.2.7 Legal Execution Department (LED).           The project helped strengthen the institutional
capacity of the LED in particular the Business Reorganization Office (BRO) to handle both
insolvency and business reorganization cases. The project provided the LED with the
development in human resources and operating procedures that meet international standards.
These developments were required to cope with the new business reorganization laws and create
confidence among foreign investors. The activities were highly successful as the trained staffs
have been given responsibility in developing the LED's operating procedures and in preparing
relevant staffs for the new procedures.

(iv) Studies of the Role, Competitiveness and Efficiency of the Current Structure and
Activities of the Financial Sector

9.2.8 Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This part of the project aimed at conducting
an assessment, strategy and action plan to develop and promote the SBL market in Thailand,
which is very important to the development of a vibrant and strong capital market. The objectives,
scope of work and project tasks reached satisfactory. The consultant's recommendations were
practical and reasonable which the SEC could use as guidelines for its future operation.

Component B : Promote Corporate Restructuring

9.2.9 This component was originally given to the Corporate Debt Restructuring Advisory
Committee (CDRAC) of the Bank of Thailand to support the voluntary corporate debt
restructuring program. However, due to the tremendous funds given to CDRAC to implement its
program, the eligibility of the loan proceeds was consequently transferred from CDRAC to the
Office of the Judiciary (OJ) to support the in-court mediation for financial disputes.

9.2.10 Office of the Judiciary (OJ). The project provided funding to support the Mediation
Center for Financial Disputes of the OJ in three areas: purchasing computers, hiring mediators and
hiring financial advisors. The project was viewed as successful indicated by numbers of settlement
through mediation in the past two years. The mediation has helped reduce a growing judicial
court load, speed the resolution process and substantially reduce the cost of dispute resolution.

9.2.11 Thailand Research Fund (TRF).         The project supported the activities to promote the
public participatory in Thailand's business law reform. The participatory process was carried out
through the production of TV programs, TV documentaries, booklets, workshops, public
seminars and an executive summary report. The program was well received by public and private
sectors indicated by a large number of letters and responses to the program. The participatory
process and activities helped convince key leaders from public, private and civil society sectors to
support close consultation with stakeholders in developing Thai law.




                                                - 24 -

Component C : Project Management and Coordination

(i) Strengthening of the Capacity of the FPO

9.2.12 Fiscal Policy Office (FPO). The loan funds were used by the FPO to hire consultants
and for a very small amount to purchase goods within the Technical Assistance Coordination and
Implementation Group (TACIG) ­ formerly Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The TACIG
supported the implementation of the project and also provided technical advices to the eligible
implementing agencies. The TACIG, like any newly set up office, faced some difficulties at the
beginning and gradually improved its operation through the job experience. The overall project
management is satisfactory despite high staff turnover rate.

9.2.13 The loan funds were also used to modernize the FPO's IT system, including system design
and equipment purchase, and to develop its website. The modernized system has served well the
FPO's needs and has been rated highly satisfactory. As the government's pioneer
workflow-project, many government agencies have visited and referred to this project for
guidance.

(ii) Carrying out of Studies Related to Economic Structural Adjustment

9.2.14 Government Housing Bank (GHB). In late 1999, the government identified three new
areas to support the GHB: first, a study to assess and propose measures for the adoption of a
Home-ownership Assistance Project; second, an assistance to strengthen the risk management of
the GHB; and third, the establishment of a National Real Estate Information Center (NREIC).
The advisory services related to the Home-ownership Assistance Project and the risk management
were delivered with the latter being funded mostly with grant funds.

9.2.15 To establish a permanent NREIC, the project supported the upgrading of the national
information system for housing, mortgage finance and property market in Thailand. The NREIC
program comprised of three phases: Strategy and Framework Design Phase, Detailed Designed
Phase and Implementation Phase. All researches, surveys and modeling were completed. The
database structure was designed and prepared and the website www.nreic.or.th was launched.
The NREIC will be a new legal entity in Thailand where the government agencies, financial
institutions, private developers, professional organizations and firms are able to share timely and
accurate information about the current performance and trends in housing and other sectors of the
real estate industry. The Center will also provide a warning system to the country.

Component D : Economic Law Reform Capacity Building

9.2.16 Council of State (COS). The project supported the Economic Law Reform Program of
the COS in four key areas: the establishment of the Economic Law Development Institute
(ELDI), the establishment of Thai Economic Law Database (TELD), Legal Research and Law
Drafting. To build institutional capacity of ELDI, full-time consultants were engaged and needed
equipment were procured. The most critical area of this component was the development of a
centralized database of existing economic laws (www.lawreform.go.th) that would greatly



                                                - 25 -

facilitate the work of legislators, investors, researchers as well as those involved in the financial
sector in Thailand. Software and hardware were acquired for the database. In conducting legal
researches, ten research topics were identified, however, only two topics on SME development
and business mergers and acquisitions could be completed. The translation of the laws in the
database into English and the last area of this component, Law Drafting, had to be cancelled due
to the insufficient time remaining.

9.2.17 Overall, the results of this component were satisfactory despite certain delays and failure
to complete before the end of the loan. The work has contributed greatly to the law reform
process of Thailand since it has provided necessary information and direction for implementing
the law reform program. For the activities that could not be completed, the COS will continue the
work using other sources of fund.

9.3. Project Financing

9.3.1 The project was financed with US$ 15 million from the World Bank. At the closure of the
project, US$ 9.81 million was disbursed. The government has cancelled the unused loan balance
of US$ 5 million in two cancellations: first, on August 23, 2002 in the amount of US$ 1.4 million
and second, on September 10, 2003 in the amount of US$ 3.6 million. An undisbursed balance of
US$ 0.19 million was also cancelled after the project closed. The total cost of the project was
lower than originally estimated mainly because of the availability of fund furnished by an
emergency grant financing package from bilateral and multilateral sources.

9.4. Borrower and Bank Performance

9.4.1 The government and the Bank's performance was satisfactory. There was close
cooperation between the government and the Bank during the life of the project. The MOF
through the TACIG of the FPO facilitated the smooth implementation of the project while the
Bank staff especially the task manager and the procurement staff in Bangkok provided close
support and supervision to the TACIG and the PIAs.

5. Lesson Learned

9.5.1 Changes of the Bank and the TACIG's staff. Changes of the Bank's task manager and
high turnover of TACIG's personnel during the project period could adversely affect the
continuity of this type of project with many activities and implementing agencies. Special attention
would be needed to ensure smooth transition between task managers and to keep the knowledge
in project management current among TACIG's staff.

9.5.2 Language barrier.        In any technical assistance project that uses foreign consultants,
English language is important. Thus, the government should assign staffs that are proficient in
English in order to fully benefit from the assistance and be able to smoothly transfer the
knowledge to relevant staffs and offices.




                                                 - 26 -

9.5.3 Preparation of TORs. Some works under the project were delayed during the preparation
of TORs, for example, the legal research program of the COS. To avoid such delay, there should
be closer cooperation and coordination among the project implementation unit, the Bank and the
participating agency to ensure the quality and the timely preparation of the TORs.

9.5.4 Project evaluation.         The project involved many activities and some were completed long
before the project closed. As a result, some government agencies had difficulties in recalling their
implementation experiences during the ICR preparation. In this case, there should be a mechanism
to evaluate the activities once they were completed to facilitate the preparation of the
government's evaluation report and the Bank's ICR.


                                               ANNEX

                          Project Components and Implementing Agencies


     Number                                           Title                                      PIAs

  Component A:   Strengthening the Financial Sector
                 (i) Resolution of Financial Institutions
                     (a) Direct support to FRA
                 Study on Thai Financial Services Industry; Key Factors for Success and
        1                                                                                        FRA
                 Database of Key Data
        2        Financial Model Assumptions and User Support                                    FRA
        3        General Support to FRA Management (Phase I)                                     FRA
                 Financial analysis model and a reporting formal; procedures for limited
        4                                                                                        FRA
                 sample review of valuation used in rehabilitation plans
                 Continued financial analysis model support for specific rehabilitation
        5                                                                                        FRA
                 proposals of the FCs and general support to the FRA
        6        Compile capital adequacy review                                                 FRA
                 Continued financial analysis model support in the collation/aggregation of
        7                                                                                        FRA
                 data required for the communication of evaluation

        8        Sample review of asset valuations inherent in rehabilitation plans to 31 Jul 97 FRA

        9        Sample review of asset valuations; update 31 Oct 97 -Additional                 FRA
       10        Pre-take-over planning                                                          FRA
                 Coordination of Special Managers for the implementation of take-over plans
       11                                                                                        FRA
                 (FRACU)
       12        FRACU - extension (time and scope)                                              FRA
       13        Legal Support to FRA                                                            FRA
       14        Public relations support to FRA                                                 FRA
                 Support FRA management in defining asset disposition methods and
       15                                                                                        FRA
                 processes

       16        Support FRA management in writing policies and procedures for sales assets      FRA

       17        Operational review for FCs whose rehabilitation plans have been approved        FRA
                 Overall project coordination and integration (Special Advisor to FRA - Phase
       18                                                                                        FRA
                 I)
       19        Overall project Coordination (Phase 2)                                          FRA




                                                     - 27 -

                  Post-take-over support to the FRA - support to the asset sales process
        20                                                                                    FRA
                  (FRASU)
        21        Post-take-over support to FRA - general support and training                FRA
                  Post-take-over support to the FRA - support in auditing, accounting and
        22                                                                                    FRA
                  invoicing (FRACU)
        23        Legal Support to FRA (Phase II)                                             FRA
        24        Public relation support to FRA (Phase II)                                   FRA
        25        Sales Process support - real estate strategic survey                        FRA
                  Sales Process support-legal advisor to the sales process (Phase I : WB
        26                                                                                    FRA
                  financing; Phase II; covered by sales proceeds)
        27        FRASU-Sales process implementation Phase III                                FRA
        28        FRACU-Phase II : Creditor Liaison                                           FRA
        29        Sales Process Implementation Phase V                                        FRA
        30        Sales Process Implementation Phase VI                                       FRA
        31        FRA Liquidation Process: Adjudication, Distribution and Wind down           FRA
                  Independent third party review of consistency of proposed FRA decision with
        32                                                                                    FRA
                  criteria agreed by Bank, Fund and Government
        33        Second third party review of FRA                                            FRA
                      (b) Other support
        34        Advice to BOT regarding the restructuring of debts owed by FCs              BOT
                  Training seminar for BOT on financial analysis model and intervention
        35                                                                                    BOT
                  methodology
                  Restructuring and privatization strategy for the 4 intervened commercial
        36                                                                                    BOT
                  banks
        37        Third party review of AMC                                                   AMC
        38        Restructuring of Specialized Financial Institutions (Supporting Staff)      FPO
                  (ii) Strengthening of Supervision
                  TORs and testing for diagnostic review of FCs that have signed a MOU with
        39                                                                                    BOT
                  BOT; Diagnostic review of 9 FCs
        40        Diagnostic review of other FCs                                              BOT
        41        Comprehensive Review for Restructuring of the Bank of Thailand              BOT
                  (iii) Support to Bankruptcy and Foreclosure
        42        Training of MOJ officials - International Association of Annual Meeting     LED
        43        Short - term On-the-job Training-BRO staff                                  LED
                  Strengthening the Business Reorganization Office (BRO) of the Legal
        44                                                                                    LED
                  Execution Department
                  (iv) Studies of the Role, Competitiveness and Efficiency of the Current
                  Structure and Activities of the Financial Sector
        45        A Study of Securities Borrowing and Lending Market in Thailand              SEC
  Component B:    Promote Corporate Restructuring
        46        Thailand Legal Development Project                                          TRF
        47        In-court Mediation for Financial Disputes                                    OJ
  Component C: Project Management and Coordination
                  (i) Strengthening of the Capacity of the FPO
        48        Modernizing the FPO's IT System                                             FPO
        49        Website Development of FPO                                                  FPO
        50        Project Management                                                          FPO
        51        Procurement of Giids for FPO                                                FPO
                  (ii) Carrying out of Studies Related to Economic Structural Adjustment
        52        National Real Estate Information Center                                     GHB
        53        Home-Ownership Assistance project                                           GHB
  Component D: Economic Law Reform Capacity Building
        54        Economic Law Reform Capacity Building                                       COS

(b) Cofinanciers:



                                                        - 28 -

None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

None

10. Additional Information




                                             - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Please see Annex 7 for the Summary of Activities and Results




                                                 - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal      Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                              Estimate           Estimate    Appraisal
                        Component                            US$ million       US$ million
1. Financial Sector
1.1 Strengthening financial institution resolution processes      9.20               6.30           69
1.2 Improving capacity to identify future problem financial       2.30               1.00           42
institutions in an appropriate time frame and raising
supervisory standards
1.3 Rationalizing the supervisory regime                          0.20               0.40          200
1.4 Strengthening market discipline                               1.60               0.60           40
1.5 Improving the bankruptcy and collateral foreclosure           0.40               0.30           61
processes
1.6 Implemeting financial infrastructure and institutional        0.90               0.30           34
changes
2.1 Consulting services for studies                               0.40               0.70          172
2.2 Equipment                                                     0.00               0.30          260

Total Baseline Cost                                              15.00               9.90
                           Total Project Costs                   15.00               9.90
                    Total Financing Required                     15.00               9.90
Note:

1. Details may not add to total due to rounding.
2. Figures are amounts to be financed by the Bank loan only.
3. The government requested, and the Bank agreed, to a cancellation of $5.2 million.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB             NCB                 2         N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                              0.00             0.00          18.60            0.00      18.60
                                      (0.00)          (0.00)        (11.90)          (0.00)    (11.90)
2. Goods                              0.00             0.10           0.00            0.00       0.10
                                      (0.00)          (0.10)         (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.10)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00           2.20            0.00       2.20
Training                              (0.00)          (0.00)         (1.90)          (0.00)     (1.90)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00           1.10            0.00       1.10
                                      (0.00)          (0.00)         (1.10)          (0.00)     (1.10)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00           0.00            0.00       0.00
                                      (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00           0.00            0.00       0.00
                                      (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                              0.00             0.10          21.90            0.00      22.00
                                      (0.00)          (0.10)        (14.90)          (0.00)    (15.00)



                                                   - 31 -

Note:  1. Works -- Consultants' services and related expenses.
       2. Goods -- Equipment.

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              August 1997               8    2 Economists, 3 Financial Sector       S               S
                                             Specialists, 1 Legal Advisor, 1
                                             Banking Specialist, 1 Project
                                             Management Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              August-Septembe           8    2 Economists, 3 Financial              S               S
              r 1997                         Sector Specialists, 1 Legal
                                             Advisor, 1 Banking
                                             Specialist, 1 Project
                                             Management Specialist

 Supervision
              August 1998               5    2 Economists, 3 Financial              S               S
                                             Sector Specialists
              May 1999                  4    2 Economists, 2 Financial Sector       S               S
                                             Specialists
              December 1999             4    2 Economists, 2 Financial Sector       S               S
                                             Specialists
              June 2000                 4    2 Economists, 2 Financial Sector       S               S
                                             Specialists
              December 2000             4    2 Economists, 2 Financial Sector       S               S
                                             Specialists
              June 2001                 6    2 Economists, 3 Financial Sector       S               S
                                             Specialists, 1 Procurement
                                             Specialist
              December 2001             5    1 Economists, 3 Financial Sector       S               S
                                             Specialists, 1 Procurement
                                             Specialist
              May 2002                  4    3 Financial Sector Specialists, 1      S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist
              November 2002             4    3 Financial Sector Specialists, 1      S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist
              March 2003                4    3 Financial Sector Specialists, 1      S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist
              October 2003              4    3 Financial Sector Specialists, 1      S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist

 ICR
              January 2004              2     1 FMS/Task Manager, 1                 S               S
                                              economist




                                              - 34 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  144                         504.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      75.8                         265.2
  Supervision                               125.5                         439.1
  ICR                                        18.0                           62.9
  Total                                     363.2                       1,271.3
Note: Figures do not include Trust Funds.




                                                 - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Annex 7. FSIAL: List of Activities

       Activity                                                                 Project       Committed
                                                                              Implementing   Amount (US$)
                                                                                Agency
Part A Strengthening the financial sector
       1. Resolution of financial institutions
       a. Direct support to FRA
   1   Study on Thai financial services industry, key factors for success and    FRA          30,491.25
       database of key data
   2   Financial model assumptions and user support                              FRA            5,157.07
   3   General support to FRA management (phase I)                               FRA           215,423.00
   4   Financial analysis model and a reporting formal procedures for             FRA           70,000.00
       limited sample review of valuation used in
   5   Continued financial analysis model support for specific rehabilitation     FRA          140,669.00
       proposals of the FCs and general support to the FRA
   6   Compile capital adequacy review                                            FRA          140,800.30
   7   Continued financial analysis model support in the                          FRA           71,810.00
       collation/aggregation of data required for the communication of
       evaluation
   8   Sample review of asset valuations inherent in rehabilitation plans to      FRA          139,584.57
       31 Jul 97
   9   Sample review of asset valuations updated 31 Oct 97 - additional           FRA           98,042.53
  10   Pre-take over planning                                                    FRA           203,245.90
  11   Coordination of special managers for the implementation of                FRA           500,000.00
       take-over plans (FRACU)
  12   FRACU - extension (time and scope)                                         FRA          454,544.00
  13   Legal support to FRA                                                      FRA           441,913.83
  14   Public relations support to FRA                                           FRA            95,298.26
  15   Support FRA management in defining asset disposition methods and          FRA            41,602.00
       processes
  16   Support FRA management in writing policies and procedures for              FRA          240,497.00
       sales assets
  17   Operational review for FCs whose rehabilitation plans have been           FRA            22,648.15
       approved
  18   Overall project coordination and integration (special advisor to FRA      FRA           154,453.00
       - phase I)
  19   Overall project coordination (Phase 2)                                    FRA           234,331.00
  20   Post takeover support to the FRA - support to the asset sales process     FRA           392,153.00
       (FRASU)
  21   Post takeover support to the FRA - general support and                    FRA            64,244.00
  22   Post takeover support to the FRA - support in auditing, accounting,       FRA           209,803.00
       and invoicing (FRACU)
  23   Legal support to FRA (Phase II)                                            FRA          620,196.24
  24   Public relations support to FRA (Phase II)                                 FRA          102,909.61
  25   Sales Process support - real estate strategic survey                      FRA            18,518.52
  26   Sales process support - legal advisor to the sales process - Phase I      FRA           175,000.00
       WB financing: Phase II covered by sales
  27   FRASU-Sales process implementation Phase III                               FRA          396,455.00
  28   FRACU-Phase II Creditor Liaison                                            FRA          396,615.00
  29   Sale process implementation Phase V                                        FRA          162,803.00
  30   Sale process implementation Phase VI                                       FRA          402,129.50
  31   FRA Liquidation process adjudication distribution                         FRA            16,372.71




                                                           - 38 -

   Sub Total                                                                      6,317,710.44
   1. Resolution of financial institutions:
   b. Other support to resolution
32 Advice to BOT regarding the restructuring of debts owed by FCs         BOT        29,037.04
33 Training seminar for BOT on financial analysis model and               BOT        15,000.00
   intervention methodology
34 Independent third party review of consistency of proposed FRA          FRA       142,942.43
   decision with criteria agreed by Bank Fund and
35 Restructuring and privatization strategy for the 4 intervened          BOT       575,004.00
   commercial banks
36 Third party review of AMC                                              AMC        79,872.20
37 Second third party review of FRA                                       FRA        92,190.00
38 Restructuring of specialized financial institutions                    FPO        22,603.15
   Sub Total                                                                        956,648.82

   II Strengthening of supervision: (a) direct support to
   BOT/Improving supervision
39 TORs and testing for diagnostic review of FCs that have signed a       BOT       204,112.84
   MOU with BOT - Diagnostic review of 9 FCs
40 Diagnostic review of other FCs                                         BOT        93,700.00

41 Comprehensive review for restructuring of the BOT                      BOT        95,714.72

    - refund for Goldman-Sach                                             BOT        44,364.93

   Sub Total                                                                        437,892.49

   III. Support to bankruptcy and foreclosure
42 Training of MOJ officials - international association of annual        LED         2,347.53
   meeting
43 Short-term on the job training BRO staff                               LED
   - in Singapore and Hong Kong                                           LED        10,121.19
   - in England and Australia                                             LED        15,874.32
44 Strengthening the business reorganization office (BRO) of the legal    LED       217,099.82
   execution department
    - cost of advertisement for the project                               LED           428.61

   Sub Total III                                                                    245,871.47
   IV. Debt management
   Capacity building of debt management and IT system for PDMO            PDMO    1,000,000.00
   Sub Total IV
   V. Carrying out of (a) the Role, competitiveness and efficiency of
   the current structure and activities of the financial sector
45 A study of securities borrowing and lending infrastructure for the     SEC        80,000.00
   SEC
   Sub Total V                                                                       80,000.00



   Promote corporate restructuring
46 Thailand Legal Development Project                                     TRF
   Brochure                                                               TRF           255.81
   Seminars                                                               TRF         6,491.05
   TV Documentary Phase I                                                 TRF         2,434.20
   TV Documentary Phase II                                                TRF         6,844.44
   TV Talkshow: Phase I                                                   TRF         8,482.56
   TV Talkshow: Phase I                                                   TRF        10,901.96



                                                         - 39 -

   TV Talkshow: Phase I                                                   TRF     8,447.80

   Executive summary                                                      TRF     6,142.18

47 In-court mediation for financial disputes (Office of the Judiciary)    OJ
   1. Computers and accessories                                           OJ      4,539.53

   2. Mediator                                                            OJ     140,561.24

   3. Financial advisor                                                   OJ     13,516.91



   Project management and coordination
   1. Strengthening of the capacity of the FPO
48 FPO Modernizing the IT system                                          FPO
   Equipment purchase                                                     FPO    260,014.59
   System design - Phase I                                                FPO     92,591.47
   Back office - Phase 2                                                  FPO    107,385.17
   Cost of advertisement for the project                                  FPO        750.56
49 Website development of FPO                                             FPO
   Webmaster                                                              FPO      9,618.78
   Upgrade and development of FPO website                                 FPO     9,394.85

   Sub Total I                                                                   479,755.42

   II Project Management
50 Project management                                                     FPO
   PIU staff                                                              FPO     75,416.47
   Operating costs                                                        FPO      1,829.22
   health insurance                                                       FPO      3,569.48
51 Procurement of goods for FPO                                           FPO
                                                                          FPO      1,306.66
                                                                          FPO        530.82
   Sub Total II                                                                   82,652.65

   III. Carrying out the studies related to structural
52 National Real Estate Information Center                                GHB
   Phase I                                                                GHB     45,540.89
   Strategy and framework design                                          GHB
   Phase II                                                               GHB
   Detailed design phase                                                  GHB    76,437.08

   Research study situation of construction real estate project in BMR    GHB    11,035.30

   Research study Situation of NPL                                        GHB     8,850.84

   Phase III Implementation phase                                         GHB
   1. Consultant specialist analysis adhoc researches                     GHB    61,855.78

   IT planning                                                            GHB    56,769.23

   Modeling                                                               GHB
   1. Housing demand and supply modeling                                  GHB    76,923.08
   2. Application of model or indicators for Thai Real estate             GHB     25,641.03
   3. Application of model or indicators for Thai Real estate             GHB     48,717.95




                                                       - 40 -

  Nonperforming loan analysis (research)                      GHB       12,307.69
  organization consultant                                     GHB
  Administration and personnel consultant                     GHB
  Legal consultant                                            GHB       12,307.69
  Accounting and financial consultant                         GHB
  2. Data survey/Research                                     GHB
  database of thesis and research in housing                  GHB        7,568.12
  apartment & service apartment in Bangkok                    GHB       12,820.51
   shopping center & department store project in Bangkok      GHB       12,820.51

   office building projects in Bangkok                        GHB       76,923.08

   Housing projects in Bangkok                                GHB
   Uncompleted building in Bangkok                            GHB       23,076.92

                                                                        20,625.53
  Elementary computer system                                  GHB       28,212.68
    Access control                                            GHB          456.14
  Oversea study visit                                         GHB       10,710.00
  Contingency                                                 GHB
  Advertise for consultant                                    GHB          660.21
                                                                           833.68
53Homeownership assistance project                            GHB
   Consultants                                                GHB       39,830.00

                                                                        18,700.00

   Total III                                                           689,623.94



   Economic Law Reform Capacity Building
54 Economic Law Reform Capacity Building
  1. Establishing of ELDI                                     COS
  General equipment                                           COS        6,040.74
  Portable projector                                          COS        4,406.10
  3 notebook computers                                        COS        5,906.39
  6 desktop computers                                         COS        8,557.17
  2 scanners and switching hub for LAN                        COS        2,104.87
  Copy machine                                                COS        5,853.43
  Laser printer                                               COS        3,006.32
  Portable stand for projectors                               COS           84.09
  digital camera                                              COS          912.55
  Full time consultant                                        COS       19,547.24
  advertisement for consultants                               COS        2,055.11
  2. Establishment of TELD                                    COS
  Computer hardware and software                              COS       45,314.77
  Service subscription                                        COS        5,438.21
  Translation                                                 COS
  Database development program                                COS       98,370.51
  3. Legal research program                                   COS      107,692.31
                                                                        30,769.23
  4. Law drafting program                                     COS

   Grand total                                                       9,844,831.95




                                                    - 41 -

- 42 -

- 43 -

