Page  1
December 22, 1999 
Mr. Suphachai Phisitvanich 
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance 
Rama VI Road 
Bangkok, Thailand
RE:
Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Project (LN 
4233-TH) Amendment to 
Loan Agreement 
Dear Sir:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand (the Borrower) 
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), dated 
October 9, 1997 for the above-captioned Project, as amended by the Amendment Letters 
dated May 19, 1998, and September 28, 1999 (the Loan Agreement).  We also refer to 
your letter dated October 26, 1999, requesting the restructuring of the Project to 
support the Borrower’s program to facilitate corporate restructuring.
We are pleased to inform you that the Board of Executive Directors of the Bank 
concurred with your request to restructure the Project.  To give effect to such 
restructuring, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as set forth below.
1.
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is amended by the addition of the following 
definitions, and the renumbering of the existing paragraphs:
“(a)
“BOT” means the Bank of Thailand, the Borrower’s central bank, and 
any successor 
thereto;
(b) 
“CDRAC Office” means the Office of the Corporate Debt 
Restructuring Advisory 
Committee, established within BOT on January 1, 1999, 
and responsible for monitoring and 
facilitating the restructuring of 
distressed corporate entities in Thailand, and any successor 
thereto;
(c)
[…]
(d)  […] 
(e)
[…]
(f)   […]
(g)   […]”
2.
Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2001 or such 
later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.” 
3.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read 
as set forth in the Attachment to this Letter.
4.
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, Description of the Project, is hereby amended 
by (a) amending the first paragraph thereof;  (b) re-numbering Part B as Part C; and 
(c) introducing a new Part B, all as follows: 
“The objectives of the Project are: (1) to support short and medium-term 
reforms of the 
Borrower’s financial sector through the development of a 
program to address the current crisis of 
its financial institutions and improve 
the soundness and resiliency of the financial sector; and 
(2) to assist the Borrower 
to promote corporate restructuring in order restore the 
Page  2
creditworthiness, financial position and competitiveness of its corporate sector and 
to enhance 
recovery of non-performing loans and thereby strengthen the financial 
sector in Thailand.
[…]
Part A:
Strengthening the Financial Sector
[…]
Part B:
Promoting Corporate Restructuring
Carrying out of a program to facilitate corporate restructuring through 
the provision of 
consultants’ services, such program to consist of the 
provision, through CDRAC Office, of 
mediation and mediation-support services 
in the areas of, inter alia, audits, due diligence, 
financial analysis, legal 
support and industry expert assessments.
Part C:
Project Management and Coordination
[…]
****
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2001.”
5.
Sections 2 and 3 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, Implementation Program, 
are hereby amended as follows:
“2.
The Borrower shall: (a) by June 30 and December 31 of each year, 
starting in 
December 31, 1997, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review 
and approval, a semi-annual 
work plan for the carrying out of the Project 
during the next succeeding six-month period; and 
(b) implement such work 
plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
[…]
(b)
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, no later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year, 
commencing in 1998, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the quarter ending on December 31, 
March 31, June 30 and September 30 of each year, and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
(c)
prepare under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 30, 2000 a mid-term report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project to that date and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
(d)
review with the Bank, promptly after the date thereof, each such report 
referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.”
6.
Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement, Performance Monitoring Indicators, is hereby 
amended by the addition of the following paragraphs after the last line thereof: 
“Part B of the Project 
1.
Panel of mediators established by March 31, 2000; 
Page  3
2.
Panel of firms and individuals to provide mediation support  
services established 
by March 31, 2000; 
3.
Mediation and mediation support services provided for up to 75 
cases, and 
resolution reached in 50% of such cases by March 31, 2001.”
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Loan 
Agreement remain in full force and effect.  The above amendments shall enter into 
effect on the date upon which the Bank receives the copy of this letter duly 
countersigned by the representative of the Borrower.
Please confirm the agreement of the Borrower to the amendments set out in 
paragraphs 1 through 6 above, by countersigning and duly dating the corresponding form 
of confirmation set forth herein below, and returning one fully signed original to us 
for our files.  One fully signed original should be retained by the Borrower.
Yours sincerely,
By /s/ Jayasankar Shivakumar  
Country Director, 
Thailand 
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED:
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s/ Suphachai Phisitvanich
       Authorized Representative 
Permanent Secretary
Date:
February 14, 2000
Attachment
Revised Table of Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
    500,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures
for other items procured 
locally
(2)    Consultants’
 14,085,000
100%
Services
(3)    Training
    400,000
100%
(4)    Incremental Operating 
     15,000
100%
        Costs
TOTAL
 15,000,000
Page  4
