CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1580 MA
Loan Agreement
(Second Sabah Ports Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SABAH PORTS AUTHORITY
Dated September 20, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1580 MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 20, 1978, between INTERNA7IONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter calle. the
Bank) and THE SABAH PORTS AUTHORITY (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Enactment" means the Sabah Ports Authority Enactment
1967 and all amendments thereto;
(b) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement dated
June 30, 1971 between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(c) "M$" means Ringgit in the currency of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million
dollars ($13,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in


﻿-2-
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in (i)
carrying out site investigations and studies to determine silta-
tion rates  ground conditions, hydrography, topography and loca-
tion of suitable hydraulic sand filling and (ii) carrying out


﻿- 3 -
design and supervision, for Part A (1) through (5) of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C
(2) of the Project the Borrower shall employ management consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿-4-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, upon request, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations
of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall continue to use the existing
jetty at Tawau for light general cargo until it is replaced with
the concurrence of the Bank.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall by December 31, 1979, close
the shore port facilities at Semporna.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the facilities,
equipment, machinery or other property necessary or useful in the
operation of all the ports vested in it from time to time to be
operated, maintained, renewed and repaired in accordance with
sound engineering and management practices.


﻿-5-
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to ensure that the operation of all the ports vested in it from
time to time shall at all times be conducted, their affairs
managed, their future investments planned and a sound financial
situation maintained in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices and under the direction of
competent and experienced management.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrowei as security for any debt, such lien will ipso facto
equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of
any such lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no
cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for
the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any


﻿-6-
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all such measures, including but not
limited to adjustments of tariffs, as shall be required to earn
an annual rate of return of not less than six per cent (6%) in
each of fiscal years 1978 and 1979, of seven per cent (7%) in
each of fiscal years 1980 and 1981 and thereafter of an appro-
priate percentage to be agreed by the Bank and the Borrower by
December 31, 1981 based on a review of the Borrower's forecast
cash requirements for the period 1982 through 1985.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated in
respect of each fiscal year by relating the net
operating revenue for that year to the average of
the value of the net fixed assets in operation at
the beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii) the term "net operating revenue" shall mean the                a
difference between (A) gross operating revenue
excluding port charges for timber shipped at
anchorage and (B) operating and administrative
expenses, including adequate maintenance and
depreciation and taxes includ"i_ income taxes, if
any, but excluding interest and other charges on
debt (if any) and dividends on equity capital; and
(iii) the term "value of net fixed assets in operation"
shall mean the gross value of fixed assets in
operation less the accumulated depreciation, such
assets to be valued and such depreciation to be
calculated from time to time in accordance with
sound and consistently maintained methods of
valuation and depreciation acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall, until the completion of the
Project, consult with the Bank prior to undertaking or executing
any project or development (other than the Project), or making
any other investment, which would result in estimated aggregate
capital expenditures of the Borrower exceeding M$3,000,000 equiva-
lent in any fiscal year.


﻿-7-
Section 5.06. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not at any time incur any
debt, unless its net cash generation from operations for the
fiscal year immediately preceding such incurrence or a later
twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever is
the greater, shall not be less than 1.75 times the maximum debt
service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt
including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this
Section:
(i) the term "debt" shall mean all indebtedness of
the Borrower, maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of the contract or other
instrument providing for such debt or modifying its
terms of payment;
(iii) the term "net cash generation from operations"
means gross revenues from all sources, adjusted to
take account of the Borrower's dues and rates in
effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even
though they were not in effect during the fiscal
year or twelve-month period to which such revenues
relate, less operational expenses including adrein-
istrative expenses, taxes (if any), and adequate
maintenance, but before deduction for depreciation
and debt service requirements;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization of, and interest
and other charges on, debt; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms
of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing official rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes
of servicing such debt or, if such other currency
is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that
will be reasonably determined by the Bank.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 and 7.01
of the General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified pursuant to paragraph (k) of Section 6.02 and para-
graph (h) of Section 7.01, namely, that the Enactment shall have
been amended, repealed, suspended or abrogated so as to have an
adverse effect on the Project or the operations of the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Amendment of Prior Loan Agreement
Section 7.01. Section 5.07 of the Prior Loan Agreement
shall be deleted and Section 5.04 of this Agreement shall be
substituted therefor.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.Cl. The date December 20, 19,78, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
For the Borrower:
Sabah Ports Authority
P.O. Box 1430
Kota Kinabalu
Sabah, Malaysia
Cable address:                    Telex:
SAPORTS                          MA 80074
Kota Kinabalu
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SABAH PORTS AUTHORITY
By Is/ James B. Willie
Authorized Representative
Seal of the
Borrower
By /s/ Monggoh Orow


﻿- 11 -
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $170,000 may
be made in respect of Category 2 for consultants' services on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after December 1, 1977.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                  7,700,000        58%
(2) Consultants' ser-            1,800,000        100%
vices, technical
assistance and
training
(3) Unallocated
3,500,000
TOTAL       13,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
At Tawau, the Project is intended to provide berths and
ancillary services sufficient (together with the existing wharf),
to meet the needs of the Port of Tawau until about 1990 and
consists of:
A.   Civil Works
(1) Construction of a reinforced concrete-piled wharf
(500 ft. long and 300 ft. wide), with an upstream piled
extension (500 ft. x 80 ft.);
(2) Reclamation, surfacing and paving of approximately
10 acres for storage;
(3) Construction of a new transit shed (50,000 sq. ft.
floor area) located on the piled wharf;
(4) Construction of an office, a vehicle maintenance facil-
ity, ancillary buildings, gates, fencing, internal roads
and utilities; and
(5) Repairs to the existing wharf.
B.   Cargo Handling Equipment
Provision of mechanized cargo handling equipment for the
new port expansion at Tawau, and replacement equipment for
the ports of Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan and Tawau.
C.   Technical Assistance
(1) Provision of technical assistance and training for
the staff of the Borrower in engineering and port
planning, and vehicle and equipment maintenance; and
(2) Improvement of traffic operation and control techniques
and documentation of the Borrower; improvement of
traffic forecasting and commercial activities of the
management services department of the Borrower; carrying
out of feasibility studies for the introduction of a
multishift wharf operational system and mechanized data


﻿- 13 -
processing at major ports of the Borrower and for the
expansion of the ports at Kota Kinabalu and Sandakan;
and revaluation of fixed assets of the Borrower, all
with the assistance of management consultants.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1981.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 1983
through   July 15, 1995                      500,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.85%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                       6.60%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.50%


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For works to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to the
requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 17 -
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasovably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably


﻿- 18 -
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


