CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1580 MA
Gurtee Agreement
(Second Sabah Ports Project)
between
MALAYSIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 20, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1580 MA
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 20, 1978, between MALAYSIA (here-
inafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON-
STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Sabah Ports Authority (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million dollars
($13,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such
loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,


﻿- 2 -
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance of
all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Bor-
rower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 3 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall maintain the arrangements
made with the State of Sabah ensuring that the State of Sabah
shall:
(a) (i) vest in the Borrower, by December 31, 1978, about
three acres of land adjacent to the existing foreshore of Tawau
Port and required for the Project, and (ii) reserve about 10 acres
of land adjacent to the new Tawau Port for future use by the
Borrower by 1990;
(b) relocate, by December 31, 1979, passenger tr-   ic from
the existing Tawau jetty to another location satisfactory to the
Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower;
(c) construct, by December 31, 1980, an appropriate access
road linking the Port of Tawau with the North Road; and
(d) restrict further reclamation east of the Port of Tawau
to the existing seaward limits in order to prevent the increase
of siltation at existing and new po:t facilities.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Guarantor or such other person or persons as may be
appointed in writing by such Minister or Deputy Minister are
designated as representatives of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-4-
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
The Treasury
Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Cable address:                      Telex:
TREASURY                           MA 30242
Kuala Lumpur
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United 'ates of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
MALAYSIA
By /s/ Zain Azraai
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Piia and Pacific


