Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4134- PE
                              January 28, 1997
                          Implementation Agreement
                       relating to the use of a portion
                        of the proceeds of Loan 4134-PE
                       (Pension Reform Adjustment Loan)
                      for debt and debt service reduction
                                  between
                              REPUBLIC OF PERU
                                    and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated February 26, 1997
                                                  LOAN NUMBER 4134-PE
                           IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 26, 1997_, between REPUBLIC OF PERU
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) By a Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank
of even date herewith (hereinafter the Loan Agreement), the Bank agreed
to make a pension reform adjustment loan (hereinafter the Loan) to the
Borrower in an amount equivalent to one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000) on terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement;
     (B)  the Loan Agreement provides, inter alia, that, subject to
this Agreement, the Borrower may use up to fifty million dollars
($50,000,000) equivalent out of the proceeds of the Loan (the Set-
aside Funds) as provided in Section 2.02 (d) of the Loan Agreement
for the implementation of the 1996 Financing Plan (as defined in
paragraph (C) below);
     (C)  the international banking community has responded favorably
to the Borrower's request, dated June 5, 1996 and denominated "1996
Financing Plan" (the 1996 Financing Plan), for participation in a debt
and debt service reduction program designed to support the Borrower's
medium-term macroeconomic objectives and proposed policies and actions
for the achievement of such objectives, as described in the letter
Page  2
dated November 26, 1996 from the Borrower to the Bank (the Program);
     (D)  the Borrower has requested the Bank to release the Set-aside
Funds for financing a portion of the cost of(i) the acquisition of
collateral to secure principal on the Collateralized Discount Bonds
and Collateralized Par Bonds (as hereinafter defined) and to secure
interest payments on the Collateralized Par Bonds, Collateralized
Discount Bonds and FLIRB (as hereinafter defined) to be issued in
exchange for existing debt under the 1996 Financing Plan; and, for
that purpose, to enter into this Agreement; and
     (E)  the Borrower intends to finance the remaining cost of the
acquisition of the collateral mentioned above with its own resources
in an amount equal to the amount provided under the JEXIM Loan (as
such term is defined in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement); and
     WHEREAS, upon the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Borrower and the Bank have agreed to enter into this Agreement
(hereinafter referred to as the "Implementation Agreement") on the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
     NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995, with the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Collateral" means collateral pledged by the Borrower to
secure(i) principal and interestpayments on the Collateralized
Discount Bonds and Collateralized Par Bonds (as hereinafter defined),
and (ii) interest payments on the FLIRBs (as hereinafter defined)
in accordance with agreements entered into pursuant to the 1996
Financing Plan; and "Specific Collateral" means the portion of the
Collateral to be financed out of the Set-aside Funds;
     (b)  "Collateral Specified Financing" means the total amount
resulting from the sum of the Set-aside Funds and the cofinancing
provided by thethe Export-Import Bank of Japan in connection with
the Loan (the JEXIM Loan as defined in the Preamble to the Loan
Agreement) explicitly for the financing of the acquisition of
Collateral;
     (c)  "Collateralized Discount Bonds" means the collateralized
30-year discount bonds issued by the Borrower under the 1996
Financing Plan;
     (d)  "Collateralized Par Bonds" means the collateralized 30-
year par bonds issued by the Borrower under the 1996 Financing Plan;
     (e)  "Collateral Pledge Agreement" means the agreement made by
the Borrower in favor of the Bank for International Settlements
(BIS), as collateral agent (hereinafter the "Collateral Agent")
with respect to the Collateralized Discount Bonds, Collateralized
Par Bonds and FLIRBs (as hereinafter defined), pursuant to the 1996
Financing Plan in accordance with which the Collateral for the
Collateralized Discount Bonds, Collateralized Par Bonds and FLIRBs
(as hereinafter defined) is maintained;
     (f)  "Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan Agreement" means the
loan agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Bank for Loan No. 4133-PE (the Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan),
Page  3
as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
     (g)  "Eligible Debt" has the same meaning ascribed thereto in
the 1996 Financing Plan;
     (h)  "FLIRBs" means collateralized (only for interest payments)
20-year front loaded interest reduction bonds issued by the Borrower
under the 1996 Financing Plan; and
     (i)  "Participating Lenders" means the commercial banks and
other financial institutions with Eligible Debt that have partici-
pated in the 1996 Financing Plan; and
                                 ARTICLE II
                            The Set-aside Funds
     Section 2.01. The amount of the Set-aside Funds may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Implementation Agreement.
     Section 2.02. The amount of the Set-aside Funds shall, at the
request of the Borrower, be reallocated to be withdrawn under the
provisions of Section 2.02 (b) and (c) of the Loan Agreement and
deposited in the Deposit Account, if such amount is not withdrawn
from the Loan Account by March 15, 1997, or such later date as
approved by the Bank.
     Section 2.03. (a) Upon the occurrence of any of the following
events, the Bank, at its option, may, by notice to the Borrower,
require the Borrower to repay, in advance of maturity, such portion
of the Set-aside Funds then outstanding as specified below together
with all accrued interest and other charges thereon:
          (i)  the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
               amount of the Set-aside Funds has not been used on or
               prior to the date referred to in Section 2.02 of this
               Implementation Agreement for the purpose of the
               Project and such amount has not been reallocated
               pursuant to such Section 2.02, in which case the
               amount of such Set-aside Funds subject to prepayment
               shall be such amount as shall have been so deter-
               mined; or
         (ii)  any portion of the Collateral shall have been requested
               to be released to the Borrower and the acquisition cost
               of the remaining amount of the said Collateral shall be
               less than the amount of the Collateral Specified
               Financing in which case the amount of the Set-aside
               Funds subject to prepayment shall be equal to the
               proceeds obtained from the sale of such Collateral
               multiplied by a fraction the denominator of which
               shall be the amount of the Specified Financing and
               the numerator of which shall be the amount of the
               acquisition cost of the Specific Collateral. The
               provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the
               Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction of the Bank,
               that the amount of such Collateral so released has
               been or will be used to support debt or debt service
               reduction activities of the Borrower.
     (b)  The Borrower shall inform the Bank of the occurrence of any
of the events listed in paragraph (a) of this Section within five (5)
working days of the occurrence thereof.
     (c)  Prepayment of all or any portion of the Set-aside Funds in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section shall be made on a date
and in the currency specified by the Bank.
     (d)  The Bank hereby waives the payment of any premium under
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions in connection with the
prepayment of any portion of the Loan pursuant to paragraph (a) of
Page  4
this Section.
                               ARTICLE III
                             Other Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the Program
and the 1996 Financing Plan.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the 1996
Financing Plan in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. Without any limitations or restrictions upon the
provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions and Section
2.03 (b) of this Implementation Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i)
at all times keep the Bank informed of all notices, certificates
and confirmations issued to or received by the Borrower in respect
of the Collateral; and (ii) provide to the Bank copies of the
monthly reports with respect to the Collateral delivered by the
Collateral Agent to the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of the
Collateral Pledge Agreement within 15 days of the receipt thereof.
                               ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the payments made in respect of the Project and financed out of the
proceeds of the Set-aside Funds.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and separate accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
               year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end
               of each such year a certified copy of the report
               of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and separate accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Set-aside Funds were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
               separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
Page  5
         (iv)  ensure that such records and separate accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to in para-
               graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
               such audit contains a separate opinion by said
               auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
               ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
               with the procedures and internal controls involved
               in their preparation, can be relied upon to support
               the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable,
in the opinion of the Bank, that the Program or the 1996 Financing
Plan, or any significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
     (b)  that any event shall have occurred that, in the opinion of
the Bank, materially and adversely affects the maintenance of the
Collateral.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                               ARTICLE VI
                       Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Implementation Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that there shall be furnished to the Bank an opinion or
opinions satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable to the
Bank, showing that this Implementation Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the Borrower and is legally binding upon it in accordance with its
terms;
     (b)  that the Borrower has entered, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, into agreements with Participating Lenders
for the exchange, under the 1996 Financing Plan, of an amount equi-
valent to approximately 95% (ninety five percent) of Eligible Debt,
of which approximately 24.9% (twenty four point nine percent) shall
be exchanged for Collateralized Discount Bonds, 4.4% (four point
four percent) shall be exchanged for Collateralized Par Bonds and
41% (forty one percent) shall be exchanged for FLIRBs; and
     (c)  that the Borrower has confirmed, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, the availability of adequate resources
to implement the 1996 Financing Plan.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
               REPUBLIC OF PERU
               By /s/ Ricardo Luna
                                             Authorized Representative
Page  6
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                        Acting Regional Vice President
                                       Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                        Withdrawal of the Proceeds
                          of the Set-aside Funds
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Set-aside Funds may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account for payments made no earlier than September 1,
1996 or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made in respect of (a)
the provision of Collateral for the purpose of securing principal
and interest payments on Collateralized Discount Bonds and
Collateralized Par Bonds and securing interest payments on FLIRBs;
and (b) the purchase of Eligible Debt by the Borrower pursuant to
one or more agreements entered into pursuant to the Debt Purchase
Offer.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made unless: (a) the Bank shall have approved the
procedures for such withdrawals; (b) the Bank shall be satisfied,
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank, with the arrangements
for the maintenance of the Collateral; and (c) except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the proceeds under the Debt and Debt Service
Reduction Loan are being disbursed concurrently with the Set-aside
Funds. Without limitation or restriction on the provisions of
Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, if the Bank shall so
request in connection with one or more withdrawals from the Loan
Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an opinion or
opinions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the
Bank in connection with any of the aforesaid conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                   Modifications of General Conditions
     For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified  as follows:
1.   The following provisions of the General Conditions are deleted:
     (a)  Section 5.02.
     (b)  Section 5.04.
     (c)  Section 5.08.
     (d)  The phrase ", except that the Borrower may not so cancel
any amount of the Loan in respect of which the Bank shall have
entered into a special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02" in
Section 6.01.
     (e)  Paragraph (c) of Section 6.03.
     (f)  Section 6.04.
     (g)  Section 6.07.
     (h)  Section 9.04.
     (i)  Section 9.05.
Page  7
     (j)  Section 9.06.
     (k)  Section 9.08.
     (l)  Section 9.09.
2.   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
     "Project" means the provision of Collateral (as defined in
     the Implementation Agreement) for the purpose of securing
     principal and interest payments on Collateralized Discount
     Bonds and Collateralized Par Bonds (as defined in the
     Implementation Agreement) and to secure interest payments
     on FLIRB (as defined in the Implementation Agreement) to
     be exchanged for Eligible Debt; and that may be financed
     out of the proceeds of the Set-aside Funds (as defined in
     the Implementation Agreement) pursuant to the provisions
     of Schedule 1 to the Implementation Agreement."
3.   The first sentence of Section 5.01 shall be modified to read:
     "Section 5.01. Withdrawal from the Loan Account. The Borrower
     shall be entitled to withdraw from the Loan Account amounts
     paid or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid for the purposes
     of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Loan
     Agreement, the Implementation Agreement and of these General
     Conditions."
4.   Section 9.07 shall be modified to read:
     "Section 9.07. Records and Reports. (a) The Borrower shall: (i)
     maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
     the progress of the 1996 Financing Plan (including its cost and
     the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the payments
     financed out of the proceeds of the Set-aside Funds, and to
     disclose their use in the 1996 Financing Plan; (ii) enable the
     Bank's representatives to examine the records and documents
     relevant to the performance of the obligations of the Borrower
     under the Implementation Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the
     Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
     shall reasonably request concerning the 1996 Financing Plan,
     its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
     from it, and the payments financed out of the proceeds of the
     Set-aside Funds.
     (b)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
the Borrower, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the carrying out of the 1996 Financing Plan, its
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under the
Implementation Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Set-aside Funds."
