Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4134-PE
                               Loan Agreement
                     (Pension Reform Adjustment Loan)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF PERU
                                   and
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated February 26, 1997
                                                  LOAN NUMBER 4134-PE
                             LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 26, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF PERU
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (The Bank):
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November 26,
1996 from the Borrower describing a program of actions (taken and
to be taken), objectives and policies designed to achieve pension
reform and capital markets reform (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program,
and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program
during the execution thereof;
      (B)  it is contemplated that the Borrower may require assis-
tance from the Bank in the implementation of the Financing Plan (as
such term is hereinafter defined);
     (C)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Export-Import
Bank of Japan (JEXIM) a loan (the JEXIM Loan) in an amount equiva-
lent to eighty million dollars ($80,000,000) to assist in financ-
ing the imports required during the execution of the Program on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the JEXIM
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
JEXIM; and
     (D)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank
has decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance
to the Borrower by making the Loan in one tranche as hereinafter
provided;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995, with the modifications thereto set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, is modified to read:
          "Project" means the program, referred to in the Preamble
          to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is
          made.";
     (b)  Section 4.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made
          in the currency of the deposit account specified in
          Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.";
     (c)  Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds
          of the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with
          the provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these General
          Conditions";
     (d)  The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
     (e)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
          such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
          the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
          furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such
          detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
          execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to
          the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and
          the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
          Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
          Loan."; and
     (f)  Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as
modified above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively,
Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Deposit Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Financing Plan" means the Borrower's 1996 Financing Plan
dated June 5, 1996 and distributed to the international banking
community;
     (c)  "Implementation Agreement" means the agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank of even date herewith relating to the
use of Set-aside Funds (as hereinafter defined); and
     (d)  "Set-aside Funds" means the funds allocated under the
Loan for the purposes of financing  the carrying out of the
Financing Plan as provided in Section 2.02 (d) of the Loan
Agreement.
Page  3
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b),
(c) and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in support
of the Program and the Financing Plan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank
the first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and there-
after maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in dollars on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from
the Loan Account, excluding those to be used for the implementation
of the Financing Plan as provided in paragraph (d) below, shall be
deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
     (c)  Subject to paragraph (d) below, the Borrower undertakes
that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to finance expendi-
tures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an
expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal
to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request,
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon
such request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
     (d)  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Implementation
Agreement, the Borrower may use a portion of the proceeds of the
Loan, not to exceed $50,000,000 ("Set-aside Funds"), for the
implementation of the Financing Plan. If the Set-aside Funds have
not been fully disbursed by March 15, 1997, or such later date as
approved by the Bank, the Bank shall authorize that the undisbursed
amount of Set-aside Funds be withdrawn by the Borrower and deposited
in the Deposit Account under the provisions in Section 2.02 (b) and
(c) of this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1997 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base
Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but
               excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring
               thereafter, and after the initial period, each period
               from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but
               excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period,
               the London interbank offered rate for six-month
               deposits in dollars for value the first day of such
               Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial
Page  4
               Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment
               Date occurring on or next preceding the first day
               of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined
               by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus
               (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
               Interest Period, below (or above) the London inter-
               bank offered rates, or other reference rates, for
               six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's out-
               standing borrowings or portions thereof allocated
               by the Bank to fund single currency loans or
               portions thereof made by it that include the Loan;
               as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
               as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months'
notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April
15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                            Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the Financing Plan.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the Financing
Plan, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank
on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the
Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing the
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
     Section 3.02. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
     (b)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the date of the Bank's request for
such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
     (c)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
Page  5
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested.
                                ARTICLE IV
                     Additional Events of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
and
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph that:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                    proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower
                    for the financing of the Project and the
                    Financing Plan, including the loan provided
                    for under the JEXIM loan agreement shall
                    have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
                    in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                    the agreement providing therefor; or
               (B)  any such loan shall have become due and pay-
                    able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that such suspension, cancellation,
               termination or prematuring is not caused by the
               failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
               obligations under such agreement.
     Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of para-
graph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                                ARTICLE V
                       Effective date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is
consistent with the objectives of the Program; and
     (b)  that the Bank is satisfied, after an exchange of views
described in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, with the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program.
     Section 5.02. The date March 15, 1997 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
                Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
Page  6
          Ministry of Economy and Finance
          Jirn Junn 319
          Lima 1
          Peru
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF PERU
                    By /s/ Ricardo Luna
                                             Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                       RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                       Acting Regional Vice President
                                      Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                           Excluded Expenditures
     For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds
of the Loan shall not be used to finance any of the following
expenditures:
1.   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.   expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Bank or the Association shall have financed or
agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.   expenditures for goods included in the following groups or
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification,
Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the
SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
     Group     Subgroup       Description of Items
     112          -           Alcoholic beverages
     121          -           Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
Page  7
                              refuse
     122          -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
                              not containing tobacco substitutes)
     525          -           Radioactive and associated materials
     667          -           Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                              stones, unworked or worked
     718       718.7          Nuclear reactors, and  parts
                              thereof; fuel elements (cartridges),
                              non-irradiated, for nuclear
                              reactors
     728       728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
     897       897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                              platinum group metals (except
                              watches and watch cases) and
                              goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                              wares (including set gems)
     971          -           Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                              gold ores and concentrates)
4.   expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.   expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes
of this paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means
goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under
the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the
Borrower is a party;
6.   expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services
supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any payment
to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations; and
7.   expenditures for the implementation of the Financing Plan.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                           Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
                                             (Expressed in Date
Payment Due                                       dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
     beginning April October 15, 2002
     through April October 15, 2013                4,165,000
     On October  April 15, 20134                   4,205,000
Page  8
_______________________________
*  The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be
   repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
   Conditions.
