Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15347-MLI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 15, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
West Africa Department (AF5)
Africa Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                 =      CFAF 500 (June 1995)
CFAF I Million       =      US$ 2,000
SDR I                =      US$ 1.49
ABBREVIATIONS. ACRONYMS AND DEFINITIONS
BSI                         Budget Special d'Investissement
BT            =             Technician Diploma   (Brevet de Technicien)
BTN           =             Technical Secondary Diploma (Baccalaureat Technique)
CAP           =             Certificate of Professional Training
(Certificat d'Aptitude Professionnelle)
CFP           =             Vocational Training Center (Centre de Formation Professionnel)
DAF           =             Division of Administration and Finance
(Division Administrative et Financiere)
DNETP         =             National Department of Technical Education and Vocational Training
(Direction Nationale de I 'Enseignemenr Technique et de la Formation
Professionnelle)
ECICA         =             Secondary School for Business, Industry and Administration
(Ecole Centrale pour le Comrnerce, l'IlIdustrie et I'Administration)
ETO           =             Employment and Training Observatory
FAC           =             French Development Cooperation (Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation)
IFP           =             Vocational Training Institute  (Institzt de Formation Professionnelle)
ILO           =             International Labor Organization
In-Service VET              Vocational education and training provided to workers in either formal
or informal sector labor markets
MESSRS        =             Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education, and of Scientific
Research
(Ministere des Enseignements Secondaire et Superieur et de la
Recherche Scier2tifique
MIAT          =             Ministry of Industry, Artisanat and Tourism
(Minist&re de l'Industrie, de lArtisanat et du Tourisme
ONMOE         =             National Employment and Manpower Office
(Office National de la Main d'Oeuvre et de I'Emploi)
Pre-Service VET             Vocational education and training provided to individuals before they
enter the labor market, usually to youth.
SECAL                       Sector Adjustment Loan
TA            =             Technical Assistance
VET           =             Vocational Education and Training
VTSF          =             Vocational Training Support Fund
FISCAL YEAR                                              SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31                                  October 1- July I



REPUBLIC OF MALI
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING CONSOLIDATION
PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1.    INTRODUCTION                                                       1
A.    Macroeconomy and Employment                                  2
Macroeconomy                                                2
Labor Force and Employment                                  2
B.    The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy                       4
2.    VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
A.    VET Services                                                 5
Pre-Service VET                                             5
In-Service VET                                              6
B.    Constraints to Development of VET Services
Constraints to Pre-Service VET                              7
Constraints to In-Service VET                               9
C.    The Government's Education, Training and Employment Strategy 10
D.    The Bank Group's Experience and Role                        11
3.    THE PROPOSED PROJECT                                              13
Component 1-- Pre-Service VET Services                            14
Component 2--Vocational Training Support Fund                     17
Component 3--Employment and Training Observatory                 20
4.    PROJECT COSTS AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Project Costs and Financing                                 23
B.    Project Implementation                                      23
Project Coordination                                       23
Project Procurement, Management and Review                 24
Project Disbursements                                      28
Project Accounting, Auditing and Reporting                 31
Project Monitoring and Evaluation                          31
5.    PROJECT ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                                         32



6.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.      Project Benefits                                                                34
B.      Project Risks                                                                   35
7.   CONDITIONS, AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION                                                  35
ANNEXES
1.1     VET and Employment Development Policy Letter
2.1     Economic Analysis
2.2     Synthesis of Labor Market and Training Studies
3.1     Education Structure
4.1     Education Enrollment and Expenditures
5.1     Mali's Labor Code
6.1     Project Cost Tables
6.2     Project Disbursement Schedule and Profile
6.3     Project Procurement Prior Review Threshold Table
6.4     Project Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
7.1     Bank Group in Mali
8.1     Documents in Project File
MAP
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited the Republic of Mali in August 1995. The mission
members were Sam Carlson (Mission Leader, Human Resources Economist), Myrina McCullough (Operations Specialist),
Fernand Laplante and Gerard Tremblay (Consultants, Ministry of Education, Quebec), Bernard Protte and Mamadou
Dembele (Consultants). Mr. Slaheddine Ben-Halima (Implementation Specialist, AF5PH) and Mr. Arvil Van Adams
(Economist, AFTHR) participated in preparation missions and provided frequent comments between preparation and
appraisal. This report was drafted by the mission members, in close collaboration with the Malian Project Preparation Team
from the Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education and Scientific Research (MESSRS) and the Ministry of Industry,
Artisanat and Tourism (MIAT), and the National Manpower and Employment Office (ONMOE). Peer reviewers for this
project are Sachi Takeda (SA3PH) and Andre Komenan (AFTHR). Mr. Ok Pannenborg is the responsible Division Chief
and Mr. Jean Louis Sarbib is the Department Director.



REPUBLIC OF MALI
VOCATIONAL TRAINING CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Mali
Beneficiaries:            Individuals in the private formal and informal labor force, and the
National Department of Technical Education and Vocational
Training
Executing Agencies:        National Department of Technical Education and Vocational
Training
Vocational Training Support Fund
Employment and Traa..ing Observatory
Poverty Category:          Program of Targeted Interventions.
Amount:                    SDR 9 million (US$ 13.4 million equivalent)
Onlending Terms:          Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:            See Schedule B, page 2
Economic
Rate of Return:          Weighted average of 16%  (Net Present Value: $8.9 million)
Project ID Number:         ML-PA-1746
SAR Report Number:         15347 MLI
Map:                       IBRD 27760



I



REPUBLIC OF MALI
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    The Government of Mali has requested IDA assistance in financing a project to improve the
quality, supply and relevance of its vocational education and training (VET) services, in order to increase
the responsiveness of such services to labor market demand for skilled workers. This increased coherence
between training and emplovment is a key factor for achieving Mali's overall development objectives of
growth and poverty reduction, and is an essential aspect of human resources development, a cornerstone of
IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mali.
1.2   The project would improve the quality, supply and relevance of VET services through
consolidation of pre-service VET training streams, and creation of a Vocational Training Support Fund for
in-service skills upgrading. In addition, the project would improve labor market information analysis and
dissemination through the establishment of an Employment and Training Observatory at the National
Manpower and Employment Office.
1.3   Project investments would include hardware and software investments in both pre-service and in-
service VET to improve training capacity and quality. This would include civil works, equipment,
pedagogical materials, training of trainers, teacher upgrading, curriculum and examination reforms, and
institutional capacity-building. A revision of all legal texts pertaining to VET would be completed before
project effectiveness, in order to improve Government's capacity to allocate training resources as a function
of labor market demand, and to increase the involvement of the private sector in the management, provision
and financing of VET. The total project would cost US$ 22.9 million (including taxes and duties), with a
foreign exchange component of US$ 14.8 million. Of this, Government and employers would contribute
US$ 5.8 rmillion, IDA wvould finance US$ 13.4 million, and the Fonds dAide et de Cooperation (FAC)
would provide US$ 3.7 million.
1.4   This project was prepared in-country, with the task manager located in the Resident Mission. This
enabled extensive beneficiary participation, near exclusive use of national consultants for preparatory
studies, and close collaboration with Government officials and other donors. In addition to a three-person
Government preparation team, a "consultative group" for the project was established, including the
National Federation of Malian Employers, the National Federation of Malian Artisans, NGOs, women's
associations, private training centers, and recent school graduates. Weekly meetings with the task manager
during preparation resulted in firm ownership and commitment to the project among the Borrower and
intended project beneficiaries. In particular, the Operations Manual for the proposed Vocational Training
Support Fund was drafted, revised and finalized in concert with the consultative group. A Japanese PHRD
Grant for US$300,000 and a Project Preparation Facility for US$ 350,000 financed the necessary
consultants and other project preparation activities.



2
A.  MACROECONOMY AND EMPLOYMENT
Macroeconomy
1.5    Mali is a vast, landlocked and resource-poor country located in the Sahelian zone of westem
Africa. About 75 percent of the population, estimated at about 9 million in 1995, is engaged in the
agricultural sector, which accounts for approximately 50 percent of GDP. Per capita income is estimated at
just US$250 (1994) and social indicators (such as life expectancy, literacy and infant mortality) are among
the lowest in the world (Mali ranked 167 out of 173 countries in the UNDP rating of human resources
development in 1994).
1.6    Mali's potential for long-term growth is subject to harsh resource constraints. Growth in the
agricultural sector is largely conditioned bv variable rainfall, fragile soils and low-productivity traditional
technologies. Secondly, extremely low literacy and schooling rates, and scarce technical skills, pose
additional obstacles to agricultural and industrial development. These problems are compounded bv high
population growth (2.7%), which puts severe pressure on both the limited natural resource base and the
resources available for basic public services (such as education) and other productive investments, in tum
restricting employment opportunities.
1.7    On the bright side, real GDP grew an average of 3.1% annuallv between 1992-1994 (following
stagnant GDP growth between 1980 and 1991), and the devaluation of the West African Franc (CFAF) in
early 1994 offers the country the possibility to exploit its comparative advantages in agriculture, agro-
processing, and production of low-technology import substitutes, thereby increasing incomes for both rural
and urban populations. Furthermore. recent macroeconomic management has been largely positive, with
all macroeconomic objectives achieved in 1994 and 1995. Inflation has been contained, exports have
increased significantly, and fiscal and current account deficits in 1994 were lower than projected. Private
capital reflows have picked up and private consumption is shifting to local products. The three-year public
investment program for 1995-1997 is being satisfactorily implemented, and real GDP is expected to grow
at an average annual rate of 5.0% between 1995 and 1997. The overall picture which emerges is one of
opportunity, which must be supported by investments to generate the needed supply response, particularly
in the area of human resources.
Labor Force and Employment
1.8    Supply. Mali has one of the least-skilled labor forces in the world. The vast majoritv of the active
labor force has had no schooling whatsoever, the adult literacy rate is estimated at 20%, and the mean
years of schooling for adults aged 25 years or more is just 0.3 years. The gross primary enrollment rate is
35% (1995), and only 25% for girls. (For more complete statistics on school enrollments, see Annex 4.1).
Development of primarv education is therefore the first priority for improving the quality of Mali's labor
force (which will be supported with IDA financing through a recently-identified Education Sector
Investment Program). Beyond primarv education, the labor force needs basic professional and technical
skills - literacy and numeracy alone are not enough.
1.9    The active labor force is estimated at 3.6 million workers (45% of the population is under 15). The
agriculture sector absorbs the greatest proportion of labor (about 75%), but this sector is characterized by
significant underemployment, often leading to urban migration. Manufacturing, construction and artisanal
occupations represent about 10% of the labor force, with the services sector accounting for another 15%.



3
1.10   The modem sector is estimated at 14.000 private sector workers, 11,000 parastatal employees and
37,000 civil servants. The Government's reform program has resulted in a near-freeze on hiring in the
public sector, voluntary civil servant departures and public enterprise lay-offs. Under the most optimistic
assumptions, growth over the short-term of formal private and public sector employment (currently around
1,300 jobs per year) will be unable to absorb the stock of already unemployed and the annual inflow of
80,000 newcomers into the labor market. Due to the momentum of population growth, this annual inflow
into the labor market will rise to 110,000 by 2005 and 140,000 by 2015.
1.11   The informal sector of the economy is, and will remain for the near future, the primary source of
non-agricultural employment. Of the non-agricultural labor force, approximately 90% (or 700,000
workers) are in the informal sector. With limited capital, the informal sector relies on high-intensity, low-
skill, low-cost labor, which obevs a mix of competitive market laws and tradition. Hiring, pay and
dismissals are flexible and determined bv market considerations (supply and demand for specific skills as
derived from goods markets), and familv/ethnic relations.
1.12   Between 1976 and 1988 registered. open unemployment doubled, and since then has remained at
the current level of around 20%. Youth unemployment (ages 15-29) makes up about two-thirds of open
unemployment, and 85% of registered jobseekers are young. The primary causes of this unemployment are
slow economic growth and general job scarcity. worsened by training programs which are poorly adapted
to labor market demand. Migration remains a popular response - approximately I million Malians work
abroad, although job opportunities in destination countries have declined.
1.13   Demand.       A series of 7 labor market and training surveys were conducted during project
preparation to ascertain labor market demand (in both formal and informal sectors, in Bamako and in the
regions), and to identifv vocational training streams most likely to lead to employment. A synthesis of these
studies indicates important labor market growth opportunities in certain sectors after the CFAF
devaluation, increasing demand for skilled manpower, and heightened employer concern over the quality of
trained staff available. (These studies included: a tracer study of recent VET graduates, a studv of private
sector training needs in Bamako, an analysis of the apprenticeship/production system in the informal sector,
A survey of economic growth and employment trends in the regions. an analysis of data from the Annual
Manpower Survey for the years 1988-1993; a reverse tracer study of recent VET graduates; and a study of
women's constraints to training and their training needs. For more information see Annex 2.2).
1.14   More specifically, significant growsth in production and employment are expected over the medium
term in the following areas: basic industries (principally textiles, agro-industrv and simple import
substitution), construction, public works, transport, hotels and tourism, crafts, and small and medium
enterprises. (Note that similar conclusions regarding promising economic sub-sectors were reached in the
World Bank's 1994 Private Sector Assessment for Mali.) This will require technically qualified specialists
in maintenance, mechanics (general, auto and truck). metalwork, electricity, construction and accounting.
Mid-level skilled workers will be most in demand (i.e. people willing and able to perform skilled tasks
themselves and, if necessary, to supervise others). Geographic centers for employment growth include
Bamako and the regional capitals of Sikasso, Segou and Kayes. These regional capitals correspond,
respectively, to the cotton, rice and mining production areas, which are developing rapidly following the
1994 CFAF devaluation. Currently, mid-level technical skills are often imported to meet this demand from
Senegal, Togo, Ivorv Coast, even the Philippines (for example, for construction of the Selingue Dam and
the West African Central Bank, routine mechanical repair jobs in industry, and development of the mining
sector).



4
1.15   Labor Market Policy. As part of the World Bank-financed Structural Adjustment Program, the
Mali Labor Code was substantially revised in 1992, liberalizing important aspects of the code pertaining to
employee hiring and dismissal, the role of the National Manpower and Employment Office, and leave
policies (see Annex 5. 1). However, the legal texts required to apply the revised Labor Code were never
approved by the Government, due to opposition from national unions. As part of the 1995-1997 Policy
Framnework Paper signed with the Bretton Woods Institutions, the Government has agreed to review the
implementation of the revised code with the aim of identifying further areas of reform to allow more
flexibility in the functioning of the labor market. Following this, the legal framework of the revised Labor
Code will be strengthened to ensure full application.
B.    THE BANK'S COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1.16   The goal of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Mali is the alleviation of poverty through a
3-pronged approach: (i) sustained broad-based economic growth, (ii) human resources development, and
(iii) a special focus on the needs of the most vulnerable. Sound macroeconomic management and local
institutional capacity-building are essential to achieving these goals. In operational terms, this strategy
requires lending in education, training, health, agriculture, infrastructure, and urban job creation. The
proposed VET project responds to all three aspects of the Bank's strategy - by developing skills which
correspond to new employment opportunities, particularly among individuals in the informal sector and/or
outside of the formal education system, the Bank would contribute to economic growth, human resources
development and target the needs of relatively disadvantaged groups in urban areas.



2. VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
A.    VET SERVICES
Pre-Service VET
2.1    Structure and Administration. Mali currently offers three pre-service VET programs to prepare
youth for entry into the labor market, all at the upper secondary level (10th grade): (a) 2-year VET offering
the Certificat d'Aptitude Professionnel (CAP) in 13 specialties; (b) 3-year technical training leading to the
Baccalaureat Technique (BTN) in three specialties; and (c) four-year VET training for the Brevet
Technicien (BT) in 20 specialties. In 1995 the CAP was offered to 7,680 students, 30% of whom attend
the Vocational Training School (CFP) in Bamako, with the rest enrolled in 5 small regional vocational
training institutes (IFPs) and 13 private schools (which receive public subsidies on a per student basis).
The BTN was provided to 1,430 students at the Lycee Technique, while the BT was offered to 3,000
students at ECICA (Ecole d'Industrie, Commerce et Administration), plus another 1,300 students spread
out in the IFPs and 9 private training centers. Overall, the VET system enrolled 16,950 students in 1995,
while output has averaged 2,300 graduates per year. Public pre-service VET services are administered by
the Department of Technical Education and Vocational Training (DNETP) within the Ministry of
Secondary and Higher Education and Scientific Research, while private schools are independently
managed.
MALI
VET Enrollment, 1994/95
2-Year        3-Year         4-Year
CAP           BTN           BT            Total
Public        2,404         1,430         3,584          7,418
Private\1     5,273             0         4,281          9,554
Total         7,677         1,430         7,865          16,952
\1: This is publicly-financed, privately-managed VET The State pays between 60,000-90,000 FCFA per student per year to the
school. With few exceptions, only tertiary sector training is offered.
2.2    Five other ministries operate their own training institutes, including the Ministry of Rural
Development (which runs a Forestry Training Center, the School for Veterinary Nursing, Agricultural
Apprenticeship and Skills Upgrading Centers), the Ministrv of Health (School for Communitv
Development Training, School of Pre-School Education, and three Nursing Schools), the Ministry of Youth
and Sports (National Sports Institute) and the Ministry of Conimunication and Culture (National Institute
of Art). These training institutes are not considered under this project, because of the focus on training for



6
the private sector, particularly in industrial skills and the informal sector, as opposed to training for
government emplovees.
2.3    Formal pre-service apprenticeship training as part of VET does not exist in Mali, although an
embryonic apprenticeship progran for recent graduates is developing. Under this program the employer
agrees to hire the apprentice for a period of six months at 50% of normal wages, in return for which the
employer can deduct from taxable income what is paid in wages. However, early results from this program
are not encouraging, as few employers find the fiscal incentives sufficient and prefer to arrange informal
apprenticeship training without government intervention.
2.4    Financing of pre-service VET. In 1995 Government recurrent expenditures on pre-service VET
were estimated at 10% of total education expenditures, an increase from an average of 7% of total
education expenditures between 1987-1992 (compared to 14% for general secondarv). 47% of public VET
financing went to private VET providers in 1995, based on per student subsidies for teaching personnel and
educational materials. Annual per student costs for pre-service VET were an estimated US$325 in 1994,
varying by stream from US$170 for administration/finance to US$220 for accounting, US$450 for auto
mechanics. and US$600 for civil works. Cost recovery is not practiced. About 50% of VET expenditures
goes to personnel, 35% for equipment, materials, and maintenance. and 15% for student scholarships.
There has been no significant investment financing since the 1970s. except for minor foreign assistance in
auto mechanics, air conditioning and electricity in the mid-1980s.
In-Service VET
Apprenticeship Training
2.5    Traditional apprenticeship training has a long historv in Mali, and consists of learning practical
skills from a master artisan in more than 70 professional trades in the informal sector, including
construction, metalwork, auto mechanics, woodworking, dressmaking, soapmaking, food preparation,
jeatherwork, hairdressing and artwork. It has both economic and social rationales: the apprentice provides
cheap labor in exchange for learning practical skills, and in the process acquires traditional values of
solidanrty and respect for one's elders, which are essential to Mali's social fabric. An estimated 45,000
apprentices work and train in Bamako alone, and outside the capital this is the only form of non-tertiary
vocational training available. Apprenticeship training is thus more important than formal pre-service
VET, in terms of numbers of trainees and preparation of youth for immediate entry into the labor
market.
2.6    Training is a bv-product of production, not an activity undertaken for its own sake in preparation
for a job. Typicallv. one craftsman employs 4-5 apprentices, who varv in seniority and sophistication of
tasks assigned. Apprentices may spend the first year simply cleaning the workshop, observing others and
preparing tea. Practical tasks are assigned once the apprentice has demonstrated obedience and respect.
Depending on the trade, training lasts from I -10 years, although the average is 3-5 years. The long
apprenticeship period, the market requirement that the work performed be worthy of sale, and the emphasis
on practical skills means that trainees are often more skilled in their trade than their counterparts who
attended formal pre-service VET.
2.7    Apprenticeship training is not structured nor effectively regulated. In most cases, masters pay
apprentices a subsistence wage (US$1- 1.25 per day), although sometimes parents pay a token amount to
the master, or the exchange of labor for training is simply bartered. But changes in economic and social



7
realities are changing apprenticeship training, as well. The demand for training is increasing (due to
demographic growth, rural to urban migration, and the stagnation of the education svstem and civil
service), the number of trades is increasing with modernization, and the reservation of specific trades to
certain ethnic groups is disappearing. The level of schooling before apprenticeship is also increasing: 68%
of apprentices surveved in 1994 were literate, whereas 10 years ago apprentices typically had no schooling
whatsoever. This means that apprentices are increasingly able to read diagrams and learn theoretical
principles to support their practical training, although few master artisans are able to provide this kind of
instruction (60% of artisans never attended primary school).
Skills Upgrading
2.8    24 public and 13 private skills upgrading centers exist, almost all in Bamako. Public centers are
associated with specific ministries and train mainly civil servants and parastatal employees, while private
centers offer training in management, computing and office skills, but rarely technical/industrial skills. To
finance skills upgrading and employment services for formal private and parastatal enterprises, employers
pay an "employment services tax", equal to 1% of the payroll, which generates about 450 million CFAF
per year (roughly 20% of public pre-service VET expenditures). In practice, however, this money is
simply allocated to the National Employment and Manpower Office (ONMOE) and used for financing of
administrative costs. job placement, labor market surveys, and the operation of a small secretarial and
accounting training center used primarily by public and parastatal sector workers.
2.9   In the informal sector. considerable skills upgrading goes on, although this is difficult to distinguish
from the informal apprenticeship system. The more successful master artisans may have three classes of
workers under them: full-time skilled workers who perform a wide range of tasks, third- or fourth-year
apprentices who perform a limited range of tasks, and newly-recruited apprentices who are confined to
observing, cleaning and other non-skilled activities. Many artisans now belong to craft guilds, which offer
limited training in both technical and managerial aspects of their businesses to regular employees. Lastly,
Mali's NGOs provide significant skills upgrading opportunities in management, accounting, project
feasibilitv analvsis, etc., but very little in terms of industrial/technical skills.
B.    CONSTRAINTS TO DEVELOPMENT OF VET SERVICES
Constraints to Pre-Service VET
2.10   Summary:    The pre-service VET training system, designed to prepare youth for entry into the
labor market, is poorly adapted to labor market demand, of low quality, inefficient, inequitable.
inappropriatelv administered, inadequately financed, lacking in diversity and flexibility, and insufficiently
informed. However, this is due primarily to neglect - the system retains considerable potential to contribute
to Mali's economic development, provided that appropriate reforms and investments are carried out.
2.11   Pre-service VET is poorly adapted to labor market demand, mainly because it has been driven
bv the logic of student flow management, a response to the Government's obligation to enroll all graduates
from basic education at the secondary level. [Note: a new policy of access to secondary education, based on
academic performance and enrollment capacity, is being implemented as of school year 1995/96, under the
Mali Education Sector Adjustment Loan.] That is, the gradual expansion of basic education has resulted in
more graduates than public secondary and higher education institutions can accommodate, which has led
the Government to orient "surplus" students to private, tertiary VET institutions, which receive public
subsidies on a per student basis. While a good idea in principle, these private schools offer almost



8
exclusively tertiary sector training (because it is cheaper), and systematically overstate their capacity in
order to receive as many students as possible, which results in serious overcrowding and poor instruction.
Tertiary VET (which enrolls 75% of all VET students) has become a kind of "release valve" to move
students out of the education system, and produces graduates with skills for which the labor market is
largely saturated.    Meanwhile, labor market studies show increasing demand for skilled mechanics,
metalworkers, electricians, builders and accountants, but current capacity allows just 25% of VET
students to pursue industrial/technical training. Furthermore, the programs which exist are too theoretical
and designed to produce supervisors and foremen, not skilled workers. In fact, many employers are
reluctant to hire VET graduates who believe they are "above" performing skilled manual labor.
2.12   The quality of pre-service VET is very low, whether assessed in terms of equipment, instruction,
curricula, examinations or employer opinions. Particularly at the CAP level, training facilities are obsolete
(the Vocational Training Center was last equipped by the Soviets in 1962), while minimal operations and
maintenance budgets cannot maintain what little remains. Most buildings are old and in need of repair and
renovation to protect equipment from theft and weather. The quality of instruction is poor: 40% of VET
instructors are uncertified contractors, most of whom are recent graduates of BT and CAP programs, with
little practical experience in the private sector. There are few qualified trainers and inspectors. The content
and duration of VET programs are rigid, reflecting educational goals and academic concerns rather than
labor market skills requirements. Examinations are mainly theoretical and academic, rather than
assessments of practical competencies. The average repetition rate among CAP students is 30%, and
failure rates on the CAP exam average 65%. Most importantly, poor quality is revealed in the opinions of
modem sector employers, many of whom express dissatisfaction with pre-service VET trainees and
consequent reluctance to employ them. The low quality of VET thus defeats its purpose.
2.13   Pre-Service VET services are inefficient and inequitable. Teaching workloads are low: the full-
time load is just 18 hours per week, but the average instructor works only 14 hours per week. The average
student:teacher ratio is 14: 1, but this varies from 3:1 to 23: 1, depending on the institution and training
stream. Girls are underrepresented, accounting for only 26% of VET enrollments, in part due to extremely
low girls' enrollment rates at the basic education level (about one-third of primary enrollnent). 83% of
girls are enrolled in tertiary sector training (secretarial skills, accounting, office/administration skills, etc.).
Finally, access to VET is geographicallv inequitable - with 90% of all training places in Bamako, youth
outside the capital have verv limited access to VET services, even though 40% of the formal labor market
and most of the informal labor market is outside the capital.
2.14   Management of VET is inflexible and inadequate. Insufficient leeway is accorded to school
directors to administer, recruit trainers and students, mobilize resources, and adapt curricula. There is little
or no participation by employers, artisans or the ONMOE in curriculum design, student orientation,
financing or practical training activities. At the central level, institutional capacity of the DNETP is weak,
with few qualified staff and inadequate resources to efficientlv allocate student places, teachers, materials,
etc., and monitor their utilization.
2.15   VET is underfunded and its financing is mismanaged. Not enough resources are allocated to
materials and maintenance expenditures, while too much is spent on student scholarships and other
subsidies (uniforms, notebooks, etc.). Investment financing is negligible, and cost recoverv in the public
system is not practiced. Almost 3/4 of public VET expenditures go to tertiary training, although the
demand in the labor market is primarily for industrial training. The informal sector receives no public
financing whatsoever, although it trains three times as many youth as the formal system. (Additional details
on sector financing, budgetarv allocations and actual VET expenditures are provided in Annex 4.1)



9
2.16   Inadequate labor market information limits the ability to adapt VET services to labor market
demand. Labor market statistics are only collected in the modem sector, providing an inadequate basis for
analyses of employment trends, earnings, labor mobility and detection of skills shortages. At the ONMOE,
job vacancy data is sporadically collected, employer surveys are rarely conducted, job counseling is
minimal, placement services are slow and unreliable, and few enterprises inform the ONMOE of manpower
needs. Coordination with other agencies collecting labor market information is poor. Beyond collection of
labor market information, there is little analvsis and dissemination of information for policvmakers, training
institutions, and the public at large (especiallv parents and students), which means labor market
information is not used for VET planning and resource allocation.
Constraints to In-Service VET
Apprenliceship Training
2.17   Non-fornal apprenticeship training suffers from pedagogic, economic and social constraints, each
of which is discussed below.
2.18   Pedagogic: Apprentices learn through observation, imitation, and trial and error. While effective
in developing practical skills, such training offers few opportunities to learn the basic principles and theory
behind the practical skills. Secondly, innovation and the acquisition of new technologies are not favored by
simple repetition of tasks - current apprenticeship training locks the informal sector in a low-technology
loop. Thirdly, there is no logical sequence or structure to the training and skills acquired, no conmnon set
of standards for each trade, nor any certification procedure (an important labor market signal), so trained
apprentices have difficulty establishing themselves on their own. Finally, training is almost exclusively in
national languages and most master artisans are illiterate, which means little use of instruction manuals,
blueprints or other written materials, even though almost 70% of apprentices surveyed in 1994 stated they
were literate and numerate. This limnits the extent of instruction and lengthens the training period.
2.19   Economic: In the informal sector, the daily struggle is simply to survive - the evening's meal is
often paid for from the receipts of the day. This means few resources are available for training per se.
Because apprenticeship training is a by-product of production, it is a function of the contracts gained by the
master artisan. The more orders placed and the greater their diversity, the faster and broader is the training
acquired by apprentices; on the other hand, during slow periods apprentices may learn nothing at all.
Thirdly, because of limited client purchasing power, demand is often for final products of very low quality,
which restricts the skills apprentices can acquire. Finally, the master artisan must guard against future
competition, and so may withhold certain trade secrets to prevent the apprentice from setting up his or her
own business.
2.20   Social: Apprenticeship training depends on the personal relationship between the master artisan
and the apprentice (and often the apprentice's family). It is unregulated, with no written contracts. The
process is long, on average about 5 years, but lasting up to 10 years. Apprenticeship typically ends when
the master decides the apprentice has learned all the master can teach. Because the master artisan has an
interest in retaining the apprentice's cheap, skilled labor (and preventing competition), this decision is often
delayed - the apprentice must defer to his elders and can be locked into a form of social bondage. Secondly,
apprenticeship training is not valued by society as a whole. While within the trade it has a time-honored
place and is essential for the trade's continuity, it is often described as the "wastebasket" for youth outside
the formal education system (which offers diplomas and social status). Until recently, governnent cadres
(most of wvhom have formal education degrees and middle class status) showed little interest in supporting



10
apprenticeship training with public resources. This results in a vicious circle of poor training quality, weak
trainee marketability, and low status of apprenticeship training.
Skills Upgrading
2.21   Skills upgrading services are simnply inadequate, both quantitatively and qualitatively. Employers
in the formal and nonformal private sectors invest little in skills upgrading, in part because many of them
function on the edge of bankruptcy and cannot afford to invest for medium-term pay-offs. In addition,
because the modem sector and the average size of firmns are small, there is little demand to develop
enterprise-based training capacity. Poorly organized trade associations are another inhibiting factor, as is
Mali's history of state domination of the means of production. Although the Governent maintains skills
upgrading centers for public employees in civil works, electricity, transport, textiles and construction, these
facilities have not been available to the private sector. From the employee perspective, there is little
incentive to invest in skills upgrading which does not lead to a government-sanctioned diploma, because the
administered wage system in the modern sector is based on diplomas and seniority, not on productivity, and
because promotions are often based on family and social relations.
2.22   While recent surveys suggest that private sector employers consider product quality and
productivitv as the key factors in their competitiveness in national and regional markets, few employers
make the link between these factors and skills development. Those that do cite the poor quality of existing
training services in Mali and the excessively high costs of sending workers abroad as constraints to
investments in skills upgrading. On the other hand, they indicate a willingness to pay for quality, local
training adapted to their specific needs.
2.23   Women's access to skills upgrading opportunities is particularly restricted. Not only are they
subject to the same constraints as men (e.g. the cost of training, distance to training sites, lack of employer
concern, etc.), but they also must overcome additional constraints related to their domestic responsibilities.
Simply put, working women have less disposable time in Mali than most men, because they must also take
care of the children, cook, clean, wash, fetch water, etc.. In a recently conducted survey, many women also
complained of reluctance on their husbands' part to let them participate in training activities, much less use
household money to pay for such training. Finally, these additional constraints to training should be viewed
in light of women's relatively greater training needs: working women's literacy, numeracy, technical and
managerial skills are far below those of their male counterparts.
C. THE GOVERNMENT'S EDUCATION, TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT STRATEGY
2.24   The Government's education and training strategy is articulated in an Education Sector
Development Policy Letter issued in December 1994 (included as part of the Mali Education SECAL).
The two principal objectives of this strategy are to (1) improve the access and quality of primary education
and (2) adapt the education system to labor market demand, both qualitatively and quantitatively. The first
objective is being pursued through the Education SECAL and the recently-identified Education Sector
Investment Program. The second objective includes inter alia the consolidation of vocational education and
training.
2.25   In the VET sub-sector, the Government's strategy is based on extensive sector work undertaken by
the MESSRS with support from the World Bank, ACDI, UNDP, ILO and UNESCO, complemented by
nearly constant policy dialogue with the Bank since the summer of 1993. The Government intends to: (a)
restore the quality of pre-service VET; (b) transform public VET institutions into full-service VET centers



Il
offering pre- and in- service training; (c) improve the system's links and responsiveness to labor market
demand; (d) develop training for the informal sector; (e) expand private sector participation in financing
and management of training programs; (f) enhance management autonomy of VET institutions; (g) increase
recurrent cost financing for equipment, maintenance and materials; (h) phase out obsolete training streams
and (i) respect enrollment capacities of training streams. Overall, this sub-sector VET strategy
corresponds closely to the Bank's institutional policy with respect to VET. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that, at all times during project implementation, it would limit enrollment
in VET institutions to a level compatible with the capacity of practical trainingfacilities, which is based
on the number offiznctional work stations for each training stream (para 7. I-a).
2.26   The Government's employment strategy defines the private sector as the engine of economic
growth and labor demand. In addition to maintaining a favorable macroeconormic environment and
liberalizing the agricultural and industrial sectors, the Government intends to lower the costs of doing
business (fiscal and regulatory reform) and to strengthen intermediary institutions which link producers
with markets, finance and training services. Related to this is the recent adoption of legal texts creating the
Employment and Training Observatory, to be linked with the National Manpower and Employment Office
(ONMOE). The Observatory's role will be to collect, analyze and disseminate labor market information
for policymakers, VET administrators, employers, students and investors, in order to promote a more
efficient labor market.
2.27   In addition. the Government has a specific strategy for developing the informal sector, which
includes a strengthened institutional framework, promotion of local handicrafts, and improved access to
credit, public bidding and training. In 1992 the National Federation of Malian Artisans (FNAM) was
established, comprising 104 artisan associations, followed bv the creation of the Chamber of Trades
(distinct from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry) in 1993. In 1994 a new Code d'Artisanat was
passed, which officially recognizes the rights and obligations of the informal sector, and provides a legal
structure which should help informal artisans develop into formal sector employers. A key aspect of this
strategy is the development of a sustainable skills upgrading capacity adapted to informal sector needs.
2.28   These strategies are spelled out in a signed Letter of VET and Employment Development Policy
(see Annex 1.1), a draft of which was discussed during negotiations.
D.    THE BANK GROUP'S EXPERIENCE AND ROLE
2.29   Experience. Since 1973 the Bank has financed five education projects in Mali, one of which is
ongoing. The first two projects (Cr. No.420-MLI, for US$5 million, signed in July 1973 and closed in
August 1980, and Cr. No. 733-MLI, for US$10 million, signed in September 1977 and closed in June
1983) targeted science and technology in lower secondary schools, rehabilitation/expansion of an upper
secondary-level VET institution (ECICA), agricultural education, and the development of low-cost basic
education. The third project (Cr. 1442-MLI, for US$9.5 million, signed in July 1984 and closed in
September 1990) aimed at improving access and quality of basic education, developing VET management
capacity, expanding non-formal adult education, and improving agricultural extension skills. The fourth
education project (Cr. No. 2054-MLI, for US$26 million, signed in 1989 and closed in December 1995)
aimed to develop basic education, quantitatively and qualitatively, while laying the groundwork for
restructuring of secondary and higher education. Finally, the Education Sector Adjustment Loan (Cr. No.
2673-MLI for US$50 million, signed in January 1995 and expected to close in December 1996), targets
reforms to correct sector resource allocation distortions in order to develop basic education and improve
educational quality at all levels.



12
2.30   The PCR for the First Education Project (March 1982) concluded implementation was satisfactory
overall, with most project objectives achieved. Regarding the VET component, the PCR stated in the
project outcomes section that ECICA was fully operational, providing improved and more relevant
vocational education and training. The PCR for the Second Education Project (September 1985) was
largely unsatisfactory, citing problems with physical implementation, project management, and counterpart
funding. The Performance Audit for the Third Education Project (August 1995) found that the project
objectives of improving the DNETP's VET management capacity were achieved, while those for basic and
agricultural education were only partiallv attained, due primarily to underutilization of facilities and lack of
maintenance. As for the Fourth Education Project, its investment component (consisting of teacher
training, curricula revision, educational materials supply, classroom construction, etc.) was satisfactorily
implemented and its primary education enrollment rate target was reached, while the second and third
tranches of the adjustment component were canceled in 1993 due to the Government's inability to
implement the agreed-upon reforms. These reform measures were integrated into the Education SECAL, of
which the first tranche was released in March 1995 following satisfactory implementation of the initial
reforms. The second tranche of the Education SECAL has not yet been released, pending completion of
several outstanding sector reforms.
2.31    Lessons Learned. The Bank's expenrence suggests numerous lessons to be incorporated in the
Bank's education and training strategy for Mali. (i) Quality pnrmary and lower secondary education are
critical to success in vocational training programs. This lesson is reflected through IDA's IV Education
Project, the Education SECAL, and the recently-identified Education Sector Investment Program. (ii)
Public pre-service training in secondary vocational schools may be justified when employer and private
training capacity is weak, but these programs require sufficient recurrent cost funding and a strong market
orientation in planning and institutional responsiveness. For example, the PCR of the Mali First Education
Project found the VET component particularly successful and stated that additional IDA inputs would have
been helpful, especially if employers contributed more to the design of practical training programs, and
adequate public funds were budgeted for ECICA's operational costs. During preparation of the proposed
VET project, emplovers were involved in both research and project design, and seven labor market studies
were undertaken to ensure VET/market orientation. Under the project, recurrent cost funding norms would
be increased, emplovers would be included in both pre- and in-service VET management, and labor market
studies would be continued through the Employment and Training Observatory. (iii) Practical
apprenticeship programs mav be cost-effective complements to theoretical training. The project proposes to
provide structure, certification and extensive financing for the expansion of apprenticeship training. (iv)
Public and private training and skills upgrading institutions must function in the marketplace, and be adept
at changing enrollments and curricula to adjust to employment opportunities for trainees. This would be
ensured through application of flexible, labor market-based criteria for the financing of skills upgrading
activities, which would be managed primarily by private sector employers and artisans. (v) Diversification
of financing is important for both sustainability and equity in sharing of costs and benefits. Under the
project, the introduction of a Vocational Training Tax (equivalent to 0.5% of the private and parastatal
payroll), plus the 25% counterpart contribution for all VTSF-financed training (paid by the trainees, their
employers or their sponsors), would ensure sustainability and introduce VET cost recovery for the first
time in Mali. (vi) The impact of training programs should be carefully monitored, to ensure cost-
effectiveness of public funds and to verify that course content and training modalities are responsive to
labor market needs. Annual graduate tracer studies and mandatory evaluation of all skills upgrading
activities would be financed under the project.
2.32   The Bank's experience over time in financing vocational training funds is quite limited, although
numerous funds are currently being financed (Ivory Coast, Kenya, Madagascar, Togo, Albania, and
Macedonia). Specific advantages offered by such funds are flexibility, private sector governance and



13
demand-driven training. Implementation problems witnessed so far have included both demand and supply
constraints to meeting the proposed training and disbursement targets. including insufficient public
awareness, the level of beneficiarv contribution required, the ability of training sponsors to prepare training
requests, and the limited variety and supplv of training service providers. The project's Vocational
Training Support Fund would provide specific resources for promotional activities, the preparation of
training requests, and expansion/diversification of skills upgrading capacity. Project mid-term review
criteria would include an examination of performance benchmarks for the Training Fund, and corrective
action would be taken if necessarv.
2.33   Rationale for Bank Involvement. Human resources development is one of the pillars of the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in Mali, and will remain so over the medium-term, complementing
efforts to generate sustained broad-based economic growth while focusing on the needs of the most
vulnerable. Without a dramatic improvement in education attainment and skills development, Mali cannot
hope to generate or sustain rates of growth needed to overcome poverty. The proposed project addresses
this need directly and is included as an essential investment operation in the CAS, discussed by the Board
on January 5, 1995.
2.34   Secondlv, the Bank's long experience in Malian education, training and labor market issues, and
the proposed project's links to ongoing projects, gives the Bank a comparative advantage in this sub-sector.
Under the IV Education Project, several labor market and training studies. and the identification for the
proposed project, were financed. Under the Education SECAL, sectoral reforms regarding educational
quality, student scholarships, and student flow controls are being implemented and would be complemented
by investments under the proposed project. As for labor market issues, the Bank's first Structural
Adjustment Loan included the revision of the Labor Code in 1992, and further implementation of this Code
is foreseen under the 1995-97 Policv Framework Paper agreed to by the Bank, the IMF and the
Government. The VET project would build on these labor market reforms and facilitate labor mobilitv and
flexibility through improved information and feedback into programming of VET resources. Finally, the
VET project would complement the Bank's industrv. infrastructure and agriculture projects in Mali, such
as AGETIPE. Private Sector Promotion, Transport Sector, and Agro-processing.
2.35   Thirdly, the Bank has plaved a lead role in defining and operationalizing VET and labor market
policies, which are now shared amongst all donors active in the sector. Indeed, French Cooperation (FAC)
has agreed to parallel finance certain project activities, and has proposed funding kev technical assistance
of this project. Since 1993, the Canadians and the Bank have worked closely regarding their financing of
VET curriculum reforms, which would be integrated and extended to other training streams under the
project. Thirdly, a Swiss-financed NGO (SwissContact) and the Bank developed a close working
relationship, particularly in the design of the proposed Vocational Training Support Fund and including the
co-financing of certain project preparation activities. Finallv, the Bank and the ILO collaborated in the
design of the proposal for the Employment and Training Observatorv.



14
3. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
3.1    Development Objectives: The proposed project aims to contribute to economic growth and human
resources development, targeting in particular the skill requirements of relatively poor urban groups in the
informal sector. Related objectives are to improve local capacity to allocate training resources as a function
of labor market demand, and to increase the involvement of the private sector in the management, provision
and financing of VET.
3.2   Implementation Objectives: The project's implementation objectives are to develop labor force
skills and productivitv through improved quality. supply and responsiveness of vocational education and
training services, adapted to labor market demand. Over the life of the project, approximately 40,000
workers and apprentices would benefit from in-service skills upgrading, while another 6,000 youth would
benefit from pre-service vocational training. It is expected that at least 75% of project trainees would be
employed within three years of training, with incomes sufficient to generate at least a 16% social rate of
return to project investments.
3.3    Project Scope: To achieve these objectives, the project would finance: (a) the consolidation of
pre-service VET services, by upgrading facilities, revising curricula, improving teacher quality, and
increasing management capacity; (b) the establishment of a Vocational Training Support Fund, to develop
demand-driven, employer-financed skills upgrading and apprenticeship training; and (c) the establishment
of an Employment and Training Observatory, to improve labor market information analysis and
dissemination. This investment programn would be executed within a Policy Franework for VET services
and employment (described in paras. 2.24-2.28). The following table sunmmarizes the components.
VET Consolidation Project Components (including taxes and contingencies)
1.    Pre-Service VET Services (US$ 9.2 million)
(i)    upgrade training facilities;
(ii)   improve quality and skills of instructors and revise curricula; and
(iii)   develop management capacity at school and central levels.
2.     Vocational Training Support Fund (US$ 12.0 million)
(i)    finance and develop demand-driven skills upgrading and apprenticeship training; and
(ii)   develop national certification standards for apprenticeship training.
3.    Employment and Training Observatory (US$ 1.7 million)
(i)   finance necessary equipment, materials and infrastructure;
(ii)   train Observatory staff in labor market analysis and its links to VET,
(iii)   conduct labor market and training surveys; and
(iv)   disseminate labor market information to policymakers and potential training
beneficiaries.
COMPONENT 1 -    PRE-SERVICE VET SERVICES (US$ 9.2 MILLION)
3.4    Objectives: The objectives of this component are to improve the quality, supply, efficiency and
relevance of pre-service VET services. in order to provide young trainees with the knowledge and skills
demanded in the labor market, therebv irnproving their employment prospects. Approximately 1,200 youth



15
would benefit each year from this training. Related objectives are to increase the responsiveness and
flexibilitv of the formal training system to adapt to changing labor market needs, to expand employer
involvement and to ensure maximum utilization of existing VET capacity.
3.5    Project Support: For each training stream selected for reinforcement, the project would finance
civil works, equipment, didactic materials, training and technical assistance. Training programs would be
revised and instructors re-trained before hardware investments are made, in order to introduce modular,
competency-based training programs which emphasize mastery of practical skills and flexibility. At the
same time, training programns for skills which are less in demand in the labor market would be downsized or
completely phased out.
3.6    As part of project preparation all legal and administrative texts concerning pre-service vocational
training are being revised. This revision includes changes in the management, roles, financing and services
of pre-service VET institutions, involving private sector employers and enabling VET institutions to
provide (and charge for) in-service and apprenticeship training. Texts concerning curricula, duration of
training programs, assessment, instructor recruitment, etc., are also being revised for greater flexibility and
responsiveness to the labor market. The enactment of all revised legal and administrative texts concerning
pre-service vocational training would be a condition of project effectiveness (para. 7.2-a).
Sub-Component 1.1 - Upgrade Training Facilities (US$ 5.4 million)
3.7    Five training facilities have been selected for upgrading. The five training facilities are: the
Vocational Training Center (CFP). the School for Commerce, Industry and Administration (ECICA), and
the Institutes for Vocational Training (IFPs) in Sikasso, Kayes and San. These facilities offer two-year
training programs (grades 10/11) leading to the Certificat d Aptitude Professionnel (CAP), with the
exception of ECICA which offers the 4-vear Brevet Technicien (BT). Such programs correspond to mid-
level skilled workers, able and willing to perform skilled tasks with the possibility of supervising others.
The five facilities were selected for their proximity to capital and regional labor markets: Sikasso is in the
cotton-growing region and a major transportation hub; San covers the rice-growing regions and is nid-way
between the regional capitals of Segou and Mopti; Kayes is the primary mining region and is expected to
grow substantially over the next 5-10 years. w-ith development of the Manantali Dam area, electrification,
cotton. and road construction.
3.8    The training streams selected for project support include: mechanics (general and vehicle),
construction, metalwork, electrical contracting, woodworking, electro-mechanics and accounting. These
were identified based on the seven labor market and training surveys conducted dunrng project preparation
(see Annex 2.2 for more details), which indicate significant growth in production and emplovment over the
medium term in textiles, agro-industry, simple import substitution, construction, public works, transport,
hotels and tourism, crafts, small and medium enterprises. Seven training specialties would be reinforced at
the CFP, two at ECICA, two at the IFPs in Kayes and San, and one at the IFP in Sikasso. All training
would be at the CAP-level, with the exception of electro-mechanics and accounting, which would be at the
BT-level. In addition, studies would be conducted for the development of two new training streams in agro-
processing and mining.
3.9    In conjunction with new investments, Government gave assurances that as of school year 1995-
1996 it would phase out training streams in customs, workers' rights, and taxation, and would reduce the
size of training streams for geometry and industrial chemistry by 50% (all at the BT level) (para 7. 1-b).
These training streams remain from when the Government recruited all BT graduates into the civil service;
current surveys of private sector training needs indicate virtually no demand at this time for graduates



16
trained in these areas at this level. In parallel, the DNETP would consolidate four CAP-level tertiary sector
training streams into two: accounting and office work. The IFPs would gradually phase out BT-level
tertiarv training, and would focus on the CAP. By investing in training streams demanded in the labor
market, closing or downsizing others, and merging overly specific training to increase flexibility, the project
would truly consolidate pre-service VET training in the fullest sense of the word.
Sub-Component 1.2 - Improve Quality of Instruction (US$ 3.3 million)
3.10   Curriculum Reform. For each training stream selected for reinforcement, the curniculum would be
revised to adopt a modular, competency-based approach, emphasizing transferable practical and
entrepreneurial skills. The modular approach would increase flexibility and could be used for skills
upgrading and apprenticeship training, as well. The DNETP has already revised two training programs
(auto and electrical mechanics) with Canadian support over the past two years. Extensive training and
technical assistance provided over this period means the DNETP is now capable of revising other trang
programs with only limited external assistance. By 1999 all curricula revisions would be completed (see
Project Implementation Plan for details). A total of 3 months of training and TA per training stream would
be financed under the project to revise curricula.
3. 11   Training.    The revision of training programs would require a major investment in the re-
training of instructors. All instructors would receive three months of intensive training during school
vacations in the competency-based, modular approach, as well as in the use of new equipment and
materials. Training of trainers would be provided by specialists from the National Department of
Vocational and Technical Training of the Ministrv of Education of Quebec through a twinning arrangement
(see para. 3.15). These specialists would be senior technical support staff, with extensive experience and
training in the competencv-based, modular approach and familiaritv with the equipment which would be
financed under the project. Instructors in each training stream would also benefit from two months of
technical assistance during the school vear, for each of the first three years using the revised programs.
Training both before and during the school year should enable teachers to fully absorb and apply the
revised training programs. A comprehensive personnel utilization-rotation plan was submitted to IDA
before negotiations. to ensure adequate and appropriate staffing of regional IFPs, particularly for training
streams to be strengthened under the project.
3.12   Training and Enterprise Support Units.     An important aspect of imnproving the quality and
relevance of VET instruction is ensuring that instructors know and understand the labor market and private
sector enterprises for which their students are being trained. One mechanism for ensuring these links
between training and employment would be the creation of training and enterprise support units ("unites de
formation et d'appui aux entreprises") within VET institutions. This unit would be composed of VET
instructors who, in addition to their normal teaching workload, would market their services on a partial
cost-recoverv basis to private and parastatal enterprises for the identification of training needs and the
development of training programs for their employees. (Note: enterprises could then submit these training
programs for funding to the Vocational Training Support Fund, see Component 2.) FAC financing wvould
provide training and 5 long-term technical assistants to assist VET instructors in job functional analysis,
skills identification, and modular training program development. Limited equipment and furniture needs
for the training and enterprise support units would also be financed by FAC under the project.



17
Sub-Component 1.3 - Develop Management Capacity at Central and School Levels (US$
0.5 million)
3. 13   At the central level, the DNETP would be strengthened under the project, with new offices,
equipment, training and technical assistance in the following areas: curricular reform; pedagogical support;
utilization/rationalization of capacity (buildings, equipment and instructors); labor market analysis;
monitoring and evaluation; and management decentralization. A total of 20 person/months of international
short-term TA would be financed under the project. Proof that the Government has obtained all
necessary authorizations for the works to be carried out under the project would be a condition of
disbursement for this component (para 7.3-a).
3. 14   At the school level, directors would receive training in the transformation of pre-service VET
facilities into full-service training centers (offering skills upgrading, apprenticeship trai ing. and enterprise
support, in addition to pre-service VET). In addition, directors and supervisors ("chefs des travaux")
would participate in training for instructors.
3.15   Given the range of VET instructor and management training required, the project would support an
"institutional twinning" arrangement between the DNETP and the Department for Vocational Education
and Training Nvithin the Ministry of Education of Quebec. Since 1986 Quebec's VET institutions have
undertaken a major reform, significantly improving their quality, efficiency, flexibility, and responsiveness
to the labor market. The Government of Mali has expressed to the Ministry of Education in Quebec its
interest in learning from the Quebec experience, to which the Ministrv of Education in Quebec has
responded favorably in writing. While such an arrangement would ensure a certain consistency and
svnergy in training and technical assistance activities, Mali would nevertheless be free to recruit necessary
trainers and technical assistants elsewhere. The objective would be to put at the DNETP's disposal a
coherent pool of talent and experience in VET reform which could be easily accessed. Prior to
negotiations, the Government submitted to IDA draft TORs for TA to be provided to the DNETP under the
project.
COMPONENT 2 - VOCATIONAL TRAINING SUPPORT FUND (VTSF) FOR SKILLS UPGRADING
(US$ 12.0 MILLION)
3.16   Objectives: The objectives of this component are to improve the quality and capacity of skills
upgrading services, in order to enhance labor force skills and productivity among formal and informal
sector workers. In addition, the VTSF aims to involve employers in financing and managing training for
their workers, expand private training capacity, develop apprenticeship training certification criteria, and
provide incentives for adopting more cost-efficient modes of training for critically needed skills areas. Over
the five years of the project (1997-2001), annual through-put of in-service trainees is expected to rise from
3,000 to 10,000. The medium-term objective is to establish a sustainable "market" for skills upgrading in
Mali.
3.17   Project Support: Through the establishment of a Vocational Training Support Fund (VTSF), the
project would finance demand-driven skills upgrading and retraining of workers in both formal and
informal sector enterpnrses, and would support apprenticeship training for young school leavers already
active in the informal labor market. The VTSF would also help enterprises to identify their training needs,
and translate those needs into viable training requests and programs. Promotional and other IEC activities
regarding the VTSF would be financed to specific target groups (e.g. women), to ensure wide participation
in VTSF activities. The project would also finance equipment and materials to develop private skills



18
upgrading capacity and diversity. An important feature of the VTSF would be the Government's
introduction of a Vocational Training Tax which would ensure a sustainable source of employer financing
long after the project ends. This would be equivalent to 0.5% of the private and parastatal sector payroll,
and would be accompanied by a reduction of other payroll taxes so the net fiscal burden on employers and
labor costs would be unchanged. (The National Federation of Malian Employers was closely involved
during project preparation and has officially stated its support for this measure in a letter to the Minister of
Finance and Commerce.) The VTSF would be a non-profit agency whose financing would be exempt from
taxes. As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would establish the kTSF and procedures for the
transfer of Government funds to the VTISF through a Subsidiary Grant Agreement (para 7.2-b). Adoption
of all necessary legislative and regulatory texts, acceptable to the Association, relating to the financing
by employers of VTSF activities would be a condition of disbursement for this component (para 7. 3-b).
3.18   The project would finance start-up and operating costs of the VTSF, including: recruitment of
personnel, renovation of offices, purchase and operation of office equipment and vehicles, training,
promotional activities, studies, contractual services and 3 long-term technical assistants (under FAC
financing). A total of 16 staff would be hired, including the General Director, eight technical specialists in
training, financial administration and procurement, two secretanres, an IEC/documentation specialist and
four service personnel. Total operating costs of the VTSF would not exceed 11% of total VTSF
expenditures. Prior to negotiations, the Government submitted to IDA for review the draft TORs for the
General Director and all technical personnel to be hired under the VTSF.
3.19   VTSF performance criteria and benchmarks (e.g. number of person-months of training, number of
training requests processed, level of employer contributions through the Vocational Training Tax, actual
versus projected disbursement, etc.) are included in the terms of reference for the project's mid-term review
which were agreed to during negotiations.
Sub-Component 2.1 - Skills Upgrading and Retraining (US$ 11.6 million)
3.20   The project would finance skills upgrading and retraining sub-projects, submitted by individuals,
private and parastatal firms, or organizations (such as NGOs). referred to here as "sponsors". Sponsors
would be responsible for identifying and expressing training needs of beneficiaries, and would typically
have direct links to them (e.g. as employer, master artisan or community organizer). Alternatively,
beneficiaries could simply organize themselves to present training requests. Two types of training sub-
projects wvould be financed: those for individual enterprises and those for groups of workers in either the
formal or informal labor market. The submission by the Government to IDA of the draft Operations
Manual for the VTSF, as part of the Project Implementation Plan, was a condition of negotiations. During
negotiations the Government gave assurances that it would operate the VITSF in accordance with the
VTSF Operations Manual, which would be acceptable at all times to IDA (para 7. 1-c).
3.21   The VTSF would contribute to financing of both recurrent and development costs of training
activities. In most cases it would finance 75% of training expenses (curriculum development, instruction,
materials, etc.) of each approved sub-project, with training beneficiaries and/or their sponsors contributing
the remaining 25%. Of this VTSF financing, employers and Government would provide one-third through
the Vocational Training Tax equivalent to 0.5% of payroll, while IDA and the FAC would provide the
other two-thirds. (In other words, of total training expenses, 25% would be financed by beneficiaries, 25%
by employers and Government, and 50% by IDA and the FAC.) For training of apprentices under 21 years
of age, the VTSF would finance 90% of training expenses, with 10% financed by apprentices and/or their
sponsors. In order to expand and upgrade private sector training capacity (commercial and non-profit), the
VTSF would also finance up to 50% of the cost of new equipment and materials through a combined grant



19
(25%) and 2.5%-interest loan (25%), with the training centers contributing the balance. The interest on
the loan would pay for loan administration and collection, and repayments would go into a revolving fund.
The Executive Secretanrat of the VTSF would verify that the balance of funds for each sub-project were in
fact contributed by the sponsors or other financing partners, and its verification would be subject to audit.
3.22   Training of private and public training center instructors would also be financed under the VTSF,
but under the same terns as those applied to other training beneficiaries, on the principle that public and
private training institutes should be willing to invest in their human resources like any other enterprise.
a.    Management of the VTSF
3.23   The VTSF would be administered by a Management Committee (MC), and operated on daily basis
by an Executive Secretariat (ES). The MC would be composed of 16 members, 12 from the private sector
and 4 from the Government. Industry, mining, agriculture, artisan, construction, services, NGOs and
unions would be represented, with representatives elected by the General Assemblies of their respective
professional associations. On the Government side, the Ministry of Industry, Crafts and Tourism, the
Ministry of Finance and Commerce, the Ministry of Labor and Civil Service, and the Ministry of
Secondary and Higher Education, and of Scientific Research, would be represented, with the Ministry of
Industrv, Crafts and Tourism assuming overall Government supervision of the VTSF. A president and first
vice-president would be elected by the MC from among private sector representatives, with a second
permnanent vice-presidencv assumed bv the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. (The only responsibility of
the first vice-president would be to replace the president in case of the latter's absence.) The MC would
meet at least 4 times a year, or every three months, to review the Fund's activities and their correspondence
with financing criteria and guidelines, and to vote on training proposals in excess of US$50,000 submitted
by the Executive Secretariat.
3.24   The Executive Secretariat (ES) would (i) help enterprises and other beneficiaries identifv and
express their training needs. (ii) review, approve and, if needed, propose to the MC, training proposals, (iii)
select training providers through competitive bidding, and (iv) ensure appropriate monitoring and
evaluation of training activities. In addition, it would conduct targeted research into promising economic
sub-sectors worthy of training investments, carry out IEC and promotional campaigns, and handle all
administrative and financial aspects of the VTSF (procurement, accounting, etc.). A General Director
would oversee the activities of 4 Divisions: Skills and Apprenticeship Training; Enterprise-Based
Training; Promotion, Research and Evaluation; and Administration/Finance. In addition, the General
Director would be responsible for preparing and supervising the implementation of an annual work
program and budget. To promote the participation of women in training activities, the VTSF would have a
Women's Training Specialist, responsible for reaching out to women's groups, explaining how to access
VTSF resources, assisting in the preparation of training requests and ensuring that training activities are
adapted to women's specific needs.
3.25   In terms of financial management, the General Director of the ES and the permanent vice-president
would ensure the financial integrity of the Fund and authorize transfers of tax revenues to the VTSF.
Following registration at the National Tax Department, tax revenues would be deposited in a holding
account at the National Treasury on a daily basis. Each month the permanent vice-president (from the
Ministry of Finance and Commerce) would authorize the transfer of these funds to the VTSF's operating
account, provided that the previous month's actual cash flow reached at least 80% of projections and/or
operational account funds were less than 80% of estimated financing needs for the ensuing three months.
Revenues not transferred to the VTSF before June 30 and December 31 each year would be handed over
permanently to the Treasury.



20
b.     Criteria for VTSFfinancing
3.26   Each training sub-project would be evaluated for eligibility according to economic, pedagogic and
financial criteria. Economic criteria would include the training's relation to labor market demand, its likely
impact on productivity and employ-ment creation, and its targeting of priority populations. Labor market
demand would be substantiated through labor market studies, quantitative or qualitative, and/or willingness
to provide counterpart financing. Pedagogic criteria include the quality and adequacy of training in terms
of methodology, organization, duration, levels of skills targeted, instructional materials required, and
monitoring and evaluation design. Financial critena would include the training's projected costs and their
comparison to reference unit costs for similar training, and the counterpart contribution proposed by the
sponsor. If the training sub-project is deemed eligible, the training provider would be selected through
local competitive bidding, open to previously qualified trainers and training institutions. Training would be
provided by private sector training centers (commercial and non-profit), consulting firms and public VET
institutions.
3.27   Within the ES, training information (costs, sectors of intervention, impact, qualified trainers, etc.)
would be collected and analyzed through an MIS. Training activities would be monitored and evaluated
according to specific criteria applied to: the training institutions (quality, internal efficiency, etc.); trainees
(percentage of trainees who acquired necessary skills, placement rate, etc.); firms (changes in product
quality, production costs, employment, etc.) and economic environment (overall skill levels, productivity,
exports, technology adaptation, etc.). In turn, this information would be used to refine financing criteria.
Sub-Component 2.2 - Apprenticeship Certification (US$ 0.4 million)
3.28   The project would support the development of a national system of apprenticeship certification,
providing an objective set of standards bv which to evaluate worker skills and develop apprenticeship
training programs. Standards would be established for 10 prioritv occupations/trades by Competency
Committees made up of employers, masters, qualified workers, and ministry of education personnel,
facilitated by experts in competencv-based functional analysis. For each trade the Competency Committee
would analyze the basic competencies that an apprentice should master for certification. These
competencies would then be translated into a modular, sequential apprenticeship training program. After
field tests and revisions, the final list of competencv standards would be submitted to the Competency
Committee for approval, along with a suggested training program. The project wvould finance technical
assistance, training and workshops for the competency committees, publishing and promotion of the
standards established. As part of project preparation, this process is being extensively tested and validated
for one trade (in collaboration with a Swiss NGO, SwissContact), which would then be applied to other
trades during the project.
CoMPONENT 3-EMPLOYMINT AND TRAINING OBSERVATORY (US$1.6 million)
3.29   Objective: The objective of this component is to increase employment and earnings through
improved functioning of the labor market and enhanced effectiveness of vocational training. This would be
achieved by establishing the Employment and Training Observatory (ETO), for monitoring, analysis and
dissemination of labor market information, with a special emphasis on the links between employment and
training policies and programs.
3.30   Project Support: The project would finance 4 sub-components to achieve this objective: (i)
establishment of the ETO (renovated offices, office equipment, furniture, etc.), as a quasi-autonomous
structure linked to the ONMOE, (ii) training in the collection and analysis of information pertaining to the



21
labor market and vocational training; (iii) studies and surveys to further understand the structure and
evolution of the formal and informal labor markets: and (iv) the development of institutional capacity for
the dissemination of this information to policvmakers and the public at large. During negotiations, the
ONMOE gave assurances that it would transfer to the ETO by May 31 of each year, commencing with
May 31, 1996, at least CFAF 95 million for the ETO 's operating costs (para 7.1-d). Evidence that
ONAMOE has transferred CFAF 95 million in 1996 to the ETO would be a condition ofproject
effectiveness (para 7. 2-c).. This would be equivalent to about 20% of ONMOE's annual revenues of
CFAF 450 million, generated by the "'employment services" tax (equivalent to 1% of payroll). In addition,
during negotiations the ONMOE gave assurances that it would furnish to IDA by May 31 of each year,
beginning in 1996, its Annual Activity and Budget Execution Report for the previous year (para 7. 1-d).
Sub-Component 3.1 -Establishment of Employment and Training Observatory (US$0.44
million)
3.31   The project would finance minor rehabilitation of offices at the ONMOE to permit the installation
of the ETO. Office equipment, furniture. computers, telephones, fax and mobylettes would also be
financed. The ETO would be staffed by six specialists: two economists (macro and micro), two
statisticians, one training specialist and one communications/IEC specialist. These individuals would
gather existing labor market information from other sources, oversee complementary labor market and
training surveys, analyze and synthesize data. and prepare dissemination materials in both quantitative and
qualitative formats. The ONMOE would no longer perform these functions and would eliminate its
Statistics and Information Division, restncting itself to job placement counseling, training, civil service
recruitment and special programs related to former public and parastatal employees and recent school
graduates who are currently unemployed. In December of each year an annual report of ETO activities
would be sent to IDA for review, including an evaluation of the vear's activities and the ETO work
program and budget for the upcoming year. Prior to negotiations the Govenmment submitted to IDA for
review the draft TORs for the ETO Director and all ETO technical personnel. As a condition of
effectiveness the Government would transfer all designated staff to be redeployed to the Employment and
Training Observatory (para 7.2-d).
3.32   To support the ETO, a network and database would be developed of consultants and other resource
people for employment and training issues. This %vould include a wvide range of individuals and institutions
(local and intemational) which could supply, collect. analyze and/or use information relating to the labor
market and training. Partner institutions would include the National Department for Statistics and
Information (DNSI), the National Institute for Social Security (INPS), the National Department for
Planning, the National Federation of Employers. the National Federation of Artisans, the Chamber of
Commerce. the Chamber of Trades, the national unions and private placement services.
Sub-Component 3.2 - Training of ETO Staff (US$ 0.40 million)
3.33   The project would finance TA and staff development according to a seven-module program
developed in collaboration with the Intemational Labor Office (ILO). These modules would include: (a)
basic training in statistical analysis of labor markets and training programs for all ETO staff; (b) basic
training in use of computers and standard software, (c) advanced training in the use of computers for
statistical analysis of survev data for up to 14 ETO staff and other "network personnel"; (d) a training
seminar covering all qualitative labor market information and monitoring of VET trainees; (e) a workshop
for all ETO and DNETP personnel. including practical case studies, on the preparation and execution of
labor market surveys, the job repertoire, informal sector analysis, and the use of labor market information



22
for programming of VET resources; (f) advanced training abroad for 3 high-level ETO staff in labor
market statistics and VET planning; and (g) a study tour for 2 ETO staff to examine employment
observatories in neighboring countries (e.g. Ivory Coast and Benin).
Sub-Component 3.3 -Surveys of Labor Market and Training (USSO.42 million)
3.34   Each year the project would finance a series of labor market and training surveys, including: (i) a
survey of employers' skill requirements, based on stratified sampling of modem and informal sector firns
in Bamako and the regions; (ii) tracer studies of recent VET and higher education graduates; and (iii) the
evolution and structure of the modem labor market. Recruitmnent and training of surveyors, development of
survey methodology, production of questionnaires and supplies for survey analysis would be financed.
Sub-Component 3.4 - Dissemination of Labor Market Information
(US$ 0.44 million)
3.35   The project would promote the dissemination of labor market information through strengthening of
the ETO Documentation Center, with audio-visual and computer equipment, subscriptions and relevant
reference materials. The ETO would publish on a periodic basis (not less than annual): (a) a report on
employment trends in both formal and informal sector, and their impact on VET services; (b) projections of
trades and occupations experiencing employment growth and the training streams which correspond to
them; (d) a policy brief for Governnent decision-makers, proposing steps to better adapt VET services; and
(e) simple, 1-2 page color brochures presenting labor market and training statistics in easy-to-understand
graphic form for wider audiences. Beyond printed materials, the Documentation Center would also
organize national and regional seminars for DNETP and VTSF personnel to present labor market trends
and their impact on VET services, and would conduct job counseling seminars and for secondary and
higher education students.



4. PROJECT COSTS AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
4.1    Total project costs are estimated at US$ 22.9 million, including taxes and duties, with a foreign
exchange component of US$ 14.8 million (67%). Base costs are estimated at US$ 19.6 million (86%) and
total contingencies at US$ 3.3 million (14%). Price contingencies, estimated at US$ 2.0 million, assume an
annual domestic inflation rate of 4 % and a foreign inflation rate of 3 %. Physical contingencies, estimated
at US$ 1.3 million, are based on rates of 10% and 5% for goods and for services, respectively. Detailed
project costs and financing estimated are summarized in Annex 6.1.
4.2    The project would be financed by an IDA credit of US$ 13.4 million equivalent (59% of total
project costs), a grant from the FAC of US$ 3.7 million equivalent (16% of total costs), and contributions
from Government, employers and beneficiaries for an estimated US$ 5.8 million equivalent (24% of project
costs), including 100% of taxes and duties.
Table 4.1: Project Cost Summary
(US $ million)
(Including Taxes and Duties)
Local   Foreign     TOTAL
1.    Quality and Relevance of Pre-Service VET          2.3        5.6         7.9
2.    Vocational Training Support Fund                  3.7        6.5         10.2
3.    Employment and Training Observatory               0.8        0.7          1.5
Total Base Costs                                 6.8       12.8         19.6
Physical Contingencies                           0.4        0.9          1.3
Price Contingencies                              0.9        1.1          2.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                     8.1       14.8         22.9
4.3    The cost estimates for training provided under Component 2 are based on an average of US$ 140
per person-month of training, calculated from a variety of existing skills upgrading programs in Mali.
Actual costs would vary considerably with the level of training required, the specialty involved, nature of
the training, the equipment and material required, the number of persons participating in the training
session, etc.
B.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Coordination
4.4    The project would be managed through two structures: a Component Coordination Unit (CCU) and
the Vocational Training Support Fund. The CCU would be responsible for project activities concerning



24
pre-service VET (component 1) and the ETO (component 3), including management of project resources
and the preparation of financial statements for audit for these two components. It would be staffed by a
Coordinator (nominated by the MESSRS), two specialists in accounting and procurement, and a secretary,
and would be integrated at the Cabinet level of the MESSRS. Execution of pre-service VET activities
(component 1) would be the responsibility of the DNETP, while the Director of the ETO would be
responsible for execution of component 3 (under the oversight of the ONMOE, which is governed in
tripartite fashion by employers, unions and the Government). As for the VTSF, it would be managed by a
16-member Management Committee (12 from the private sector, 4 from the public sector), with daily
execution responsibilities delegated to an Executive Secretariat headed by a General Director, who would
be responsible for management of project resources pertaining to the VTSF and the preparation of VTSF
financial statements for audit. Its staff of eight professionals should be fully adequate for reviewing
training requests, procuring training providers and handling project finances. Prior to negotiations, the
Government submitted to IDA for review a draft inter-ministerial arrete to be signed by all ministers
concemed, which specifies the roles and responsibilities of all ministries involved in project execution, the
CCU, the VTSF, the DNETP and the ETO. The TORs for the Coordinator and technical support staff of
the CCU were submitted prior to negotiations. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that
the positions of CCU Coordinator and VTSF General Director would be maintained and staffed by
qualified personnel, acceptable at all times to IDA, (para 7. 1 -e). Prior to Board presentation, the
Government nominated the CCU Coordinator and General Director of the VTSF, acceptable to IDA. As a
condition of effectiveness, the Government will: (i) recruit qualified technical personnel acceptable to
IDA in adequate numbers to the CCUand VTSF(para 7.2-e); (ii) submit to IDA work programs for the
CCUand JISF, and a set ofproject implementanon benchmarks for the first year ofproject
implementation (para 7.2-fr; and (iii) provide evidence that the VTSF has been allocated appropriate
offices, acceptable to IDA (7. 2-g).
4.5    Following pre-appraisal, the Government Project Preparation Team prepared a Project
Implementation Plan (PIP), which includes: an Operations Manual for the VTSF; the project's institutional
framework; specific responsibilities by executing agency; estimated activity and disbursement plans for the
project; terms of reference for all project personnel and short-term technical assistance to be financed under
the project; a procurement plan for the five years of the project, and the principal draft procurement
documents for the first year of project execution. The Operations Manual for the VTSF includes: (i)
definitions of beneficiaries, training sponsors and training providers; (ii) eligibility and evaluation criteria
for proposed training sub-projects; (iii) processing steps, including sample forms and documents; (iv)
selection criteria and standard forms for selection of trainers; (v) monitoring and evaluation procedures and
criteria; and (vi) administrative information governing VTSF personnel and other operations. The adoption
by the Government of the PIP, including the revisions agreed to during negotiations, would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness (para 7. 2-h). Meanwhile, the revision of all legal and administrative texts
concerning VET is well underway (the revised texts are scheduled to be introduced to the Council of
Ministers in early 1996), and the Government has begun preparation of first-year workprograms for the
three components, which would be incorporated into the final version of the PIP, as discussed during
negotiations.
Project Procurement Arrangements, Management and Review
4.6    Procurement Arrangements: Table 4.2 below summarizes the project elements and their
estimated cost and proposed method of procurement. Procurement procedures under the project would be
undertaken as follows:
(a)    Works: The bulk of civil works consists of rehabilitation and extensions of five training
centers in Bamako, Sikasso, Kayes and San. In addition, offices would be constructed for



25
the DNETP, and those for the VTSF and ETO would be renovated. All civil works (US$
1.5 million equivalent, including taxes and duties) would be delegated to AGETIPE,
through a legal agreement signed between the CCU and AGETIPE. AGETIPE would be
responsible for all bid preparation, evaluation, award and payments for contracts for
architectural services and civil works. AGETIPE would use NCB procedures satisfactory
to IDA, including local advertising, public bid opening, clarity in evaluation criteria and
award to the lowest evaluated bidder. Due to their small size and geographic spread, these
civil works contracts are unlikely to attract foreign bidders, although foreign bidders would
not be precluded from submitting bids. The average size of works are estimated at US$
92,000. Any contract above US$ 250,000 would go through ICB and require prior review
of the Bank before signature, although no such contract is expected.
(b)    Goods: Goods financed under the credit (US$ 4.5 million equivalent) include pedagogical
equipment for workshops and classrooms, didactic materials and tools, office equipment
and supplies, school and office furniture, and vehicles. Goods would be grouped into
packages of at least US$ 100,000 each and procured through ICB in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines and using Standard Bidding Documents developed by the
Bank. When ICB procedures are used, domestic manufacturers of goods would be allowed
a preference of 15 percent over the CIP price of competing foreign suppliers or the existing
applicable rate of import duties, whichever is lower, in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Contracts for equipment and furniture costing more than US$ 50,000 but less than US$
100,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of NCB, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed US$ 0.22 million, in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Small
quantities of goods such as office supplies, pedagogic equipment, consumable materials
and spare parts, which are normally available off-the-shelf and cannot be grouped into
packages of at least US$ 50,000 may be procured through prudent international shopping,
based on price quotations of at least three reliable suppliers, or through UNDP's Inter-
Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO), especially for office equipment and
vehicles, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.20 million equivalent. Goods estimated to
cost less than US$40,000, which are available off-the-shelf and cannot be grouped into
packages of at least US$50,000 may be procured through local shopping, based on price
quotations of at least three reliable suppliers, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.20
million. All bids would be submitted on CIP basis for imported goods and on an ex-
factory basis for locally manufactured goods.
(c)    Training: Labor force skills upgrading through the VTSF constitutes the bulk of the
Project, with a total estimated amount of US$ 6.3 million equivalent, and includes the
development and financing of in-service training and apprenticeship sub-projects, which
would be procured in accordance with the VTSF Operational Manual's procurement
procedures acceptable to IDA. However, bidding would be permitted only to pre-qualified'
trainers, consulting firms and training institutions. The criteria for their pre-qualification
were finalized during appraisal - an initial list of pre-qualified training firms for the VTSF,
subdivided on the basis of areas of expertise, were submitted to IDA and discussed during
negotiations. Additional training services for the DNETP and ETO, for a total estimated
amount of US$ 0.9 million, would be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures acceptable to IDA on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981).
(d)    Consultancies: Specialists Services for technical assistance, studies and other services
(approximately 124 person-months, all short-term) for a total estimated amount of US$
1.2 million equivalent, would be selected in accordance with principles and procedures



26
acceptable to IDA on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). For
complex, time-based assignments, consultants would be employed under contracts
acceptable to the IDA and prepared on the basis of the standard contracts for consultants'
services issued by the Bank. Draft terms of reference (TORs) for short-term international
technical assistance to be financed under the project were prepared during appraisal and
reviewed by IDA during negotiations.
(e)    Miscellaneous Contractual Services: Approximately 420 person-months of contractual
services would be selected (for a total estimated amount of US$ 1.1 million equivalent), for
the preparation and evaluation of VTSF training sub-projects, labor market studies,
promotional campaigns and audits. In addition, 20 project staff would be hired under
fixed-term contracts (for a total estimated amount of US$ 0.85 million equivalent). This
would include the CCU Coordinator, the VTSF General Director, two procurement and
three financial administration specialists, five training experts, an IEC specialist, three
secretaries, a driver, a maintenance man and two guards. Hiring procedures, work
contracts and salary levels are spelled out in the VTSF Operational Manual.
4.7    Procurement Management: The CCU would be responsible for handling procurement of
equipment, vehicles and consultants for components I and 3. It would be important to ensure that CCU
staff recruited have extensive experience in implementing World Bank projects, including participation in
Bank-sponsored training in procurement, disbursement and financial management. The use of the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents would be the norm. AGETIPE, the delegated agency for procurement of civil
works, is fully versed in Bank procurement procedures and is supervised by Bank staff on a regular basis.
Moreover, a standard contract for AGETIPE's services has been elaborated, approved by the Bank and is
used routinely in on-going projects. As for the VTSF, staff recruited to handle procurement of training
services and consultants would have previous procurement experience and would participate in
procurement training as part of the project launch seminar. Furthermore, the VTSF's Operational Manual
procedures for training follow the Bank's guidelines for services and would be used for all training
contracts.



27
Table 4.2: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million, including taxes and duties)
Project Element     International    National      Other     NBF      Total
Competitive   Competitive
lBidding      Bidding
Works                                    1,353         190                 1,543
-         (1,150)        (69)        -      (1,219)
Goods
Equipment/           3,871          146          113        62      4,192
Materials
(3,871)       (146)        (113)        -     (4,130)
Vehicles             139            -            -          -       139
(139)          -            -          -       (139)
Furniture             -            77           156        39       272
(77)        (116)        -      (193)
Training - VTSF                            -          6,336        -      6,336
-  -      (2,879)      -      (2,869)
Training:DNETP/ETO           -             -           906       2,711    3,617
-          (906)       -       (906)
Consultancies                -             -          1,244        -      1,244
-  -      (1,244)      -      (1,244)
Surveys / IEC                -             -           559         -       559
-  -       (559)       -       (559)
Miscellaneous                -             -          1,991       456     2,447
Contractual Services       -             -         (1,991)       -      (1,991)
Incremental Recurrent        -             -           145       2,368    2,513
Costs                                      -          (145)        -      (145)
TOTAL               4,010         1,576       11,640      5,636    22,862
(4,010)      (1,373)      (8,022)       -     (13,405)
Note:  The figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
Other: Limited International Bidding, local shopping, contractual and consultancy services.
NBF:  Items not to be financed by IDA
4.8    Procurement Review: For Components 1 and 3, contracts awarded for IDA-financed works
above US$ 250,000 and for goods above US$ 100,000, would be subject to IDA's prior review. In
particular, the CCU-AGETIPE contract would be reviewed and approved by IDA before signature. The
prior review process would cover 80 % of the total value of the amount contracted for goods. Selective
post-review of awarded contracts below the threshold level would be carried out, for about one in five
contracts, during project supervision. Prior review and/or approval by IDA for consultants contracts
would include budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports
and contracts. IDA prior review would not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and
individuals estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 and US$ 50,000 equivalent, respectively. However, the
exception to IDA prior review would not apply to the terms of reference for contracts, regardless of value,



28
to single source hiring, to assignments of critical nature as determined by IDA, and to amendments raising
the contract value above the prior review threshold.
4.9    For Component 2, the VTSF training contracts in excess of US$50,000 and all sole source
contracts would be subject to prior review by IDA. In order to enhance the supply of labor force training
at a competitive cost, the VTSF would prompt and invite applications of local and foreign training firms to
be included in a list of pre-qualified training providers based on their previous experience, qualifications
and specialties. The list, which would be subject to prior review by IDA, would be regularly updated and
subdivided on the basis of areas of expertise. After IDA has given its no-objection to the list, the VTSF
would establish shortlists of three or four firms for each of the specialties and proceed, with no further
approval by IDA, to the award to contracts on the basis of (a) TORs, letters of invitation and standard
contracts previously agreed with IDA and (b) evaluation of proposals based on economic, pedagogic and
financial criteria, as defined in the letters of invitation.
4.10 Procurement information would be collected and recorded by the CCU and the VTSF General
Director on a quarterly basis and transmitted to IDA. Quarterly reports would include: (i) revised cost
estimates for individual contracts; (ii) timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding,
contract award and completion time for individual contracts, and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on
specified methods of procurement. During supervision missions, a detailed statement of all procurement
undertaken to date, together with a forecast of procurement actions and estimated disbursements to be
undertaken in the coming year, would be provided to IDA.
Project Disbursements
4.11   The project is expected to be completed over a 5-year period with IDA credits disbursed over six
years according to the categories shown in Table 4.5. The estimated disbursement profile is shown in
Annex 6.2. Disbursement from the IDA Credit would be fully documented. However, the Borrower
would be permitted to submit withdrawal applications on the basis of certified SOEs for contracts of less
than US$ 100,000 equivalent for goods and consultant firms, US$ 250,000 equivalent for works, and US$
50,000 equivalent for individual consultants. For training programs, the Vocational Training Support Fund
(VTSF) would establish financing conventions with the training providers specifying the purpose,
beneficiaries, expected outcomes, monitoring responsibilities and costs estimates. Contracts would be
signed between the VTSF and the training providers consistent with Bank guidelines and procedures,
specifying the responsibilities, monitoring and evaluation procedures, disbursement conditions and
schedule. Disbursements would be made by the VTSF on this basis, and final payment granted following
positive evaluation and the clearance of both the training sponsor and the VTSF. Disbursements against
eligible expenditures would be audited semi-annually. Documents for withdrawals under SOEs would be
retained by the executing agencies for review by IDA supervision missions and for project auditors.
Withdrawal applications would be approved and accounted for by the VTSF.
Table 4.3
Financing Plan
(in US$ million, including taxes and duties)
IDA                                                               13.4
Government/Employers                                               5.8
FAC                                                                3.7
TOTAL                                                             22.9



29
Table 4.4
Estimated IDA Credit Disbursements
(in US$ million, including taxes and duties)
-----------------IDA Fiscal Year---
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001  2002
Annual                       1.5     2.4      4.2     2.3      2.0    1.0
Cumulative                   1.5     3.9      8.1    10.4    12.4  13.4
4.12 Two special accounts, one for the Vocational Training Support Fund (A) and one for the
Component Coordination Unit (B), would be opened and maintained at commercial banks for the duration
of the project. Each special account would have a total authorized amount of US$ 750,000 equivalent.
Upon credit effectiveness IDA would make initial deposits of US$ 500,000 equivalent for each account,
equivalent to four months of estimated project expenditures. Later, if project execution and disbursements
so justify, the special accounts would be topped out to US$ 750,000. IDA would replenish the accounts
upon receipt of appropriate documentation satisfactory to IDA for incurred eligible expenditures.
Replenishment requests would be made by the VTSF General Director for Special Account (A) and by the
CCU Coordinator for Special Account (B), accompanied by supporting Special Account statements and
reconciliations. Applications for direct payments or reimbursement would apply to contracts above
US$100,000.



30
Table 4.5
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the IDA Credit
(including taxes and duties)
Category                               Amount of Credit       % of Expenditures to be
Allocated (US$ thousand)        Financed
1. Civil Works
CCU                           1,000                    85%
VTSF                             58
2. Equipment, Fumiture,Vehicles                                   85% of local
CCU                          2,484                 expenditures,
VTSF                          1,400                100% of foreign
3. Labor Force Upgrading
VTSF                          2,447                     45%
4. Training and IEC
CCU                            540                     100%
VTSF                            575                    100%
5. Consultancy and Contractual                                       100%
Services
CCU                           1,427                    100%
VTSF                          1,814                    100%
6. Operating Costs
VTSF                            130                     85%
7. Unallocated
CCU                            630
VTSF                            550
8. PPF
CCU                            100
VfSF                            250
TOTAL CREDIT AMOUNT                         13,405
4.13   Government, employer and beneficiary counterpart funding for the project would be provided
through various channels. For civil works and furniture counterpart funding, the Government would
allocate through the Budget Special dInvestissement (BSI) at least CFAF 40 million in 1996 and at least
CFAF 110 million in 1997. For financing of VTSF training activities, the Government would transfer to
the VTSF earmarked revenues from the Vocational Training Tax paid by employers (estimated at CFAF
300 million per year). For financing of the ETO, the Government would ensure the transfer by the
ONMOE of at least CFAF 95 million per year, from revenues generated by the 1 % "employment services"
tax paid by employers. Finally, beneficiaries would make their 25% contribution to VTSF-financed
training activities directly to the VTSF, and these contributions would be verified and subject to audit.
During negotiations Government gave assurances that it would provide necessary counterpart funding
through the BSIfor civil works andfurniture (para 7.1 -.J). Draft statutes for the introduction of a
Vocational Training Tax, accompanied by draft statutes for the reduction of other payroll taxes were
submitted to IDA prior to negotiations.



31
Project Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.14   Project accounts would be maintained by the CCU and VTSF in accordance with International
Accounting Standards. The CCU and VTSF would maintain separate special and subsidiary accounts to
reflect their operations, with each submitting and accounting for their own credit withdrawal applications.
Each agency would be responsible for preparation of their annual financial statements and both sets of
accounts would be audited annually, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing by auditors
acceptable to IDA. During negotiations the Government provided assurances that the CCU and VTSF
would submit audit reports and auditedfinancial statements of reasonable scope and detail within six
months of the end of each fiscal year (para 7.1-g). SOEs would be subject to a documentary verification
by a local accounting firm in association with the external auditor before their submission to IDA for
reimbursement. The external auditors would be appointed on an annual basis, with the contract renewed as
necessary, until notice to the contrary is given by the project. The terms of reference of the consultants to
be recruited to establish the accounting and financial management system for the VTSF, and the terms of
reference, the shortlist of firms and the selection procedures for audit contracts were submitted to IDA
prior to negotiations. As conditions for effectiveness, the Government agreed to submit proof that: (i) an
external auditor has been appointed, acceptable to IDA, to conduct annual audits of both the CCU and
the VTSF, and of the project accounts; and (ii) the financial administration and accounting systems of
both the CCU and VTSF are fully operational, as certified by the appointed external auditor (para 7.2-i).
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.15   Monitoring and evaluation of project performance would be carried out by the CCU and VTSF,
both of which would establish project monitoring procedures (including MIS) to track project
implementation relative to project performance indicators (see Annex 6.4), which include both process and
impact evaluation criteria. An annual program review would assess project performance against these
benchmark indicators, and corrective actions would be taken as required. In addition, a mid-tern review
would be undertaken to make an in-depth analysis of the efficiency of training activities and of their impact
on beneficiaries. The evaluation criteria for the mid-term review were established and agreed upon during
negotiations. During negotiations the Government provided assurances that the CCUand VTSFwould:
(i) transmit semesterly project implementation progress reports to IDA; (ii) submit annual work
programs and budgets no later than January 31 of each year; (iii) organize and carry out with IDA
during the fourth quarter of each calendar year a review ofprogress in project implementation; (iv)
carry out with IDA a mid-term review ofproject implementation progress no later than December 1998
(para 7. 1-g). Based on the review, the CCU, VTSF and executing agencies (DNETP and ETO) would
prepare and implement an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for further implementation of project activities.
Details of the Bank's supervision plan and annual and mid-term reviews are provided in Annex 6.4 Within
six months after the closing of the Credit, the CCU and VTSF would transmit to IDA a joint
Implementation Completion Report, prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA
(para 7. I -g).



5. PROJECT ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
5.1    Project appraisal included a full-scale economic analysis of the proposed project. (See Annex 2.1
for the full report). This analysis included 8 dimensions: (a) the placement of the project in the larger
macro-economic context, considering the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Mali and future growth
trends: (b) qualitative and quantitative results from employer and manpower surveys; (c) calculations of
the rate of return to vocational education and training services, based on unit costs, wages and probability
of employment by training stream, and sensitivity analyses of these rate of return calculations to determine
key variables for scrutiny during implementation; (d) the development of a least-cost alternative for VET
investments; (e) fiscal impact analysis, which examines the recurrent cost impact of proposed project
investments and compares this to current spending levels, and addresses cost-recovery issues; (f)
institutional analysis, which assesses the capacity of the National Department for Technical and Vocational
Training, the Vocational Training Support Fund and the Employment and Training Observatory to
implement this project; (g) poverty analysis, which specifies which benefits would go to the poor and
examines the project's impact on beneficiaries' incomes; and finally (h) the identification of economic
performance indicators for monitoring and feedback during implementation (for indicators see Annex 6.4).
Viewed together, the economic analysis of the Mali VET Consolidation Project permits a positive overall
assessment and argues for the project's financing.
5.2    As mentioned in Chapter 1, Mali's macroeconomic performance and expected growth augur well
for the project, which is fully consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. Labor market
demand for technical and vocational skills (also discussed in Chapter 1) is expected to grow principally in
textiles, agro-industry, simple import substitution, construction, public works, transport, hotels and
tourism, crafts, and small and medium enterprises. Similar conclusions regarding promising economic sub-
sectors were reached in the World Bank's 1994 Private Sector Assessment for Mali. This will require
technically qualified specialists in maintenance, mechanics (general, auto and truck), metalwork, electricity,
construction and accounting/management.
5.3    Economic rates of return (both private and social) to 2- and 4-year vocational education and
training were calculated, overall and by training stream. (Note: the economic rate of return is the rate of
interest that equates the discounted present value of expected benefits and the present value of costs. The
private rate of return measures the relationship between the costs and benefits of education for the
individual, and the social rate of return measures the relationship between all the social costs of training
that must be bome by society as a whole, and the benefits that are expected to accrue to society.) These
rates are relative to 9 years of basic education leading to the Basic Education Diploma (the prerequisite for
entry into formal VET training institutions), and were calculated using data from the Annual Manpower
Surveys regarding salaries by education and training levels, unit cost information by training stream, and
hypotheses with respect to the probability of VET trainees obtaining jobs in their field, derived in part from
the VET tracer study discussed above. For 2-year VET, the private and social rates of return are estimated
at 27% and 13%, respectively. For 4-year VET, the private and social rates of return are estimated at 33%
and 21%, respectively. Note that these calculations are based on wages in the modern sector and so may
overestimate average trainee eamings. On the other hand, quite conservative estimates were used with
respect to the probability of employment (a maximum of 75% three years after graduation), and extemal



33
benefits to training such as technological innovations, social cohesion, better health, reduced fertility,
intergenerational benefits, etc. were not calculated into the social rate of retum.
5.4    Sensitivity analysis suggests that to achieve at least a 10% social rate of return among CAP
trainees overall, at least 70% need to find ajob within three years of graduation, which pays at least
60,000 FCFA per month (about US$110). For BT trainees overall, at least 75% need to be employed
within three years of graduation, and eaming at least 90,000 FCFA per month (about US$180). (See
Annex 2.1 for sensitivity analyses of individual training streams.) This seems quite plausible given current
employment and salary trends. For example, in 1993, average monthly eamings for CAP-level modem
sector workers were CFAF 61,475, while those for BT-level employees were CFAF 114,500 (see Annex
2.2 for trends in monthly salaries by economic sector and training level). These average salary levels have
increased an estimated 15% since the devaluation of the CFAF in 1994.
5.5    For in-service training, a rate of return was calculated using estimates of unit costs and of trainee
salaries before and after training. Assuming a unit cost of US$ 140 per month of training (the figure used
in the Project Cost Tables), a US$ 10 increase in monthly earnings 12 months after training, and a slight
increase in the probability of being employed after training, the social rate of return to VTSF training
activities would be 34%. To achieve a minimum 10% rate of retum, trainees would have to be at least as
likely to be employed after the training as before, and would have to be eaming at least US$ 7 more per
month after the training. Assuming the training financed meets certain economic, financial and pedagogic
criteria, this minimum rate of return appears likely to be achieved.
5.6    A least-cost altemative approach was used during project appraisal, which attempted to reduce
VET unit costs through the design of multi-use, full-time training facilities which can be shared between
CAP and BT training institutions. An in-depth needs assessment, based on an extensive inventory of
existing training equipment, coupled with continued labor market demand and training supply analysis,
ensured that the project would only finance essential training equipment. The result of this approach was
to reduce final estimates for civil works and equipment required for consolidating pre-service VET services
from US$ 6.2 million (pre-appraisal) to US$ 3.8 million (appraisal).
5.7    Additional recurrent costs linked to investments in pre-service VET are estimated in nominal tenns
at CFAF 150 million, beginning in 1998, primarily for equipment maintenance, repairs and raw materials.
Relative to 1995 expenditures, this would be equivalent to an increase in real terms of 9% for pre-service
VET materials, of 4% in total VET expenditures, or 0.5% in total education spending. During
negotiations Government provided assurance that as of 1998 it would increase educational materials
financing to CFAF 60, 000 per VET student, and maintain this as a minimum for the duration ofproject
implementation (para 7. 1-h); this increase should be covered primarily by reducing scholarship
expenditures, although some additional resources may be required. Total VET unit costs (both investment
and recurrent) would increase to about US$750 per year, equivalent to approxinately two times general
secondary unit costs. This 2:1 ratio of VET to general secondary unit costs conforms to international
norms and reflects the added costs for equipment, materials, practical training and smaller classes.
5.8    For the first time in Mali, employer contributions and beneficiary cost recovery for in-service VET
services would be institutionalized. Employers would contribute approximately CFAF 300 million per year
to the Vocational Training Support Fund, through the 0.5% payroll tax for vocational training, Training
beneficiaries (or their employers or sponsors) would also pay 25% of the cost of VTSF-financed training
(10% for young apprentices). As for pre-service VET, while the economic rationale for increased cost-
recovery is apparent, this issue needs to be addressed for the sector as a whole, particularly at the higher
education level, before it can be introduced in the context of this project (the recently-identified Education



34
SIP will address this issue). In addition, employers and workers would contribute CFAF 95 million each
year for financing of 100% of the estimated operating costs of the ETO and mobilized through the 1%
employment services tax.
5.9    The proposed project would primarily address skill deficiencies among urban workers, a large
proportion of whom are poor, working in the informal sector, with little general or vocational education and
training. Under the project, through the Vocational Training Support Fund, approximately 8,000 workers
and apprentices would benefit from one month of in-service training each year for five years, with relatively
poor informal sector workers and apprentices constituting approximately 50% of all beneficiaries. In other
words, the project would provide approximately 20,000 poor workers with skills upgrading. These workers
should demonstrate improved vocational and entrepreneurial skills, thereby improving productivity, labor
mobility, employment prospects, and earnings.
5.10   Women, in particular, have very low levels of literacy, basic education and training, and very little
access to training opportunities. On the other hand, they represent a large share of workers in the informal
sector, engaged in agro-processing, dressmaking, soapmaking, dyeing, commerce, and other trades. The
proposed project would reach out and support the training of female workers in small and micro-
enterprises, in both formal and informal sectors, and would provide women with greater opportunities to
enhance their skills, productivity and earnings. To ensure this, the VTSF would recruit a women's training
specialist (see para 3.24), and set a target of 40% female participation in VTSF-financed activities.
5.11   The preceding analysis suggests a series of project performance indicators which should be
monitored and evaluated during project supervision, the mid-term review and upon project completion.
Please refer to Annex 6.4 for the table of proposed indicators.
6. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    PRoJEcT BENEFITS
6.1    The first benefit would be economic. As discussed above, approximately 8,000 workers and
apprentices would benefit from one month of in-service training each year for five years, plus another
1,200 pre-service VET students per year for five years. VET trainees should demonstrate improved
vocational and entrepreneurial skills, thereby improving productivity, labor mobility, employment
prospects, and economic growth. The second benefit would be institutional. The project would strengthen
the key strategic functions of the DNETP, and put in place efficient procedures for the allocation and use of
public funds for both pre-service VET and skills upgrading. Government would be better able to
administer the VET system, while stimulating the provision of training through the private sector. Direct
involvement of employers in management of both pre-service and in-service VET training would improve
the system's responsiveness to demand in the labor market. The third benefit would be social. By targeting
the training and development needs of youth and workers outside of the formal education and training
system, with a special effort aimed at women, the project would increase the productivity of the poor's



35
principal asset, labor. This would improve equity, reduce social tensions linked to unemployment,
contribute to the alleviation of urban poverty.
B.    PROJECT RISKS
6.2    The greatest risk to this project is the possibility that growth of the economy and of labor market
demand for the skills to be developed under the project will be insufficient. While current economic
indicators provide grounds for optimism, Mali's economy is extremely vulnerable to changes in climate and
externally-defined commodity prices. Quite frankly, there is little the proposed project can do to minimize
this risk, except to diversify training activities to cover a range of economic sectors - slow growth in one
sector may be offset by rapid growth in another, and so overall project performance would be satisfactory.
The second risk is political and social pressure arising from increased numbers of basic education
graduates, which hinders the control of VET enrollment growth and the Government's ability to reduce
and/or phase out training streams no longer demanded in the labor market. This is being addressed
through: revised, transparent admissions policies being applied for the school year 1995-1996; a clear
definition of what constitutes VET's enrollment capacity; and the Government's ongoing public
communications program linked to execution of the Education SECAL. The third risk is resistance within
the MESSRS to execute curricula reforms, and to involve employers in VET management. This is being
addressed by an ongoing, participatory training program for VET administrators and teachers which covers
labor market demand, curriculum requirements, teacher training, and school management. The fourth risk
is weak implementation capacity and delays in project start-up, which are being addressed through a
Project Preparation Facility to finance the recruitment and training of project staff, the installation and
training for both financial and project implementation monitoring systems, the pilot testing of a range of
training sub-projects under the VTSF, the development of in-service training curricula, promotional
activities to inform targeted groups about the project, advance preparation of procurement documents and a
project launch seminar. Finallv, employers may not be willing to play an active role in managing either
pre-service or in-service VET. This risk has been minimized through private sector involvement in the
preparation and design of this project, in particular with respect to the Vocational Training Support Fund
(the private sector would assume the presidency of the VTSF Management Committee).
6.3    Environment. The project is not expected to pose any environmental risks nor have any
significant environmental impact and is proposed for Category C.
7. CONDITIONS, AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1    During negotiations, Government gave assurances that:
(a)    At all times during project implementation, the Government would limit the enrollment in
VET institutions to a level compatible with the capacity of practical training facilities,
which is based on the number of functional work stations for each training stream (para.
2.25);



36
(b)    Training streams at the BT-level in customs, finance and workers' rights would be phased
out as of school year 1995/96, and training streams in geometry and industrial chenmistry
would be reduced by 50% (para. 3.9);
(c)    The VTSF would be operated in accordance with the VTSF Operations Manual, which
would be acceptable at all times to IDA (para. 3.20);
(d)    By May 31 of each year, commencing with May 31, 1996, the ONMOE would transfer to
the ETO at least CFAF 95 million for the ETO's operating costs, and by May 31 of each
year beginning in 1996 the ONMOE would furnish to IDA its Annual Activity and Budget
Execution Report for the previous year (para. 3.30);
(e)    The positions of CCU Coordinator and VTSF General Director would be maintained and
staffed by qualified personnel, acceptable to IDA at all times (para.4.4);
(f)    Necessary counterpart funding through the BSI for civil works and furniture would be
provided (para.4.13);
(g)    The CCU and VTSF would: submit to IDA project implementation progress reports each
semester, and audit reports of reasonable scope and detail within six months of the end of
each fiscal year (according to the terms of reference discussed and accepted by IDA);
organize and carry out with IDA an annual review of project implementation during the
fourth quarter of each calendar year, and a mid-term review of the project no later than
December 31, 1998; and submit an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six
months of the Credit closing (paras. 4.14 and 4.15);
(h)    As of 1998, Government would (i) increase financing for pre-service VET materials and
equipment repair to not less than CFAF 60,000 per student, and (ii) would maintain this
financing level as a minimum for the duration of the project implementation (para. 5.7).
7.2    The conditions for Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a) Adoption by the Govemrnment of all revised legal and administrative texts concerning pre-
service vocational training (para. 3.6);
(b)    Establishment of VTSF and procedures for the transfer of Government funds to the VTSF
through a Subsidiary Grant Agreement (para. 3.17);
(c)    Evidence that ONMOE has transferred CFAF 95 million in 1996 to the ETO (para. 3.30);
(d)    Transfer by the Government of all designated staff to be redeployed to the ETO (para.
3.31);
(e)    Recruitment of qualified technical and administrative staff acceptable to IDA, in adequate
numbers, for the CCU and VTSF (para.4.4);
(f)    Submnission to IDA of CCU and VTSF work programs, and a set of project
implementation benchmarks for the first year of project execution (para.4.4);



37
(g)    Proof that appropriate offices acceptable to IDA have been allocated to the VTSF (para
4.4);
(h)    Adoption by the Government of the Project Implementation Plan, according to revisions
agreed to during negotiations (para. 4.5);
(i)    Proof that (i) the Government has appointed an external auditor, acceptable to IDA, to
conduct annual audits of the CCU and VTSF and of the project accounts, and (ii) that the
financial administration and accounting systems of both the CCU and VTSF are fully
operational, as certified by the appointed external auditor (para. 4.14);
7.3    Conditions of disbursement include:
(a)    For works under the Project, proof that the Government has obtained all necessary
authorizations; (para 3.13);
(b)    For Component 2 (VTSF), adoption of all necessary legislative and regulatory texts,
acceptable to the Association, relating to the financing by employers of VTSF activities
(para. 3.17).
7.4    Recommendation: Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 9 million (US$13.4 million equivalent) to the Republic of Mali, on
standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.






Annex 1.1
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINISTRY OF SECONDARY AND
HIGHER EDUCATION AND OF
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH (MESSRS)
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY, ARTISANAT
AND TOURISM (MIAT)
MINISTRY OF EMPLOYMENT, CIVIL
SERVICE AND LABOR (MEFPT)
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND
COMMERCE (MFC)
No            /MESSRS-MIAT-MPC
From:         THE MINISTRY OF SECONDARY AND HIGHER
EDUCATION AND OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH
THE MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY, ARTISANAT AND
TOURISM
THE MINISTER OF FINANCE AND COMMERCE
To:           Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President, The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
The purpose of this letter on training and employment policy is to express the desire of the Government
of Mali both to proceed with a thorough reforrn of its system of technical education and vocational training and to
improve the productivity of enterprises and artisans, as well as data collection related to employment. To this
end, the Govemrnment intends to:
re-establish the quality of pre-service vocational training;
transform vocational training and technical education facilities into true service centers dedicated to both
pre-service and in-service training;
*      improve the relevance of training to employrnent from both the quantitative and qualitative points of
view;
*      correct the imbalance in the supply of training from both the geographic and sectoral points of view;
promote private sector participation in the financing and management of vocational training;
*      improve apprenticeship training in the informal sector;
develop in-service training for employees of enterprises;
*      improve mechanisms for assessing the labor market;
the student flow in accordance with the absorptive capacity of specific training streams;
eliminate obsolete training streams;



Annex 1. 1
Page 2 of 10
*      increase the management autonomy of technical education and vocational training institutions;
*      provide increased recurrent cost financing for the purchase and maintenance of equipment and material.
As it exists today, vocational training is not sufficiently focused on labor market demand, resuling in a
significant disparity between employers' expectations and the ability of the training system to meet such
expectations. Vocational training and technical education are primarily oriented toward the tertiary sector and
need to be re-oriented toward basic occupations of strategic importance to the economic development of our
country.
A shift in the focus of vocational training thus appears necessary, in order to better respond to the diverse
needs and cienteles that such training is designed to serve.
Reform in this area cannot be implemented and supported unless certain conditions are satisfied. We
also agree that these conditions must not be considered as separate factors, but rather as integral components of a
comprehensive strategy for change. In our judgment, these conditions include:
A greater understanding of needs, which requires:
*      an up-to-date frame of reference on occupations and jobs;
*      the capacity to gather and maintain data on enterprises and employment generating sectors;
*      a minimum of knowledge on the approximate number of jobs in different categories of trades,
occupations and activities, as well as their geographic breakdown;
*      the ability to adapt to the environment;
*      the ability to monitor and anticipate technological trends affecting certain types of trades and
occupations.
'Training programs that meet labor market demand, which requires:
*      orienting programs toward skills development;
*      the capacity to adjust these programs on a regular basis in accordance with employment trends;
ensuring that these programs remain flexible so that they can be adapted to the specific needs of
the various cienteles.
Competent teachers and training staff, which requires:
up-to-date information on existing personnel;
defining criteria for hiring staff to be recruited in the future;
ensuring the pedagogical monitoring of trainers;
establishing appropriate training plans;
organizing study courses for trainers both within Malian enterprises and abroad.
Implementation of a training plan that is appropriate to the requirements of training programs and the
manpower to be trained, which requires:
*      qualitative and quantitative knowledge of labor market demand;
*      knowledge of program requirements in terms of basic equipment, accessories and tools, raw
materials and, finally, space;
the financial capacity to support implementation of this plan.
Development of standards for financing vocational training, which requires:
*      Knowledge of costs;



Annex 1. 1
Page 3 of 10
full command of equipment and machinery renewal flows, as weUl as raw material consumpon
rates;
knowledge of the requirements of related programs, in order to share certain equipment or
machinery,
knowledge of the rate of use of each type of equipment or nachine by each target group.
Adjustment of enrollment to absorptive capacity, which requires:
*      knowledge of the actual absorptive capacity of training facilities, including the number of
available work stations and rates of use;
*      regulation of student inflows and outflows.
Development of standards for evaluating skills, which requires:
*      the availability of skills-based programs consistent with the requiremets of the labor market;
*      knowledge of the skills evaluation approach.
Monitoring student performance and progress, which requires:
setting up a computerized information system on students;
*      transmitting and compiling results for the purpose of monitoring, certification and statistics.
Monitoring the entry of graduates into the labor market, which requires:
*      setting up a centralized file of graduates of public and private schools;
*      conducting follow-up surveys of graduates in the labor force.
,Adequate financing to cover the recurrent costs of vocational training, which requires:
*       ithat long-term financing be available;
*      that objective criteria be established for allocating resources;
*      that the system display the necessary flexibility and transparency;
*      that the mechanisms set in place ensure partial cost recovery.
The desire of public and private partners to act in synergy to generate the capacity for constant change
and adaptation, which requires:
that the roles and responsibilities of the various partners be redefined;
*      that mechanisms be identified to seek out and share information on the labor market;
*      that the private sector be involved in:
defining needs;
*      designing the content of programs;
*      managing training centers;
financing vocational training;
*      evaluating future graduates
* assessing the quality and relevance of available training;
*      absorbing trainees, both trainers and students.
Consolidation of pre-service vocational training: measures to be taken.
No country can aspire to sustainable development in the absence of an adequately trained labor fbrce that
is capable of adapting to the increasingly frequent changes that must be constandy confronted.



Annex 1.1
Page 4 of 10
Aware of this reality and of the shortcomings that have been identified, the Government intends to adopt
a series of measures to ensure a lasting recovery.
Measure 1
All of the measures that the Government intends to adopt in order to rehabilitate vocational training and
technical education depend on prior revision of the legal and regulatory texts governing this type of activity.
Accordingly, all texts pertaining to vocational training and technical education will be reviewed and
revised in order to ensure their conformity to the new orientation envisioned by the Government, which entails:
*      greater decentralization of budgets and responsibilities, thereby enabling institutions to play a more
active role in the community;
*      administrative and pedagogical guidance in order to better serve the targeted client, i.e. the student;
the capacity to regenerate the system and manage change effectively.
Measure 2
Vocational training and technical education curricula, as they exist today, do not provide students with
the knowledge, skills and attitudes needed for smooth integration into the labor market and subsequent progress
within a trade or profession.
A new framework for designing curricula, based on the principle of skills development, will therefore be
adopted in order to ensure that all new curricula designed in the future reflect this approach. Such curricula will
be broken down into modules and will regularly be brought up-to-date in line with trends affecting the trades and
professions for which students are being prepared. They will be sufficiently flexible to be adapted to pre-service
training, as well as to the upgrading of skills and retraining of the labor force.
The private sector will be closely involved in defining training needs, designing program content and
evaluating the quality and relevance of training activities.
During the period from 1996 to 2001, it is anticipated that curricula will be revised on the basis of ten
selected training streams: auto mechanics, metalwork, electrical mechanics, carpentry, woodworking, electricity
in the building trade, maintenance mechanics, office skills, masonry and plumbing.
Measure 3
The current supply of technical education and vocational training is concentrated almost exclusively in
the capital. The physical facilities are inadequate and poorly adapted to program requirements, particularly with
respect to the new curricula to be introduced. The new curricula have specific requirements in ternns of space and
the layout of machinery and equipment.
Accordingly, the Government proposes to rehabilitate a certain number of existing facilities and
construct other, new facilities. Two institutions in Bamako, the Secondary School for Business, Industry and
Administration (ECICA) and the Vocational Training Center (CFP), would be affected. A Vocational Training
Institute (IFP) would be developed or converted in each of the cities of Sikasso, San and Kayes.
Construction should begin in the second half of 1996 and be completed by the end of 1997.
Measure 4



Annex 1. 1
Page 5 of 10
The low level of professionalization of teachers and the absence of measures to upgrade their skills have
been noted in studies conducted on technical education and vocational training in Mali. The Ministry of
Secondary and Higher Education and of Scientific Research (MESSRS), which is responsible for technical
education and vocational training, intends to correct this situation, which pertains to both the pedagogical and
technical skills of active teachers, by setting new requirements for recruitment of future teachers.
The implementation of new training curricula, the creation of Enterprise Support and Training Units
(UFAEs) and better personnel management will make it possible to improve the average student-teacher ratio by
raising it from 14 to 20 midway through the project.
It is anticipated that each teacher of vocational training who will be involved in any of the programs
affected by the project will participate in intensive skills development activities and receive technical pedagogical
support during the period when the new programs are introduced.
Measure 5
Greater management autonomy for institutions requires that managers increase their capacity to manage
budgets, as well as the material and pedagogical aspects of training.
Skills development and training sessions, as well as study courses abroad, will be provided for directors
of institutions, program directors and inspectors. The emphasis will be on skills-based training methods,
preparation and supervision of teachers, administrative and pedagogical management and opening institutions to
the surrounding environment and to enterprises.
Measure 6
Developing the institutional capacity of the National Department of Technical Education and Vocational
Training (DNETP) is one of the major goals of our efforts to restructure vocational training. Thus, the DNETP
will be called upon to undertake a series of measures that relate to various aspects of the reform:
*       ldevelopment of curricula and instructional aids;
analysis of the impact of introducing new curricula;
rehabilitation of existing space and addition of new space;
linkages between the DNETP and its network of institutions;
*      linkages between the DNETP and the Employment and Training Observatory;
linkages between apprenticeship training and pre-service vocational training;
*      evaluating and approving courses of study;
*      establishment of an information system on clienteles and student monitoring;
responsibility for organizing teacher training and skills development.
Insofar as tie National Department of Technical Education and Vocational Training is at the very center
of the reform that we seek to introduce, it is critical that it be provided with appropriate physical facilities and
equipment. It is therefore anticipated that a separate building, capable of accommodating the entire DNETP
staff, will be built.
Computer equipment will facilitate the work of managers and support staff and will improve the
efficiency of their work. Such equipment will contribute not only to the administrative and financial management
of the DNETP but also to project management and to data collection on institutions and students.



Annex 1. 1
Page 6 of 10
Technical assistance, study courses abroad and computer equipment will all serve to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the DNETP.
Measure 7
Because vocational training must respond to labor market demand, the Ministry of Secondary and
Higher Education and of Scientific Research agrees to exert tight control over student flows in accordance with
the absorptive capacity of training facilities, not only for students in public institutions of vocational training but
also students in private institutions.
Measure 8
Training streams no longer consistent with government needs that lead to a professional technician
diploma (BT) will be reduced and restructured in order to make training more appropriate to employment
(customs, finance, labor).
Measure 9
Vocational training of quality is expensive. It is not enough to secure financing for the initial costs of
constructing buildings and purchasing equipment on a one-time basis. It is also necessary to anticipate and
provide for the recurrent costs associated with the purchase of raw materials, as well as equipment maintance
and renewal.
Aware of the importance of developing vocational training of quality, the Government is prepared to
make additional efforts to assume its share of the recurrent costs required for skills- based vocational training.
Beginning in 1998, the Government will increase the funds allocated for reparative materials and
equipment used in technical education and vocational training. The amount per student will rise from CFAF
50,000 to CFAF 60,000 and will then remain at this level throughout the life of the project.
The Government agrees to provide counterpart funds for civil works and the purchase of furnire,
amounting to CFAF 40 millionin 1996 and CFAF   10 millionin 1997.
The Government also intends to develop mechanisms designed to open the tra;ning centers to the
surrounding environment and enterprises, in order to increase the number of funding sources and ensure that the
social contract covers not only pre-service vocational training but also in-service training and apprenticeships.
Setting up Enterprise Support and Training Units (UFAEs) within training institutions is an effective
way to bring schools and enterprises closer together. The units' role will be to offer services to enterprises,
particularly in the areas of training needs assessment, the development and implementation of individualized
training programs and technical support for enterprises.
Measure 10
The development of entrepreneurial capacity can play an important role in furthering the economic
development of our country. We must therefore estimate the interest of both youth and adults in going into
business and must facilitate their path by integrating into each of the new curricula a module on the
entrepreneurial opportunities of a given trade and the necessary steps to be taken in order to become an
entrepreneur.
Measure 11



Annex 1. 1
Page 7 of 10
It appears that the areas of food processing and mining will play an important role in the future of the
Malian economy. To avoid a situation of embarking on training programs that are inconsistent with the needs of
enterprises, the Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education and of Scientific Research plans to carry out two
complementary studies, with the objective of identifying:
windows of employment opportunity in each of the areas;
*      specific tasks for which enterprises are seeking particular skills;
*      the order of magnitude of recurrent labor requirements associated with the specific tasks that are
identified.
Reinvigoration of in-service vocational training and apprenticeship training: measures to be taken.
Aware of the fact that there is no coherent national policy on vocational training and that the absence of
such a policy affects the competitiveness of enterprises and the quality of services provided by artisans, the
Government has decided to establish a Vocational and Apprenticeship Training Support Fund (VTSF) in
collaboration with its extemal and local partners.
This fund will serve to ensure that the supply of training is consistent with the needs for skilled staff
expressed by various sectors of the economy and will have the followving objectives:
*      to develop and implement an appropriate national policy on vocational training;
*      to finance training activities;
*      to contribute to strengthening the infrastructure of training institutions.
The fund will thus play a role in financing training activities, as well as equipment for training
institutions, the flow of information to all parties involved in vocational training and, lastly, assistance and advice
for sponsors, trainers and the beneficiaries of vocational training.
Support for training in formal sector enterprises will embrace the following objectives:
*      to improve worker skills and thus the performance and competitiveness of enterprises;
to involve them in apprenticeship training.
Particular attention will be given to enterprises in the artisanal sector and micro-enterprises in the
informal sector. The objectives of training activities in these sectors will be to promote increased production and
improvements in quality, productivity and financial position.
The support to be provided w ill consist of
*      multiple short-term training, conducted in specialized centers or pre-service vocational training centers;
*      practical training in the field, i.e. in workshops or wNithin enterprises.
The VTSF will support those actively involved in the economic life of rural areas in order to improve
their income levels. The role of the fund will be to provide such groups with the support required to more fully
master the techniques employed in their environment.
The fund will provide training support to target groups that have obtained financing in order to assist
them in more fully achieving their project objectives or more effectively managing their enterprises.
The fund will give particular attention to youths who have chosen to enter apprenticeship training. It will
cover 90% of apprenticeship training costs for those aged 21 years or under.



Annex 1. 1
Page 8 of 10
The VTSF will help women more effectively manage their projects and better understand the various
aspects of the life of an enterprise. The objective is to ensure the harmonious development of enterprises created
by women and thereby to promote fuller integration of women into the country's economic and social
development process.
Measure 12
To ensure that the fund remains autonomous and is replenished on a continual basis, the following
measures are planned:
a Vocational Training Tax equivalent to 0.5% of the payroll of private, mixed and statwned
enterprises (deducted from their standard tax assessment), to be accompanied by regular and rigorous accountiz
procedures;
a cost recovery policy requiring that beneficiaries or sponsors contribute 25% of the costs of trag
financed by the VTSF (10% in the case of young apprentices aged 21 or below).
Measure 13
Training of skilled trainers is of critical importance in achieving the vocational training objectives (in-
service training, apprenticeship training). Efforts will focus on
trainers in VTSF-approved private vocational training institutions
*      trainers in qualified training centers recognized by VTSF
*      heads of workshops and micro-enterprises who agree to collaborate with the VTSF in apprenticeship
training;
*      human resource managers in formal sector enterprises, specifically for the purpose of encouraging them
to design training plans and improve personnel management;
*      officials of NGOs and professional organizations who are responsible for designing training projects
and/or training economic operators in the infonnal sector.
Beneficiaries shall contribute to the cost of their training on the basis of the criteria set by the VTSF.
Measure 14
The VTSF will provide financial support to training centers and institutions through the equipment and
investment programs to be implemented in accordance with the fund's objectives. This support shall not exceed
50% of the total cost of any investment proposed by a training institution and breaks down as follows:
a grant equivalent to 25% of the investment cost
an interest-free loan equivalent to 25% of the investment cost, i.e. with an interest rate of zero. However,
the beneficiary will be charged a fee equal to 2.5% of the total loan amount.
Measure 15
The Ministry of National Education cannot, in and of itself, meet all training needs in Mali. Informal
training, based on the principle of acquiring knowledge of a trade through on-the-job training, is the most
widespread method and reaches a large number of youths. However, this type of training requires follow-up
training in order to make new technologies accessible to youth who have participated in an apprenticeship.
To this end, the Govemment has taken the following steps:
requirement for validation of skills covered by recognized modules;
establishment of a certification mechanism that will be gradually expanded to include all trades within
the District and in other areas of the country;



Annex 1. 1
Page 9 of 10
mobilization and involvement of concerned public and private sector structures in order to ensure that the
required follow-up training is conducted;
design of training content for specific skills and organization of training content for specific modules.
Acquiring fuller knowledge of the labor market: measures to be taken.
The lack of reliable statistical data on employment and training today represents a major obstacle to
formulating an employment policy in Mali. Employment data, if they exist at all, often are not collected,
processed and disseminated. Moreover, they are not treated as a tool for promoting and generating employment,
or for ensuring an appropriate linkage between training and employment. To correct these deficiencies, the
Government has established the Employment and Training observatory and intends to provide it with the
necessary means to accomplish its mission.
Measure 16
The Government has set the objectives of promoting employment through human resource development,
promoting enterpnrses and promoting decentralized development. To meet these goals, the National Manpower
and Employment Office (ONMOE) will provide the Employment and Training Observatory with the sum of
CFAF 95 million per year throughout the life of the project.
Beginning 1996, the ONMOE agrees to submit to IDA its progress and budget implementation report
for the previous fiscal year by May 31.
The Government of Mali is confident that these measures, taken as a whole, will meet the goal of
upgrading technical education and vocational training by restoring all of the qualities needed to train skilled
workers who are well adapted to the requirements of the labor market, thereby serving to increase the
competitiveness of enterprises, improve the quality of services provided by artisans and strengthen the capacity of
the structures responsible for promoting employment.



Annex 1. 1
Page 10 of 10
THE MINISTER OF SECONDARY             THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY,
AND HIGHER EDUCATION AND OF           ARTISANAT AND TOURISM
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH
Moustapha DICKO                             Fatou HAIDARA
THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT,           THE MINISTER OF FINANCE
CIVIL SERVICE AND LABOR               AND COMMERCE
Boubacar Gaoussou DIARRA              Soumaila CISSE



ANNEX 2.1
MALI
Vocational Education and Training Consolidation Project
Economic Analysis
Introduction
The following economic analysis of the Mali VET Consolidation Project comprises
several aspects: (a) the placement of the project in the larger macro-economic context,
considering the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Mali and future growth trends,
particularly in light of the devaluation of the CFAF: (b) qualitative and quantitative results
from employer and manpower surveys, which indicate difficulties in finding skilled labor in
certain trades on the Malian labor market; (c) calculations of the rate of return to
vocational education and training services, based on unit costs, wages and probability of
employment by training stream, and  sensitivity analyses of these rate of return
calculations, to determine key variables for scrutiny during implementation; (d) the
development of a least-cost alternative for VET investments; (e) fiscal impact analysis,
which examines the recurrent cost impact of proposed project investments and compares
this to current spending levels, and addresses cost-recovery issues; (f) institutional
analysis, which assesses the capacity of the National Technical and Vocational Education
Division, the Vocational Training Support Fund and the Employment and Training
Observatory to implement this project; and (g) poverty analysis, which specifies which
benefits would go to the poor and examines the project's impact on beneficiaries' incomes.
Based on this analysis, economic performance indicators for monitoring and evaluation are
included in Annex 6.5.)   Viewed together, the economic analysis of the Mali VET
Consolidation Project permits a positive overall assessment and argues for the project's
financing.
A.   Macroeconomic Context and the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy for Mali
Mali is a vast, landlocked and resource-poor country located in the Sahelian zone
of western Africa. Per capita income is estimated at just US$250 (1994) and social
indicators (such as life expectancy, literacy and infant mortality) are among the lowest in
the world. More than 75 percent of the population, estimated at about 9 million in 1995,
is engaged in the agricultural sector, which accounts for approximately 50 percent of
GDP. Growth in this sector is conditioned by variable rainfall, fragile soils and low-
productivity traditional technologies. The weak human resource base and scarcity of
technical skills pose a formidable obstacle to both agricultural and industrial development.
These problems are compounded by high population growth (2.7%) which puts severe
pressure on both the limited natural resource base and the financial resources available for
basic public services and productive investments, which in turn restricts employment
opportunities.



Annex 2.1
page 2 of 10
On the bright side, real GDP grew an average of 3.1% annually between 1992-
1994 (following stagnant GDP growth between 1980 and 1991), and the devaluation of
the West African Franc (CFAF) in early 1994 offers the country the possibility to exploit
its comparative advantages in agriculture, agro-processing, and production of low-
technology import substitutes, thereby increasing employment and incomes for both rural
and urban populations.  Furthermore, recent macroeconomic management has been
largely positive, with all macroeconomic objectives achieved in 1994 and through June
1995. Inflation has been contained, exports have increased significantly, and fiscal and
current account deficits in 1994 were lower than programmed. Private capital reflows
have picked up and private consumption is shifting to local products. The three-year
public investment program for 1994-1996 is being satisfactorily implemented, and real
GDP is expected to grow at an average annual rate of 5.0% between 1995 and 1997. The
overall picture which emerges is one of opportunity, which must be supported by
investments to generate the needed supply response, particularly in the area of human
resources.  The Mali VET Consolidation Project represents an example of such
investments.
The goal of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Mali is the alleviation
of poverty through a 3-pronged approach: (i) sustained broad-based economic growth, (ii)
human resources development and (iii) a special focus on the needs of the most vulnerable.
Sound macroeconomic management and local institutional capacity-building are essential
to achieving these goals. In operational terms, this strategy requires investment and
adjustment lending in education, training, health, agriculture, infrastructure, and urban job
creation. The proposed vocational education and training project responds to all three
aspects of the Bank's strategy: by developing skills which correspond to new employmnent
opportunities, particularly among individuals working in the informal sector, the Bank
would contribute to economic growth, human resources development and target the needs
of relatively disadvantaged groups in urban areas.
B.    Labor Market Demand
A series of 7 labor market and training surveys were conducted during project
preparation to ascertain labor market demand in both formal and informal sectors, in
Bamako and in the regions, and to identify vocational training streams most likely to lead
to employment. These studies included: an analysis of employment and salary trends using
the Annual Manpower Survey for the years 1988-1993; a tracer study of recent VET
graduates; a study of private sector training needs in Bamako; an analysis of the
apprenticeship/production system in the informal sector; an analysis of economic growth
and employment trends in the regions; a reverse tracer study of recent VET graduates; and
a study regarding women's constraints to training and training needs. A synthesis of these
studies indicates important labor market growth opportunities afler devaluation, increasing
demand for skilled manpower and heightened employer concern over the quality of trained
staff available (for more information see Annex 2.2).
More specifically, significant growth in production and employment are expected
over in the medium term in the following areas: basic industries (principally textiles, agro-
industry and simple import substitution), construction, public works, transport, hotels and



Annex 2.1
page 3 of 10
tourism, crafts, and small and mediun' enterprises.  Siiiilai conclusions regarding
promising economic sub-sectors were reoche(d in the World Baank's 1994 Private Sector
Assessment for Mali. This will require technically qualified specialists in maintenance,
mechanics (general, auto and truck), metalwork, electiicity, construction and
accounting/management. Mid-level skilled workers will be most in demand (i.e. people
willing and able to perform skilled tasks themselves and supervise others, if needed).
Geographic centers for employment growth include Bamako and the regional capitals of
Sikasso, Segou and Kayes. These regional capitals correspond, respectively, to the
cotton, rice and mining production areas, which are developing rapidly following the 1994
CFAF devaluation. Currently, mid-level technical skills are often imported to meet this
demand from Senegal, Togo, Ivory Coast, even the Philippines (for example, for
construction of the Selingue Dam and the West African Central Bank, routine mechanical
repair jobs in industry, and development of the mining sector).
An analysis of trends in monthly salaries by economic sector and training level
between 1990 and 1993 suggests an increasing scarcity of skilled manual labor in agro-
processing, mining, construction, transport and banking industries (See tables in Annex
2.2). For example, in the construction sector, average salaries for all levels of workers
increased 26% per year on average between 1990 and 1993, while average salaries for
skilled manual laborers in the construction industry increased by almost 80% per year. In
agro-industry, average salaries for all workers rose by 14% per year, while those for
skilled manual laborers in the same industry increased by 41%. Siniilarly, skilled manual
laborers in the mining sector increased their salaries by 40% per year on average. These
figures compare most favorably to average annual increases in salaries for all levels of
workers in all economic sectors over this period (6%), and to average salary increases for
all skilled manual laborers (14%). For comparison's sake, skilled workers in commerce
saw their salaries decline by an average of 12% per year, while those in the utilities sector
experienced just 2% annual growth over this same period.
The VET trainee tracer study yielded somewhat less er'couraging results. Fifteen
months after graduation approximately one-half of graduates had worked or participated
in additional training, although at the tinme of the survey only 20% of trainees with a
Brevet Technicien (BT) and 28% of trainees with a Certificat d'Aptitud Professionnel
(CAP) declared they were employed. (It is important to note that in many cases graduates
who declared themselves unemployed were working in the informal sector and earning
money; they did not have a formal sector job and so considered themselves unemployed.)
By comparison, 40% of individuals surveyed from the control group stated they were
employed (although this group had more time to find a job). Among CAP graduates,
those with training in accounting, woodworking, mechanics, plumnbing, banking and
building design were most successful in finding a job, while those in masonry, electricity,
and agricultural mechanics were least likely to find a job. Amonig BT graduates, the most
successful graduates had degrees in civil works, maintenance, general mechanics,
secretarial skills and accounting. The least successful graduates had degrees in customs,
taxes, metal work and refrigeration. The vast majority of graduates f ere working in fields
which corresponded to their training. TIhis was particularly tl-oe .S ang BT graduates,
who were more likely to wait for a job k:uresporiding to their t.iuring thian CAP graduates



Annex 2.1
page 4 of 10
and the control group. Regionally, graduates in Sikasso and Segou did as well or better
than their counterparts in Bamako.
These results must be interpreted in light of the fact that the survey was
undertaken shortly before the devaluation of the CFAF. Before devaluation few firms
were hiring, the private sector was stagnant, fraudulent and legal importation of
undervalued goods discouraged local production and employment.  Shortly after
devaluation, many firms found themselves in serious financial difficulties as external debts
doubled in value, local purchasing power declined and consumers waited until prices
stabilized. It is only recently (end of 1994/early 1995) that local production and
investment have rebounded (new investments in textiles, agro-processing, mines,
construction, etc.). It would be very useful and illuminating to conduct the same survey of
the same graduates in December of 1995.
Nevertheless, some conclusions regarding training streams can be drawn, however
tentatively. CAP graduates do slightly better than BT graduates, in large measure because
they are more willing to accept whatever job they can find. Accounting, civil works,
general and auto mechanics, woodworking, and secretarial training programs are relatively
successful. VET graduate success in the regions (such as Sikasso and Segou) suggest
opportunities for additional VET investments outside of Bamako
The regional survey of 222 employers and artisans focused primarily on
growth, employment and salary trends in the informal sector. Employers provided
estimates of total sales ("chiffres d'affaires") for the years 1992-94, and forecasts for the
years 1995-1997. The most promising economic sub-sectors appear to be construction,
civil works, metalwork, maintenance/repair and hotel/restaurants, all of which, according
to the employers interviewed, experienced at least 20% growth between 1992-94 and are
projected to increase by at least 30% between 1995-97. Sales in textiles were sluggish
between 1992-94 but are projected to increase by 44% between 1995-97.
Relative to their existing workforce, employers forecast an increase in new hires
equivalent to 43% between 1995-1997. By economic sub-sector, construction, transport,
and agro-industry account for 68% of the anticipated new hires, while employment in
woodworking and commerce is projected to remain stable. Employers justified new
recruitment on the grounds of expanded production and the search for more qualified
workers. Skilled workers are expected to be the professional category most in demand,
representing 44% of projected demand (relative to apprentices, 33%, and highly skilled
workers, 6%).   Skills in accounting/management, construction and civil works, and
mechanics will be most in demand.
Interestingly, employers' assessments of the potential for agro-industry were less
promising, with a 15% average annual growth forecast in sales and just an 8% growth
forecast in employment. This relatively pessimistic assessment of agro-industry prospects
is perhaps surprising, considering its recent growth following devaluation and its
assessment from the macroeconomic perspective as one of the most economic sub-sectors.
But this can be explained by the regional nature of the survey, in areas where purchasing
power for processed agricultural products is limited, food self-sufficiency is preferred, and



Annex 2.1
page 5 of 10
food conservation and transportation is difficult. The same survey in Bamako would
probably reveal a different perspective.
C.    Rate of Return and Sensititivity Analyses
Private and social rates of return to 2- and 4- year vocational education and
training were calculated, overall and by training stream. These rates are relative to 9 years
of basic education leading to the Basic Education Diploma, the prerequisite for entry into
formal VET training institutions. These rates were calculated applying data from the
Annual Manpower Surveys regarding salaries by education and training levels, unit cost
information by training stream (both investment and recurrent), and hypotheses with
respect to the probability of VET obtaining jobs in their field, derived in part from the
VET tracer study discussed above.
For 2-year VET (corresponding to the Certificat d'Aptitud Professionnel), the
private and social rates of return are estimated at 30% and 11%, respectively. For 4-year
VET (corresponding to the Brevet Technicien), the private and social rates of return are
estimated at 33% and 17%, respectively. (See tables in back of annex for calculations.)
Note that these calculations are based on wages in the modem sector and so may
overestimate average trainee earnings. On the other hand, quite conservative estimates
were used with respect to the probability of employment (a maximum of 75% three years
after graduation).
Sensitivity analysis suggests that to achieve at least a 10% social rate of return
among CAP trainees overall, at least 60% need to find a job within three years of
graduation, which pays at least 60,000 FCFA per month (about US$110). For BT
trainees overall, at least 75% need to be employed within three years of graduation, and
earning at least 90,000 FCFA per month (about US$180). This seems quite plausible
given current employment and salary trends, as discussed above.
Not surprisingly, rates of return vary considerably by training stream. CAP-level
training in construction suggests private and social rates of return of 51% and 16%,
respectively. To achieve a minimum 10% social rate of return, at least 65% of
construction trainees would need to be employed and earning at least 75,000 FCFA per
month within three years of graduation. With respect to training in agro-mechanics, CAP-
level training indicates private and social rates of return of 33% and 10%, respectively. At
least 70% of trainees would need to be employed within 3 years and earning at least
70,000 FCFA per month to achieve a 10% social rate of return. Finally, CAP-level
training in auto mechanics for the transport sector appears to offer private and social rate
of returns of 44% and 12%, respectively, with a 10% social rate of return contingent upon
at least 55% of trainees employed and earning at least 65,000 FCFA within 3 years of
graduation. Once again, these minimum requirements appear attainable given growth in
employment and earnings in these sectors.
Training in accounting at the BT-level suggests private and social rates of return of
34% and 24%, respectively, with a minimum of 55% of graduates employed and earning
at least 70,000 FCFA per month within three years of graduation in order to achieve a



Annex 2.1
page 6 of 10
10% social rate of return. Meanwhile, VET training in electro-mechanics for the
manufacturing sector indicates private and social rates of return of 26% and 10%,
respectively.  At least 70% of all trainees in this stream would need to be working and
earning at least 90,000 FCFA per month within 3 years of graduation to ensure a 10%
social rate of return. This same training for the mining sector indicates private and social
rates of return of 27% and 18%, respectively.
For in-service training, rate of return calculations are more conjectural, as
empirical information concerning unit costs and trainees salaries is not available.
Nonetheless, it is possible to estimate both unit costs and salaries before and after training,
in order to calculate a hypothetical rate of return. Assuming a unit cost of US$ 140 per
month of training (the figure used in the Project Cost Tables), a US$ 10 increase in
monthly earnings 12 months after training, and a slight increase in the probability of being
employed after training, Bank staff estimated the social rate of return to the Vocational
Training Support Fund at 34% (see attached tables). To achieve a minimum 10% rate of
return, trainees would have to be at least as likely to be employed after the training as
before, and they would have to be earning at least US$ 7 more per month after the
training. Assuming the training financed meets certain economic, financial and pedagogic
criteria, this minimum rate of return appears likely to be achieved.
Commentary: Great care must be taken in interpreting these results. Relative
salaries of BT, CAP and basic education graduates, differientiated by training stream and
economic sector, must be evaluated loosely in a country such as Mali. For example, the
VET Tracer Study discussed above, which used a much smaller sample relative to the
Annual Manpower Survey and covered only an 18-month time span, found much smaller
salary differences between training levels. Results from this study indicated average
private sector salaries of 40,000 CFAF per month for BT graduates, 37,200 CFAF per
month for CAP graduates and 35,500 CFAF per month for the control group, although
the standard variations were quite large. Looking only at salary levels of graduates and
the control group and using a simplified calculation which ignores training costs and future
differences in earnings, rates of return averaged just 3%. In another example, the Reverse
Tracer Study (discussed in Arunex 2.2) indicates much greater variation in average salaries
by training levels. Using thie same methodology used in the Tracer Study but the salary
levels found in the Reverse Tracer Study. rate of rcturns to CAP and BT training averaged
18% and 21%, respectivel,.. This shows that a vanlety of surveys and studies are needed -
when several studies point to tdie same conclusion, the results are much more robust.
D.    The )evelopictent of a Least -Cast Alternative for Formal VET
Services
The Bank's experience in financing the development of VET programs around the
world clearly demonstrats that quality vocational training is expensive relative to general
education. Equipment costs, raw material expenses, the need for small classes to ensure
adequate practical training, etc., all increase unit costs. In this context, the preparation of
this project adopted a least-cost alternative approach which attempted to reduce these unit
costs and included the following elements.



Annex 2.1
page 7 of 10
*     The design of multi-use facilities, so that different training streams can use
the same equipment and workshops, for maximum utilisation of training capacity.
For example, joint training facilities were designed for masonry and plumbing;
general and auto mechanics; carpentry, woodworking and cabinet-making.  In
addition, under this system, the recruitment of students varies each year by training
stream, which avoids over-saturating the labor market.
The sharing of training facilities for the CAP and BT in the following
training streams: auto mechanics, metalwork and electrical contracting. Until now,
both CAP- and BT- level training institutions maintained their own facilities, which
resulted in unnecessary duplication.  Project preparation resulted in plans to
rearrange the present location of training facilities so that both institutions can
access them.
*     Full-time use of training facilities.  VET institutions in Mali have
traditionally operated according to the school calendar, open for nine months a
year and only during the day. Under the project, the legal texts regulating public
VET institutions would be modified, so that VET centers can operate twelve
months a year and in the evenings, offering both pre-service and in-service training.
*     An in-depth needs assessment of training equipment, conducted with VET
instructors themselves, which included an inventory of all existing equipment and
material for all 8 training streams considered under the project, complete with
qualitative judgements as to the condition and appropriateness of the equipment
for the training to be offered.  This ensured that the project would not finance
equipment which already exists or which is not absolutely necessary for the
training.
*     The development of training links between VET centers and private
enterprises, to facilitate the participation of instructors and students in enterprise-
based apprenticeship programs, using on-site equipment for training rather than
purchasing the equipment for the VET center.
*     Continued analysis of labor market demand and assessment of existing
private training capacity.  In this case, the appraisal mission discussed with
Government authorities the new construction of a privately-operated Catholic pre-
service training center in Sikasso.  Based on mission estimates of future labor
market demand, the mission decided that certain investments in pre-service VET
training in Sikasso (proposed during pre-appraisal) were no longer justifiable.
Applying this approach during the appraisal mission resulted in significant savings.
Relative to estimates made during pre-appraisal, the final estimates for civil works and
equipment required for consolidating formal VET services declined from US$ 6.2 million
to US$ 3.8 million.  It is argued that this is the lowest cost alternative for ensuring
adequate quality pre-service VET training in Mali, covering 5 training institutions and 8
training streams.



Annex 2.1
page 8 ofl0
E.    Fiscal Impact Analysis and Cost-Recovery Issues
Additional recurrent costs linked to investments in pre-service VET are estimated
in nominal terms at CFAF 150 million, beginning in 1998, primarily for equipment
maintenance, repairs and raw materials. Relative to 1995 expenditures, this would be
equivalent to an increase in real terms of 9% for pre-service VET materials, of 4% in total
VET expenditures, or 0.5% in total education spending. Assurances would be sought
from the Government that as of 1998 it would increase educational materials financing to
CFAF 60,000 per VET student (from its current level of CFAF 50,000 per student), and
to maintain this as a minimum for the duration of project implementation; this increase
should be covered primarily by reducing scholarship expenditures, although some
additional resources may be required.  Total VET unit costs (both investment and
recurrent) would increase to about US$750 per y;  equivalent to approximately two
times general secondary unit costs. This 2:1 ratio 4f9BET to general secondary unit costs
conforms to international norms and reflects the acded costs for equipment, materials,
practical training and smaller classes.  Additional recurrent costs linked to project
investments in the Employment and Training Observatory are estimated at 85 million
CFAF per year, equivalent to about 14% of the National Manpower Office's total
expenditures in 1994. These costs would be financed from re-allocations of the National
Manpower Office's budget (which is primarily financed by a 1% payroll tax on private and
parastatal employers), and would not have an impact on the Government budget.
Personnel needs would be covered through redeployment and training. Finally, if needed,
funds from the Vocational Training Tax could go to finance pre-service VET recurrent
costs, as well, with the approval of the VTSF Management Committee. In summary, the
expected fiscal impact should be manageable and dealt with primarily through re-
allocations of existing resources, rather than additional monies.
For the first time in Mali, employer contributions and beneficiary cost recovery for
VET services would be institutionalized. Employers would contribute approximately
CFAF 300 million per year to the Vocational Training Support Fund, through a 0.5%
payroll tax for vocational training, while informal sector artisans would be expected to
contribute about CFAF 50 million per year through the payment of a registration tax
("patente"). Combined with World Bank financing, this would allow the Training Fund
to finance up to 75% of the cost of individual training sub-projects. The remaining 25%
would be paid by the training beneficiaries themselves, or by their sponsors and/or
employers. In this way the Bank would be leveraging additional resources for vocational
training, and ensuring that the beneficiaries of this training contribute, rather than the
State. Based on the differences between estimated private and social rates of return to this
training, such an arrangement is entirely justified.
F.    Institutional Analysis
There would be three primary institutions involved in the implementation of the
VET Consolidation Project: the National Division for Technical and Vocational Training
(DNETP), the Vocational Training Support Fund, and the Employment and Training
Observatory under the National Manpower Office.  Only the first of these institutions
exists at this time and it is weak; the second two would be created under the project. In



Annex 2.1
page 9 of 10
this sense, institutional capacity or the lack thereof, may present the greatest economic
risk to this project.
This issue is being addressed under the project in a variety of ways. With respect
to the National Division for Technical and Vocational Training, it was created just two
years ago and lacks the personnel required and the minimum basic working conditions
(adequate offices, office equipment, etc.) to be effective.  Given macroeconomic
constraints, personnel needs would have to be addressed through training and technical
assistance, and the project envisions approximately 160 person-months of such assistance,
in the areas of financial and personnel management, private/public sector relations,
curriculum development, in-service teacher training and student assessment. The project
would also ensure that DNETP personnel have adequate offices and equipment to enable
them to carry out their mission. (See the SAR for a full description of this support.) In
other words, the project would attempt to strengthen the key strategic functions of the
DNETP, and put in place efficient procedures for the allocation and use of public funds for
both pre-service VET and skills upgrading.  Government would be better able to
administer the VET system, while stimulating the provision of training through the private
sector.  Direct involvement of employers in management of both pre-service and in-
service VET training would improve the system's responsiveness to demand in the labor
market, a vital aspect of the project's economic benefits.
As for the Vocational Training Support Fund, it is a new structure to be put in
place, and as such, is likely to experience "institutional birthing pains". To reduce these
pains, project preparation focused on building a strong consensus around the Fund among
all actors concerned, including Government, employers, artisans, NGOs, private training
centers and certain potential beneficiary groups. This exercise led to the development of a
highly-detailed Operations Manual, complete with all legal texts, application forms,
evaluation criteria, financial administration, procurement and disbursement procedures,
etc.. A first draft of this Operational Manual was widely shared among the groups
identified above and, following the incorporation of their comments, a second version was
validated and finalized with World Bank assistance.  In addition, project design envisions
considerable support to Fund personnel, especially during the start-up phase. Training,
technical assistance, vehicles, office equipement, etc. are all to be financed under the
project.
With respect to the Employment and Training Observatory (ETO), few
institutional problems are anticipated. The ETO would operate under the guidance of the
National Manpower Office and would be staffed by specialists, most of whom already
have training in labor market information collection and analysis. The project would
support this personnel with a 7-module training program and 16 person-months of
technical assistance overseen by the International Labor Office. In addition, the project
envisions the renovation of offices and the provision of computers, other office
equipement, means of transportation, and essential reference materials. Viewed in their
ensemble, this project financing should develop the necessary institutional capacity within
the ETO to fulfill its mission and achieve the project's objectives.



Annex 2.1
page 10 of 10
G.   Poverty Analysis
The Mali VET Consolidation Project would primarily address skill defiiciencies
among urban workers, a large proportion of whom are poor. In general, the urban poor
have very little general or vocational education and training. This, in turn, limits their
access to employment and revenue-generating activities. Under the project, through the
Vocational Training Support Fund, approximately 8,000 workers and apprentices would
benefit from one month of in-service training each year for five years, with relatively poor
informal sector workers and apprentices constituting approximately 50% of all
beneficiaries. In other words, the project would provide approximately 20,000 poor
workers with skills upgrading. These workers should demonstrate improved vocational
and entrepreneurial skills, thereby improving productivity, labor mobility, employment
prospects, and earnings.
Among students reaching upper secondary education, those oriented to pre-service
VET training demonstrate lower academic achievement at the basic education level than
those oriented to general secondary. Such lower achievement is positively correlated in
Mali with socio-economic status, meaning that pre-service VET students, in general, come
from poorer households than students oriented to general secondary. In addition, many
students now request to be oriented to pre-service VET training, rather than to general
secondary. Typically, these students come from households which cannot afford the
opportunity costs of education through the highest levels, and so they choose training
which can enable them to find a job as quickly as possible.  Under the project,  1,120
students per year (for approximately fifteen years) would benefit from pre-service VET
investments.  It is not unreasonable to expect that at least 50%  of these 17,000
beneficiaries will come from relatively poor households.
Women, in particular, have very low levels of literacy, basic education and
training, and very little access to training opportunities. On the other hand, they represent
a large share of workers in the informal sector, engaged in agro-processing, dressmaking,
soapmaking, dyeing, commerce, and other trades. Through the Vocational Training
Support Fund, the project would reach out and support the training of female workers in
small and micro-enterprises, in both formal and informal sectors, and would provide
women with greater opportunities to enhance their skills, productivity and earnings. To
ensure this, project design calls for the appointment of a Womens' Training Specialist to
the Training Fund, who would be responsable for initiating contacts among womens'
groups, explaining the Fund, providing technical assistance to women interested in
applying for Fund financing, and ensuring that Fund-financed training activities are
adapted in content, location and cost to womens' needs.
In summary, approximately one-half of project beneficiaries are expected to come
from relatively poor households, with the rest coming from the lower-middle and middle
classes. The project would make special efforts to see that women represent at least 40%
of all in-service trainees, although specific quotas with respect to Fund financing for
women would not be applied.



Annex 2.2
Synthesis of Mali Labor Market and Training Studies
As part of preparation for the Vocational Education and Training Consolidation
Project a series of 7 labor market and training studies were commissioned. These
studies were financed by a Japanese PHRD grant and were carried out between
November 1994 and September 1995. The preparation of terms of reference for these
studies, the selection of consultants and the review of preliminary reports were
undertaken jointly by the Mali Project Preparation Team ('Groupe de Pilotage') and
the World Bank. The studies included:
*     A Tracer Study of recent VET graduates
*     A Survey of New Employment Opportunities and Vocational Training
Needs in the Regions outside of Bamako
*     A Study of Nonformal Vocational Training and Apprenticeship
Training
*     A Reverse Tracer Study of VET graduates
*     A Private Sector Employer and Artisan Survey of Training Needs in
Bamako
i     Analysis of the Annual Manpower Survey for 1991, 1992 and 1993
A Study of Constraints to Vocational Education and Training among
Girls and Women
In addition, an eighth study was commissioned, analysing employment and earnings as
discerned from a national household survey conducted in 1994. Unfortunately, the
consultant hired to do this study was unable to complete his work in time for the
preparation of the Yellow Cover SAR..
Studv 1: Tracer Study of 1993 VET Graduates:
Methodology
This study was undertaken by the National Directorate of Technical and Vocational
Education and the National Manpower and Employment Office, with close support
provided by the Institute for Education Research (IREDU) in Dijon, France. A sample
of 422 CAP-level graduates and 18 1 BT-level graduates was composed, reflecting the
distribution of 1993 VET graduates by level, specialty, school of training, and
constituting 25% of all VET graduates. Graduates were surveyed approximately 18
months after receiving their diplomas, and were located on the basis of their home
addresses indicated on their school enrollment forms. A second '"ontrol group" was
established, consisting of graduates of basic education (Grade 9) or of primary
education (Grade 6).



Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 12
Results
The majority of graduates were male, single, 23 years old, and residents of Bamako.
One-third of graduates' fathers worked for the Government (civil servant, teacher,
health worker, army, police, etc.), one-fifth worked in the agriculture sector, with the
rest working in business, services, transport, professional trades, etc..
Since graduation approximately one-half of graduates had worked or participated in
additional training, although at the time of the survey only 20% of BT graduates and
28% of CAP graduates declared they were employed. By comparison, 40% of
individuals surveyed from the control group stated they were employed.
Among CAP graduates, those with training in accounting, woodworking, mechanics,
plumbing, banking and building design were most successful in finding a job, while
those in masonry, electricity, and agricultural mechanics were least likely to find a job.
Among BT graduates, the most successful graduates had degrees in civil works,
maintenance, general mechanics,  secretarial skills and accounting.  The least
successful graduates had degrees in customs, taxes, metal work and refrigeration.
Average private sector salaries were 40,000 CFAF per month for BT graduates,
37,200 CFAF per month for CAP graduates and 35,500 CFAF per month for the
control group, although the standard variations were quite large. Looking only at
salary levels of graduates and the control group and using a simplified calculation-
which ignores training costs and future differences in earnings, rates of return averaged
about 3%.
The vast majority of graduates were working in fields which corresponded to their
training. This was particularly the case among BT grraduates, who were more likely to
wait for a job corresponding to their training than CAP graduates and the control
group.
Regionally, graduates in Sikasso and Segou did as well or better than their
counterparts in Bamako.
Interpretation of Results
Great care must be taken in interpreting these results, as the temptation is strong to
look only at the general numbers and decide pre-service VET is not worth the
investment.  It is important to note that in many cases graduates who declared
themselves unemployed were in fact working in the informal sector and earning money
- they did not have a formal sector job and so considered themselves 'Unemployed".
Indeed, a follow-up survey of BT graduates in metal work and refrigeration revealed
that ALL graduates were earning income in the informal sector. Furthermore, given
the number of CAP and BT specialties (13 and 18, respectively), sample sizes were
often too small to draw meaningful conclusions.
Thirdly, the devaluation of the West African Franc occurred about 7 months after
graduation and surely had a short-term  negative impact on employment.  Before



Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 12
devaluation few firms were hiring, the private sector was stagnant, fraudulent and legal
importation of undervalued goods discouraged local production and employment.
Shortly after devaluation, many firms found themselves in serious financial difficulties
as external debts doubled in value, local purchasing power declined and consumers
waited until prices stabilized.  It is only recently (end of 1994/early 1995) that local
production and investment have rebounded (new investments in textiles, agro-
processing, mines, construction, etc.). It would be very useful and illuminating to
conduct the same survey of the same graduates in December of 1995.
Finally, relative salaries of BT, CAP and basic education graduates must be evaluated
loosely. As the Reverse Tracer Study indicates (Study 4 below), average salaries by
training levels can vary much more than is suggested by this study. Using the same
methodology used in the Tracer Study but the salary levels found in the Reverse Tracer
Study, rate of returns to CAP and BT training averaged 18% and 21%, respectively.
This shows that a variety of surveys and studies are needed - when several studies
point to the same conclusion the results are much more robust.
Nevertheless, some conclusions regarding training streams can be drawn, however
tentatively. CAP graduates do slightly better than BT graduates, in large measure'
because they are more willing to accept whatever job they can find. Accounting, civil
works, general and auto mechanics, woodworking, and secretarial training programs
are relatively successful. VET graduate success in the regions (such as Sikasso and
Segou) suggest opportunities for additional VET investments outside of Bamako.-
Finally, the accent must be placed on the quality of the training provided, rather than
the quantity.  In Bamako an expansion of VET capacity does not appear to be
justified. Efforts should go to improving the quality of existing VET capacity.
Studv 2: Survey of New Emplovment Onportunities and Vocational Trainin2
Needs in the Re2ions
Methodology
A survey of employers and artisans was conducted of 222 firns in 5 capital cities and 3
economically active towns in Mali. The sample was roughly representative of 11
economic  sub-sectors  (agro-industry,  textiles, wood, construction  materials,
metalwork, basic industries/maintenance, construction/civil works, transport, business,
hotelUrestaurants, and others). 75% of employers surveyed were in the informal sector,
in part because the formal private sector is virtually non-existent outside of Bamako.
Average firm size was just 3-5 workers.
Results
With respect to economic growth and employment opportunities, employers provided
estimates of total sales ('chiffres d'affaires') for the years 1992-94, and forecasts for
the years 1995-1997.  The most promising economic sub-sectors appear to be
construction, civil works, metal work, maintenance/repair and hotel/restaurants, all of
which experienced at least 20% growth between 1992-94 (according to the heads of
firms surveyed) and are projected to increase by at least 30% between 1995-97. Sales



Annex 2.2
Page 4 of 12
in textiles were sluggish between 1992-94 but are projected to increase by 44%
between 1995-97. Agro-industry appears less promising, which is explained below.
Relative to their existing workforce, employers forecast an increase in new hires
equivalent to 43%  between 1995-1997.  By econornic sub-sector, construction,
transport, and agro-industry account for 68% of the anticipated new hires, while
employment in woodworking and commerce is projected to remain stable. Employers
justified new recruitment on the grounds of expanded production and the search for
more qualified workers. Skilled workers are expected to be the professional category
most in demand, representing 44% of projected demand (relative to apprentices, 33%,
and highly skilled workers, 6%).  Skills in accounting/management, construction and
civil works, and mechanics will be most in demand.
As for training needs, employers clearly identified the quality of their product as the
principle factor in their competitiveness. Interestingly, despite the generally favorable
attitude of employers towards basic and vocational education, very few employers
invested in training of their workers, mainly because there is no capacity for vocational
training adapted to enterprise needs close to the employer. Few employers cited the
risk of losing the trained employee or the opportunity costs of training as factors.
Interpretation of Results
Regional VET investments in construction, civil works, mechanics, metal work and-
accounting/management appear to be justified, given the projected increases in labor
market demand for these skills. Training should be adapted to economic realities; most
new hires will be in small, informal sector enterprises using relatively low-technology.
Note that this project labor market demand corresponds to the conclusions of the
World Bank Private Sector Assessment, which cited construction as a prime
opportunity for small investments for the domestic market. Two-year VET appears to
respond better to employment possibilities than four-year VET.
The 'poor assessment" of agro-industry prospects is perhaps surprising, considering its
recent growth and its assessment from the macroeconomic perspective as one of the
most economic sub-sectors. But this can be explained by the regional nature of the
survey, in areas where purchasing power for processed agricultural products is limited,
food self-sufficiency is preferred, and food conservation and transportation is difficult.
The same survey in Bamako would probably reveal a different perspective.



Annex 2.2
Page 5 of 12
Studv 3: Nonformal Vocational Traininif and ADDrenticeshin Training
The objective of this study was to better understand the sociological, econornic and
pedagogical aspects of inforrnal sector vocational and apprenticeship training, to assess
the social demand for apprenticeship training, its cost effectiveness and the feasibility
of a Vocational Training Fund.
Methodology
500 apprentices, 300 master artisans and 200 apprentices' families were surveyed,
covering a wide and representative range of professional trades. The survey covered
Bamako, Segou, Sikasso and two secondary cities (Niono and Koutiala).  Close
consultation with artisan associations ensured easy access to artisans and their
apprentices.
Results
Sociological.   An estimated 65,000 apprentices participate in informal sector
vocational training, 45,000 in Bamako alone. This makes apprenticeship training
the primary source of vocational training in Mali. 63% of artisans surveyed stated
they employed apprentices, on average between 3-5. 60% of artisans never attended
primary school, and only 20% stated they had ever participated in organized vocational
training. Among apprentices, 68% declared to have attended primary school, and their-
average age was 23 years old (90% were between 15-30). 80% of apprentices stated
their intention was to set up their own business.
Apprenticeship training is based on informal agreements between the artisan, the
apprentice and his/her family. This social contract has the advantage of being simple
and flexible, and is based on respect for the artisan's professional skills and seniority.
On the other hand, apprentices have no objective means of '"raduating" and often end
up as cheap labor for the master artisan for many years. 70% of apprentices surveyed
stated they would be in favor of standardized apprenticeship certification procedures
which would allow them to "graduate" and market themselves more easily.
Pedagogv    Instruction is a function of production, on-the-job learning by doing.
Knowledge, skills and appropriate behavior are all passed on to the apprentice, through
observation, imitation, and trial-and-error. While effective in transmitting practical
skills, very little theoretical or written explanations are offered, in large part because
most of the artisans are illiterate themselves. Furthermore, training depends entirely on
the orders/contracts gained by the artisan, such that training may be very slow or
limited in range. An average, training lasts from 3-5 years, but up to 10 years.
Equipment is limited and generally of low quality, and artisans are typically traditional
and resistant to new technologies.
Well aware of apprenticeship's weaknesses, the vast majority of apprentices stated
they would be interested in complementary, theoretical training, such as might be
provided through a Vocational Training Fund.



Annex 2.2
Page 6 of 12
Economic    Most artisans pay their apprentices a daily subsistence wage equivalent
to US$1-1.50: artisans get inexpensive labor and apprentices earn the opportunity to
learn practical skills. Parents rarely pay the artisans for training services, although they
do ensure medical care and food for their children. Apprentices may also earn a little
extra money on the side through their own production or from client tips.
The cost of establishing one's own business was estimated by apprentices at 100,000
CFAF, to be raised through personal savings and family assistance. According to 80%
of artisans and 79% of apprentices, the informal sector and their particular trade
offered additional employment opportunities. On the other hand, artisans expressed
reservations about training too many young people in their trades, as this would create
serious competition.
Interpretation of Results
The informal sector in Mali is changing rapidly. Artisans are organizing themselves
into trade associations, the Government is encouraging an institutional and legal
framework to promote informal sector development, the education system is unable to
respond to the education, training and employment aspirations of young people and
their families. New trades are appearing, and the link of certain ethnic groups to
certain trades is disappearing.
The fact that a majority of apprentices are literate and numerate, while most of their
masters are not, means that their training is limited to purely practical, low-technology
skills acquisition. An opportunity exists to provide complementary general skills and
theoretical training to apprentices, which would build on the practical skills acquired
through apprenticeship. A Vocational Training Fund could be an ideal vehicle to
provide this training. The development of apprenticeship certification procedures and
standards, which are accepted by artisans, employers and the Ministry of Education
would be an important step in improving the marketability of apprentices and the
respectability of the informal sector in general.
Studv 4: Reverse Tracer Study of VET 2raduates
The objective of this study was to follow the path of basic education and VET
graduates (CAP and BT) in the labor market, and to analyze for the three levels
relative success in the labor market (revenue, employment, security of employment,
application of training, opportunities for advancement, etc.), in order to determine the
most promising training streams in terms of employment and/or self-employment.
Methodology
A total of 450 graduates were surveyed, 121 basic education graduates, 196 from CAP
training and 13 1 from BT training. Graduates were simply identified through visits to
randomly selected work sites in Bamako, Segou, Sikasso and Kayes, primarily in the
modem  sector.  Unfortunately, selection of graduates was inconsiderate of their
distribution by training specialty, year of graduation, and economic sub-sector. This



Annex 2.2
Page 7 of 12
means that the sample surveyed was not representative of the training system or of the
labor market. In general, the survey teams encountered considerable resistance from
the inforrnal sector which limited the sample to formal sector workers.
Results
Most graduates surveyed were male (83%), aged 20-29 years (80%), and products of
VET public institutions (rather than publicly-financed private VET centers). Two-
thirds of graduates were working in the formal sector, mainly in commerce (15%),
electricity/gas (14%), industry (13%) and construction (13%).  Basic education
graduates were most numerous in transport and business, while CAP et BT graduates
were found most in enterprises engaged in construction, civil works and electrical
supplies/services. The higher the training level the more likely graduates were to be
working in the fornal sector.
On average, basic education graduates needed 12 months to find a job, compared to 13
months for CAP and BT graduates.
Average salaries for BT graduates were 51,420 CFA per month, compared to 37,748
CFAF per month for CAP graduates and 27,847 CFAF for basic education graduates,
with large standard deviations. Graduates with degrees in accounting and electricity
had relatively high salaries.   43%  of graduates worked under contract, and the
probability of having a contract rose from 25% among basic education graduates, to
45% for CAP graduates and 56% among BT graduates. In general, graduates were -
very favorable about the quality of the training they received, and in its utility in finding
ajob.
24% of working CAP graduates had created their own job, compared to 33% of
working BT graduates and 19% of working basic education graduates. Training
streams most favorable for self-employment were construction, metalwork, electricity,
woodworking and refrigeration.
At the CAP level, the most promising training streams were judged to be accounting,
electricity, secretarial skills and mechanics. At the BT level, the most promising
streams were accounting, mechanics, electricity, commerce and construction/civil
works.
Interpretation of the Results
Given the rather weak survey methodology used for this study it is difficult to
generalize the results, much less use them to predict future results. Nevertheless, to
the extent that these results correspond to results obtained through more rigorous
survey methodology, they can be used for substantiation.



Annex 2.2
Page 8 of 12
Study 5 - Training Needs of Private Sector EmDlovers and Artisans
Methodology
A survey of training needs for skilled workers was conducted among 156 private
sector enterprises, employing almost 6,750 skilled and highly skilled workers. The
survey covered 7 major economic activity branches: manufacturing, construction and
civil works; commerce and hotels; transport and communications; banking and
insurance; personal services and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). With the
exception of the NGOs surveyed, the number of enterprises surveyed in each branch
roughly correspond to the distribution of enterprises by branch in Bamako, so the
sample is fairly representative of the situation overall. The survey questionnaire was
examined and approved by the National Federation of Employers, which sent an open
letter to all employers requesting their participation in the survey. In most cases the
owners or directors of the enterprises themselves responded to the questionnaire. The
survey addressed: the structure of enterprise employment by training level; training
needs by level and stream;  skilled worker recruitment patterns, projections and
methods; employer attitudes about the quality of workers hired;  and employer
recommendations for vocational training. Employers were very interested in the
study and most of them stated that it was the first time a survey of their training
needs had ever been conducted.
Results
The most obvious finding of this survey is that there is very little contact between
vocational training institutions and employers. Very few employers are familiar with
the vocational and technical training centers operating in Bamako; more than 60% of
employers stated they did not know what vocational training programs were offered in
Bamako, at either pre-service or in-service levels. They are not involved in any way in
the programming, management, or financing of pre-service VET, and very few of them
participate in in-service training.  In general, employers do not value vocational
training graduates, whom they describe as lacking practical skills, disciplne,
responsibility and knowledge of machines.
Thirdly, because of cultural considerations and/or the priority for employee loyalty (as
opposed to productivity), most employers recruit workers based on family and other
social contacts, rather than on training and skill levels. This means that in many cases
positions for skilled workers are occupied by individuals who are illiterate or untrained.
The study juxtaposes thiis attitude of employers with respect to vocational trainees
with employers' training and recruitment needs.  Approximately one-quarter of
enterprises stated they had difficulty recruiting skilled workers with the requisite
training and experience, particularly in the areas of manufacturing, construction and
civil works, and hotels. Furthermore, over the last three years, almost two-thirds of
new skilled labor employment has been for manufacturing, construction, civil works
and transportation, with three times as many CAP-level graduates hired than BT-level
graduates. In the future, 65% of enterprises surveyed forecast significant investments
over the next 18 months, the vast majority to either modernize, increase production or



Annex 2.2
Page 9 of 12
improve product quality.  Almost 80%  of new hires (and replacement of existing
workers) linked to these investments are expected to be for skills which correspond to
training streams in construction/civil works, metal work, masonry, electricity and
mechanics. Investments in vocational training would seem, therefore, to be justified, if
the quality and relevance of such training were increased.
The study concludes that the devaluation of the West African Franc in early 1994
should increase the potential for import-substitution industrialization, using local inputs
and products, and improve the competitiveness of Malian products in both local and
regional markets.  Furthermore, the study identifies the lack of technical and
managerial skills as a critical constraint for developing the manufacturing sector in
Mali, along with the oppressive regulatory and fiscal framework, the dfficulty to obtain
credit, the weak tranport and energy infrastructure, and the dependency on imported
inputs
In order to bridge the gap between employers and training institutions, the study
recommends that pre-service training institutions offer in-service training services to
employers and their workers. This would be through the development of Enterprise
Support Units in each school, staffed by vocational instructors, who would offer their
services to employers on a partial cost-recovery basis for the analysis and identification
of enterprise training needs.
Interpretation of Results
The survey indicates that there will be increased labor market demand for
industrial/technical and managerial skills, but whether employers will hire pre-service
VET trainees for these skills, or attempt to train existing or new, unqualified workers
through in-service training, is not clear.  A critical factor in employers' decision-
making will be the quality of VET graduates and the extent to which pre-service
training is adapted to their needs.
In conclusion, the labor market demand justification for expanded VET capacity in
Bamako is difficult to establish through this study at this time, given the low quality of
VET trainees and the lack of communication between training institutes and
employers. On the other hand, there appears to be a justification for improving VET
quality and adaptation to employer needs. To improve the quality of training it will be
important to upgrade vocational training programs, instructors, equipment, teaching
materials, etc., and to limit student orientation to enrollment capacity. Meanwhile, the
establishment of business relations between vocational training instructors and
employers for the development of enterprise training programs should considerable
improve VET responsiveness to employer needs.



Annex 2.2
Page 10 of 12
Study 6: Analysis of the Annual Declaration of Manpower Surveys, 1991-1993
Methodology
The Annual Manpower Declaration (DAMO) is carried out each year by the
Statistics and Information Division of the National Manpower and Employment Office.
It is sent out to all modem sector enterprises (public, private and parastatal) and covers
the structure of skills and qualifications by firm and economnic sector; the salary
structure of firms, according to qualifications, gender and nationality; employment of
temporary workers; and overall changes in hiring and dismissals, by firm and economic
sector. In 1993 the DAMO survey covered 650 enterprises, representing 28,600
permanent workers.
The problem faced by this survey was lack of resources for analysis and
dissemination. In 1992 the World Bank provided assistance to the Governrment of
Mali for the analysis of data collected as part of the DAMO for the years 1988-1990.
As part of preparation for the VET Consolidation Project, additional support was
provided for the updatinor of this analysis for the years 1991-1993. This provided the
preparation team with a consistent data series pertaining to modem labor market
statistics for the years 1988-1993. This information is the only longitudinal labor
market information which exists at this time.
Results
In 1993 the public sector remained the largest employer, with 42% of salaried
workers (note that this covered public enterprises, not the civil service). The private
sector employs 31% of all permanent workers, but represents 74% of all enterprises
surveyed. The capital, Bamako, provides jobs for 65% of all permanent workers in the
country. Skilled workers (corresponding to 2- and 4- year VET) make up almost 60%
of all permanent workers, while 30% have more advanced trainnig and 14% have no
formal training at all. Fully 90% of all modern sector jobs are occupied by men.
An analysis of trends in monthly salaries by economic sector and training
level between 1990 and 1993 sucgests an increasing scarcity of skilled manual labor in
agro-processing, mining, constrLction, transport and banking industries (See tables at
the end of this annex). For example, in the construction sector, average salaries for all
levels of workers increased 26% per year on average between 1990 and 1993, while
average salaries for skilled manual laborers in the construction industry increased by
almost 80% per year. In agro-industry, average salaries for all workers rose by 14%
per year, while those for skilled manual laborers in the same industry increased by
41%. Similarly, skilled manual laborers in the mining sector increased their salaries by
40% per year on average. These figures compare most favorably to average annual
increases in salaries for all levels of workers in all economic sectors over this period
(6%), and to average salary increases r,r all skilled manual laborers (14%). For
comparison's sake, skilled workers in commerce saw their salaries decline by an
average of 12% per year. while those in the utilities sector experienced just 2% annual
growth over this same period.



Annex 2.2
Page 11 of 12
Study 7: Women and Vocational Training: Analysis of Constraints and Needs
Methodology
This study attemped to identify the specific constraints faced by women with
respect to participation in vocational training activities, both formal and nonformal, as
well as assess women's vocational training needs.
The initial phase of the study consisted of a full documentary analysis of
women's vocational training, analysing female enrollment data in formal training
institutions in Mali, in addition to completing a full review of the international literature
concerning vocational training, particularly for the informal sector. The second phase
of this study consisted of a survey of women's vocational training constraints and
needs among women, primary informal sector training institutes and experts working in
the public, private and non-profit sectors. The survey reached 200 women, 100 in
Bamako and 50 in the regional capitals of Segou and Sikasso.
Results
The survey identified numerous constraints to women's participation in
vocational training activities, some of which are shared with men and some of which
are specific to their status as women.  First off, in the formal vocational training
system, women constitute just 26% of the total student population, and are enrolled-
almost exclusively in services sector training (office and secretarial skills, accounting,
administration, etc.). Females make up less than 5% of student enrollment in industrial
skills training, which is the most promising area for employment growth in the near
future. Low female participation in formal VET is related to low participation in basic
education, where girls make up just one-third of all students, and where girl's
enrollment is estimated at just 25% nationwide.
Limited access to formal training means most women who find work do so in
the informal sector, and must seek out nonformal training opportunities to improve
their skills. Again, women face severe constraints. The high cost of training (relative
to their monthly earnings in the informal sector) is major factor, followed closely by
the lack of time available for training. Women who work full-time, with families who
expect them to simultaneously fulfill their "normal domestic responsibilities"(cooking,
cleaning, child-rearing, etc.) simply do not have the time and energy to participate in
most training activities. The distance to training centers is another factor, as many
women do not want (or are forbidden) to travel alone, particularly in the evening.
Finally, many husbands object to their wives' participation in training, for a variety of
economic, social and cultural reasons.
In terms of training neeeds, women identified technical skills/crafts training
('techniques artisanales') as most important, followed by training in management,
accounting and marketing. Equally important, almost all women expressed the need
for basic literacy and numeracy training, as the vast majority of working women have
never been to school and remain illiterate.



Annex 2.2
Page 12 of 12
Interpretation of Results
From the outset of their lives, females confont unequal access to education and
training, which continues as they grow older. Special efforts are required to ensure the
participation of women in vocational training activities, both formal or nonformal. It is
particularly important to expand outreach activities to women's groups to inform
women of training opportunities and explain how to participate in them. This training
must be adapted to women's educational levels, to their daily working lives in the
informal sector, and to their hours of 'free time"1 It would be better to promote the
development of numerous, small training facilities which are close to women's homes
than the creation of large, centralized training facilities which are too far away to
permit women's participation.



NIINISTERE DE l'ENSEIGNEMENT SECONDAIRE
GENERAL, TECIINIQUE Er PROFESSIONNEL
ITINERAIRE DE FORMATION DES ETAUIASSEMENTS PUBLICS
D'ENSEIGNEN1ENT TECIINIQUE ET l'ROFESSIONNEL
ETUDES SUPERIEURES                                                                                       VIE ACTIVE
accalaureat   i|l;euaLwrea |   Brevet de Tech          l|revd de Tcbnlidlen                                             CerdillcaI d'ApiUude Professlojnefle
Tcdsalitique                Agaloe     gicole
41iuee              JQraoe                          Iie
Awus&               Ainule               AisiUde
r'tenialuzale    Teni isiue            3knse                Mul e               3hnhe
AMui&e              Ann&e                Amite                                        ie
Annie
| renalcrr       Prca.aihr            |nme                 2ilmae               2 nse                  2,1ne                2eme      |             le            Zen;;
I     Asuaee   j    |    AgneenL         ASuSie                 A aLe                   Anne             MusIc              AnnIe
|  Seada   | |   Seede   |  |         tere                 lIre                                       lIr  eAe                                                     I ire       APPUI aux
~~    Muake  ~~~Ann.c                    Annie                 AinnIe                                   AnnieAnni
AnnIe     AnnIe         ARTISANS
, ~~~ ~~                                 ~ ~~~I  I                                              I                        I    EIl       
alk Tle|                     Tc  Ala cole                 rECICA             I         I.F.P. Eayes, Fans                 I. F P K,ay1$         G.o C                   A        C.  AP
Buanuako                               D~~Koi       amnako                       San SilosFans San, J SOL
DIPLOME D'ETUDES FONDAMENTALES; D.E.F.                                                     et coueus              FONDAMENTALES: D.E.F.            DIPLOMI






Annex 4.1
MALI
Education Enrollment and Expenditures by Level, 1991-1995
1991       1992        1993        1994        1995
ENROLLMENT
- Primary               340,573    375,131     438,302     492,093     537,514
- Lower Secondary        57,185     65,273      69,506      77,541      84,886
- Secondary General      9,926      13,647      15,077      21,320      27,528
- Secondary VET          9,485       8,625      13,298      13,033      16,952
- Higher                 7,280       8,996      9,521       10,087      9,593
TOTAL            424,449    471,672     542,704     614,074     666,473
(in
thousands
of CFAF)
1991       1992        1993        1994        1995
EXPENDITURES
- Primary              7,087,870   7,250,617   6,931,132   8,674,817   10,122,707
% of total ed. spending  33%        37%         36%         38%         40%
- Lower Secondary      3,020,492   3,232,784   3,045,885   3,871,491    4,526,608
% of total ed. spending  14%         16%        16%         17%         18%
- Secondary General    3,760,246   2,915,694   2,822,234   3,084,267    3,477,119
% of total ed. spending  18%         15%        15%         14%         14%
- Secondary VET        2,907,468   1,846,344   2,113,260   2,581,823   2,487,129
% of total ed. spending  14%         9%          11%         11%         10%
- Higher               2,719,652   3,345,305   3,289,852   4,606,711    4,974,227
% of total ed. spending  13%        17%         17%         20%         19%
TOTAL\1          21,248,921  19,791,985  19,353,055  22,819,110  25,587,790
\1: Total is greater than
sum of levels because of
central administrative
spending.






Annex 5.1
page 1 of2
Mali's Labor Code
The adoption of Mali's revised labor code in September 1992 provides a more transparent
framework for the operation of labor markets. The transparency has been achieved by
introducing deadlines in enforcement procedures, which, in principal, would reduce the
uncertainty facing employers regarding planned personnel action, and by establishing limits
on damages that can be assessed for violations of the code. Prior uncertainty regarding the
period of time require for approval of personnel actions by labor inspectors added to the
expected cost of labor and reduced the incentive for employment creation. Steps have been
taken in the revised labor code to reduce this uncertainty for employers, while retaining
due process procedures for such actions as individual or collective dismissals.
The code contains a number of features that enhance flexibility in the use of labor as a
resource. Fixed-term contracts are legal as is part-time employment (Art. 133) in the face
of economic downturns. Premiums paid for overtime are low by international standards
(Art. 137). These features of the labor code enable employers to adjust labor costs in
response to economic shocks and are favorable to employment growth. From an
institutional perspective, the monopoly on job placement held by the state has been
removed and the entry of private placement agencies is permitted (Art. 303). The
competition this provides to the National Manpower Office (Office National de Ia Main-
d'oeuvre et de l'Emploi) will improve labor intermediation.
Against this favorable background of reforms, there remain a number of features in labor
code that act as impediments to labor tiexibility and add to labor's cost. More important
perhaps is the uncertainty that exists in the present environment regarding implementation
of the revised labor code. Covering the impediments first, fixed-term contracts are
available as an alternative to continuous or permanent contracts, but fixed-term contracts
can only be renewed twice, after which the individual must be given a continuous contract
(Art. 20). The latter brings with it the administrative cost of dismissals. Moreover, the
fixed-term contract may be offered for a maximum of only two years in contrast to five
years as found in many countries (Art.2 1). Fixed-term contracts along with reduced hours
of work, flexible wages, profit-sharing, and sub-contracting have become instruments in
industrialized countries for achieving labor flexibility; these instruments are not as
developed as they could be under the revised code..
Other impediments remain which affect wage tiexibility. Rather than setting an economy-
wide minimum wage, Mali sets minimum wages for different occupations (Art. 96). This
adds to the risk of binding minimum wages, which discourages employment creation. In
addition, seniority benefits are specified in the code (Art. 97), adding to wage rigidity.
Although the increments mandated do no appear onerous, they are specified independent of
productivity gains. Other dispositions intluencing labor cost and employment creation
involve benefits. Annual leave of 30 days per year after a year of service, including non-
working days, is high by international standards (Art. 151). Maternity leave for women of
14 weeks is generous and the number of times it can be used is not restricted (Art. 197),
which discourages female employment given that Mali has one of the world's highest
fertility rates.



Annex 5.1
page 2 or 2
Mali's Labor Code (continued)
At the same time as the cost of labor is raised for women, women are excluded from night
work (Art. 186). Labor disputes for individuals and groups, while more transparent, are
nevertheless encouraged by a labor tribunal process that is free to the plaintiff. No cost
sharing or risk acceptance is required to discourage frivolous complaints (Art. 202).
The effect of these measures and others is unclear in the present environment because many
of the measures require that decrees and ministerial arretes be issued in order to fully
implement the revised labor code. In fact, the Labor Code makes at least 27 references to
such decrees and ministerial arretes. Most of these decrees have not yet been issued, in
part due to opposition from the national unions, and thus, it is difficult to determine what
impact the revised labor code is having on employment.
In the final summary, the full effect of any labor code on economic activity and
employment creation, either positive or negative, depends on its enforcement. In many
developing countries, enforcement is weak, The uncertainty underlying this enforcement,
however, remains a factor in the investment decisions of employers. Some measures of
enforcement might be developed by an enterprise survey inquiring about such matters as
the difficulty they face in getting permits to hire foreign labor to fill skill shortages, the
number of labor inspections they have faced dluring the past 12 months, the outcome of
these inspections and the time and resources required to settle claims, and the number of
labor disputes that have been taken by employees to conciliation and arbitration.
As part of the 1995-1997 Policy Framework Paper signed with the International Monetary
Fund and the World Bank, the Government has agreed to review theimplementation of the
revised labor code with the aim of identifying further areas of reform to allow more
flexilibty in the functioning of the labor market. Following this, the legal framework of the
revised Labor Cocde will be strengthened to ensure full application.



Annex 6.1
Mall
Projet de consolidation de la formation professionnelle
Comptes de D6pense par Annee - Totaux y Compris linprivus
(USS)
FAC
Totaux Y Compris Imprevus                                                                 Totaux Y Compris Imprevus
1997    1998    1999   2000    2001    Total                                              1997    1998    1999   2000    2001    Total
I. Couts dlnvestissement                                                                  1. Couts d'investissement
A. Consulants                     420    876      480    429      363    2,568            A. Consuftants                        -       -       -       -       -
C. Equipement                     956   1,461   1,332    256      256    4,261            C. Equipement                       30      45      41       8       8      132
D. Etudes                         148      58      60       -       -      266            D. Etudes                           96      38      39       -        -     173
E. Formation                     1,582   2,256   2,734   1,900   1,752   10,224           E. Formation                       506     722    875      608     561    3,271
F. Genie Civil                    219    763    491         -       -    1,473            F. Genie Civil                       -       -       -       -        -        -
G. Mobilier                       196      46      31                      273            G. Mobilier                         28       7       4       -        -      39
H. Vehicules                      139       -       -       -       -      139            H. Vehicules                         -       -       -
I. Information                     55      57      59      61      63      295           I. Information                        -       -       -       -
Total Coits d'investissement      3,715   5,516   5,186   2,646   2,434   19,497          Total Couts d'Investissement         660    811      959     616     569    3,615
II. Couts Recurrents                                                                      II. Couts Recurrents
A. Frais de Fonc                  284     394     614    599      620    2,511            A. Frais de Fonc                    12      16      25      24      25       102
B. Personnel                      152    158      174    181      188      853            B. Personnel                         -        -      -       -        -        -
Total Couts Recurrents              436    552    788    780        808    3,364          Total Couts Recurrents                12      16      25      24      25       102
Total COUTS DU PROJECT             4,151   6,068   5,974   3,426   3,242   22,861         Total Financement FAC                672     827     984     640     594    3,717
IDA                                                                                  Gouvernement
Totaux Y Compris Imprevus                                                                  Totaux Y Compris Imprevus
1997   1999    1999   2000    2001    Total                                                1997    1998    1999   2000    2001    Total
I. Couts d-investissement                                                                 1. Couts d'investissement
A. Consultants                    420     875     480     429     363    2,566            A. Consultants                       1       1        -       -       -       2
C. Equipement                     925   1,413   1,288     248     248    4,121            C. Equipement                        2       3       3       1       1        9
D. Etudes                          51      20      21       -       -       92            D. Etudes                            -       -       -       -       -
E. Formation                      586     835   1,012    703      649    3,785            E. Formation                       490     699     847     589     543    3,168
F. Genie Civil                    181    631      406       -       -    1,218            F. Genie Civil                      38     132      85       -       -      255
G. Mobilier                       139      33      22       -       -      193            G. Mobilier                         29       7       5       -       -       41
H. Vehicules                      139       -       -       -       -      139            H. Vdhicules                         -       -       -       -       -
I. Information                     55      57      59      61      63      293           I. Information                        -       -       -       -
Total Couts d'lnvestissement      2,494   3,864   3,287   1,440   1,322   12,407          Total CoUts d'investissement         560     842    939    590       543    3,474
II. Couts Recurrents                                                                     II. Couts Recurrents
A. Frais de Fonc                   16      23      35      35      36      145            A. Frais de Fonc                   256     355    554      542     559    2,266
B. Personnel                      152    158    174    181        188      852            B. Personnel                          -       -       -       -       -
Total Couts Recurrents              168    181      209     215    224       997          Total Coats Recurrents               256     355    554      542     559    2,266
Total Financement IDA              2,663   4,044   3,496   1,656   1,545   13,404         Total Financement Gouvernement       816   1,197   1,493   1,132   1,102    5,740
EAYRTVET.XLS 12/15/95 10:37 AM



Annex 6.1
Page 2 of 21
Mali
Projet de consolidation de la formation professionnelle
Resum6 des Couts du Projet par Composantes
% Total
(FCFA)                          (USS)              %    Co6its de
Locale     Devises       Total     Locale  Devises   Total  Devises  Base
A. Amelioration qualite et pertinence de la F.P. formelle
1. Renforcement Dispositif de la FP
a. Centre de F. P. Bamako                                               147,193     751,915      899,108    294    1,504    1,798      84        9
b. Centre ECICA                                                          47,034     296,233      343,267     94      592      687      86        3
c. Institut de F.P. Sikasso                                               9,826      44,144       53,970     20       88      108      82        1
d. lnstitut de F.P. Kayes                                               112,518     420,413      532,931    225      841    1,066      79        5
e. Institut de F.P. San                                                  96,099     371,005      467,104    192      742      934      79        5
Sous Total Renforcement Dispositif de la FP                               412,670    1,883,710   2,296,380    825    3,767    4,593      82       23
2. Ameliorer qualite enseignement
a. Qualite Instructeurs/Curricula                                       675,444     803,152    1,478,596   1,351    1,606    2,957     54       15
3. Developt capacite institution
a. Ecole et niveau central                                              57,393      109,908      167,302    115      220      335      66        2
Sous Total Amelioration qualite et pertinence de la F.P. formelle         1,145,508    2,796,770   3,942,278   2,291    5,594    7,885     71       40
B. Developpement capacite F.P. Qualifiante
1. Fond d'Appuil  la Formation                                          1,782,864    3,202,508   4,985,372   3,566    6,405    9,971     64       51
2. Programmes d'Apprentissage                                             63,240       78,780      142,020    126      158      284      55        1
Sous Total Developpement capacite F.P. Qualiflante                        1,846,104    3,281,288   5,127,392   3,692    6,563   10,255     64       52
C. Services du Marche de l'Emploi
1. Mise en Place de l'Observatoire                                        32,120     160,843       192,963     64      322      386      83        2
2. Formation                                                              58,650      124,230      182,880    117      248      366      68        2
3. Enquetes                                                               151,725      26,513      178,238    303       53      356      15        2
4. Diffusion                                                              168,677      15,781      184,458    337       32      369       9        2
Sous Total Services du Marche de l'Emploi                                  411,172     327,366      738,539     822      655    1,477      44        8
Total COUTS DE BASE                                                       3,402,784    6,405,424   9,808,208   6,806   12,811   19,616     65       100
lmprevus Physiques                                                       205,718     448,165      653,882    411       896    1,308      69        7
Imprevus sur les Prix                                                    426,073     542,632      968,706     852    1,085    1,937      56       10
Total COUTS DU PROJECT                                                    4,034,575    7,396,222    11,430,796   8,069   14,792   22,862   65       117
SUMCOM.XLS12115/95



Annex 6.1
Page 3 of 21
Mali
Projet de consolidation de la formation professionnelle
Cornptes de D6pense Recapitulation des Couts de Projet
% Total
(FCFA)                          (USS)              %    Coats de
Locale     Devises       Total    Locale  Devises   Total  Devises  Base
I. Couts d'investissernent
A. Consultants                    415,055     735,847     1,150,902    830    1,472    2,302      64       12
C. Equipement                       4,845    1,809,418    1,814,263     10    3,619    3,629     100       18
D. Etudes                          47,711      70,422      118,133      95      141      236      60        1
E. Formation                     1,726,421    2,635,060   4,361,481   3,453    5,270    8,723     60       44
F. Genie Civil                    255,820     369,847      625,667     512      740    1,251      59       6
G. Mobilier                        35,733      83,148      118,881      71      166      238      70        1
H. Vehicules                            -      61,610       61,610       -      123      123    100         I
L. Information                     44,625      82,063      126,688      89      164      253      65        1
Total Couts d'lnvestissernent      2,530,210   5,847,414    8,377,624   5,060   11,695   16,755     70       85
It. Coats Recurrents
A.FraisdeFonc                     513,024     558,010     1,071,034   1,026    1,116    2,142     52       11
B. Personnel                      359,550           -      359,550    719         -      719       -        4
Total CoOts R6currents              872,574     558,010     1,430,584   1,745    1,116    2,861     39       15
Total COUTS DE BASE                3,402,784    6,405,424   9,808,208   6,806   12,811   19,616     65      100
lmprevus Physiques                205,718     448.165      653,882    411       896    1,308      69        7
Impr6vus sur les Prix             426,073     542,632      968,706    852    1,085    1.937       56       10
Total COOTS DU PROJECT             4,034,575    7,396,222    11,430,796   8,069   14,792   22,862   65      117
SUMEA.XLS11519512:44 PM



Annex 6.1
Page 4 of 21
Mali
Prqet de consolidation de la frmation prodessionnel
Comptes de DWponse par Composantes - Totaux Y Compris Impr vus
(US$)
Amioratlon quallb et pertinence de a F.P. formelie
Developt ppement capacite
capacib    Qualiflanta
Ronforcement Dispositif de la FP                Amellorer qualite    Institution    Fond                      Services du Marchi de I'Emplol
Centre          Institut  Institut  Institut  enseignement        Ecole at  d'Appui I                  Mis een Place
de F. P. Centre  de F.P.  de F.P.  de F.P.        Qualite          niveau       la      Programmes          de
Bamako  ECICA  Sikasso   Kayes    San    Instructeurs/Curricula    central   Formation d'Apprentissage  l'Observatoire Formation Enquites Diffusion   Total
1. CoOts d'investissement
A. Consultants                     60        -       2      234       45                   742          81      1,139             64              -       202        -         -   2.568
C. Equipement                    1,077    400       33      487      458                    155         83      1,392             24            126                  -       28    4.261
D Etudes                             -      -        -                 -                    92            -      173               -                        -                  -     266
E. Formation                                                                              2,448        105     7,225             245              -      202                   -   10.225
F. GenieCMI                       498    113        15      283      417                      -        119         -                            29                   -              1.473
G. Mobliebr                        48      73        9       27       20                                  -       68               -             17                           9      272
H. Vhicules                          -      -        -        -        -                      -           -      106               -            33          -        -               139
I. infomiation                       -      -        -        -        -                      -           -      293               -              -         -        -         -     293
Total CoOts d'investissement       1,683    585       59    1,030      939                  3,437        387    10,397             333           205       405         -       37   19,497
11. Coats Recurrents
A. Frais de Fonc                  427    208        65      193      168                      -           -      397               -            236               420       398    2,512
B. Personnel                         -       -                -        -                                         852               -              -         -        -         -     852
Total Coats Recurrents              427    208        65      193      168                      -           -     1,249              -            236               420       398    3,364
TotalCOOTSDUPROJECT                2,110    794      124    1.224    1,107                  3,437         387    11,646            333            441       405      420       436   22.862
Imptts                             82      28        1       46       62                      -         18        10                             3          -        -        1      251
Devises                          1,763    682      101      965      874                  1.839        252     7,402             182            366      269       61        36   14.792
EXCMTF XLS12/1519512:49 PM



Annex 6.1
Malii                                                           Page  5 of 21
Projet de consolidation de la formation professionnelle
PApartition des Cmptem de Dhpense
(US$)
CoOts de Base                   Imprevus Physiques                 Impr6vus sur les Prix             Total Y Compris Impr
Locale  Douane                      Locale  Douane                      Locale  Douane                      Locale  Douane
(Sauf     &                        (Sauf      &                         (Sauf      &                        (Sauf      &
Devises Imp6ts) Imp6ts   Total  Devises Imp6ts) Impots   Total  Devises Imp6ts) Impots   Total  Devises Imp6ts) Imp6ts
I. Couts d'Investisse ent
A. Consultants                1,472      830        -   2,302        32       17        -       49      118       99         -     217   1,622       946         -
C. Equipement                 3,619       10        -   3,629       362        1        -      363      269        1        -      270   4,250        12         -
D. Etudes                       141       95        -      236        9        7        -       16        7        7        -       14      157      109        -
E. Formation                  5,270   3,453         -   8,723       327      236        -      563      495      444        -      939   6,091   4,133           -
F. Genie Civil                  740      333      179   1,251        74       33       18      125       50       32       14       96      864      398      211
G. Mobilier                     166       36       36      238       17        4        4       24        7        3        2       11      189       42        41
H. Vehicules                    123        -        -      123       12        -        -       12        3        -        -        3      139        -         -
I. Information                  164       89        -      253        8        4        -       13       15       12        -       27      188      106        -
Total Co6ts d'Investissement  21,695   4,846           215  16,755       841      303       21   1,165       965      597       15   1,577  13,500   5,746         251
II. Couts Rkcurrents
A. Frais de Fonc              1,116   1,026         -   2,142        56       51        -      107      120      143         -     263   1,292   1,220           -
B. Personnel                      -      719        -      719        -       36        -       36        -       97        -       97        -      852        -
Total Cotfts PAcurrents           1,116   1,745          -   2,861        56       87        -      143      120      240        -      360   1,292   2,072          -
Total                             12,811   6,591        215  19,616       896      390       21   1,308   1,085        837       15   1,937  14,792   7,818         251
Thu Dec 14 14:34:42 1995
8-1 Repartition des Comptes de Depense



Annex 6.1
Page 6 of 21
Mali
Projet de consolidation de la formation professionnelle
Couptes de D6pense par Bailleurs de Fond
(USS)
Locale Douane
Gouvernement/Beneficiaires            IDA               FAC              Total                  (Sauf    &
Montant             _       Montant     %    Montant      %    Montant       %    Devises Imp6ts) Imp6ts
I. Couts d'Investisse-nt
A. Consultants                           2             0.1   2,566    99.9          -        -   2,568    11.2   1,622         946        -
C. Equipement                            9             0.2   4,121      96.7      132      3.1   4,261      18.6   4,250        12       -
D. Etudes                                -               -       92    34.7       173    65.3       266      1.2      157      109       -
E. Formation                         3,168            31.0   3,785    37.0   3,271        32.0  10,225    44.7   6,091   4,133           -
F. Genie Civil                         255           17.3   1,218    82.7           -        -   1,473       6.4      864      398    211
G. Mobilier                             41            15.0      193    70.8        39    14.2       272      1.2      189       42      41
H. Vehicules                             -               -      139   100.0         -        -      139      0.6      139        -       -
I. Information                           -               -      293   100.0         -        -      293      1.3      188      106       -
Total Couts d'Investissement             3,474            17.8  12,408    63.6   3,615    18.5  19,497          85.3  13,500   5,746    251
II. Couts Recurrents
A. Frais de Fonc                     2,266            90.2      145      5.8      102      4.0   2,512    11.0   1,292   1,220           -
B. Personnel                             -               -      852   100.0         -        -      852      3.7        -      852       -
Total Couts RAcurrents                   2,266            67.3      997    29.6       102      3.0   3,364      14.7   1,292   2,072          -
Total Decaissement                        5,740            25.1  13,405    58.6   3,717        16.3  22,862   100.0  14,792   7,818    251
Thu Dec 14 14:34:29 1995
1-1 Comptes de Depense par Bailleurs de Fond



Annex 6.1
Mali                                                          Page 7 of 21
Projet de consolidation de la formation professionnelle
D6caiszemznts par Semestre et Cash-Flow du Gouverneent
(US$)
CoOts a
Financer
Financement Disponible  CoOts   Gouvernement/B6n6ficiaires
IDA     FAC              du                      Cash-Flow
Montant Montant Total   Projet    Cash-Flow         Cumulatif
1        -        -       -    2,076         -2,076         -2,076
2    1,187      619  1,806    2,076            -269         -2,345
3    1,187      619  1,806    3,034          -1,228         -3,573
4    1,965      603  2,568    3,034            -466         -4,039
5    1,965      603  2,568    2,987            -419          -4,458
6    1,657      636  2,293    2,987            -694          -5,152
7    1,657      636  2,293    1,713             580         -4,572
8    1,005        -  1,005    1,713            -708         -5,280
9    1,005        -  1,005    1,621            -616         -5,896
10     888        -    888    1,621            -732         -6,629
11     888        -    888         -            888         -5,740
Total  13,405   3,717 17,121   22,862            -5,740         -5,740
Thu Dec 14 15:34:25 1995
2-1 Decaissements par Semestre et Cash-Flow du Gouvernement



Mali                                                                                          Annex 6.1
Projot do consolidation do la formation prof.ssionnollo                                                                         Page   8   of   21
tableau 1.1.1. Contra do F.P. do Bamako
Codts D6taill&s
(US$
Ddponses par Baillaur3 do Fond
Quantit6s                       Coats           Totaux Y Compris Isyr6vus                    Gouvsrnaesnt/B6n6ficiairas                                    IDA
Unkita    19917  1998   1999   2000   2001  Total Unitaires  1997   1998   1999   2000   2001  Total 1997   1999   1999   2000   2001   Total 1997   1998   1999   2000  2001  Total
I. Coats d-Invsstissflaflt
A. f il: hSoazniqu automobila
1. Construction
Rajout                                      Contrat         1I                                     1      72.324       82       -      -       -              2      12       -       -       -      -      12     70       -       -              -     70
A.cian-Rihab                                Contrat          I       -       -      -       -       1     25.526       29       -      -       -             29       4       -       -      -       -       4     25       -       -       -      -      25
Sons Total Construction,                                                                                                 111                                    ill- -  1  17     -      -               -     17      94       -       -      -       -     94
2. Dimna
outillages                                     Lot        0.2   0.45   0.35         -       -      1      254.12       57    233    107        -            297       -       -       -      -       -       -     57    133    107                     Z  97
D6sontag./mantage                              Lot           1       -      -       -       -      1         1.02       1       -      -       -       -      1       -       -       -      -       -       -      1       -       -                      I 
Mat6riol diciactique                           Lot          1I              -       -              1        4.04        5       -       - -    -              5       -                      - -             -      - -                         
Hobilier de classo                             Lot           1       -       - -    -               1      3.035        3       -       - -    -              3       1       -       -      -       -       1      3       -       - -     -              3
Mqobilier d'atelier                            Lot           1       -      -                      I       17.28       20       -      -       -       -     20-    3         -       -      -       -       3     17       -                             17
Sous Total Di-ana                                                                                                         86    133    107         -      -    326        3      -               -       -      3      83    133    107        -       -    322
3. Services
Gestion contrat/Etude/Super-.              honoraire                                                                    4      7       3       -             14       -                      -              -       4       7       3                     it 1
Sons Total Nil: b46oaniquo automobile                                                                                        201    140    309        -       -    450      20       -       -       -      -      20    181    140    109         -      -     430
13. Nil: Construction mAta.llicue
1. Construction
Bloc constr. shtaIlique                     Contrat          -       1I                            1    149.308         -    175       -                    1  75     -     26       -       -       -     26       -    148        -                   1 - li
2. Diana
Outillages                                     Lot           -       -      I       -       -      1      325.22        -       -    389       -            389       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -    389       -       -    389
plobilior datelior                             Lot           -       -      1       -       -      1       3.035        -       -      4       -4                     -       -       1I                     1      -       -       3      -       -
Mobilier declasse                              Lot           -       -      1       -       -      1       1.012        -      -       1       -              I       -       -      0       -       -      0       -       -       1      -       -       1
?4atoriol didactique                           Lot           -              I                      1        3.03        -       -      4       -       -      4       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      4       -       -       4
Do mon taga/sontaga                            Lot           -      -       1       -       -      1         5.1        -      -       6       -              6       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       -      6       -       -       6
Soas Total Bims                                                                                                            -      -:  -404        -       -    404        -      -       1          -1           -               -  403                -    463
3. Services
Gastimn contrat/Etude/Supsrv.              honoraira                                                                    6     10       4       -       -     21       -       -      -       -       -      -       6      10       4      -       -     21
Sons Total Fil;. Construction mStalliqus                                                                                       6    181    408        -       - 599          -      26       1       -      -     27        6    159    407        -      -    572
c. Nil: anaie, Charpent. Eb6a
1.Construction
Rajout  (bloc)                              Contrat          -      -       1       -       -      1     13.556         -             53       -      -      53       -      -       8                              -       -     45       -       -     4
Ancien (bloc)-r6hab                         Contrat          -       -                             1      19.448        -      -      24       -      -      24       -       -      4       -       -      4       -       -     20       -       -     20
Sons Total Construction                                                                                                    -       -     76       -       -     76       -       -      11       -      -      11       -      -      65       -       -     65
2. Bisos
Outillaqes                                     Lot           -       -      1       - -            1      118.17        -  -         141       -           11l               -       -       -              -       -       -    141       -       -    141
mIobilier dateliar                             Lot           -      -       1       - -            1       1.518        -  -           2       -      -       2      -       -       0       -       -      0       -       -      2       -       -      2
Ilobilier de classe                           Lot            -      -       1       - -            1       1.516           -           2       -      -       2       -      -       0       -      -       0       -       -      2       -       -      2
Mat6riel didactique                            Lot           -      -       1       -      -       1       1.515        -      -       2       -              2       -      -       -       -      -       -       -       -      2       -       -      2
Dntmontge/sontage                              Lot                                                                     I                                      I      -                                      -       I                                  
Scus Total. miens                                                                                                          1            14-7      -       -    14 8      -               I                      1       1      -    146               -    147
3. Services
Gestion contrat/Etude/Superv.              honoraire                                                                   3       4       2       -      -       9      -       -       -       -      -       -       3      *       2               -      9
sous Total Nil: baunie, Charpsnt, ESn                                                                                          4       4    225       -       -    233       -       -     12       -       -     12       4       4    213        -      - 221
0. Nril: nlsotricitd de bitimeot
1.Construction
Rajout (bloc)                               Contrat          -      1       -      -       -       1     43.151        -      50       -      -       .     S                a       -      -                       -     43       -       -             43
Ancien  (bloc)-r&hab                        Contrat          -      2       -       -      -       1     19.418        -      23       -      - -           23       -       3       -       -      -       3       -     19       -                      9
sous Total onstruoticn                                                                                                     -      73       -      -       -     73       -      11       -      -       -      11       -     62       -       -      -      62
2. Bieas
Outiliagas                                     Lot           -       I      -       -       -      1       63.63        -     74       -       -      -      71                      -       -              -       -     74       -       -       -     74
Mobiliosrdatelisr                              Lot           -       I      -       -      -       I       6.071        -      7       -       -      -       7       -      1       -                      I       -       6      -       -       -      6
Hobllisr declasse                              Lot           -      -       1       -       -      1       1.518        -      -       2       -      -       2      -       -       0       -       -      0       -       -      2       -       -      2
Mat6riol didactique                            Lot           -      -       1       -      -       1        2.02        -      -.    2         -      -       2       -      -       --      -              -       -      -       2       -       -      2
D6Nontags/X,Qntaqs                             Lot                                                                                                                                                                                          
1-1 Centrs do F.?. do Samako



Annex 6.1
Page 9 of 21
Scms Total inam                                                                                                                  -      81       4                      as 8     -       1        0       -I                      -     80        4       -       -     54
3. Services
Gestion contrat/ItudslSuperv.                honoreire                                                                       3       4       2       -       -       9        -       -       -       -       -       -       3       4       2       -       -       9
Scum  Total ffil: Electxiciti de h&tlmsnt                                                                                            3    159        6       -       -     167       -      12       0       -       -      12       3    147         6       -       -    155
S. wil: HeccccerLs/Plamsris
1. Cinstnictioc
Kaconnerie                                    Contrat           1       -       -       -       -       1     18.233        21       -       -       -       -      21       3       -       -       -       -       3      18        -       -       -       -     18
Plomberie                                     Contrat          1       -       -       -       -       1      18.233        21       -       -       -       -      21       3       -       -       -       -       3      18-le                             -     1
Scus Total onetruction                                                                                                          41       -       -       -       -      41       6       -       -       -       -       6      35       -        -       -       -     35
2. Diens
0utillages                                       Lot            -       -       1       -       -       1     95.546         -       -    114        -       -     114       -       -       -       --              -       -        -    114        -       -    114
Mobilisr datelier                                Lot            -       -       1       -       -       1       1.012        -       -       I       -       -       1       -       -       0       -       -       0       -        -       1       -       -       1
Ilobilier de Cla33                               Lot            -       -       1       -       -       1       1.518        -       -       2       -       -       2       -       -       0       -       -       0       -        -       2       -       -       2
?4at6riol didactiqu.                             Lot            -       -       1       -       -       1       0.712        -       -       1                       I                    -          -               -        -       -       1       -       -       1
D6montagqmeontage                                Lot                                                                                   
Scum  Total Lens                                                                                                                 -       -    118                     lie18                      0       -       -       0       -       -    118                      lie11
3. ISricses
Gestion contrat/Etuds/Superv.                honoraire                                                                       1       3       1       -       -       5       -       -       -        -      -       -        1       3       1       -               S
Scoum  Total  NFil: Wiaconceris/Plamberis                                                                                           43       3    119        -       -     165       6       -       0       -       -       7      37        3    119        -       -    158
Fr. Fil; Ceosic Techniqu
3.Ccoatru&Lxo/8hhab
Eclairage                                        Lot           S       -       -       -       -       5       0.485         3       -       -       -       -       3       -       -       -       --              -       3       -        -      -       -       3
Ventilatimn(brasasur)                            Lot            S       -       -       -       -      5         0.07        5       -       -       -               5                           -                   -       5        -       -       -       -       S
Stcckage                                      Contrat          S        -      -       -       -       5       1.317         7       -       -       -       -       7       1       -       -       -       -       1       6       -        -       -       -      6
Peinture                                      Contrat          S       -       -       -       -       5       2.532        14t              -       -              14       2       -       -       -       -       2      12       -       -       -       -      1
Bourn Total onstructi.on/Ithab                                                                                                  30       -       -       -       -      30       3       -       -       -       -       3      27       -       -        -       -     27
2. Services
Gestion contrat/Etude/Superv.                honoreire                                                                       1       2       1       -       -       4       -       -       -       -       -       -       1       2        1       -       -      4
Scum  Total Fil: Cossmic Technique                                                                                                 31        2       1       -       -      34       3       -               -       -       3      24       2       1       -       -      30
C. hil: Secret/CtmptahLlit6
Equipement du bureau                                 Lot          1I                                       1       22.22       25        -       -       -       -      25       -       -       -       -       -       -      25       -       -       -       -      25
Atelier                                              Lot            -       1      -       -       -        1       1.012        -       1       -       -I                      -       0       -       -       -       0       -       1        -                       I 
SalleodeClasse                                       L.ot          -        1I                              1      3.035         -       4       -       -       -       4       -       1I                                              3        -       -       -      3
PIat&rielididactique                                 Lot           -        1       -       -      -        1        5.05        -       6       -       -       -       6       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       6        -       -       -      6
Scus Total  iLl: Secrmt/Comptabilit6                                                                                                25      11       -       - -            36       -       1I                              1      25      10       -       - -            35
Total Cofits d'Icvemtisemenot                                                                                                           312    503    868         -       -1,683         30      39      13        -       -     82    283    464    855           -       -1,601
II. Coats t6currents
A. V&.caique automobile
MAD de remplacement                                  Lot           -        1       1       1       1      4       20.24         -      23      23      24      25      95       -      23      23      24      25      95       -       -       -        -              -
Ressourcesmaet6risllos consommables                  Lot           -       1       1       1       1       4       8.096         -       9       9      10      10     38        -       9       9      10      30      38       -       -       -       -       - 
?IathrielfDidactique                                 Lot           -        1      1       1       1       8       3.036         -       3       3       4       4      14       -       3       3       4       4      14       -       -       -        -              -
Sous Total Whenaique automobile                                                                                                      -     35      36      37       38    147        -      35      36      37     38     147        -       -       -       -       -       -
B. Construction .Atallique
KAO de roeplacesent                                  Lot           -       -       1       1       1       3      22.264         -       -     26       26      27     79        -       -      26      26      27      79       -       -       -       -       -       -
Ressources   aet*rielles  conomsables                Lot           -               I       1       1       3       8.602         -       -     10      10      11      31        -       -      10      10      11      31       -       -       -       -       -       -
NatlrielfDidactiquesconscamable                      Lot           -               I       1       1       3       2.024         -       -       2       2       2       7       -       -       2       2       2       7       -       -       -        -      - 
Scum  Total Construction nhtallique                                                                                                  -       -     38      39      40    117         -       -       8      39     40    117         -       -       -               -       -
C. haceuim., dcsrp, 5Vc.
I4Owde  remplacesent                                 Lot           -               I       1       1       3       3.643         -       -       4       4       4      13       -       -       4       4       4      13       -       -       -        -      -       -
Ressources  metArielles consommbles                 Lot            -               I       1       1       3      12.144         -       -     14      14      15      43        -       -      14     14       15     43        -       -       -       -       -       -
Hat6rielflidactique                                  Lot           -               I       1       1       3       1.518         -       -       2       2       2       5       -       -       2       2       2       5       -       -       -       -       -       -
Scur Total Ihnuim., Charp, ne.-                                                                                                              -     20      21      21      62        -       -     20      21      21      62        -       -       -       -               -
C. Slectricith ds khtieect
HADde  reaplaceasnt                                  Lot           -       -       1       1       1       3       4.048         -       -       5       5       5      14       -       -       5       5       5      14       -       -        -       -       -      -
Ressources mat6riel1es  conomsables                  lot           -       -.      1       1       1       3       9.108         -       -     10      11      11      32        -       -      10     11       11     32        -       -       -       -       -       -
Mst6riel Didectique                                  Lot           -               I       1       1       3       0.506         -               1       1       1       2       -       -       1       1       1       2       -                -       -        
Scum  Total Eleotrioit& de btiLment                                                                                                  -       -      16      16      17     49        -       -      16      16      17      49       -       -        -       -      -       -
E. )dsccanerie/Plamberie
MAOde remplaceeent                                   Lot            -               I       1       1       3       1.316        -       -       2       2       2       5       -       -       2       2       2       5       -        -       -       -       -      -
Ressources eat6rielles consimnables                  Lot           -       -       1       1       1       3       6.274         -       -       7       7       a     22        -       -       7       7       8      22       -       -        -       -      -       -
Mathriol Didectique                                  Lot            -       -       1       1       1       3       0.202        -       -       0       0       0       1       -       -       0       0       0       1        -       -       -       -       -      -
Scmtotal licconcerie/Plcmberis                                                                                                    -      -        9       9     10      28        -       -       9       9     10      28        -       -       -       -       -       -
I. SsarfitarLat/Camptabil.ith
KAO de remplacenent                                  Lot            -      -        1       1      1       3        1.316        -       -       2       2       2       5       -       -       2       2       2       5       -       -       -        -      -       -
Reessurces mat4rielles consomsbles                   Lot           -       -       1       1       1       3       4.048         -       -       5       5       5     14        -       -       5       5       5      1i       -       -       -       -       -       -
1-2 Centre do F.P. de Bamako



Annex 6.1
Page 10 of 21
M.t6riel didactiq..                            Lot          -       -      I      1      1      3       1.619      -       -      2      2      2      6       -      -      2      2      2       6      -      -   _          _   ___
Total Co.t. Rkcurrents                                                                                                      -     35    126   131    135   427         -     35    126    131    135    427       -      -
Total                                                                                                                      312    538   995    131    135 2,110        30     74    140    131    135    509   283   464    855          -      - 1,601
Tue Doc 12 07:56:42 1995
1-3 Contra de F.P. de Bamko



Annex 6.1
Mali                                                                                      Page  11 of 21
Projat do consolidation de is formation professionnelle
Tableau 1.1.2. Centre ECICA
CoOts Dtaillks
(US$)
D4pansaa par Bailleurs de Fond
Quantitas                     CoOts           Totaux Y Compris I.pr&vus                  Gouvernement/B4n4ficiaires                                 IDA
Unite 1997   1998   1999  2000  2001   Total Unitaires 1997   1998   1999  2000  2001  Total 1997  1998   1999  2000  2001  Total 1997   1998  1999  2000  2001  Total
I. CoOtv dlInvestissement
A. Elactrahcazique
1 Construction
Rhhabilitation/transformation            Lot        -      1      -       -      -      1    96.229         -    113       -      -      -    113       -     17       -      _      _      17      -     96       -      -      -     96
2. Bias
Outillage                                Lot   0 .34  0.66         -      -      -       1    328.25    126    252         -      -       -   377       -       -      -      -       -      -   126   252         -      -       -   377
Mathriel didactique                      Lot        1      -       -      -      -       1       4.04       5         -                  -       5      -       -                            - -            -      -      -              5
Mobilier d'atelier                       Lot        -      I       -      -      -       1       6.06       -      7       -      -       -      7      -       -      -      -       -      -      -      7       -   _          -      7
Sous Total Bias                                                                                              130    259       -       -   I       389       -      -   _          -      -       -   130   259         -      -      -   389
Sous Total Electromacanique                                                                                      130    371       _      _       _   502       -      17      -      -       -     17    130    354       _       _      -   485
B. Becritariat/Comptab.
Salle de clas1s                              Lot        I      -      _       _             1     64. 753     73       -      -       -      -     73      11      -       -      _      -     11      62             -              -     62
Mat&riel didactique                          Lot        1      -      _       _      _      1        3.03       3      -       -      -      -       3      -      -       -      -      -       -      3      -       -      -      -       3
Mobilier d'atelier                           Lot        -      I      -       -      -      1        6.06       -      7       -      -   _         7  _           -       -      -      -      -       -      7       -      _   _          7
Sous Total Secrhtariat/Comptab.                                                                                   77       7      _      _       _     84     11       -      _   _          -     11     66       7      -      -   _         73
Total Coats d'Investisesent                                                                                           207    378       -      _      -   585       11      17      -      _       _     29    196   361        -      -       -   557
II. CoOts Rourrents
A. Electrmomcaniquo
HAD d  remplacamant                          Lot        -      I      1       1      1      4       15.18       -     17     17      18     19     71       -     17      17     18     19     71                  -      -                  -
Ressources mat6ri1lles consomerablas   Lot              -      I      I      I       1      4      10.12        -     11     12     12      12     47       -     11     12      12     12     47       -      -
4at6riel de didactique                       Lot        -      I      1       1      1      4       3.036       -      3      3       4      4     14       -      3       3      4      4     14
sour  Total flectros6anique                                                                                        -     32      33     34     35    132       -      32     33     34      35    132      -       -
B. Sscr6tariat/Cowptab.
MAO dd   remplacement                        Lot        -             1       1      1      4      8.096        -      9      9      10     10     38       -      9       9     10     10     38       -      -
Ressources m.atrialles consommabls  Lot                -      I      I      I       1      4        5.06      -       6      6      6       6     24       -      6      6       6      6     24       -      -
Materiel didactique                          Lot       _       I      I       I      1      4      3.036        -      3      3       4      4     14       -      3       3      a      6     14       -      -
Total CoOts Uc=urrents                                                                                                  -     50      51     53     55    208       -     50      51     53     55   208                   -       -                 -
Total                                                                                                                  207    428      51     53      55    796     11      67     51     53      55    236    196   361        -       -      -   557
Tue Dec 12 07:56:44 1995
2-1 Centre ECICA



Annex 6.1
Mali                                                                                       Page 12 of 21
Projat de consolidation do la formation professionnelle
Tableau 1.1.3. Inatitut Formation Prof. de Sikasso
Coats Dtaillis
(US$)
Depanasa par Baillaurs do Fond
Quantit6a                     Coats           Totaux Y Compris Impr6vus                  Gouvernsaent/BAn6ficiaires                                 IDA
Unit6      1997  1998   1999  2000  2001   Total Unitaires 1997   1998   1999  2000  2001   Total 1997   1998   1999  2000  2001   Total 1997   1998   1999  2000  2001   Total
I. Coats d'Investiase.ent
A. Fil: Seeret/Crptabiliti
Equipesent                                     Lot            1      -      -      _       _      1        20.2      23      -       -      _       -    23       -      -       -      -      -       -     23      -       -      -      -     23
ALolier                                        Lot            I      -      -       -      -      1       1.012       1      -       -      -      -       1      0      -       -      -      -       0      1      -       -      -      -       I
Salle d  classe                                Lot            1      -      -       -      -      1       3.035       3                                    3      1      -       -      -      -       1      3      -       -      -      -       3
Mat6rial didactique                            Lot            1      -      -       -      -      1        4.04       5      -       -      -      -       5      -      -       -      -      -       -      5      -       -      -      -       5
Sous Total Fil: Secr-t/Coaqptabiliti                                                                                    32       -      -       -      -     32       1      -      -       -      -      1     31       -      -       -      -     31
B. Locau. adinistratifa
Construction/R6hab.                           Unit6           I      -      _      _       _      1     13.182       15      -15                                 15 _-                               1            -  -                             -
Gast. contrat/Etud/Superv                  Honoraires                                                                 2      -       -      -      _       2      -      -       -      _      _       _      2      -       _      _      _       2
Equipement                                     Lot           I       -      -      -       -      1        5.05       6      -       -      -      -      6       -      -      -       -      -       -      6      -       -      -      -      6
Bureau                                         Lot            1      _      _      _       _      1      4.047        5      -       -      -      -       5      1      -       _      _   _                 4      -       _      _      _       4
Jous  Total Locaux aainistratifs                                                                                        27       -      _       _      _     27     16       -      -       -      -     16     11       _      _       _      _     11
Total CoOta d Investiaseuent                                                                                                 59       -      -       -      -     59     16       -      -      -       -     16     43       -      -       -      -     43
II. Coati RPcurrents
A. Locaux ad.inistratifa
Rossources oathr. consaommbles               UnitA           -       -      1      1       1      3       1.012       -      -       I      I      1      4       -      -       1      1      1       4                     -                     -
B. Fil: Seret/Ciptabilite
M. ds remplace.ant                            Unit            -      1      1       1      1      4       6.072       -      7       7      7      7     28       -      7       7      7      7     28       -
Ressources mathrielles consoomables   Unith                  -       I      I      1       1      4      3.036        -      3      3       4      4     14       -      3      3       4      4     14       -
Mat6riol didactique                           Unit6           -      1      1       I      1      4       4.04B       -      5       5      5      5      19      -      5       5      5      5     19       -      -       -      -      -   _
Total CoLts Biourrents                                                                                                      -        15     16      17     17     65       -     15     16      17     17     65       -                     . ...
Total                                                                                                                          59     15     16      17     17    124      16     15     16      17     17     81      43      -       -      -      -    43
Tue Doc 12 07:56:48 1995
3-1 Inatitut Formation Prof. de Sikauso



Annex 6.1
Hall                                                                                      Page  13 of 21
Projat do consolidation do ia formation professionnolle
Tableau 1.1.4. Institut Formation Prof. do Kayas
CoOt. D6taiflls
CUSS)
I3dpenses par Baillaurs do Fonkd
Quantit6s                     coats           Totaux Y Compris Ompr6vus                  Gouvornament/B6n6ficiairas                                 W IA
Unita      1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total Unitairas 1997   1998  1999  2000  2001  Total 1997   1998  1999  2000  2001  Total 1997   1998   1999  2000  2001  Total
I. CoOts d Inveetis*aeet
A. lILL tlcaoiqoka Auto
1.Caetstuction
Bloc constc.  6tall.                     Contrat          -      1       -      -      -                          -              -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -
2. DLies.
Outillaqos                                 Lot            -       1      -      -      -       1      262.6       -   30S        -       -      -   305        -      -      -       -      -      -       -   305       -       -      -   305
Hobilier datelier                          Lot            -       1      -      -      -       1       17.2       -    20        -       -      -     20      -       3      -      -       -      3       -     17      -       -      -     17
Hobilier do class.                          Lot           -       I      -      -      -       1      2.024       -       2      -       -      -      2      -       0      -      -       -      0       -      2      -       -      -      2
Plat6riel didactique                        Lot           -       1I                           1       4.04       -       5      -       -      -      5      -       -      -       -      -      -       -      s      -       -      -      s
Baum Total Diaia                                                                                                      -   332        -      -      -   332        -      3       -      -      -       3      -   329        -      -      -   329
3. service.
Gasation contrattEtudelSuperv.          honoraire
Scu. total Nil M6oanique, Auto                                                                                           -   332        -       -      -   332        -      3      -       -      -      3       -   329       -       -      - 329
S. Nd.l boaniqu Q6nSraL
1. Construction                                Lot           -       1      -      -       -      1   218.795         -   256       -       -      -   256        -     38      -       -      -     38       -   216           -       -       218
2. Diana
Outillagas                                 Lot            -      1       -      -      -       1      141.4       -   164        -      -       -    164      -       -      -      -       -      -       -   164       -       -      - 164
Mobiliar dat.lior                          Lot            -      I       -      -      -       1       3.03       -       A      -      -       -      4      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       4          -      - 
Mobilior do Class.                         Lot            -      1       -      -      -       1      1.515       -       2      -      -       -      2      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       2      -       -      -      2
Hat6riel didactiqus                        Lot            -      1       -      -      -       3      1.515       -       2      -      -       -      2      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       2      -       -      -      2
Sana Total Diane                                                                                                      -   171        -      -      -    171       -      -      -       -                     - 171          -             - 171
3. Services
Gestion contrat/Etuda/Suporv.           honorairo         -      1       -      -      -       1   219.024        -   234        -      -       -   234       -       -                        -               234       -              - 234
Dons Total Nil MI4baniqn  Oaohral                                                                                        -   661        -       -      -   661        -     36          -                3 6      -   622       -              - 622
C. Locana adkinietratife
Co,nstrUCtion                                  Lot            -      I                     -      1     20.259        -     24       -      -      -     24       -      4       -      -      -       4      -     20       -      -      -     20
Gestion contrat/Btude/Suparv-              Honorairo3                                                                 -      3       -      -      -       3      -      0       -      -      -       0      -      3       -      -      -       3
Equipesent                                     Lot           -       I                     -      1       5.05        -      6      -       -      -      6       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      6      -       -      -       6
Bureau                                         Lot           -       1      -      -       -      1      4.047        -      5              -      -      S              - I-__-                       I             4       -      -      -       4
Total Coats d' Inneti-meeent                                                                                                  -1,0310        -      -   --1,030             -   46       -      -       -     46      -   -984       -       -      - 984
II. Cc.fla Rdou=rrota
A. Nil:. b6SoaiqUft Auto
MAO lde remplacamant                           Lot            -      -      1       1      1      3     22.264        -      -     26      26     27     79       -      -     26      26     27     79       -      -                  --  -      -
Ressoucces mattriollas consoesables            Lot           -       -      1      1       1      3      8.096        -      -      9      10     10     29       -      -      9      10     10     29       -      -      -              -       -
Nat6riel Didactique                            Lot            -      -      1       1      1      3       3.036       -      -       3      4      4     11       -      -       3      4      4     11       -      -       --                    -
5-5 Total Wil'. Mi.anique Auto                                                            ~~-     -      38     40     41    119       -      -      19     40     41    119       -      -       -      -      -       -
13. Fil Hicanique (Indorale
M4AO dereplmcement                             Lot            -      -      1       1      3      3     11.132        -      -     13      13     14     40       -      -     13      13     14     40       -      -       -      -      -       -
Ressources eathrialles consommables            Lot            -      -      1      1       1      3      8.096        -      -       9     10     10     29       -      -       9     10     10     29       -      -       -      -      -       -
tiat6rolflDidactiquo                           Lot            -      -      1       1      1      3       0.607       -      -       1      I      3       2      -      -       1      1      1       2      -      -       -      -       -      -
Lone Total Nil Mficanique CO6nhrale                                                                                      -       -     23     24      24     71       -      -     2,3    24      24     71       -      -      -       -      -       -
C. Ioaac ackinietratif a
RessourcosP6rissables                        Unit6           -       -      1      1       1      3      1.012        -      -      I  1       1       14         -  -          1       1      1      4       -      -       -             -       -
Total                                                                                                                          -1,010        62     64      66 1,224        -     46     62     64      66    240       - 984          -      -      - 984
Too Dec 12 01:56:53 1995
4-1 Institut Formation Prof. do Keyes



Annex 6.1
Kali                                                                                     Page  14 of 21
Projet de consolidation de la foruation profauslonnalle,
tableau 1.1.S. Inatltut do Formation Prof. do Sonl
Cefts Dl6talldo
(USS)
D6oonsea par Bailleura de Pond
Quantit6s                     Coats          Totaux Y CoWris I.pr6vus                  Gouvernment/B6nificiaires                                 IDA
Unjit    1991  1996   1999  2000  2001  Total Unitaires 1997  1996   1999  2000  2001  Total 1997  1996  1999  2000  2001  Total 1997  1996   1999  2000  2001  Total
I. CoOte d-laves."       in
Ak. 1ril: U&aamiqu 94n6alo
1. Cornstruction
bloc mAceniqu. auto                     ContrOt         -              1     -       -      1   218.795                    264       -      -   264       -       -    t0o                   40       -      -   22S       -       -   221
2. signs
oatillaq.s                                 Lot        0.2  0.41  0.31        -       -      1    263.61       S9    136    110       -      -   306        -      -      -                           9    136    110       -       -   306
Nobilior dat.lior                          Lot          -      -      I       -      -      1      0.132       -      -      10      -            10      -       -      1                    I       -      -      I      -       -      I
Hobilier do class.                         Lot          -      -      I      -       -      1      1.012       -      -       I      -      -      I      -       -      0      -0    .-                     -      I      -      -      1
Hat6riel didactique                        Lot          -      -      1 -            -      I      1.111       -             2       -                                                                              2      -      -      2
so". Total 3...                                                                                                 59    136    123       -           321       -      -      2      -              2     19    133    122       -      - 319
3. 6.gWloas
Gestion contrat/Stud./ Suporv.    honorairo                                                                    9     1s      6       -            30      -                                                 i1       5                 30
s0u. Total Itll  b6oagiqaa g66Arale                                                                                  68    153   394        -      - 611                       41      -      -     41     66    113    313       -      -     174
S. WU-. Mumis, Chzp.nt. zb&
1.Constz0at.iCs
Bloc vAnui2i6r/gben.                    Contrat         -      -      1      -      -       1    97.242        -      -   118                    II. 11                to 1                  is 1    -       -   100                   too10
Airedde coffrage                        Contrat         -      -      I      -      -       1      6.076       -      -      7      -       -      7                     I                    I      -      -       6      -      -      I
SCUM Total CaStxUotiom                                                                                            -       -   12S                   125                    19                   19       -      - 106          -      - 106
2. Rio".
Outillag*s                                 Lot          -      -      I      -      -       1    118.17        -      -    Mi                    141      -       -      -      --            -      -      -   141        -      -   141
Hobilier datalior                          Lot          -      -      I      -      -       1      1.116       -      -      2      -       -      2      -      -      0       -      -      0      -      -       2      -      -      2
Hobilier de class.                         Lot          -  -          1      -      -       1      1.116-  -                     -      2          2             -       0      -      -      0      -       -      2      -      -      2
Katrinal didactique                        Lot                 -      1      -      -       1       1.01       -      -      1                     I                                      -                         I                    I 
Sous 'total Diens                                                                                                 -       -   146       -       -  146                      I                     I       -     -   146       -       - 146
3. Services
Gastion contrat/Btud./Superv.          honkoraire                                                              4      7      3      -        -1   it                     -      -             -      4      7       3      -      -     14
sous Total Fil.: bieuis, Charpent, Ibmn                                                                               4      -7  274        -      -   281                    19       -      -     19      4      7   2155       -           266
C. Locaug adoLinistratif.
Construction/Uhab.                           Unite                        I      -      -      1      20.26       -       -    25       -      -     25       -      -     25                   21       -      -      -      - 
Gestiom  contrat/Etude/Super-.                Lot                                                                 1       2      1      -             3       0      0      0      -      -      0       1      1      1      -              3
Equipomant                                    Lot          -      -      1       -      -      1       5.05       -       -      6      -      -      6      -       -      -      -      -      -       -      -      6      -      -      6
Bureau                                        Lot          -      I      -       -      -      1      4.047       -      5___           -             5              I          -         -      I      -       4      -          
Bou, Total. Lona&=  adsioiatratif.                                                                                    1      6    31       -       -     36      0      1    25        -      -     26      1      1       7      -      -     13
Total CoOit. d'Invetissesent                                                                                             73    166   699        -       - 939         a      1    85       -             6 6    713   165    614       -           63
II. coats Mlhurrents
A. 11: Iboua. , charp, lba..
KAOde rompL.coeunt                            Lot                        I       I      1      3      4.048       -      -       5      5      5     14      -       -      5      5      5     14       -      -      -      -      - 
Ressources .atdri.lles consoumabl.s           Lot                        I       I      1      3     12.144       -      -     14     14      is     43      -      -      14     14    15      43      -       -      -      -      -      -
Material Didactique                           Lot                        I       I      1      3      2.024       -      -      2       2      2      7      -       -      2      2      2      7       -      -      -      -      -      -
Sous rotal Til.: Meauja., Cnarp, Eben.                                                                                -      -    21      22     22      65      -      -    21      22     22      65      -      -       -      -             -
B. nil: micanlque 9dn6rale
MAOde r..placea.nt                            I.ot                       I       I      1      3      15.18       -      -     17      18     19    54       -       -     17     l8     19     14      -       -      -      -      -
P..ssourc.s aat6rioll.s con3omablas           Lot                        I       I      1      3      20.12       -      -     12     12      12     36      -      -     12      12     12     36      -       -      -      -             -
Hatirial Didactique                           Lot                        I       I      1      3      2.024       -      -       2      2      2      7      -       -      2      2      2      7       -             -      -      -       -
lou. rowa  Ti].: lioeaoqta. gAnrale,                                                                                  -      -    31      32     33      97      -      -     31     32     33      97      -      -      -       -      -      -
C. Locaim adoj.niotratILfw
Rossourcas consomablOs                       Unit*         I      I       1      I      1      5      1.012       1      1       1      1      1      6      1I                    I      1      6       -      -      -      -      - 
Total CoOkt. R&currents                                                                                                    I      1    54      15     57   168        I ....*  5..j  .....       57    168
Total                                                                                                                      74    168   753      55      17 1,107       1      2    139      55     57   214      73   16S   614                     8  53
TuC Doc 12 07:56:S9 199S
5-1 In.titut de Fozuation Prof. de San



Annex 6.1
Page 15 of 21
MS
Pro* et acaiSodan de~ to 7mutn prolenslariteba
Tableau 1.2. Ount 81st. Revis. C&,rlcti
CoOCA Ditallias
Oponense par BaIlleour de Fond
t3uantitia                Coats   Toteux Y Comporis knor6vue       Gouvernemamntl1einiflclalres                 IDA                                 FAC
Unit         99  199    199  00l00  Ttlsiti 1999 2000 219920020  Toata 19971998l1999 2000 2001 Tota 1997  19D 1395 2000  2001 Total 1997 1599  1599  2000 2001  Total
L CoOt. dlnveatlaemewnt
A. EtudessPropoalllone Prograenrn.
Finee Agro-Arnientaire             Prix Fortaltaire    I    -      -     -     -     1   40 6    46      -     -    -     - 46  -46                                        -     -     -     - 46
Attic Geolo~e et Mines    Pnx Forfailaire     1    -                            40.6   46       -           -    - 46-46    -I                                                           46
Mat&iel poLrrlaerbvsion            PrixoForflstalre    3    3    2       -          a   6.06    17   16   12        -     - 47                                     17    16     2      -     - 47
Souc Total EtudeaiProPosltlons Pro                                                                109    18   12      -     -139-109    18   12                                         -      -139
6. Formation des, Fonostaura
Fonrmabon des fo tma s              Enployt-mfois       -          6    6           161612625          90   93    96      -278          -      0    0     -   0      -   90    93   96       -278
ln'pften15ode Progarrees            Effloyft-molS       -    2   12   12   10   36  101i4          - 22   134   139  120  414    - 0    0    -    - 0                - 22   134   139   120   414
FamahoiafElranger  En~~~~~toy6-mds     -    2 ~   3    2      -    7650765            12   19   13    -   43-          -    - -       -         -       12   IS    13       -   43
UFAE Is                           m. de 2 seant20 pe   1     I     1I       -       3   20 3    23   24   25           -       72    -         0    -          0   --23    24   265                                              - 7
UPAE-eiqap                              Lot            I     -     -     --          1  61.61    69     -    -      -     - 69-           - -           -      ---69                                           -    -                 69
UFAE-towrab.zeo              ~~~~~Lot        1           I                3  11 11    1 3    1 3    1 3   -     - 39-           ---                                --13    13    1 3                             -     - 39
UFAE-Formnalon Contnuse              ErFytoy-an       12   12   12       -     - 36 486517  661  686   709          -     -26        -      -0    -       - 061 6679                                                       -     -26
Sous TOta Fonrialion des Formaltou                                                               767  844  992  247  120 2.970    - 0    0    0    - 0                -123  246   247   120  736   767  721  747             -     -2,235
C. Services Spacialiatem
Revision des Progranves             Enwloyl-rrlois     4   14      -    -      - 18  10.14    42  161          -    -    -  193-        -    -    - - -            42   161      -     --        193
EvakjaUon                           En1iDyh-mols       -    2    2    2        -    6 1014        -   22    22   23    - 67    - 0                   -    - 0        - 22   22    23         - 67
Fomiason                            Eowby6-mois        -     2    2    2       -    6 10.14       -   22   22    23    - 67    - 0               --       - 0        - 22    22    23        - 67 
Sous Total Services Specialiatse                                                                  42   196   46    46    -327    - a               -            0   42   196    46    46      -327 
Total                                                                                              918 1,067 1.049  294  120 3,437    - 0    0    0    - 0  161  336   302   294   120 1.202  767  721  747                   -      -2.235
la 14414 ae Formatio et Appd aux Entepnses
Paep I



Annex 6.1
F-3.                d~Mall                                                                                                  Page  16  of  21
T_bloo   1.3. Renfor-oro   -ooohIotriiorol
Dot   D6tillt.
Dipa..... ..  Eiler   d. Food
Qoottltl.         Colts          Tota~~I.lo I Cobor-  lo-iv-               Go-v.......ot/Bin6if tota .a.                            IDA                                        FAC!
UnotA       1901  1999  1999  2000  2001  Total Unitbores 1997  1999  1999  2000  2001  Total 1997  1998   1909  2000  2001  Total 1997  1999   1999  2000  2001  Tota   1997  0999  1999  2000  2001  Total
Sp...t fta-h. aqip.                taployd-aoi-       -       4      -      -              I      101.14      -    4        -      -      -      3                                        43                -      -      -     43
foraotiotol  Et-og-r               tmploy4-aols               3      7      3             1       5.035       -    1       43     19             0                                 1                      43     19            go9
Soo. Total  For-tion                                                                                             -      1     43     19       - 1 24                            61                             43     19      - 124
Con.trootion do. Locaoo  1.01           -     ~I      -      - -           1   101.294        -   119           -      -       119             is1                         la1          101       -  -      -        101
Oriloar.Ip-ri .loi-             Lot                    3      2      -      -      5       10.0             35    24       -       -    59                           35                            24       -      -     59
l.bIoirLo                                             -      I       -                             0.2       -     23      -      -      -     23     23                                                                                             -             -     23
Sooa Total PrAparatoco Laoaoa                                                       -   ~~~~    ~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~137  24  - - 201  -    1                       le 1         136     24      -      - 160                2 3     -      -      -     23
Soto  dan Oble,                    Eaptoy4-.ob,               2      -                            10.14       -    20          -          -     22                                                  02         -         -      22 
MIS1 systo                          por-o.       -            2      -       -             2    10.22901            24      -             -     24                                      24                -              -    24
Gain  n conrar/toda/  opar H ...rlos          -      1                     -      1      15.2        -      6      -      -        -1It               2                            2            14      -                   14
Total                                                                                                                       300     67    19        - 397               20             -20                       217     67      19      - 343         -     23      -      -       -    23
Tho Do. 14 13;25:40 1995
1-13.taraaatCq.palt6Iatt tlala



Rs  lol  I"  C. s IS9 I    Lot I    II I    uo I    Ml I    1.             "I       II,      I  4          11    nsz    Co.    S'll I*   CIO 
St  K  ft  ..  all    _' I C  toz  -.1  LSL  ei  Tr  It         ge       IIII       -       Ill       B.C       W        ooz                                                                                                                                                      -.3 I.,L~~i*  *0009   0091~00,09j0I1..9L0.L   Il,91i001  9I01900
Is.  Is,  11 I  SL                             IIL       Is,      11 I     CIL       Is,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oe   ~ff910049
LI,   1090           1100lI90999919.0
CIL0                        K0                 II 99     0        L 91     oI       001       ol       OIL       LSL      z         L1  I   oI       91       90t       I         ISOc     1019I              Lo       00O                                                                                                                                               *'90914*9
*          -        159       991        01111            951      OIl      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  -                              119        O I       0. I             911       IL                                                                                                                              1390009"I* IL,~L"
90   IL   II   II   6   S                        -                                   00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     I I   I  IL       I  I     0 "II                      0          0           91           9     9          0          4                                        *049990
-  90  O~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~                                                                     ~~~       ~~~ ~~~              ~~~~~~~~~L IL  I  I    I  IL  95t IL LI  IL L  I 01 11  5           I           I          I                 I
McI                        50l       Ill     11,        skI     10     ICO  I       aI I  91o        10e I     la    I lie                lI I     11,      9ll    101         99         Il     I9         16       e   I10101l00999
C, I     es        K                                                                 o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  9             0..l                                                    CS       1         150 0I I                                           l          1           1               41                                  801919l093
I                   r        C       II                                                      S I0   0 0    0    I I      I          I       1 I 0          I5    o I              I          I           I          I           I                 9409L199501
EM  to  1.    os       Ls        SS       o11        111             I        0.        1        1         LI        LI       es       IL        I'       tIl         511                         5                                 0004*l01                                                              I19
*1I C  1      1        K                   5       I        LI       II        I       II         11       11      1o                    C L              SL 110(91   50                          1          51         51          0 
to5                                                                                                                                                                     WE91 9 1   55 90   95   11 19 10   OS 51   9   1   1   9   00  0101   0010    11I_lOll    111                                                                             .....*9.....99..9......
119  -        901       OIl      090                                            -          ~~~~~~~1,I Ws 2.Iz  I                       -                 919        "I I9I I1                            591         LII        II              9-                                                       plbkdOO                                      9011.001
09-                                   -        90       9                                              0                                                                19o I                                           9"I1110                 I                                   -999091                                                                          *190990
etI                                            at9 9    9911    900        590      910       000      911      I1                          0        I                  so1       991      59        Ill      910      901                                                                                                                            *Ill-0***9099*9
Or                               -                  099      OI        0         61      01        01       ILI                                                    596       01         1        9        O         91      100         11               9          0           9          0           9906190                                               0L40eIP
LO 6                    0       I        9          5       0                                             0t                19         99       I         9         5        55*4495999JI999
-  -                      -        III~~~~~~~~~~~~e    51  00  ell      51        11       0                                                      to I      51        91l       00?      1c         e 1 11 5001        0                9          0           1          1           S         1       -4013145049
...                OCU-                  ml            OIl,   91          99t 1OR            95 ml    I"0,                   I`-  m-                           L        IL       9         91       5         09       90       11101       51 1.                      I9 -1                   0          1" Ise,9040~t'
91  -  61    91               -                           SI    01                                               01    90                     ~             ~             ~~~       ~~~~~ ~~                                                      ~          ~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 09    00I  I -  9
T              T                             .a0                                                      0                                                                9                                               0       11                          -I '                                                                                                      0.0A9lt
T       Xauu6I                                                                                                                                                                -I                                    II          9                                                                                                                             909V4



Annex 6.1
Mel                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~Page 18 of 21
TatAeo   7..   Hiss en ConP.. lObaoooo,-
Oct08   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   T-ta   Uneai.-. 1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   Tota   199    199    1999   2000   2001   Tota   19 97   1999_ 1999   2(009  2901   Total 1997   1988   1999   2000   2001   Total
knooootn le   loamoUnie                                                             1     25.438       25                                     2 1     2        -  2 9                        2        8         -4                                  25       -                       -     2
0dt-.-ono                               Unit I                -      -a                               10.0       D                               -     91,    91        -       -                      11_                                                                                         91
HatOc,nl  d.tn.teao,ptotoooptaocon-t         I       I       -      -       -       2       10.15      15      15       -               -     3       17      19                             3017                                                           18       -       -       -     35
Mooil.ot doe boroano          ~~~~~UntI      I       -                              1       516         1515                                          17        -                            1                                                      15       -           -                 15
onbyl ecoca      Unite          6                                      6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  1515 9I'l                     9      10       -               -       -      I10                                                            -               -      -      19
OCtol6oth                                              11-02                                                       0       -                             2-0  __23        -               -              323                                                            -      -       -       -      23
TotlCot d'I leo....e,nt                                                                                               166      15       -              -     191    1 87      19       -       -      -    205        7       -                      -       7    190      18       -               -    199
-atoe-e   Ia ton-.                       P-e Ho        1                                              1.9         1        1      0      1        5      7       10     17      17      18      19    I87       16      17~  17        19      19      97
tnotatecolaaeooeal.          prte           1      1       1       1       1       5        759        9               8       8             39       9       9       9       9      9      4        8       8 9             9      9      44
Eoteaotoo/eooeooo  totoyl ottos  Far An  ~~6     8       6      6       6      30       3.036       19     18      18    -19       i8      91     20      20      21      22      22    105      20 __20         21      20      22    105
WoOd1 0           ...  .ote.ot.                                                                                        41      41     41      81      91    205       49     46   47   49      50    2 36            44     46      47      49      50    2386___
Tota                                                                                                                 207        56    841      9-1     41    386    232        63      47     49      50    8441      51      46      47     49      10    243    180        19                           198
TOot lao 19 1 3 :3 0 57 91 99 5
2-1 Hose to PI... d. I-Ohse...t-lr-



Annex 6.1
Page 19 of 21
Projet do conso..lidation de Is formation professionn11l
Tableau 3.2. Formation
Coot. D6taille..
(US$)
D4penzoa par Bailleurs do Fond
Quantit4s                     coots            Totaux Y Comspris Impr4vus                 Gouv.rnament/EB6n6ficiaires                                 IDA
Unit6             199-7  1998   1999  2000  2001  Total Ulnitaires 1997   1998  1999  2000  2001  Total 1997   1998   1999  2090  2001  Total 1997   1998   1999  2000  2001  Total
I. Cots di-n-etisse.ent
Statistiq..s da base             S4w. da 2 sam./30 per.          1I                                    1        15.3      18      -       -      -              8                                                  18                      -      -     16
L'informatique da base           S6,n. do 2 saw./30 pers          -      I       -      -       -      1        11.3       -     18       -                    Is 1                                          -            1        -le 1
L'analyse stat.  Svnce             m4. do 2 saw./30 pars          -      1       -      -       -      1     11.188        -     18       -                    is - 18-                                                     s8         -          -     is
S&wlnaire-..pI.i                 04w. do 3 jr../30 p-rs           1      1       1      -       -      3     10.175       12     12      12      -       -     36                                                  12     12      12       -      -    36
Atelier                          16w. d'l sea/30 pers.            -       I          -          -      1     25.438        -     30       -                    30 - 30-                                                 30      -  -           -    30
Etude A 12Atrasqer                     Etudes 3w/3p               1      2       -      -       -      3       17.17      19     40       -      -       -     59                                                  19     40       -       -      -     59
Etude do voyage                    Etudes  l..m/I pars            1      1       -      -       -      2      10.10       12     12       -      -       -     23-         ---                                     12     12       -  -           -     23
S-ricas sp4cialistes/intI              Fmploy6-mois               8      1       3      -       -     16        10.1      83     13      33      -       - 169                                      83                53      33       -      -   169
Sarvice   sp4cialintas/natl.           Ewploy4-s,ois              4      3       3      -       -     10        3.06      13     10      10      -       -     33                                                  13     10      10      -       -     33
Total                                                                                                                          156    193      56      -       - 4005                                                   156    193      56       -      - 405
Tu. Dat 12 07:57;28 1995
11-1 Formation



Annex 6.1
Page 20 of 21
Mali
Projat de consolidation de 1a formation pr. fessionnalls
Tableaa 3.3. Enqut-en
CoQta D6taills
(USS )
OlOpenses par Bailleurs do Land
Quantiten                      Codtn           Tot.an Y Conprin  Tmprevusn                 Go-  ernement/HAn6ficiaires
llitE   1997   1998   1999  2000   2001   Total Uitair-s  1997   1998  1999  2000  2001   rotal 1997   1998   1999  2000   2001   Total
11. Couts Frerrcnts
DAMO                             E.,qute L             1      1       1      1       5     10.185      11     12      12     12      13     60      11     12     12      12      13     60
Enqu6te-  den MNnagon            EnqoOte        I      I      I       I      1      5      10.185      11     12      12     12      13     60      11     12     12      12     13      60
R -c.ri.ements micro-entrep. Enqa6te            1      1      1       I      1      5       20.37      22     23      24     25      26    120     22      23     24      25     26    120
Benoins de Fc.  Etrep-.  Enquete                I      I      1       0      1            10.185      11     12      12     12      13     60      11     12     12      12     13      60
Etude, do naivi                  Enqa8ta        1      1      I       1      1      5      10.185      11     12      12     12      13     60      11     12     12      12     13      60
Ant-es 6uodes                    Enqu6te        1      1      1       1      1      5      10.135      11     12      12     12    13    60         11     12     12    12       13      60
ottal                                                                                                        78     81      94     87      90    420      78     Si     84      87     90   420
Tan Dec  12 07:57:30  1995
12-1 EnquAte.



Annex 6.1
Mali                                                                                   Page 21 of 21
Projet do consolidatiun de la formation profa.aionnll1
Tableau 3.4. Diffuaion
Coats Dktaill6.
(USS )
DWp-naea par Bailleura de Fond
Quantitla                    CoLta          Totaua Y Comprias Tpr-vus                 Gouvernee-nt/B6ndficiaires                               IDA
Unite  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total Unitaires 1997   1998  1999  2000  2001  Total 1997   1998  1999  2000  2001  Total 1997  1998  1999- 2000  2001  Total
I. C.0ta dInveatlssenent
Documentation do rtference           Unite       I      -      I      _             2      5.063       6       -     6      -       _     12      -      -      -      -      -      -       6      -      6      -      -    12
Etageres/mobilier                    Unit6       2      1      1      -             4      2.022       1      2      2      -      -       9      1      0      0      -      _      1      4       2      2      -      -      8
AchatL  audio-visuels                Unit,       -      I         -                 1        10.1      -     12       -      -      -     12          -         -      -      -      -       -    12              -      -    12
Eqaipement du bureau                  Lot        1      -      -          _         1       4.04              -      -      -              5                                       -                - -  S  -  -  -      - S
Total Cuats dIjaveat.s.ese.t                                                                               15     14      9      -      -    37        1      0      0      _      _      1    14      14       8      _      -    36
II. CoOt, FRcurrents
M.atriel de Bureau                   Unite       I      I      I      I      1      S        2.04      2      2       2      3      3     12      2      2      2      3      3    12        -                                  -
Abonneaenta                          Unit6       1      1      1       I     1      5       1.013       1      1      1      1      1      6      1      1      1       1      1      6
Publications pro-udtos               Unite       I      I      I      I      1      5       12.24     13     14     14    1      16    72       13     14     14     15     16    72
Frais doentretien equip. visual Unite            1      1      1      1      1      S        1.02      1      1       1      1      1      6      1      1      1      1      1      6
Sominair-s                           Unit6       5      5      S      5      S    25         10.2     56     58     60 _  63      65   302       56     58     60     63     65   302
Total COt  Rkca-urrent.                                                                                    74     76     80     83     86   398      74      76     80     83     86   398       -      -       -      -      -      -
Tat.1                                                                                                       88     91     88    83      86   436      74      77     80     83     86   400      14     14       8      -      -    36
Tue Dec 12 07:57:32 1995
13-1 Diffusion






MALI
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(VET)
Disbursement Profile/Profil de Deboursements
lisbursements/             Prolile/
Deboursements               Profil
IDA fiscal years and                                    Regional                            100.00%
quarters      By Ouarter    Curisulative    Credit    Sector
Secteur a
Aim&ees brudgetaires                                    1'echelle                            90 00%
IDA el tfirrmestres   Par trimesrre    Currrular,  Credit   regionale
US$ million)  4us$ million)    m%)     M%)
1997        1                                  0.006     0.00%
2                                  O OOY      1 50                       'ni 0.00%  1.50%
3             0.8          0 8    5.60%       3.00%
4             0 8          1.5   11.20%      5.50%                        E
1998        1              0.6          2.1   15.61%      8.00%                        0    70.00%
2             0.6          2.7   20.01%    10.00%                         4,)i
3             0.6          3.3   24.42%      12.00%                                                                        )
4             0.6          3.9   28.75%    14.00%                         4,   60 00%
1999        1              1.1          4.9   36 59%    16.00%                         2
2             1.1          6.0   44.44%    19.00%                         0
3             1.1          7 0   52.283%    22.00%                                                         -                                                         VET Project
B.     . 1    60.12%    24.00%                                                                                                                  Regonl50.00%.11.
2000        1              0.6          8.6   64.45%    26.00%                         r-I -- Regional Sector Profile
2             0.6          9.2   68.78%    30.00%                         r
3             0.6          9 8   73.11%    34.00%                         4,   40.00%
4             0.6         10 4   77.60%    38.00%                         4,
0.
2001        1              0.5         10.9   81.33%    42.00%                         4/
2             0.5         11.4   85.06%    48.00%                             30.00%
3             0.5         11.9   88.80%    54.00%                         'U
4             0.5         12.4   92.53%    59.00%                         E
2002        1              0.5         12.9   96.27%    64.00%                         =    20.00%
2             0.5         13.4  100.00%    69.00%                         0
10.00%
0.00% E      I.   
rn         as          as          0           0           0
Fiscal Year (Exercice)
-u  >
(0
DISPROBU.XLS1 2/1 4/95lmdrrn






Annex 6.3
Page 1 of 1
Prior review Threshold Table
WORKS
Estimated in range    Cumulative      Percentage of total
value    number   value    number   value    number
200 and above      0.46       (2)     0.46       (2)      30%      11%
100 to 199        0.61        (5)     1.07       (7)     70%       39%
50to99            0.23       (4)      1.30      (11)     86%       61%
30 to 49          0.17       (3)      1.47      (14)     97%       78%
0 to 29           0.05       (4)      1.52      (18)    100%      100%
GOODS
Estimated in range    Cumulative        Percentage of total
value    number   value    number   value    number
300 and above      1.12       (3)     1.12       (3)     25%        9%
250 to 299         1.43       (5)     2.55       (8)      56%      25%
200 to 249         1.05       (4)     3.60      (12)      80%      38%
100 to 199         0.36       (3)     3.96      (15)     88%       47%
50 to 99          0.30       (5)     4.26       (20)     94%       63%
30 to 49          0.14       (4)     4.40       (24)     97%       75%
0 to 29           0.12       (8)     4.52       (32)    100%      100%
MLIPROC.XLSSheet4                                                                       2/7/96SBH






Annex 6.4
Page 1 of 6
MALI
Vocational Education Consolidation Project
Project Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
1.1   IDA Supervision Input:  Supervision needs are described in Table 1 of this
Annex. In addition, specific tasks such as review of progress reports, terms of reference,
annual work plans. audits and procurement and disbursement actions, are estimated to
require 12 staff-weeks during the first year of project execution and 8 staff-weeks of
various specialists per subsequent year. The supervision of each component, including the
review of procrement decisions and of progress reports, will be carried out by the task
manager and procurement specialist under the responsibility of AF5PH.
1.2   Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)    Semesterly Progress Reports would be submitted in April and October of
each project year by the executing agencies, the Component Coordination
Unit (CCU) and the Vocational Training Support Fund (VTSF). They
would include a summary of implementation under each project
component, financial statements on project expenditures, updated project
implementation and records of contract advertising, bidding, and awards
with indications of methods of procurement.  The VTSF would also
indicate the evolution of its financing of informal sector training sub-
projects,
(b)   An implenmentation review workshop (annual review), convened by the
CCU Coordinator in collaboration with the General Director of the VTSF,
would be held in November of each project year. This would involve the
participation of all project agencies and donors (the World Bank, the FAC,
ILO, etc.). The workshop would be based on: (i) the semesterly progress
reports mentioned above, (ii) preparation of an annual work program and
estimated budget for the following project year; and (iii) the status of
project performance indicators as listed in this annex;
(c)    Mid-Term Review. In addition, the CCU and VTSF would carry out not
later than December 1998 a mid-term review of the progress made in
implementing the project, from which lessons would be drawn and
necessary corrective actions would be taken for the rest of the project
duration. The review would cover all aspects of the project, with a special
focus on, (i) the progress made by the VTSF in attracting women and other
disadvantaged groups of beneficiaries to participate in Training Fund
activities, (ii) the progress made by the VTSF in diversifying its sources of
financing; (iii) the r evision of all pre-service VET curricula to be reinforced
under the project and the introduction of the modular, competency based
training approach in the classrooms,



Annex 6.4
Page 2 of 6
(iv) the quality and extent of analysis and dissemination of labor market
survey information, and its actual use for policymaking. The mid-term
review would be carried out with all interested donors and executing
agencies; (v) the results of tracer studies of recent VET graduates;
(d)   The Coordinator of the CCU  would be responsable for making
arrangements for IDA supervision missions, and ensuring the
participation of all Government and project personnel essential for the
success of these missions;
(e)   Supervision Briefing and Wrap-Up Meetings would be held at the
beginning and end of IDA supervision missions, hosted by the Minister of
Secondary and Higher Education and of Scientific Research and the
Minister of Industry, Crafts and Tourism, in which representatives from the
Ministry the Ministry of Employment, Civil Service and Labor, and the
Ministry of Finance and Commerce would participate, along with the heads
of the project implementing agencies and other relevant services;
(f)   Project Completion Report. Within six months of the Credit closing
date, a project completion report prepared in accordance with terms of
refrence satsifactory to IDA, would be transmitted to IDA.



Annex 6.4
Page 3 of 6
Table I
IDA Supervision Plan
Project Year         Activity        Expected Skill Requirements      Staff
Input
(Staff-
weeks)
Financial and Accounting
Project Launch    Analyst; Procurement;
1996          Workshop and      Disbursement; WID specialist;       15
Supervision Mission  Economist/VET specialist
Economist/VET specialist;
1996        Supervision M ission       Financial Analyst;           8
Labor Market Specialist
Economist/VET specialist;
1997        Supervision Mission        Financial Analyst;           8
Informal Sector Specialist
Financial Analyst; Labor Market
Annual            Specialist; Procurement;
1997          Implementation     Disbursement; WID specialist;      12
.______________   Review Workshop        Economist/VET specialist
Economist/VET specialist;
1998        Supervision Mission        Financial Analyst;           8
. ______________    ____________________  Informal   Sector   Specialist
Financial Analyst; Labor Market
Specialist; Procurement;
1998        Mid-Term Review      Disbursement, WID specialist;     15
Economist/VET specialist
Economist/VET specialist;
1999        Supervision Mission        Financial Analyst;           8
Labor Market Specialist
Financial Analyst; Labor Market
Annual            Specialist; Procurement;
1999          Implementation     Disbursement; WID specialist;     12
Review Workshop        Economist/VET specialist
Economist/VET specialist;
2000        Supervision Mission        Financial Analyst;           8
Labor Market Specialist
Supervision Mission  Financial Analyst; Labor Market
and Preparation of     Specialist; Procurement;
2000        Project Completion    Disbursement; WID specialist;     12
Report           Economist/VET specialist     .     -



Annex 6.4
Page 4 of 6
Project Performance Indicators
The following indicators would be monitored and evaluated both during and after project execution.  These indicators would be
tracked annually during project supervision, and evaluated during both the mid-term review and upon project completion.
Table 2: Project Performance Indicators
Indicator                  1997        1998         1999           2001           2001
1. Pre-Service VET
Number of VET trainees in reinforced
training streams                                                       _
- Auto-mechanics                          160         160          160            160            160
- Electrical Mechanics                     -          80            80            80             80
- General Mechanics (Maintenances)         -          160          160            160            160
- Accounting                           _                                                    _     _160  160  160
- Secretarial and Office Skills            -                       240            240            240
- Electrical Contracting               _                           80             80             80
- Metalwork                                -          80           80             80             80
- Carpentry and Woodworking                -           -           160            160            160
- Plumbing                      -                       80             80             80
- Masonry                              _                           80             80             80
Total VET Trainee Project Beneficiaries   160         480         1,280          1,280          1,280
Public VET expenditures per student on     -        60,000        60,000         60,000        60,000
equipment and materials (CFAF)                               .
Percentage of trainees in reinforced streams          70           70             70             70
employed within 1 year after graduation
Average monthly earnings of VET trainees,           60,000        63,000        65,000         68,000
1 year after graduation (in CFAF)                            .



Annex 6.4
Page 5 of 6
Table 2: Project Performance Indicators (continued)
Indicator                     1997      1998        1999         2001         2001
2. Vocational Training Support Fund
Number of person-months of training financed    5,700      7,000      8,300        9,300        10,000
Percentage of female trainees                     40        40         40           40            40
Number of formal sector training proposals approved  25     30         35           40            45
Number of formal sector training proposals approved  35     45         55           65            75
Formal sector financial contributions (CFAF million)  200  300         325          340          350
Informal sector financial contributions (CFAF million)    35  40       45            50           50
Number of training centers benefitting from VTSF  5         5           5            5            5
equipment investments
Percentage of trainees employed within six months of    95  95         95           95            95
training
Percentage increase in monthly earnings six months    10    10         10           10           10
after training
Number of professions with national apprenticeship  1       4           7            10          13
certficiation standards
Percentage of trainees who pass apprenticeship    80        80         80           80           80
certification exam                                            I_I



Annex 6.4
Page 6 of 6
Table 2: Project Performance Indicators (continued)
Indicator                      1997       1998        1999         2001          2001
3. Employment and Training Observatory (ETO)
Number of training modules for ETO personnel        4         3           -             -             -
Employer and labor market surveys\l                 1         1           1             1
Household employment and earnings survey\l          I         l           l             1             1
Pre-Service trainee tracer study\1                  1                    l             1             1
Publications\2                                      3         3           3             3            3
Employment and training seminars for policymakers   6         6           6             6            6
Labor market awareness seminars for students and   5          8          10            10            10
other VET trainees                                       I_I
\: Means survey has been carried out, processed, analyzed and disseminated in written and audiovisual formats.
\2: Means a publication of at least 20 pages, designed for policymakers, reflecting labor market trends and impact on training.



Annex  7.1
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mali
(12-31-95)
Amount in USS million
(less cancellations)
Loan or         Fiscal                                                                                            Undis-  Closing
Credit No.        Year   Borrower                            Purpose                        Bank          IDA      bursed   Date
Credits
43 Credits(s) closed                                                                                    583.97         2.28
C19060-ML        1988    MALI                                OFFICE DU NIGER II                         39.80        10.53  06/30/97
C19380-ML        1988    MALI                                P.E.INST OEV                                9.50          .69  04/30/96(R)
C19980-ML        1989    KALI                                POWER II                                   33.00        18.63  12/31/97(R)
C21630-ML(S)   1990    MALI                                  AG SECAL                                   53.00        16.08  12/31/96
C22170-ML        1991    MALI                                 HEALTH/POPULATION/RU                      26.60        14.07  1Z/31/97
C22350-ML        1991    KALI                                AG SERVICES                                24.40        13.00  03/31/97(R)
C23700-ML        1992    KALI                                NATURAL RES. MGhT                          20.40        17.69  06/30/98
C23710-ML        1992    KALI                                PUBLIC WORKS & CAPAC                       20.00          .77  03/31/97
C23900-ML        1992    MALI                                MINING CAPACITY                             6.00         5.40  06/30/97
C24320-ML        1993    MALI                                PRIVATE SECTOR ASSIS                       12.00        8.57  12/31/99
C25570-ML        1994    MALI                                AG. RESEARCH                               20.00        17.17  12/31/01
C26170-ML        1994    MALI                                 TRANSPORT SECTOR                          65.00       67.92  06/30/01
C23711-ML        1995    MALI                                PUBLIC WORKS & CAPAC                       10.00         7.94  03/31/97
C26730-ML(S)   1995    MALI                                  EDUCATION SECAL                            50.00       20.51  12/31/96
C27370-ML        1995    MALI                                AGRO-PROCESSING TRO                         6.00        5.30  03/31/01
TCTAL number Credits =   15                                                                              395.70      224.76
TOTAL`                                                                                979.67
of which repaid                                                                      31.16
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                                              948.51
Amount sold
of whicn repaid
TCTAL undisbursed                                                                                 227.04
Notes:
Not yet effective
Not yet signed
Tocal Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) indicates formally revised Closing Date.
(S) indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value, all others are market vaLue.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offical data and are not taken
from the Task Budget fiLe.
Status Of Bank Group Operations In MALI
PFDOR253 - List of Closed SALs and Secats
3y Country
Country:     MALI
Amount in USS million
(less cancellations)
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                              Undis-  Closing
Credit No.   Year   Borrower                              Purpose                        Bank          IDA      bursed   Date
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...              .  .
Clq70-ML    1988    MALI                                 P.E. SECTCR ADJ.                           40.00         .00  06/30/1992(R)
C205'0-ML    1989    MALI                                 EDU SEC CONSOLIDATIO                       23.94        2.18  12/31/1995(R)
C21880-ML    1991    OALI                                 SAL 1                                      70.00         .10  06/30/1995(R)
C25800-ML    1994    MALI                                 ECONOMIC RECOVERY CR                       25.00         .00  06/30/1995
To.a. MALI
158.94        2.23






Annex 8.1
List of Documents in Project File
1.    Plan d'Action pour le Developpement de l'Enseignement Technique et Professionnel,
Ministere. de l'Enseignement Secondaire Generale, Technique et Professionnel, Mali,
Septembre, 1993.
2.     L'enseignement Technique et Professionnel au Mali: Diagnostic et Perspectives, Ministere
de l'Education de Base - PNUD/UNESCO, Projet MLI-91/030, Aout 1993.
3.     L'enseienement Secondaire G6ndral au Mali: Evolutions recentes et Perspectives, Ministere
de l'Education de Base - PNUD/UNESCO, Projet MLI-91/030, Aouit 1993.
4.     Declaration Annuelle de la Main-d'Oeuvre (DAMO) au Mali, 1988-1993, Office National
de la Main-d'Oeuvre et de l'Emploi (ONMOE).
.5.    Enguete Secteur Informel (1989) au Mali, Analyse Preliminaire, Ministere du Plan;
Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de 'Infonratique; PNUD/Banque Mondiale.
6.     Le marcM du travail au Mali: analyse et structuration, IM&D, Jean-Pierre Lachaud, Juin
1990.
7.    Recensement du Secteur Prive au Mali, 1989, Direction Nationale des Industries,
Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Informatique, ONMOE.
8.    The Private Sector in Mali, Club du Sahel, September 1989.
9.    Les Couts de Main-d'Oeuvre Dans le Secteur Modeme du Mali, Ministere de la Fonction
Publique et du Travail, Lubell, aout 1991.
10.   L'inscrtion professionnelle des sortants de l'ensiegnement technique dans les pays en
developpement: le cas du Seneal, IREDU/Dijon, Cuenin, Avril 1990.
1i.    Manv Paths to Skilled Employment: A Reverse Tracer Studv of Eight Occupations in
Colombia, Ziderman and Hom, The World Bank, January 1993.
12.   Youth Unemployment in Mali, Komenan. The World Bank, November 1993.
13.   L'environnement de l'entreprise Malienne: Programme d'appui aux Petites et Micro-
entreprises, CNI, Aoat 1989.
14.   Seminaire National sur la Promotion du Secteur Prive, Ministere des Finances et du
Commerce, Ministere du Plan, Decembre 1990.
15.   Perspectives de Developpement de l'Emploi et de la Formation au Mali, PNUD/BIT, Mai
1986.






IBRD 27760
!~
MALI I                                                             '
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND                                                                       K.
TRAINING CONSOLIDATION PROJECT   j                                                                       \
0     CERCLE CAPITALS
(i)    REGION CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
CERCLE BOUNDARIES
REGION BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                !
KlDAi   REGION            )
8
TOMBOUCTOU  REGION                                   &idoI
6                 
!                        <                      ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~GAO  RF(tV!ON
0   50  100  150 200  250                        |                                                                 G       RFG!ON
I     I I             I                         |                     TOMBOUCTOU
KILOMAETRRSIiS
G . GudaemO              GOURM4A RHAROUS 
C,              1l j i i, : . A ,' .j  cnOngo               MenAko
\  _   _,_N   x  @-s     @-z  J         B        ~~~~~~~~    ~~Youvarou0N,e
J      \/Yelimane    ONrON\         ~        NARA                                        DOUENTZA
KAYES                D.e.o   \       ULIIORO                TtNENKOU MDPTI MOPT-
(3  o     ' REGION,                              0           REGiON
2     on                        0 RGIN           /
Bo.ofI.b.                                                 K n  Boor,DJENNE  o    .
0                                                             0        rko0 e
KAYES                        KoI.km                  ION
REGION                  fTo (D                                                       i
Kit                            SEGOU          0 0
Kenebo                            K     OU<K0   0                                   ,                                 ' o
KATI     1                 0 D                                                                                   AoGER A
L  A Ip,d' D.oiIe                    .       The  boundaries, colors,                ISPAM
'L          ' *     Kongabo                               * t  1.K_Jb  denominations and  any                   SAHARA
other informotion shown
CAPITAL AREA<ontismo                                                                  oIo
B A MITAK AREA     08  Beog       3  SIKASSO                   imply, on  the part of                     -JRT.N)    | -(
flAMAKO   ; Wdo saugoum                          T {/   rhe World  Bank  Group,
Kaolod,eba                        any judgment on th I   I                                                     .NGER
I         ,~~~~j..rK.d,.8o               status af any  territory,
ar any endorsementf                              oon    ''UKN 
or acceptance of such                                )       MO -
-V;   ~    t    <                 boundaries.                                                    A O -   FASO
I Sr r . . s to C t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)  I;TOGO                                         m v       ERIA
I            f '  ~             L 3 . S ' k_J ! P t                            _    GULIEA rlo   \_    rGHANA>        1UAi9GINEA   ,N
FGHANA~
FEBRUARY 1996









IMAGING
Report No:       15347 MLI
Type: SAR



