                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26178

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (PPFI-P9720; IDA-28280)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$13.4 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                          REPUBLIC OF MALI

                                                 FOR A

             VOCATIONAL EDUCATION & TRAINING CONSOLIDATION PROJECT




                                              June 30, 2003




Human Development II
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective March 1, 2003)

                                     Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                   CFAF 1 Million = US$ 1,639
                                              US$ 1 = CFAF 610

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                           July 1     June 30

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACDI       Agence canadienne pour le développment international
           (Canadian International Development Agency-CIDA)
AGETIPE    Agence d'exécution des travaux d'intérêt public pour l'emploi
           (Agency for Implementation of Public Works for Employment)
ANPE       Agence nationale pour l'emploi (National Agency for Employment)
BIT        Bureau international du travail
BT         Brevet de technicien (Technician Diploma)
CAP        Certificat d'aptitude professionelle (Certificate of Professional Training)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF       Communauté financière africaine franc (African Financial Community Franc)
CFP        Centre de formation professionelle (Vocational Training Center)
CG         Consultative Group
Cr.        Credit
CV         Curriculum Vitae
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
DEF        Diplôme d'etudes fondamentales (High School Entrance Diploma)
DNETP      Direction nationale de l'enseignment technique et de la formation professionnelle
           (National Department of Technical Education and Vocational Training)
ECICA      Ecole centrale pour l'industrie, le commerce et l'administration
           (School for industry, commerce and administration)
ETO        Employment and Training Observatory
           (Observatoire de l'emploi et de la formation-OEF)
FAC        Fonds d'aide et de coopération (French Development Cooperation)
FCFA       Franc de la communauté financière africaine
FNAM       Fédération nationale des artisans du Mali (National Federation of Malian Craftsmen)
FNEM       Fédération nationale des employeurs du Mali (National Federation of Malian Employers)
FPI        Formation professionelle initiale (Pre-service VET)
GoM        Government of Mali
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IFPs       Instituts de formation professionelle (Institutes for Vocational Training)
Logframe   Logical Framework
MESSRS     Ministère des enseignements secondaire, supérieur et de la recherche scientifique
MOE        Ministry of Education
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
ONMOE      Office national de l'emploi et de la main d'oeuvre (National Employment and Manpower Office)
PAFPE      Project d'appui à la formation professionelle et à l'emploi (Vocational Training and Employment
           Support Project)
PCFP       Projet de coordination de formation professionelle (Vocational Education and Training
           Consolidation Project)

PHRD    Poverty and Human Resource Development
PISE    Programme d'investissement du secteur de l'education (Education Sector Investment Program)
PPF     Project Preparatory Facility
PPTE    Pays pauvres très endettés (Highly Indebted Poor Countries-HIPC)
PSR     Project Status Report
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SDR     Special Drawing Right
SSA     Sub-Saharan Africa
UFAE    Unités de formation et d'appui aux entreprises (Enterprise Training and Support Unit)
VET     Vocational Education and Training
VTSF    Vocational Training Support Fund (Fonds d'appui à la formation professionelle et à
        l'apprentissage-FAFPA)
VTT     Vocational Training Tax (Taxe de formation professionelle-TFP)
WB      World Bank




                              Vice President:       Callisto E. Madavo
                            Country Director:       A. David Craig
                             Sector Manager:        Alexandre V. Abrantes
                              Task Manager:         Eunice Yaa Brimfah Dapaah

                                             MALI
           VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING CONSOLIDATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8.Partner Contribution to ICR                                              36

Project ID: P001746                                                      Project Name: VOCAT. EDUC. & TRG
                                                                         CONSOLID.
Team Leader: Eunice Yaa Brimfah Dapaah                                   TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: VOCAT. EDUC. & TRG CONSOLID.                             L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9720; IDA-28280
   Country/Department: MALI                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Vocational training (78%); Central government administration
                            (12%); Tertiary education (10%)
                  Theme: Social risk reduction (P); Access to urban services for the poor (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    06/30/1994                                        Effective: 04/01/1996              03/26/1997
   Appraisal:    07/28/1995                                            MTR: 11/01/1999                05/01/2000
    Approval:    03/14/1996                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MALI/MIN OF EDUC
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Jean-Louis Sarbib
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Ok Pannenborg
Team Leader at ICR:             Abdoulaye Ky                                   Samuel C. Carlson
ICR Primary Author:             Eunice Yaa Brimfah Dapaah


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project development objective as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was to contribute to
economic growth and human resources development, targeting in particular the skill requirements of
relatively poor urban groups in the informal sector. Related objectives were to improve local capacity to
allocate training resources as a function of labor market demand, and to increase the involvement of the
private sector in the management, provision and financing of Vocational Education and Training (VET).

As regards particular skill requirements of relatively poor urban groups in the informal sector, the project's
development objective was clearly stated, realistic and important to the country and the education sector.
There was however, less clarity in the project's development objective with respect to contributing to
economic growth. It is important to mention that the project development objective targeted skill
requirements, involved specific areas and sectors, and had reasonable and workable related objectives. It
also ensured increased coherence between training and employment which was a key factor for achieving
Mali's goal of growth, poverty reduction, and human development, all important elements of IDA's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of December 1, 1994. At the time of appraisal, Mali had one of the
least skilled labor forces in the world with an estimated literacy rate of 20 percent and the need for basic
professional and technical skills was important for the growth of the economy.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project development objective was not revised at any point in the project implementation. In all the
Project Status Reports (PSRs), the implementation objective stated in the SAR is indicated as the project's
development objective. The project's development objective as it was stated, promised too much and did
not have as much operational power as the stated implementation objective. The SAR implementation
objective outlines specific outputs of the project, namely to develop labor force skills through improved
quality, supply and responsiveness of vocational education and training services adapted to labor market
demand. Over the implementation period of the project, approximately 40,000 workers and apprentices
would benefit from in-service skills upgrading, while another 6,000 youth would benefit from pre-service
vocational training. It was expected that at least 75 percent of project trainees would be employed within
three years of training, with incomes sufficient to generate at least a 16 percent social rate of return to
project investments. The implementation objective was also set out in the Memorandum of the President,
Credit and Project Summary as the project's objective. For clarification, any reference to development
objective for this ICR will be based on the development objective as stated in the project's SAR.

3.3 Original Components:
Three components supported the project's development objective.

Component 1 ­ Pre-Service VET Services (US$9.2 million)
Improve Quality and Relevance of Pre-service Vocational Education and Training: The component's
objective was to improve the quality, supply, efficiency and relevance of pre-service VET service, in order
to provide young trainees with knowledge and skills demanded by the labor market through: (i) upgrading
selected training facilities, supporting selected training streams and phasing out obsolete training streams,
(ii) improving quality of instruction through curriculum reform, training, and creation of training and
enterprise support units, and (iii) developing management capacity at the central and school levels.

Component 2 ­ Vocational Training Support Fund (VTSF) for Skills Upgrading (US$12.0 million)
Develop Sustainable In-service Vocational and Technical Training Capacity: The component's objective
was to improve the quality and capacity of skills upgrading service, in order to enhance labor force skills



                                                       - 2 -

and productivity among formal and informal sector workers by: (i) undertaking skills upgrading and
retraining with financing from a VTSF, and (ii) supporting the development of a national system of
apprenticeship certification.

Component 3 ­ Employment and Training Observatory (US$1.6 million)
Improve Labor Market Information: The objective was to increase employment and earnings through
improved functioning of the labor market and enhanced effectiveness of vocational training by: (i)
establishing an Employment and Training Observatory (ETO), (ii) training ETO staff, and (iii)
disseminating labor market information.

The three project components were related to achieving the development objective of the project for the
following reasons: (i) the first component to improve the quality and relevance of pre-service VET is
directly linked to the development objective to improve local capacity and allocate training resources as a
function of labor market demand because the selection of training streams was based on labor market
demand, (ii) the second component to develop sustainable in-service vocational and technical training
capacity is directly associated with the development objective to increase the involvement of the private
sector in the management, provision and financing of VET, and (iii) the third component to improve labor
market information with the objective of increasing employment and earnings, is directly connected to the
development objective to contribute to economic growth and human resource development.

Project design took into account most of the lessons learned in five previously financed education projects
in Mali, namely, (i) Cr. No. 420-MLI, for US$5 million (Jul. 1973 - Aug. 1980); (ii) Cr. No. 733-MLI, for
US$10 million (Sep. 1977 - Jun. 1983); (iii) Cr. No. 1442-MLI, for US$9.5 million (Jul. 1984 - Sep.
1990); (iv) Cr. No. -MLI, for US$5 million (Jul. 1973 - Aug. 1980); The fifth project, CR No. 2673 ­
MLI for US$50 million (Jan., 1995 - Dec., 1996), to correct sector resource allocation distortions was
ongoing at the time of project design. A key lesson which the project took into account was to ensure that
employers contributed more to the design of practical training programs, and that adequate public funds to
be provided for operational cost of training institutions. Components of the project were aligned to three
key implementing institutions designed to benefit from technical assistance, vehicles, and office equipment
through the project. The project was also designed to incorporate enterprise and skills training centers
closely linked to industry. A World Bank policy paper prepared in April 1994, Vocational Education and
Training, The Role of the Public Sector in a Market Economy, advocated that enterprise and skills training
centers had proven more cost-effective compared with school-based vocational education and training. In
the same document, the relevance of public sector provision of vocational education and training is
promoted because of potential market failure. The project design took these views into consideration in
having components that addressed both the public and private sector provision of vocational and technical
training. On the whole, the project was designed to ensure the development of necessary institutional
capacity in order to meet the project objective. The design of the project was appropriate. Although the
project design was not based on the logical framework concept, and performance indicators were not
separated by outcome and output, the indicators were measurable and to a large extent, attributable. For
example, under Component 2, a high percentage of trainees employed within six months of training would
indicate an improved quality of and capacity in skills upgrading.

3.4 Revised Components:

N/A

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory in spite of the institutional demands made by the project and the



                                                       - 3 -

complexity of coordinating the various components which led to implementation challenges. The reasons
for the rating are: (i) consistency with country priorities and CAS objectives, (ii) consistency with sector
and country projects while incorporating lessons learned from previous projects, (iii) ensuring ownership
through expanded beneficiary participation, (iv) ensuring a strong analytical basis for pursuing policy
reforms, and (v) consistency with the Bank's safeguard policies.

Consistency with Country Priorities and CAS: The project objectives were consistent with the CAS goals
at the time of project preparation. The project objectives both enhanced and built on the objective of the
CAS of December 1, 1994, which was to alleviate poverty through a three-pronged approach of sustained
broad-based economic growth; human resources development; and a special focus on the needs of the most
vulnerable. These objectives were also compatible with a key objective of the GoM which was to increase
the coherence between training and employment.

Consistency with Sector and Country Projects: The project design took into consideration the sector
priorities of the country to meet the requirements for dealing with a weak primary education subsector, with
low quality secondary and higher education, and an unstructured, low technology skills training mainly in
the informal sector, which had very little or no link with training in the formal sector (Please refer to section
3.3, Original Components: Component 3 - Employment and Training Observatory (US$ 1.6 million),
para. 3). The project was designed to provide basic professional and technical skills demanded by the labor
market and required for Mali's economic development.

Two lessons learned from past education projects considered in the design of the project are: (i) public and
private training and skills upgrading institutions must be responsive to demand and supply, and enrollments
and curricula should be sensitive to employment opportunities for trainees, and (ii) diversity in financing is
important for both sustainability, benefit and cost sharing. During project preparation, employers were
involved in both research and project design. Other considerations were the application of a flexible, labor
market based criteria for financing of skills upgrading activities, managed by private sector employers and
artisans. The introduction of the Vocational Training Tax (VTT) contributed to diversification of financing
and annual graduate tracer studies were incorporated for mandatory evaluation of skills upgrading.

Government Ownership and Expansion of Beneficiary Participation: The project design took into
account government ownership and expanded beneficiary participation. This was important for increasing
accountability of GoM among other VET stakeholders. A review for the project in July 1994 stressed the
need to expand beneficiary participation and the consultative process. To this end, a VET Consultative
Group (CG) including employers, unions, public and private institutions, NGOs and students leaders, was
established in October 1994. The VET CG met monthly to discuss project preparation issues focusing on
the setting up of the Vocational Training Fund. Although this process was assessed to be time-consuming
at the time, it proved important for building wider ownership and facilitated implementation.

Institutional Capacity: In the institutional analysis outlined in the SAR, institutional capacity was
assessed as a high risk to the project. To mitigate this risk the project was designed to build the
institutional capacity of key implementing structures like the National Department of Technical and
Vocational Training (Direction nationale de l'enseignment technique et de la formation professionelle -
DNETP). In cases where there was no institutional capacity, new structures were set up as in the case of
the VTSF and the ETO. The setting up of new structures was in some instances, delayed as was the case
of the VTSF.

Analytical Basis for Pursuing Policy Reforms: The project had a strong analytical basis for pursuing
policy reforms. A series of seven studies was undertaken, namely, a tracer study of recent VET graduates,


                                                      - 4 -

a study of private sector training needs in Bamako, an analysis of the apprenticeship/production system in
the informal sector, a survey of economic growth and employment trends in the regions, an analysis of data
from the Annual Manpower Survey, 1988-1993, a reverse tracer study of VET graduates, and a study on
women's needs and constraints to training. The studies, funded with a Japanese PHRD grant, aimed at
first ascertaining labor market demand in formal and informal sectors, in and outside Bamako. Second, the
studies helped to identify vocational training streams most likely to lead to employment. Although there
were initial difficulties in working with the National Manpower and Employment Office and the weak
survey methodology of some studies made it difficult to generalize the results, the studies provided sound
background documentation to support policy reforms in vocational education and training and pointed out
the focus for project benefits and needs.

Bank's Safeguard Policies: The project was to finance rehabilitation and limited new constructions.
Regarding this focus, it was not expected to pose any environmental risks or have any significant
environmental impact and was rated as C category.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the achievement of project outcome is rated satisfactory. Outcome objectives for all three
components according to the performance indicators, were at best only partially met, however, much was
achieved with respect to creating an improved environment to provide vocational and technical education
and training. The setting up of new institutions like the VTSF and the ETO and of initially nonexistent
structures like the VTT provide good examples. Not only were structures put in place to support an
improved vocational education and training system, but also the private sector which previously had not
had much of a role in vocational training, became involved in the creation of a "new vocational training
culture" in the sector. Generally, the achievement of project outcome objectives is determined to the extent
to which data is available regarding project performance indicators and targets. The component objectives
and performance indicators as outlined in the SAR and the actual/latest estimates on achievement are
indicated in Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators/Logframe Matrix.

The achievement of outcomes for Component 1 was unsatisfactory. The outcome was to have at least 70
percent of trainees in reinforced streams employed within one year after graduation. The percentage of
trainees employed is not known because the first cycle of enrollment from 2000-2002 did not provide
adequate time to follow up on students when the project ended in December 2002. Whether or not
knowledge and skills of pre-service VET graduates are required by the labor market was also not
determined because the indicator of average monthly earnings of VET trainees one year after graduation
could not be ascertained for the same reasons. The late start of training was due to the time it took for the
curriculum development, training of instructors, installation of equipment, etc. which all had to be
completed before actual VET training could start. The performance indicator of public VET expenditure
per student on equipment and material targeted to increase from 50,000 to 60,000 CFAF by project
completion was also not achieved. (Please refer to Appendix 1: Summary of Project Outcomes based on
Performance Ratings by Component).

Component 2 was however, rated satisfactory on the achievement of outcomes. The objective was to
improve the quality and capacity of skills upgrading service, in order to enhance labor force skills and
productivity. Although the targeted performance indicators relating to the percentage of trainees employed
within six months after training was not determined, the percentage of women trainees which was targeted
to reach 40 percent by the completion was observed to have increased from 26 percent to 30.5 percent at
the time of project completion. Monthly earnings of graduates and the percentage of trainees who passed



                                                      - 5 -

apprenticeship certification examinations had not been determined at the time of completion. This
component cannot be rated unsatisfactory on the basis of data unavailability. The ICR team recommends
an impact study to ascertain monthly earnings of graduates after the appropriate time lapse.

The achievement of project outcomes for Component 3 was satisfactory. The component achieved much
with respect to setting up structures, training staff and undertaking surveys. It is also not certain whether
the component objective of increasing employment earnings through improved functioning and enhanced
effectiveness of the labor market was achieved because no survey was carried out. Here again, the ICR
team proposes that the relevant survey be undertaken as soon as practicable to ascertain whether the target
has been met.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The achievement of outputs has been assessed separately from the achievement of outcomes. Overall, the
achievement of outputs for all three components of the project is rated satisfactory. Specific output
achievement ratings for the three components are based on operational achievement of the components and
sub-components outlined as well as on indicators provided in Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators/Log
Frame Matrix. The reason is that quite a remarkable achievement was made during project implementation
which resulted in an operational vocational education and training system with greater participation by the
private sector. It could be argued that the project has largely achieved the outputs it was meant to achieve.
This achievement is considerable and must be weighed against performance indicators some of which were
not achieved, while others could not be determined because of lack of data. The decision of the ICR team
to weigh the operational achievements of the various components against the performance indicators, was
not an easy one, but it is believed that this would provide a more balanced rating of achievement.
Considering this, ratings according to components and sub-components are as follows:

Component 1: Pre-Service VET Services                                                          - satisfactory
Sub-Component 1.1: Upgrade Selected Training Facilities                                        - satisfactory
Sub-Component 1.2: Improve Quality of Instruction                                              - unsatisfactory
Sub-Component 1.3: Develop Management Capacity at Central and School Levels                    - satisfactory

Component 2: Vocational Training Support Fund (VTSF) for Skills Upgrading                      - satisfactory
Sub-Component 2.1: Upgrade Skills and Retrain                                                  - satisfactory
Sub-Component 2.2: Apprenticeship Certification                                                - satisfactory

Component 3: Employment and Training Observatory                                               - satisfactory
Sub-Component 3.1: Establish Employment and Training Observatory                               - satisfactory
Sub-Component 3.2: Train ETO staff                                                             - satisfactory
Sub-Component 3.3: Conduct Labor Market Surveys and Train                                      - satisfactory
Sub-Component 3.4: Disseminate Labor Market Information                                        - satisfactory

Component 1: Pre-Service VET Services (US$9.2 Million)
Project funds allocated for this component supported (i) upgrading of training facilities, (ii) improving the
quality of skills of instructors and revising the curricula, and (iii) developing management capacity at the
central and school levels.




Sub-component 1.1 - Upgrade Selected Training Facilities (US$5.4 million): In all, five training facilities
were selected for upgrading comprising the Vocational Training Center (CFP), the School for Commerce,
Industry and Administration (ECICA), and three Institutes for Vocational Training (IFPs) in Sikasso,



                                                       - 6 -

Kayes and San. Upgrading and equipment installation have been completed and are functioning
satisfactorily. There are however, concerns about maintenance and recurrent supplies for the running of
the machines. The number of CAP training streams selected for support by the project exceeded those
originally selected during project preparation. Following a labor market analysis workshop organized by
the DNETP in February 1999, ten training specialties were reinforced as indicated in Table 1: Number of
Streams Target and Supported by Project.

Table 1: Number of Streams Targeted and Supported by Project



 Seven Streams Targeted            Ten Streams Actually Supported by Project

                                    Auto Mechanics (CAP)
 Mechanics, general and             General Mechanics (maintenance)
 vehicle (CAP)                      Masonry
 Construction (CAP)                 Metalwork
 Metalwork (CAP)                    Electrical Contracting
 Electrical Contracting (CAP)       Carpentry, Woodwork and Joinery
 Woodworking (CAP)                  Electro-mechanics
 Electro-mechanics (BT)             Accounting
 Accounting (BT)                    Plumbing (CAP)
                                    Office Work , secretarial and office skills
                                    (CAP)

Sub-component 1.2 - Improve Quality of Instruction (US$ 3.3 million): Curriculum reform was
undertaken to reinforce selected training streams. Revisions were made to adopt a modular,
competency-based approach which emphasized transferable practical and entrepreneurial skills. The reform
was based on the legal framework for revising the training streams (Article 5 and 6 of the
97-718/MESSRS-SG decree) and was supported by labor market analysis which provided the technical
basis for the developing programs and established the list of tasks, demand for employment and level of
qualification required for each training specialty.

In addition to reinforcing selected streams, obsolete and non- relevant streams identified by the project were
phased out e.g., customs, budget, treasury, and justice. However, none of the output targets for student
numbers in the reinforced training streams was met as indicated in Appendix 2: Summary of Project
Outputs-Based on Performance Ratings by Component. While most instructors agreed that the
introduction of modular, competency-based curricula was an improvement on the old system, they also
expressed some concerns. The first was that students' background was inadequate at the BT and CAP
levels. It was observed that students' academic background with respect to reading, writing and
measurement of units was very weak. This made communication and teaching very challenging. Second,
the comprehensive nature of the competency-based approach, rendered instructors helpless when faced with
certain completely new teaching situations such as `bodyworks' in Auto Mechanics or `formworks and
stairways' in Woodwork. Some modules could not be undertaken in certain courses for the simple reason
that instructors did not have the specific training to teach them.




The competency-based curricula is strongly linked to the supply of material resources and as a result, any
interruption in supplies posed a threat to the running of programs and the learning process. An inadequate



                                                       - 7 -

recurrent budget for purchasing supplies and insufficient resources for repairing and maintaining
equipment, further aggravated the situation. This state of affairs frequently led to interruptions and lengthy
module delivery periods. For instance, students using the computer for the first time, could not acquire the
target competency for typing speed in the time allotted. Instructors maintained that the time for this module
was just not adequate given the interruptions to the learning process.

The Training and Enterprise Support Units were set up to improve the quality and relevance of VET
instructions and to ensure that instructors knew and understood the labor market and private sector
enterprises for which their students were being trained. The French Cooperation Agency supported three
enterprise support units which contributed to the setting up of a national system of training for apprentices.

Sub-component 1.3 - Develop Management Capacity at Central and School Levels (US$ 0.5 million):
The Department of Technical and Vocational Training (DNETP) was strengthened under the project.
Institutional capacity was reinforced through capacity-building and technical assistance. For example, 45
hours of training in school administration was organized for 66 personnel of the DNETP and training
institutions. Training in strategic planning and management methods was also organized for staff.
Technical assistance was provided to develop a system to link the DNETP with its institutions. For
monitoring and evaluation, an enrollment and teaching staff database was developed. A new Department
of Technical and Vocational Training was also constructed, equipped and furnished under the project.

Component 2: Vocational Training Support Fund (VTSF) for Skills Upgrading (US$12.0 Million)
The project supported (i) skills upgrading and retraining with financing from a VTSF, and (ii) developing a
national system of apprenticeship certification under this component.

Sub-Component 2.1 ­ Skills Upgrading and Training (US$11.6 million): In order to provide sustainable
financing for skills upgrading and retraining in the informal sector, the project undertook a number of
activities. These included setting up and managing the VTSF and instituting the VTT to increase the
annual output of in-service trainees from 3,000 in 1997 to 10,000 in 2001.

The VTSF was set up in 1998 to mobilize resources for financing the training needs of companies, and
became fully effective in 2002. The sources of financing for the VTSF were (i) receipts from the
professional training tax, (ii) contributions from sponsors and/or beneficiaries, (iii) credits or loans, (iv) gift
donations and subsidies, and (v) other receipts. The types of sponsors included individual enterprises and
groups of workers from private, parastatal or other organizations such as NGOs.

To ensure a sustainable source of employer financing even after the project ends, the Vocational Training
Tax was instituted under the legal framework of law No. 97-024 of April 14, 1997. The objectives of
introducing the VTT were to (i) allow employers to participate in the financing of training of their
employees while introducing the principle of cost recovery, and (ii) ensure financial sustainability of VTSF
by guaranteeing a regular and sustained mobilization of financial resources. Of the 75 percent VTSF
financing, the Vocational Training Tax (0.5 percent of payroll) provided one-third while IDA and the
French Development Cooperation (Fonds d'aide et de coopération - FAC) provided the other two-thirds. In
other words, financing of training was broken down as follows: 25 percent by beneficiaries and sponsors;
25 percent by employers and the GoM; 50 percent by IDA and FAC.

Private professional training was expanded both in diversity and coverage. The project upgraded facilities,
provided training support for continuing training and apprenticeship, and targeted identified geographic
centers and relevant skill areas for training linked to economic growth. The VTSF supported private and
semi-private centers with equipment to enable them improve their capacity to respond to demands of the


                                                      - 8 -

labor market for training and services. With a grant of 845,600,000 CFAF, (US$1,208,000) over the
five-year intervention period, VTSF equipped 13 private training centers.

Selection for support was based on criteria agreed with the World Bank. The criteria for VTSF support
was mostly consistent with criteria set out in the SAR. Changes were, however, made to simplify criteria
in order to attract more requests for training. Criteria for support was in two parts, namely, (i)
accreditation agreement delivered by VTSF, and (ii) providing the documentation requested for financing.
To benefit from VTSF support, the sponsor or beneficiary organization provided a request for financing
accompanied by the following:

    - an accreditation letter provided by VTSF;
    - a feasibility study on the equipment to be funded;
    - a tax clearance certificate or letter showing that the organization is tax exempt;
    - references of instructors including CVs, copies of certificates and diplomas;
    - other administration documents including authorization of the Ministry of Education, contract of
    investment code.

Following the selection of companies, the VTSF helped to translate identified training needs into viable
training programs and then helped finance the training. At the end of each training year, training centers
were evaluated and based on this evaluation, centers sustained accreditation to offer training for the next
level. If a center failed the evaluation, the training was given to another center from the list of accredited
centers. With respect to the development cost of training activities, initially the VTSF was to finance up to
50 percent of the cost of new equipment and materials through a 50 percent combined grant-loan
arrangement (25 percent grant and 25 percent loan with 2.5 percent interest rate), while the training centers
contributed the remaining 50 percent When certain categories of sponsors and/or beneficiaries experienced
difficulties in mobilizing their contribution of 25 percent, a new approach was introduced which consisted
of beneficiaries financing a minimum of 25 percent of the investment in equipment of training centers.
According to sponsors and beneficiaries, this new approach was more acceptable and satisfactory. One
problem identified related to the procurement of equipment. Some equipment procured with the wrong
specifications could not be installed. This weakness was identified and rectified speedily and efforts were
instituted to guard against the recurrence.

Professional apprenticeship training was expanded in agreement with the professional artisan organizations
of Mali (FNAM) to include auto mechanics, woodwork, metalwork, air conditioning/refrigeration, auto
electronics, and sewing/fashion. While the objective of the VTSF was to finance up to 90 percent of
training expenses for apprentices under 21 years, there was no indication that this arrangement was
implemented. Another problem emerged while implementing this component. Prior to the institution of the
VTSF, apprentices followed 3 or 4 levels and all their training was usually in one center. With the
institution of VTSF, apprentices would change training centers when their original centers failed to meet
evaluation criteria for competitiveness. Some apprentices were not able to meet the transport expenses of
moving from one center to another and thus dropped out.

Training targeted geographic centers which had the potential to ensure employment and economic growth
including Bamako and the regional capitals of Sikasso, Segou and Kayes. Not only did training take place
in urban areas, there were also examples of rural-based training, notably, training which took place in 1999
and 2001 when 5,000 villagers of the Zone Office of Niger were trained in modern techniques of rice
farming by irrigation. Another example of rural based training was organized for 650 villagers from the
OHVN zone in market gardening. Professional training involving about 1,000 apprentices currently takes
place annually in towns such as Bamako, Diola, Sikasso, Koutiala, Segou and Mopti with Bamako having


                                                       - 9 -

the largest number of apprentices, in response to preparatory survey results which identified Bamako as
having the most apprentices participating in vocational training (45,000 out of a total of 65,000
apprentices).

The project, through the VTSF, involved employers in the financing and management of training for their
workers as part of the effort to ensure a sustainable system of professional training. Informal sector
training benefited artisans, Technician Diploma (Brevet de technicien - BT) professions, rural areas,
tourism, commerce and services. The percentage financed by employers and/or beneficiaries in the
informal sector was 23 percent of total training financed (1,432,246,902 CFAF) while the VTSF
contributed 1,096,592,187 CFAF. This contribution by employers and/or beneficiaries was a little lower
that the minimum of 25 percent to be financed by beneficiaries and/or sponsors.

To respond to the particularly restricted access that women had to skills upgrading opportunities, women
represented one of the targeted groups to benefit from VTSF training. The participation of women in the
training programs however, was a little less that expected. One reason was the predominance of men in
certain skill areas.

Sub-component 2.2 ­ Apprenticeship Certification (US$0.4 million): By supporting the development of a
national system of apprenticeship certification, the project through the VTSF, has contributed to the
delivery of certification at the end of apprenticeship training. In 2001, a study on Certification of
Professional Training through Apprenticeship and Validation of Professional Skills in Trades was jointly
financed by SwissContact and the VTSF. This collaboration led to the setting up of a system of
certification of apprenticeship and validation of professional skills in the artisan sector. Following the
study, a National Communication Forum was organized by the Ministry of Employment and Professional
Training in November 2001 in Bamako. The recommendation of the forum contributed to the present
system of certification and validation. The Ministry of Employment and Professional Training directed the
work on certification by creating a Working Group which defined adequate legislative, regulatory and
institutional framework relating to a national system of certification and validation. The VTSF maintained
the secretariat of the Working Group composed of 14 representatives from relevant apprenticeship training
structures.

As part of project preparation, the process of analyzing and translating trades to be mastered into modules
with competency standards and training programs was extensively tested and validated for one trade in
collaboration with SwissContact. By the completion of the project, the VTSF had succeeded in providing
eight professions out of 13 targeted, with national certification standards of training by apprenticeship.

Component 3: Employment and Training Observatory
Component 3 aimed at increasing employment and earnings through improved functioning of the labor
market and enhanced effectiveness of vocational training (i.e., increased coherence and complementarily
between training, employment and physical capital investments)

To achieve this objective, the project supported the following sub-components: (i) establishing an
Employment and Training Observatory (ETO); (ii) training ETO staff; (iii) disseminating labor market
information.

Sub-Component 3.1 ­ Establishment of Employment and Training Observatory (US$0.44 million):
Created by a resolution of the Board of the National Office of Employment, the ETO was established in
1996, and was the first component to become operational. The ETO was made up of two organs, namely,
the steering committee which was to evaluate the activities of the ETO, and the technical committee which


                                                     - 10 -

evaluated the activities of the ETO. In addition to these two organs, coordination was defined by the
project steering committee. The project rehabilitated and equipped the offices of the ETO. Although the
ETO was set up in practice to be autonomous, up to the end of the project, no regulation was outlined to
formalize its autonomy. The ETO was set up under the National Employment and Manpower Office
(ONMOE) which was subsequently restructured to become the National Agency for Employment (ANPE),
as one of several departments under the ANPE. Staffing was a perennial issue during the implementation
of the project and at no time did the ETO function with its full complement of staff. The ETO started with
seven staff compared with the eight staff initially planned and at one point, it had only three key staff. In
addition, the confirmation of the Acting Director was delayed for most of the implementation period. In
spite of the perennial issue of staffing and its status, the ETO carried out its tasks satisfactorily and met
most of the requests. Set against the ETO's challenges, the ability of the ETO to deliver becomes very
important.

Sub-component 3.2 ­ Training of ETO Staff (US$0.40 million): To enhance the capacity of staff to
produce and handle statistical information, several training modules were developed. Initially, the aim was
to develop seven training modules but the changing labor market led to a need to develop 35 training
modules. In addition, arrangements for technical exchange were made with the Observatories of Togo,
Côte d'Ivoire and Benin and with employment services of Cameroon, Guinea, Niger, Senegal and France
(ANPE). There were also exchanges and information sharing with the universities and research centers in
Mali.

Sub-component 3.3 ­ Conduct Labor Market Surveys and Training (US$0.42 million): The project
financed a series of labor market and training surveys as indicated in Appendix 2: Summary of Project
Outputs-Based on Performance Ratings by Component. At mid-term review, it was noted that a number of
important studies and surveys had been carried out and several seminars had been organized to disseminate
information produced. Some uncertainty was, however, expressed about the quality of the documents
produced mainly because of the scarcity of accurate data and the lack of basic tools such as an updated list
of industries, professions and trades.

Sub-component 3.4 ­ Disseminate Labor Market Information (US$0.44 million): Through the activities
of the ETO, the project promoted the dissemination of labor market information through the setting up and
strengthening of a documentation center. Opened at the beginning of 2002, the documentation center has
expanded its area of coverage from ETO documents to other external documents. Registers of visits and
consultations have been opened to provide information on actual users' needs. An analysis of one hundred
visits/consultations during 2002 revealed great diversity in users including state organizations, NGOs,
research institutions, the print media and students. Feedback from users indicates that the center offered an
important source of employment and training data as well as information on the economy, demography and
poverty among others.

Throughout project implementation, the ETO was reported to have made good progress in undertaking
studies and surveys and in making information and publications accessible to policy makers and other
relevant users. For example, in the fifth Project Status Report (PSR), it was mentioned that publications of
the ETO's labor market surveys were on schedule and the ETO had developed a new approach for
providing executive summaries of studies for managers. In addition, external studies undertaken had
utilized documents developed by the ETO. In PSR 06, it was reported that the work of the ETO was
ongoing and many publications had been produced and disseminated. Delays in planned workshops were
also mentioned in the documentation reviewed but it should be noted that these delays were quickly
resolved. While target output planned for the dissemination of labor market information did not meet
actual output (43 labor market awareness seminars for students and other VET trainees were planned but


                                                      - 11 -

only 23 seminars were organized partly due to school disturbances which prevailed at the time, and only
half of the planned seminars for policy makers were undertaken out of the 30 seminars planned), a case
could still be made that the ETO operational achievement was quite high. The ETO was operational even
in the face of severe staffing constraints.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Of three proposed components, pre-service VET training, vocational training support fund (VTSF) and
employment and training observatory, rates of return were only estimated for a sub-component of the first
component. The issue for the remaining components is more of sustainability, if proposed objectives have
been achieved, rather than rates of return. At time of appraisal, the rates of return estimates could help
justify financing education, but at the time of the ICR, due to a lack of data and the lagged timing on the
return to the investment, the analysis of the allocative efficiency of the project by components was more
appropriate (see Annex 3). The analysis can only be indicative. The general observation made from the
analysis was that the efficiency of the investment was less than expected, based on the achieved and
proposed performance indicators.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated. Please see Annex 3 for discussion on financial analysis.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project made a modest institutional development impact with the setting up of the VTSF and the ETO
neither of which existed before the project. Considerable training was organized for staff of the DNETP
and the ETO. The strongest evidence of the ETO's institutional development impact is the staff's ability to
respond to information needs of users and to undertake studies and surveys to meet these needs. The ETO
has become an important reference for publication. The modular approach for training which previously
did not exist and the upgrading of equipment in vocational education and training has impacted current
training in a positive way.   The ability of the VTSF to conduct and support training for both the formal
and informal sector also reflects the institutional development impact which implementing the project
provided. Added to this, the VTSF involved employers in the training of their employees leading to the
development of a significant informal sector training culture which previously did not exist. The concern is
how long these institutional gains can be sustained especially in view of the risk of staff turn-over,
characteristic of the ETO and VTSF.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
One factor that indirectly affected the implementation of the project was the changes in government during
project implementation in 1997 and 2002. The changes by themselves did not have a negative impact on the
project, however, the red-tape within various ministerial departments increased due to change in ministers
and the situation affected procurement, for example, from 1997 to 1999. These changes also indirectly
affected measures to increase the employment levy for the VTSF from the present 0.5 percent to 2 percent
of the payroll and impacted in a significant way to the potential financial sustainability of the VTSF.

Collaboration with development partners involved in relevant aspects of vocational training was almost
nonexistent. Collaboration is facilitated when two parties demonstrate a willingness to work together. In
as much as the GoM could have led the process, without the agreement of development partners, it becomes
very challenging to ensure effective collaboration. The Bank and other development partners should have
taken a greater responsibility in ensuring this. Although FAC was working closely with the Enterprise
Training and Support Units (Unités de formation et d'appui aux entreprises - UFAEs) which were involved
in project activities, there was very little collaboration between the activities of FAC and the project. This



                                                       - 12 -

led to a lack of integration between complementary inputs and processes.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delays in setting up of key institutions e.g., VTSF and VTT, which led to the late start-up of certain
activities affected the achievement of objectives. Instituting the VTT was a condition for negotiation and
although it was set out in the SAR during project preparation, this condition was not met before
negotiations in January 1996. It was not until 1998 that the VTT became really effective. The delay in
setting up the VTSF contributed to delays in implementing activities for the VTSF component. Similarly,
delays in developing certain reinforced training streams, installing equipment and developing curricula,
affected the achievement of project outputs for the Pre-service VET component. For example, curricula for
building electricity, accounting, and office work were not completed until December 2001, five years after
the project began and it was not possible to enroll students before the training streams had been reviewed,
curriculum and teaching guides prepared, equipment put in place and instructors trained. As a result of
these delays, it was impossible to meet targets for component outputs and component outcomes could not
be met, especially when the first cohort of students was enrolled in 2000 and graduated with the completion
of the project in 2002. It was within the control of the government to ensure that key project activities were
closely monitored, especially when setbacks in the implementation of these activities had the ability to
greatly affect the achievement of outcomes.

The implementation of civil engineering works exclusively by AGETIPE-MALI, also caused serious delays
thus constraining the delivery and storage of procured equipment. AGETIPE-MALI constructed workshop
facilities for vocational education and training under the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Cumbersome processes for accessing funds of the VTSF also had a negative impact on the achievement of
project outputs and outcomes. During project implementation, beneficiaries of the VTSF expressed
concern regarding the complexity and length of the request process compared with another World Bank
project the Private Sector Support Project (Project d'appui au secteur privé) which had much simpler
procedures. Although the procedure for accessing funds was simplified after the mid-term review of the
project, the modification took more time than expected and this affected implementation of training in the
formal and informal sectors. Institutional reshuffling and a change in oversight responsibility for
components also had consequences on smooth implementation. At the beginning of the project the VTSF
was administered by the Ministry of Industry, Arts and Tourism and the ETO was administered by the
Ministry of Employment, Manpower and Labor. Toward the end of the project, the VTSF and the ETO
components were both linked with the Ministry of Employment and Professional Education. Though it may
be argued that reshuffling was beneficial in that it brought the VTSF and ETO where they belonged i.e.,
with employment, the changes also meant that new relationships and processes had to be established and
learned and this took some time.

Collaboration with other partners was weak. Although FAC and Swiss Contact were both undertaking
activities in vocational and technical education, efforts at collaboration can best be described as accidental
rather than deliberate and the advantage that greater integration of similar activities could have brought
was lost.

5.4 Costs and financing:
In view of the fact that there were significant disbursement lags at various points during project
implementation, the credit disbursement of 98.9 percent out of total credit of 9 million SDR at project
completion was quite an achievement. Considerable progress was made in disbursement between May
2000 and December 2001. The variation in total project allocation between projected and actual



                                                      - 13 -

disbursement at project completion was not substantial. Actual disbursement for most categories was very
close to projections except for the Operating Costs category in which actual disbursement exceeded original
allocation by nine times as indicated in Table 2: Original and Actual Allocation of the IDA Credit by
Category. It was learned that the original estimate for the coordination of the project as set out in Schedule
1 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) did not include an operation budget for Components 1:
Pre-service VET and 3: Employment and Training Observatory because of the anticipated two-pronged
coordination approach. This situation was later rectified and thus the increased actual operating costs
outlined in Table 2. There were no unallocated funds at the end of the project compared with about 10
percent of funding projected as unallocated at Appraisal.

Table 2: Original and Actual Allocation of the IDA Credit by Category


Category                                                   Amount of Credit Projected Actual at Project
                                                           (SDR)*                     Completion**

1) Civil Works                                                             700,000.00                814,655.62

2) Goods, Consultants' Services and Training                             2,400,000.00              1,754,544.55

3) Equipment, Vehicles, furniture, Materials

                                          Part A of Project                150,000.00                315,916.55

                                    Part B and C of Project             1,600,000.00               1,713,454.66

4) Technical Assistance, Training, Consultants

Part A of Project                                                       1,600,000.00               1,548,569.98

Part B and C of Project                                                 1,300,000.00               1,681,477.39

5) Operating Costs                                                       100,000.00                  918,684.03

6) PPF Advance refund                                                    250,000.00                   91,522.53

7) Unallocated                                                           900,000.00                        0.00

8) Special Account                                                                                   57,731.15

Total                                                                   9,000,000.00               8,896,556.46

*Source: Development Credit Agreement between Republic of Mali and IDA, March 26, 1996
**Source: World Bank Disbursement data, May 26, 2003

Projected sources of funding for the project at Appraisal in US$ million were:

IDA                                                     - 13.4
Government and Employers                                -  5.8
French Agency for Cooperation (FAC) -                      3.7

On average, FAC contributed 25 million CFAF annually, SwissContact, 60 million CFAF annually and the
GoM, 200 million CFAF annually. (Please refer to Table 3: Annual Receipts on the Vocational Training
Tax, 1997 to 2002).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
As at the end of the project, sustainability of overall project achievement was unlikely. The project had
made some contribution to the vocational and technical education system, however, there were issues of
institutional and financial sustainability for all the three components. Financial viability of the VTSF
component with respect to maintaining output achievement is not very certain. Following the institution of
the professional training tax law in April 1997, actual collection of the professional training tax started in



                                                                 - 14 -

earnest in January 1998. (Please see annual receipts in Table 3).

Table 3: Annual Receipts on the Vocational Training Tax, 1997 to 2002

 Vocational         1997           1998             1999            2000           2001            2002
 Training Tax
 Expected VTT                      12,950,244       278,983,833     467,663,915    636,134,374     460,000,842
 VTT collected      73,447,996     142,206,946      184,500,000     320,367,798    410,358,272     448,716,365
 Recovery Rate %                   1098.10          66.13           68.50          64.51           97.55


The execution rate of VTT increased from 66.13 percent in 1999 to 97.55 percent in 2002. In 1998, actual
VTT collected exceeded expected VTT almost eleven times due to an underestimation of the amount which
was projected to correspond to the budgetary contribution received in 1997. In line with the financial
sustainability objective of setting up the VTT, the GoM undertook a study on the sustainability of VTSF
which estimated the financial needs of VTSF as follows:

    2003          - CFAF 1,450 billion
    2004          - CFAF 1,600 billion
    2005          - CFAF 1,660 billion
    2006          - CFAF 1,700 billion
    2007          - CFAF 1,800 billion

The study proposed that for the VTSF to be financially sustainable, its share of the lump sum tax should
increase from 0.5 percent to 2 percent. Upon obtaining initial agreement with the GoM, the board of VTSF
and IDA, a formal brief for increasing the training levy to 2 percent was submitted by the relevant
ministries to the Council of Ministers. At the time of project completion, however, the increase had not
been approved. While an increase of the training levy to 2 percent is very important, the VTSF will also
have to correct the inefficiencies in the collection of the tax if financial sustainability is to be achieved. In
contrast to financial sustainability, institutional sustainability is more likely. The active involvement of the
private sector resulting in the development of a new vocational education and technical training culture has
contributed significantly to institutional sustainability. Examples are provided by the artisanal sector of the
informal sector and enterprises and businesses such as FNAM and FNEM. The VTSF board is chaired by
a private sector representative, a situation which supports VTSF sustainability.

Institutional effectiveness of the ETO component is uncertain. Added to the staffing issue, which until the
end of the project had not been resolved, there is the issue of the autonomy of the ETO. Although it was
agreed that the ETO will be financially autonomous for purposes of implementing the project, the formal
regulation/degree to ensure the autonomy was drafted but never adopted. The ETO was set up under the
auspices of the National Employment and Manpower Office (ONMOE). When the ONMOE was
restructured to become the National Agency for Employment (ANPE), the extra ETO became one of
several departments under the ANPE with no separate budget or program of activities which situation
means that ETO activities may cease entirely.

To ensure the maintenance of equipment and to guard against disruptions in the teaching of modules and
the learning process, four agents were trained locally in the industrial maintenance by the UFAE/MB under
the first component on Pre-service Vocational Education. The training in maintenance methods was in the
area of Mechanic Manufacturing where three instructors were trained and in General Mechanics and
Automation where one instructor was trained. The DNETP was, however, not satisfied with the training
provided maintaining that the training did not meet expected outcomes. There is therefore not much
evidence of sustainability especially with regard to ensuring an uninterrupted learning process in vocational
and technical training institutions.




                                                        - 15 -

The recommendation of the ICR team is for sectoral and macro dialogue with the GoM to vigorously
pursue the issues that need to be addressed for the likelihood of sustainability to be increased.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Some of the Pre-service VET component activities will continue with the current Education Sector
Expenditure Project, 2001-2004. The new 10-year project took into consideration the Pre-service VET
component and activities will cover certain salient areas. It is expected that the Education Sector
Expenditure Project will further prepare the ground work for more sustainable achievement. If the VTSF
continues to be financed by the GoM and the private sector it will continue its activities. It is unlikely that
the transitional arrangements under the new ANPE will translate into the ETO activities being taken over
fully by the GoM. The technical arrangements made for future operation are not adequate for the ETO and
will not ensure timely provision of all necessary inputs for the delivery of outputs.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall performance in project identification, assistance in preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory. As described in section 3.5, the project was consistent with country and sector priorities
which was to address the provide basic professional and technical skills demanded by the labor market and
required for Mali's economic development. The project was also consistent with CAS objectives to
alleviate poverty through economic growth, human resources development and focusing on the needs of the
most vulnerable groups. The Bank worked consistently with the Borrower during the course of the project
identification and preparation and expanded beneficiary participation to ensure ownership.

The project design took into consideration institutional requirements and built into the project mechanisms
for setting up new institutions, where relevant, as in the case of the VTSF. The analytical basis for project
preparation was a series of seven labor market and training surveys to ascertain labor market demand and
to help identify vocational training streams which lead to employment. In the setting up of the VTSF, the
Bank fielded experienced staff who had designed similar funds in other countries. Staff worked closely
with Malian consultants and during project preparation, the preparatory team visited Côte d'Ivoire to
observe the structure and processes of their training fund. The quantity and quality of Bank
staff/consultants skill mix during project preparation was satisfactory and the preparatory team included
the relevant mix of staff.

7.2 Supervision:
Overall supervision of the project was also satisfactory but more marginally so. There were 13 supervision
missions led by three out of four team leaders for the project. Supervision mission teams consisted largely
of the relevant mix of skills namely education, procurement, financial management, economists and
consultants. There was no mention of WID, labor market or informal sector specialists during
implementation although these skill requirements were proposed during the design of the project and are
outlined in SAR Table 1: IDA Supervision Plan. Teams consisted of between one and seven members
comprised of Country Office and Washington-based staff. Missions lasted an average of nine days prior to
mid-term review which lasted four days. A 4-day mid-term review seemed a short period of time in view of
the issues at stake. After mid-term review, missions were, on average, a little shorter. A total of 18 PSRs
were opened for the project, however, reporting was not always adequate. For example, issues identified at
the beginning of the project were never reviewed until the end of the project. In addition, updates on key
performance indicators was not always done.

Regarding the rating of "satisfactory" for all the PSRs until the very last PSR which was rated



                                                     - 16 -

"unsatisfactory", the ICR team concluded that the project team must have rated the project too severely and
given the opportunity, there would have been a change in the rating if the PSR had not been archived before
a change could be made. This assessment is based on discussions with the project team and written
comments by the Bank's management advising a review of the ratings to "marginally satisfactory" as
indicated under Manager's Comments in PSR# 18. To a large extent, a monitoring and evaluation
mechanism was in place to ensure that data was available and where data was unavailable for monitoring.
Plans to undertake surveys and studies, in most cases, could not be carried out. Please refer to Appendix 1:
Summary of Project Outcomes based on Performance Ratings by Component. Although performance
indicators selected were not categorized by outcome and output in the SAR, they were adequate and
measurable. During the mid-term review, it was noted that performance indicators had not been reviewed
to take into account delays in achieving outputs and outcomes. In response to this, the mid-term review
outlined a new plan to mitigate this weakness. The plan was however not translated into subsequent PSRs
and a restructuring was not undertaken. The Aide-Memoires however, indicated that there was pro-activity
on the part of the project team and sufficient attention provided for early detection and resolution of
implementation problems. An example is the simplification of processes for beneficiary access to the
VTSF undertaken during the mid-term review of the project which took place May 29 to June 2, 2000.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was rated satisfactory


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The GoM involvement in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. During project preparation,
account was taken of most of the lessons learned in five previously financed education projects in Mali.
Employers were encouraged to contribute to the design of practical training programs, and some effort was
made to ensure adequate public funds for operational cost of training institutions. Particularly relevant to
the project preparation was the consideration given to ensure adequate capacity of the three key
implementing institutions. Key institutions aligned to the three components of the project were strengthened
to facilitate implementation although this alignment sometimes led to challenges in coordinating the entire
project. The monitoring structure of the Steering Committee and its work with the DNTEP, the VTSF and
the ETO was reviewed. Most of the conditions for negotiation were met except for the allocation of offices
to the VTSF and the naming of personnel which incidentally also delayed project effectiveness.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's overall implementation performance was satisfactory but only marginally. While sector
policies supported the objectives of the project, the government's commitment with respect to the
appointment of key staff and the provision of counterpart funding was sometimes delayed or not carried
out. For example, recruitment of additional staff for the ETO was never carried through, although it was
reported consistently as an issue in all the PSRs and several times in official communications between the
Bank and the Borrower. An example is the Memorandum of the Supervision Mission of the PCFP to the
Borrower dated July 1, 2002 in which the GoM's attention is drawn to the fact that action had not been
taken on an agreement reached during the December 2001 mission to fill vacant positions in the ETO. The
ETO never had the full complement of staff even at project completion and the Acting Director was not
confirmed until the end of March 2000. The situation, in addition to funding issues, led to delays in
holding dissemination workshops, for example.

Progress on the implementation of the VTSF component was hindered due to a lack of counterpart funding.
Initially, the employment taxes, levied and collected on salaries were not transferred to the VTSF. This



                                                      - 17 -

situation led to a much slower pace of training and contributed to trainee numbers not meeting set targets.
In addition, the proposed increase in the VTT from 0.5 percent to 2 percent was never carried through.
With respect to the Pre-service VET, the expected increase from 50,000 CFAF to 60,000 CFAF in public
VET expenditure per student (on equipment and materials) was never realized. There was also the
situation in 1999 when equipment that had been procured for the Pre-service VET component was blocked
by customs for two months mostly due to bureaucratic bottlenecks. The equipment was finally cleared and
installed in the selected institutions as intended but the delay affected the overall achievement of project
outputs and outcomes.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of implementing agencies was satisfactory. Shortly after effectiveness, project
coordination was identified as a key factor affecting project implementation and outcome. The initial weak
project management resulted in delays in addressing issues such as the need for an auditor's opinion of the
implementation manual and the opening of a special account at the start of the project. After project
coordination was streamlined and key implementing agencies were incorporated, the management of the
project improved significantly. Steering Committee meetings were held regularly and minutes of meetings
and updated project activity reports were regularly submitted to IDA. Financial management and financial
reporting were satisfactory. Implementation delays related to procurement issues were usually resolved.
For example, during the first two years of implementation, the procurement process for the Pre-service
VET component had to be redone because of initial poor quality. This led to a delay in the procurement of
key goods and services required for project implementation. With the resolution of these procurement
issues, the implementation of the Pre-service VET proceeded more smoothly however, the built-in delays
impacted on the successful achievement of project outputs and outcomes leading to failure in meeting
certain targets. Beneficiary participation was modest in the VTSF component. In 2002, financial
contributions from sponsors and/or beneficiaries for the equipping of private and semi-private training
centers was 52 percent of contributions. Financial contributions from the formal sector were weaker in
comparison to the informal sector in the VTSF component.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance on preparation of the project was satisfactory based on the
satisfactory performance of implementing agencies and the GoM's performance during project preparation
and implementation. Most project sub-component output objectives were satisfactory, leading to overall
satisfactory outcomes. Prerequisite activities such as the setting up of institutions for project
implementation or the setting up of the VTT for example although delayed, were successfully instituted.

8. Lessons Learned

General lessons:
Lessons learned fit into the larger context of global lessons drawn from a World Bank document,
Vocational Education and Training Reform:Matching Skills to Markets and Budgets, published in March
2000. One important lesson drawn from this wider context is that institutional change is an important
requirement for expanding VET. This lesson is very relevant in the case of the project and core
institutional requirements/activities for the implementation of the project should have been in place before
the start of the project. The recommendation here is that project approval dates could be extended where
necessary, to ensure that institutional requirements are in place. Effectiveness delays and late start-up of
key activities e.g. the setting up the VTSF and the VTT, could have been avoided.

From the broader context of lessons learned, maintaining relationships among various partners and
employer groups and the vocational education and training system is critical. The project should have done



                                                       - 18 -

a better job of maintaining closer and effective links with stakeholders, by bringing together all components
and key players right from the beginning. Multiple implementing agencies overseeing various components
of the project made coordination challenging and led to difficulties in maintaining the integration of project
components. Where multiple agencies are involved, an understanding should be reached on coordination
arrangements within existing institutional structures before the project starts. In cases in which capacity for
project coordination is weak, arrangements should be made for skills transfer during project
implementation. The lesson here is that possible barriers to ensuring effective relationships should be
identified very early in the project and addressed in order to mitigate implementation problems.

Key partners should be involved in the project beginning with project preparation. For example, in the case
of the PCFP, although agencies such as French Cooperation and SwissContact supported vocational and
technical training, these agencies were not coordinated, leading to each establishment working on its own.
A global lesson drawn from recommendations made in a recent publication on vocational education and
technical training, Skills Development in Sub-Saharan Africa, 2003, expands the idea. The assertion is
that governments should realize they cannot do all that is needed to provide vocational education and
training. Governments should be more strategic by fostering partnerships with other providers, promoting
social equity and filling critical skills gaps.

Project planning should build in flexibility to absorb changes as a result of elections, institutional
reshuffling and shifting of key staff during project implementation. Projects should anticipate the possible
impact of changes in government mid-stream of project implementation to ensure steady project
implementation.

Project specific lessons :
Component 1 ­ Pre-service VET Services
World Bank studies on VET have demonstrated that investing in new or substantially upgraded facilities,
equipment, training materials, curriculum reform and teacher training in anticipation of growing demand
for skills, very frequently, does not yield the expected results. An example in this context is the estimated
number of students in reinforced streams for the Pre-service VET component. Estimates of expected
demand for skills did not match the actual number of students in 2001 as outlined in Annex 1: Key
Performance Indicators/Logframe Matrix. The total number of students in reinforced streams constituted
only 19 percent of total estimated students or estimated demand for skills. It is important to consider this in
project design and implementation and to ensure that expectations are more realistic.

The timing of key activities which influence other activities, should be carefully monitored to avoid delays.
An example is the review of curriculum which, in turn, affected the procurement of equipment, which then
impacted on the training of instructors and also affected the enrollment of students. Delays in key activities
could have a very substantial negative impact on project implementation and achievement of outcomes.

Engaging with the borrower on planning for maintenance is critical for sustaining project activities after
project completion. This should start at the very beginning of the project and not mid-way or when the
project is about to end. In projects in which specific skills are required to procure, install and maintain
equipment, the relevant technical skills required should be obtained through consultancies or skills transfer
to ensure that specifications are adhered to, equipment are rightly installed and a maintenance plan is
followed. The specifications, installation and maintenance problems encountered with the Pre-service VET
component could have been mitigated.

Close attention must be paid to the collection of monitoring information to avoid a situation in which
data/information is not available for determining achievement of outcomes. Where it was not possible to


                                                      - 19 -

obtain such critical monitoring data, adequate proxies should be obtained to ensure that an assessment of
project achievements can be made. Follow-up on students and apprentices was important for the
Pre-service and VTSF components, respectively, and a database of names and addresses of students and
apprentices, should have been created as soon as trainees registered for training. The existence of a
database could have allowed for a quick survey of students' expectations regarding future employment for
example, and would have allowed for a determination of outcomes to have been made.

Component 2 ­ Vocational Training Support Fund (VTSF) for Skills Upgrading
Ensuring a steady source of funding for training is key for maintaining the training culture that has been
created in the formal and informal sector. Sustaining this aspect of the project is imperative if the gains
made during the project are to be maintained. Competitiveness in training needs should be maintained in
order to keep costs at manageable levels.

Obtaining and acting on feedback from beneficiaries during project implementation is important as was the
case when the VTSF procedures presented obstacles to accessing training funds and were simplified during
project implementation.

Ensuring that the Borrower adequately plans for counterpart funding during project implementation is
important if project delays are to be prevented. The engagement on counterpart funding should actively
involve the Ministry of Finance which budgets for and releases this funding. Progress of the VTSF
component was hindered as a result of delays in the release of counterpart funds.

Component 3 ­ Employment and Training Observatory
Agreeing with the Borrower on the minimum number of years staff should be at post after training is
critical. For example, the GoM transferred ETO staff during project implementation leaving the institution
with barely enough staff to implement the activities of the ETO component. The situation could have been
mitigated if agreement had been reached prior to project effectiveness.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A letter dated June 25, 2003, received from the GoM indicated that the government shared the views
presented in the ICR. The government's contribution to the ICR is attached as Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Discussions held by the ICR team with the French Development Cooperation in Mali was very revealing.
The agency acknowledged the weakness in collaboration with IDA during the implementation of the
project. There was some cooperation on pedagogic training between the French Development Cooperation
and Swiss Contact, another NGO working on VET, but not much between the two agencies and IDA
although they were all working in the area of VET. The French Development Cooperation supported the
UFAE which directly received funding from the agency without passing through the coordination unit. The
project was prepared and implemented alongside the PCFP. The lack of coordination and collaboration
made implementation quite challenging.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                    - 20 -

10. Additional Information


Appendix 1: Summary of Project Outcomes based on Performance Ratings by Component


 Components        Objectives               Project Outcomes                                              Comments/Ratings

                                            Performance Indicators                 Targeted  Actual 2001

 1   Improve       Improve quality, supply, Public VET expenditure per student     60,000     50,000       Less than 25% f rom    S
     Quality and   efficiency and relevance on equipment and materials (in         C F A F    C F A F      reaching target
     Relevance of  of pre-service VET, in   CFAF)
     Pre-service   order to provide young
                                            Percentage of trainees in reinforced   70%        Not          Not enough time to
     V E T         trainees with knowledge
                                            streams employed within 1 year                    determined   determine (not rated)
                   and skills demanded by
                                            after grad.
                   labor market.
                                            Average monthly earnings of VET
                                                                                   68,000     Not          Not enough time to
                                            trainees, 1 year after graduation (in
                                                                                   C F A F    determined   determine (not rated)
                                            CFAF)

 2   Develop       Improve the quality and  Percentage of trainees employed        95%        Not          Not enough time to
     Sustainable   capacity of skills       within six months of training                     determined   determine (not rated)
     In -service   upgrading service, in    Percentage increase in monthly
                                                                                   10%        Not          Not enough time to
     Vocational    order to enhance labor   earnings six months after training
                                                                                              determined   determine (not rated)
     and           force skills and
     Technical     productivity among       Percentage of trainees who pass        80%        Not          Not determined at
     Training      formal and informal      apprenticeship certification exam                 determined   ICR (not rated)
     Capacity      workers.
                                            Percentage of female trainees          40%        30.5%        Less that 25% from     S
                                                                                                           reaching target

 3   Improve       Increase employment      Employment and training seminars       3 0        15           Marginally             M S
     Labor         and earnings through     for policy makers                                              satisfactory
     Market        improved functioning of
     Information.  the labor market and     Labor market awareness seminars        4 3        23           Marginally             M S

                   enhanced effectiveness   for students and other VET trainees                            satisfactory

                   of the labor market




                                                                  - 21 -

Appendix 2: Summary of Project Outputs based on Performance Ratings by Component



   Components         Objectives             Project Outputs                                                  Comments/Ratings

                                             Performance Indicators                           Targeted Actual
                                                                                                       2001

1  Improve Quality    Improve quality,       Auto mechanics                                   160      70
                                                                                                              Market was not fully
   and Relevance of   supply, efficiency     Electrical Mechanics                             80       40
                                                                                                              responsive (not rated)
   Pre-Service VET    and relevance of pre-  General Mechanics (Maintenance)                  160      37
                      service VET, in order  Accounting                                       160      0
                      to provide young       Secretarial and Office Skills                    240      0
                      trainees with          Electrical Contracting                           80       0
                      knowledge and skills   Metalwork                                        80       28
                      demanded by labor      Carpentry and Woodwork                           160      23
                      market.                Plumbing                                         80       18
                                             Masonry                                          80       24
                                             Total VET Trainees in reinforced streams         1,280*   240

2  Develop            Improve the quality    Person-months of training financed               40,300   24,915 Did not meet target           U
   Sustainable In-    and capacity of skills Formal sector training proposals approved (#)    175      478    Exceeded target about 4 times HS
   Service Vocational upgrading service, in  Informal sector training proposals approved (#)  275      526    Exceeded target almost twice  HS
   and Technical      order to enhance       Formal sector financial contrib. (CFAF m.)       1,515    518.9  Did not meet target           U
   Training Capacity  labor force skills and Informal sector financial contrib.(CFAFm.)       220      335.7  Exceeded target               HS
                      productivity among     Training centers benefiting from VTSF inv. (#)   25       13     Marginally satisfactory       MS
                      formal and informal    Professions with nat. apprenticeship cert. (#)   13       9      Marginally satisfactory       MS
                      workers.

3  Improve Labor      Increase employment    Training modules for ETO personnel (#)           7        35     Exceeded target 5 times!      HS
   Market             and earnings through   Employer and labor market surveys (#)            5        7      Exceeded target               S
   Information.       improved functioning   Household employment and earnings surv. (#)      5        5      Right on target               S
                      and enhanced           Pre-service trainee tracer study (#)             5        2      Did not meet target           U
                      effectiveness of the   Publications (#)                                 15       44     Exceeded target 3 times over! HS
                      labor market




                                                                           - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

This project was developed prior to the new log frame indicator format.


Outcome Indicators                                                                   Projected in    Actual/Latest
                                                                                     SAR/ PAD End of Estimate
                                                                                     Project

Component 1: Improve Quality and Relevance of Pre-service Vocational Education and Training

Public VET expenditure per student on equipment and materials (in CFAF)              60,000 CFAF     50,000 CFAF
Percentage of trainees in reinforced streams employed within 1 year after graduation 70%             Not determined
Average monthly earnings of VET trainees, 1 year after graduation (in CFAF)          68,000 CFAF     Not determined

Component 2: Develop Sustainable In-Service Vocational and Technical Training Capacity

Percentage of trainees employed within six months of training                        95%             Not determined
Percentage increase in monthly earnings six months after training                    10%             Not determined
Percentage of trainees who pass apprenticeship certification exam                    80%             Not determined
Percentage of female trainees                                                        40%             30.5

Component 3: Improve Labor Market Information

Employment and training seminars for policy makers                                   30              15
Labor market awareness seminars for students and other VET trainees.                 43              23




                                                             - 23 -

Output Indicators                                                                    Projected in    Actual/Latest
                                                                                     SAR/ PAD End of Estimate
                                                                                     Project

Component 1: Improve Quality and Relevance of Pre-service Vocational Education and Training

Auto mechanics                                                                       160             70
Electrical Mechanics                                                                 80               40
General Mechanics (Maintenance)                                                      160              37
Accounting                                                                           160              0
Secretarial and Office Skills                                                        240              0
Electrical Contracting                                                               80               0
Metalwork                                                                            80               28
Carpentry and Woodwork                                                               160              23
Plumbing                                                                             80               18
Masonry                                                                              80               24
Total VET Trainee Project Beneficiaries in reinforced streams                        1,280*           240

Component 2: Develop Sustainable In-Service Vocational and Technical Training Capacity

Number of person-months of training financed                                         40,300          24,078
Number of formal sector training proposals approved                                     175              476
Number of informal sector training proposals approved                                   275              491
Formal sector financial contributions (CFAF million)                                  1,515 CFAF m.      515.6 CFAF m.
Informal sector financial contributions (CFAF million)                                  220 CFAF m.      370.3 CFAF m.
Number of training centers benefiting from VTSF equipt. invest.                          25               13
Number of professions with national apprenticeship cert. stand.                          13                8

Component 3: Improve Labor Market Information

Number of training modules for ETO personnel                                           7              35
Employer and labor market surveys (carried out, processed, analyzed, disseminated)    5                 7
Household employment and earnings survey (carried out, processed, analyzed, diss.)    5                 5
Pre-service trainee tracer study (carried out, processed, analyzed, disseminated)     5                 2
Publications (at least 20 pgs designed for policy makers, reflect labor mkt trends)  15               44

* Annual Enrollment targeted for 2001 according to Project Performance Indicators in SAR.




                                                              - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  Appraisal       Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                  Estimate           Estimate          Appraisal
                       Component                                 US$ million        US$ million
Quality and Relevance of Pre-service VET                              7.90                 8.13          102.91
Vocational Training Support Fund                                     10.20               12.44           121.96
Employment and Training Observatory                                   1.50                 1.61          107.33

Total Baseline Cost                                                  19.60               22.18
 Physical Contingencies                                               1.30
 Price Contingencies                                                  2.00                 0.72               36
                          Total Project Costs                        22.90               22.90
                   Total Financing Required                          22.90               22.90
Source of Exchange Rate information: Integrated Controller's System (ICS), June 12, 2003 - US$1 to CFA 559.66

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB                     2           N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                        Other
1. Works                             0.00            1353.00            190.00              0.00         1543.00
                                    (0.00)          (1150.00)           (69.00)            (0.00)       (1219.00)
2. Goods                           4010.00            223.00            269.00             101.00        4603.00
                                  (4010.00)          (223.00)          (229.00)            (0.00)       (4462.00)
3. Services                          0.00               0.00           9045.00            2711.00       11756.00
Training & Consultancies            (0.00)            (0.00)           (5588.00)           (0.00)       (5588.00)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00               0.00           1991.00             456.00        2447.00
Contractual Services                (0.00)            (0.00)           (1991.00)           (0.00)       (1991.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00               0.00            145.00            2368.00        2513.00
Incremental Recurrent               (0.00)            (0.00)           (145.00)            (0.00)       (145.00)
Costs
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00           0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                           4010.00           1576.00           11640.00           5636.00       22862.00
                                  (4010.00)         (1373.00)          (8022.00)           (0.00)      (13405.00)




                                                   - 25 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.90              0.00             0.00              0.90
                                          (0.00)             (0.77)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.77)
  2. Goods                                 2.04               0.62              0.00             0.00              2.66
                                          (0.73)             (0.12)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.86)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              1.28             0.00              1.28
  Training & Consultancies                (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.93)            (0.00)           (0.93)
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
  Contractual Services                    (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
  Incremental Recurrent                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  Costs
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                2.04               1.53              1.28             0.00              4.84
                                          (0.73)             (0.89)            (0.93)            (0.00)           (2.56)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Quality and Relevance of       9.20         2.30                     6.30         1.84       0.00       68.5      80.0
Pre-service VET
Vocational Training           12.00         3.70                     7.74         4.49       0.20       64.5     121.4
Support Fund
Employment and Training        1.70         0.80                     0.48         1.13       0.00       28.2     141.3
Observatory




                                                          - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

In the SAR, the only calculation of rates of returns was proposed for the VET trainees. The private and
social rates of return were estimated at 30 percent and 11 percent, respectively for 2-year CAP trainees.
For the 4-year BT trainees, the corresponding rates of returns were 33 and 17 percent, respectively. These
rates of returns were based on the assumption that the average salaries would be that of the modern sector
salary and that 75 percent trainees would be employed within three years of graduation. Furthermore, the
sensitivity analysis found that in order to achieve 10 percent minimum social returns among CAP, at least
60 percent of trainees needed to find a job which paid a monthly salary of at least 60,000 CFAF (in 1996
value), within three years of graduation. For BT trainees overall, at least 75 percent needed to be employed
within three years of graduation, and earning at least 90,000 CFAF per month (in 1996 value). At the time
of the ICR, none of the above data were available for calculating the rates of returns to the investment.

It has been well established that rates of returns to education investment's extend well beyond the
augmented salaries earned by the trainees. The social returns and many long-term economic benefits are
not rewarded by the market. This is why the education sector requires long-term and significant public
investments. This project had an objective of building an in-country financial and training capacity to
effectively link education with the labor market's needs, thus providing the economy with much needed
skilled labor. It also had an objective to link the Malian labor market with the neighboring Sub-Saharan
African (SSA) country labor markets. At the close of the project, it was more useful to analyze the
effectiveness of the investment in terms of achieving the project objectives, and the sustainability of the
financial and training capacity built by the project.

Effectiveness and Sustainability of the Project Investment

This section will analyze the effectiveness of the financial investment by component. It will also investigate
the capacity sustainability by project component. The total project cost was US$22.9 million, and IDA
was to finance US$13.4 out of total US$14.8 million foreign exchange part of the project. The total actual
foreign exchange spending at the closing of the project was US$14.5 million. Overall, the project spent 98
percent of total anticipated investment in foreign exchange. Tables 1 to 3 below show the anticipated and
actual outcomes, and proposed and actual investments (based on foreign exchange spending) by project
sub-component. Overall, the components with specific numerical targets and with regard to personal
trainings are under-achieved. Achieved objectives mostly concern facility and equipment
building/upgrading and research/analysis, etc.

The total anticipated investment in foreign exchange for Component 1 was US$5.9 million, and the actual
spending was US$6.3. Table 1 gives an overview of Component 1 outcomes and investments. For
Component 1.1, although the actual spending was almost 3 percent higher than planned, the objectives were
underachieved. Despite the investment in the five training facilities, only 240 trainees were trained
compared with the 1,280 planned. Please refer to Appendix 2: Summary of Project Outputs based on
Performance Ratings by Component. For Component 1.2, the actual spending was much lower than the
planned budget, but teaching the new curriculum was sometimes impeded by insufficient teaching material
supplies required for teaching and learning and the component cannot be evaluated as a complete success.
For Component 1.3, the physical structure of the ETO was built, with new furnishing, equipment, etc.
However, the office had a high staff turn-over and had difficulty retaining qualified staff. At the close of
the project, three staff out of seven planned by the project were at work in the ETO. Overall, Component 1
over spent US$0.4 million. Capacity was, however, built in the DNETP and ETO to continue project
activities.




                                                      - 27 -

Table 1 Project Objectives and Investment, Component 1

 Project              Expected outcomes        Actual 2001 outcomes         Proposed    Actual
 components                                                                 IDA ($m)    IDA ($m)
 1. Pre-service VET services                                                5.9          6.3
 1.1--Upgrade         Upgrading five training  Upgrading satisfactory,      3.5          3.6
 training facilities  facilities, support of   10 streams were supported,
                      training for seven       trained 240 trainees
                      streams of 1,280
                      trainees
1.2--Improve quality Curriculum reform,        Reform carried out,          2.1         1.6
of instruction        training instructors,    insufficient supply of
                      linking training to      teaching materials in
                      labor market             reformed curricula, which
                                               requires more teaching
                                               materials than the old
                                               curricula.
 1.3--Development     At the central level,    New Department of            0.3         1.1
 management           building new offices,    Technical and Vocational
 capacity at central  training school          training was established
 and school levels    directors, twinning      with new offices,
                      DNETP with MOE of        equipment and staff, the
                      Quebec                   other two outcomes are
                                               unclear



The total anticipated investment in foreign exchange for Component 2 was US$7.8 million, but the actual
spending was US$7.7 million. Table 2 gives an overview of outcomes and investments of Component 2.
For Sub-component 2.1, at the time of closing, the VTSF fund was deemed to be unsustainable due to
inadequate VTT. The trainees supported by this fund constituted 60 percent of what had been planned. A
special target for the recruitment of 40 percent female trainees was not achieved, although female's share of
the trainees did increase moderately from 26 percent to 31 percent. The sub-component underspent by 16
percent of anticipated budget, and its achievements was at least 40 percent below the targets. The
sub-component itself was a moderate success, although the financial efficiency was low. Sub-component
2.2 overspent the budget of US$0.3 million with an actual spending of US$1.4 million. To date, no
explanation has been provided for the overspending. In spite of overspending, the objective was partially
achieved with about 60 percent of targets being reached. Overall, Component 2 significantly reallocated
the resources between the two sub-components. The overall objective was partially achieved.




                                                     - 28 -

Table 2 Project Objectives and Investment, Component 2

 Project            Expected outcomes                 Actual 2001 outcomes        Proposed     Actual
 components                                                                       IDA ($m)     IDA ($m)
 2. Develop sustainable in-service vocational and technical                       7.8           7.7
 2.1--Skills                                                                      7.5           6.3
 upgrading          Establishment of a revolving      VTSF is unlikely to be
 and                VTSF, increase annual             sustainable at the current
 retraining         in-service trainees from 3,000    stage, about 60 % of
                    to 10,000, increase women         targeted person-months
                    trainees from current 26 to 40    training was achieved, 30%
                    %.                                of women trainees
 2.2--Apprentice-                                                                 0.3          1.4
ship certification  Developing a national system      National standards were
                    of apprenticeship certification   established for 9
                    for 13 priority occupations.      professions


The total anticipated investment in foreign exchange for Component 3 was US$1.1 million, but the actual
spending was only US$0.49 million. Table 3 gives an overview of the outcomes and investments of
Component 3. The objective of Sub-component 3.1 was partially achieved with some serious sustainability
problems due to the under staffing of the ETO. Sub-component 3.2 underspent half of the anticipated
budget, yet staff were trained on 35 instead of 7 modules. However, trained staff apparently did not stay
with the ETO, because only three key staff remained with the ETO at the time of project completion.
Component 3.3 spent only US$60,000, as reported, but produced 14 surveys/studies and 44 publications.
Given the quantity of output, it is likely that there was additional Government funding. Without actually
reviewing the contents of each of the surveys and publications, it is hard to assess the quality of the
research done. For Component 3.4, only US$30,000 was spent, compared to US$300,000 planned. The
documentation center was opened as planned, and at least 50 percent of planned training seminars were
undertaken. Component 3 was a small component in terms of project budget, and underspent significantly.
Some objectives were achieved, mostly training, physical infrastructures and supplies. The sustainability
at the end of the project was an issue.




                                                      - 29 -

Table 3 Project outcomes and investments, component 3

 Project              Expected outcomes        Actual 2001 outcomes          Proposed      Actual
 components                                                                  IDA ($m)      IDA ($m)
 3. Improve labor market information                                         1.1            0.49
 3.1--Employment                                                             0.2           0.22
 and training         Establish an             ETO was established and
 observatory          employment and           functions satisfactorily,
                      training observatory     although with recurring
                                               under staffing problems
 3.2--Training of                                                            0.3            0.18
 ETO staff            ETO staff will be         ETO staff were trained
                      trained based on a        based on a 35 module
                      7-module program          program, exchange
                                                programs established with
                                                other countries
 3.3--Surveys of                                                             0.3            0.06
 labor market and     Support three labor       Fourteen surveys were
 training             market surveys each       conducted, and 44
                      year and the analysis     publications produced,
                      of the data               compared to 15 targeted.
                                                The quality of analysis,
                                                however, questionable due
                                                to lack of basic data
 3.4--Disseminatio                                                           0.3           0.03
 n of labor market    Support ETO               Documentation center
 information          Documentation Center      opened in early 2002.
                      with equipment,           Twenty-three labor market
                      publication fees, and     awareness seminars and
                      job counseling for        15 training seminars for
                      secondary and higher      policy makers were
                      education students        conducted, about half of
                                                what had been planned.


In conclusion, the project only partially achieved its objectives mostly related to training, physical
infrastructure, equipment and supplies. On the number of trainees, the target was partially met. Some
capacity was however built up but it is not certain whether this will be enough to continue the project
objective of providing the economy with trained professionals of relevant skills. In order to strengthen
sustainability, the ICR team recommends that macro and sector policy dialogue relating to these issues
should be pursued with the GoM.




                                                     - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/07/94                  3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/29/96                  4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             LEGAL COUNSEL (2);
                                             RESIDENT REP. (1)

 Supervision

              03/16/1997                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2);
              06/27/1997                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
              01/27/1998                1    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)         S               S
              05/20/1998                1    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)         S               S
              12/12/1998                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT ASST (1)
              06/12/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC (1)
              02/19/2000                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/29/2000                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (2);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/17/2000                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1)
              09/04/2001                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FIN. MGMT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1)
              12/08/2001                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             FIN. MGMT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)



                                              - 31 -

               06/15/2002              4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           FIN. MGMT SPECIALIST (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)

 ICR
               12/20/2002             4     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             U    U
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                            (1); CONSULTANT (1);
                                            FIN. MGMT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
               02/12/2003             2     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           21.20                      39,000.30
  Appraisal/Negotiation                46.00                     118,001.00
  Supervision                        122.40                      261,092.63
  ICR                                  23.18                      14,015.37
  Total                              212.78                      432,109.30




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Republic of Mali, December 1, 1994

Staff Appraisal Report, February 15, 1996

Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the IDA, February 15, 1996

Letter of Development Policy, February 26, 1996

Development Credit Agreement, March 26, 1996

Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Republic of Mali, April 24, 1998

Aide-Memoire, Mid-Term Review Mission, May 29, 2000

Commentaire sur La Note Technique Portant sur la Restructuration de l'Office National de la Main
d'Oeuvre et de l'Emploi, January 8, 2001

Various Preparation, Negotiation and Supervision Aide-Memoires, December 16, 1994 to December 20,
2002

ICR Aide-Memoire, Final Supervision Mission, December 20, 2002

Project Status Reports (18), April 19, 1996 to February 4, 2003

Report on the End of Activities Seminar of the PCFP, February 17-18, 2003

Rapport d'Achèvement du Project de Consolidation de la Formation Professionnelle (PCFP), 1996-2002

Vocational Education and Training: The Role of the Public Sector in a Market Economy, HROWP April
1994

Vocational Education and Training Reform:matching skills to markets and budgets, WB Publication,
March 2000

Skills Development in Sub-Saharan Africa, Richard K. Johanson and Arvil V. Adams, June 2003




                                                  - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner Contribution to ICR

1. Introduction
La signature de l'Accord de crédit 2828/MLI relatif au Projet de Consolidation de la Formation
Professionnelle (PCFP) le 26 mars 1996 à Washington traduit la volonté du gouvernement du Mali de
procéder d'une part, à une réforme en profondeur de son système de formation technique et professionnelle
et d'autre part, à améliorer la productivité des entreprises et des artisans ainsi que la collecte des
informations relatives à l'emploi.

Le PCFP qui a couvert une période d'exécution de six (6) ans, a comme toute oeuvre humaine enregistré
des points forts et des points faibles dans la réalisation des activités devant concourir à l'atteinte des
objectifs de développement assignés au projet.

2. Rappel des objectifs et de la description du projet
Le projet vise à :

    a) Augmenter la productivité de la main-d'oeuvre à travers l'amélioration de la qualité et la pertinence
    de la formation professionnelle ;
    b) Renforcer la capacité institutionnelle à gérer les ressources financières, humaines et matérielles
    allouées à la formation professionnelle publique et privée, avec la participation active du secteur privé ;

    c) Améliorer l'adéquation formation-emploi.

3. Principaux résultats atteints et évaluation des résultas globaux du projet
Au regard des indicateurs de performance contenus dans le « Plan d'exécution du projet » de décembre
1995, il ressort que les objectifs de réalisation du projet ont été atteints. L'essentiel des activités prévues a
été réalisé.

4. Principaux facteurs ayant affecté la mise en oeuvre du projet
Les principaux facteurs ayant affecté l'exécution des activités du PCFP se résument comme suit :

4.1 Le retard accusé dans l'entrée en vigueur du projet
L'Accord de crédit 2828/MLI signé le 26 mars 1996 entre le Gouvernement du Mali et l'Association
Internationale de Développement ( IDA) n'est entré en vigueur qu'un an plus tard soit le 26 mars 1997.
Cette situation a de ce fait retardé d'un an le démarrage des activités des composantes FPI et FAFPA, d'où
la prorogation d'un an de la date de clôture du projet initialement fixée au 31 décembre 2001.

4.2 Le taux élevé de la participation des bénéficiaires dans l'exécution des activités du FAFPA
Les documents du projet prévoyaient une contribution des bénéficiaires à la réalisation des activités du
FAFPA.
Il est ressorti de l'exécution des activités du FAFPA que la contribution demandée n'était pas facilement
mobilisable par les bénéficiaires. N'eût été l'apport de certains partenaires dont l'ONG Swisscontact dans
la mobilisation de la contrepartie des bénéficiaires, la formation dans le secteur informel aurait connu un
taux d'exécution faible semblable à celui du secteur moderne (34 %). De même seulement 13 sur 25 centres
privés ont pu être équipés.




                                                      - 36 -

5. Evaluation de la pérennité du projet
Le projet a bien exécuté les activités de réalisation prévues en vue d'atteindre les objectifs de
développement. Cependant, il convient de noter que les efforts entrepris par le gouvernement n'ont pas
permis à ce jour d'assurer la pérennisation financière des acquis du FAFPA . Les mesures prises pour
assurer l'atteinte des objectifs de développement du projet seront examinées dans le point 8 ci-dessous.

6. Evaluation du comportement et de la performance du gouvernement, de l'AGETIPE-Mali et des
unités de gestion du projet d'exécution

6.1 Du gouvernement
Le gouvernement du Mali n'a ménagé aucun effort pour faciliter l'exécution des activités prévues par le
PCFP. Les difficultés rencontrées dans la mobilisation de la contrepartie nationale au démarrage du projet
en 1997 étaient dues à l'absence d'une inscription au Budget Spécial d'Investissement par les agences
d'exécution courant juin-juillet 1996. Face à l'épuisement du crédit IDA, le gouvernement du Mali a équipé
les ateliers de quatre filières de formation rénovés par l'IDA. Le montant total de l'appui exceptionnel
consenti par le gouvernement sur les ressources PPTE s'élève à environ 525 millions de francs CFA.

Cependant, des lenteurs préjudiciables à la bonne exécution du projet ont été constatées dans l'approbation
des dossiers de passation de marché courant 1998 et 1999 par le ministère de tutelle de la Cellule de
Coordination des composante FPI & OEF.

6.2 De l'AGETIPE-MALI
L'exécution exclusive des travaux de maîtrise d'ouvrage délégué par l'AGETIPE-Mali n'a pas permis
l'exécution satisfaisante dans les délais requis des travaux de construction/ réhabilitation des centres de
formation et des locaux administratifs de l'enseignement technique et professionnel. Dans l'avenir, il serait
souhaitable d'offrir à l'emprunteur la possibilité de choisir parmi plusieurs prestataires pour faire exécuter
les travaux. La recherche de l'efficacité qui avait prévalu en 1996 n'a pas été atteinte .

6.3 De la Cellule de Coordination des Composantes FPI & OEF
L'insuffisance numérique du personnel cadre et d'exécution de la Cellule n'a pas facilité l'exécution
correcte des activités du projet. Malgré la demande de renforcement de l'effectif de cette unité suggérée par
les missions d'audit des comptes du projet pour éviter les incompatibilités de fonctions , l'IDA n'a pas
autorisé le recrutement d'un aide comptable. Pendant toute la durée du projet, le personnel de la Cellule a
croulé sous le poids du travail et a dû faire face aux incompatibilités de fonctions dans la saisie des
écritures comptables maintes fois relevées par les auditeurs.

Malgré les conditions de travail assez difficile, l'équipe de la cellule de Coordination des Composantes FPI
& OEF s'est bien acquitté de sa mission en matière de passation de marchés, de mobilisation et de
décaissement de fonds.. Le personnel de la Cellule de Coordination du PCFP a acquis au terme de
l'exécution du projet une expérience solide en matière de gestion de projet qu'il conviendrait de capitaliser.

6. 4 Du FAFPA
L'équipe du FAFPA s'est également acquittée avec satisfaction de ses missions malgré la forte mobilité des
cadres du FAFPA due entre autres au manque de motivations financières. Les procédures de passation des
marchés prescrites initialement n'ont pas permis à cette unité une exécution rapide des activités de
formation.




                                                      - 37 -

7. Evaluation du comportement et de la performance de la Banque Mondiale et du co-financier

7.1 De la Banque Mondiale
Globalement le comportement et la bonne compréhension des cadres de la Banque chargés des missions de
supervision du projet, de l'approbation des dossiers soumis à revue préalable et des décaissements de fonds
auront permis de surmonter les difficultés rencontrées et d'éviter même une suspension du crédit IDA N°
2828/MLI. L'appui financier constant de la Banque pendant toute la durée du projet a été fort appréciable.
Le changement fréquent du responsable du projet au niveau de la Banque et la lenteur dans l'approbation
de certains dossiers d'appels d'offres internationaux soumis à l'avis préalable de la l'IDA ont également
contribué à la mauvaise performance enregistrée du projet en 1997 et 1998.

7.2 De la Coopération française
En l'absence d'une coordination effective des activités du projet, l'appréciation du comportement et de la
performance du co-financier FAC s'avère difficile. Cependant les activités essentielles soutenues par le
FAC ont concerné le FAFPA et les Unités de Formation et d'Appui aux Entreprises (UFAE). La
Coopération Française a donc facilité la mise en place des activités principales du FAFPA, en direction des
secteurs moderne et surtout de l'artisanat.

7.3 De la coopération suisse
La Coopération suisse bien que ne figurant pas dans les documents du projet comme co-financier a joué un
rôle prépondérant dans l'exécution des activités de formation du secteur de l'artisanat à travers l'ONG
Swisscontact. En effet, depuis 1998, à travers le Programme d'Appui à la formation professionnelle par
Apprentissage dans le secteur de l'Artisanat (PAA) financé par la Coopération suisse, Swisscontact a mis à
la disposition du FAFPA un fonds pour le financement de la formation par apprentissage dans les
nouveaux métiers développés.

8. Description des mesures proposées pour le fonctionnement futur des activités soutenues par le
projet
Les activités du PCFP ont été exécutées par des structures pérennes qui sont :

    - la Direction Nationale de l'Enseignement Technique et Professionnel pour la composante FPI,
    - Le Fonds d'Appui à la Formation Professionnelle et à l'Apprentissage pour la composante FAFPA,
    - L'Observatoire de l'Emploi et de la Formation pour la composante OEF

Seule la Cellule de coordination du projet dont le personnel est en majorité fonctionnaire est appelée à
disparaître.
Bien avant la date de clôture du projet, les ministères en charge du PCFP ont entrepris des séances de
travail avec d'autres départements ministériels en vue de pérenniser le financement des activités du FAFPA
et de l'OEF. Les démarches entamées sont porteuses d'espoir dans la mesure où les activités à financer
s'inscrivent dans les priorités du gouvernement en matière de lutte contre la pauvreté.

En attendant de procéder sous peu à la relecture des textes portant création du FAFPA en vue de lui
permettre de mieux accomplir sa mission, le gouvernement vient d'octroyer à cet Etablissement une
subvention de
400 000 000 F.CFA.

La pérennisation des acquis de la composante FPI a été prévue dans les activités du Programme
d'Investissement du Secteur de l'Education.


                                                     - 38 -

9. Leçons à tirer du projet et de son exécution
Selon l'équipe du projet les leçons préliminaires tirées de l'exécution du projet se résument comme suit

9.1 Pour la FPI
Au regard des résultats satisfaisants atteints, le renforcement des dispositifs de formation professionnelle
initiale réalisé par la composante FPI du PCFP devrait être étendu aux autres établissements publics
d'enseignement technique et professionnel pour une question d'équité entre tous les enfants évoluant dans le
système public.

9.2 Pour le FAFPA
Eu égard à l'insuffisance notoire de capacité de formation, une plus grande importance doit être accordée
au renforcement des capacités physiques de formation et au développement des compétences des formateurs
dans le cadre d'un nouveau Projet.

9.3 Pour l'OEF
Il aurait été préférable que l'OEF fût une agence indépendante afin de pouvoir mener à bien sa mission sans
les contraintes qui ont été les siennes au cours de l'exécution de ce projet.

9.4 Pour la Coordination du projet
     ·   Encourager le Gouvernement du Mali à alléger le circuit d'approbation des marchés publics en
     vue de renforcer les capacités d'absorption des fonds mis à sa disposition du Mali;
     ·   S'assurer que les véritables acteurs de la mise en oeuvre des activités des composantes du projet ont
     pris une part active aux phases de préparation , d'évaluation et de négociation du projet ;
     ·   Eviter de confier l'exclusivité de l'exécution des travaux de génie civil à une seule agence.




                                                       - 39 -

- 40 -

