Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2828 MLI
                           Development Credit Agreement
             (Vocational Education and Training Consolidation Project)
                                      between
                                 REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                        and
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               Dated March 26, 1996
                                                         CREDIT NO 2828 MLI
                          DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated March 26, between REPUBLIC OF MALI (the
Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
       WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter, dated
February 12, 1996 (the Policy Letter) from the Borrower
describing a program of actions, objectives, and policies
designed to strengthen the Borrower's vocational education and
training system (the Program), and declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program; and
       (B)    the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project; and
       WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                     ARTICLE I
                          General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the
Page  2
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
       (a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
       (b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
              "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
              otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a)
              on account of expenditures in the territories of any
              country which is not a member of the Bank or for
              goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
              territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
              to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
              if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
              Association, is prohibited by a decision of the
              United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
              VII of the Charter of the United Nations.".
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
       (a)   "Beneficiary" means an individual, or a group of individuals,
to whom, or for whose benefit, a grant is made, or proposed to be made,
under Part A.1 of the Project;
       (b)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
       (c)   "VTSF" or "Vocational Training Support Fund" means the fund
to be established pursuant to Section 7.01 (c) of this Agreement;
       (d)   "Financing Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into
between VTSF and a Beneficiary, or Sponsor (as hereinafter defined), for
the purposes of carrying out a Subproject;
       (e)   "Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by VTSF to
finance a  Subproject;
       (f)   "Sponsor" means a private or public entity such as a training
institute, a community organization or a non-governmental organization
responsible for the implementation of a Subproject for, or on behalf of, a
Beneficiary;
       (g)   "VTSF Operational Manual" means the manual to be adopted
pursuant to Section 7.01(c) of this Agreement;
       (h)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters dated January 26, 1996 and January 29, 1996 between the
Borrower and the Association;
       (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
       (j)   "Subproject" means a specific skills upgrading project
financed, or proposed to be financed, under Part A.1 of the Project;
       (k)   "Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and VTSF referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as
the same shall be amended from time to time;
       (l)   "MESSRS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Secondary and
Higher Education, and Scientific Research;
       (m)   "ONMOE" means the Borrower's Office National de la Main
d'Oeuvre et de l'Emploi;
       (n)   "DNETP" means the Borrower's Direction Nationale de
l'Enseignement Technique et Professionnel;
Page  3
       (o)   "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan to be adopted
pursuant to Section 7.01 (b) of this Agreement describing procedures and
timetables for the coordination and implementation of the Project;
       (p)   "VET" means Vocational Education and Training;
Employeurs instituted under Ordonnance No. 1/PG-RM on February 7, 1961; and
       (o)   "CCC/FPI-OEF" means the Borrower's Cellule de Coordination
des Composantes Formation Professionnelle Initiale/Observatoire de
l'Emploi et de la Formation.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
       Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR  9,000,000).
       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
       (b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account (Special Account A),
and for the purposes of Parts B and C of the Project open and maintain in
CFAF a special deposit account (Special Account B) both in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against setoff, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of each Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
       (c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
       Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
       (b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30
immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
       (c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the
currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions
of that Section.
       Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
Page  4
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
       Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
       Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15,
2006 and ending January 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 15, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
       (b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Association
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Association lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-
mentioned repayment modification.
       (c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
       Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end:
              (i)   shall cause VTSF to carry out Part A of the Project
                    with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
                    with appropriate administrative, economic, financial,
                    technical and environmental practices, shall take, or
                    cause to be taken, all action, including the
                    provision of funds, facilities, services and other
                    resources necessary, or appropriate, to enable VTSF to
                    carry out Part A of the Project, and shall not take, or
                    permit to be taken, any action which would prevent, or
                    interfere with, the carrying out of Part A of the
                    Project by VTSF; and
              (ii)  shall carry out Parts B and C of the Project with due
                    diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                    appropriate administrative and financial practices,
                    and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                    facilities, services and other resources required
                    for Parts B and C of the Project.
       (b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this  Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause VTSF to carry out Part A of the
Page  5
Project, and shall carry out Parts B and C, all in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
       (c)    The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to Categories (2), (3) (a), (4) (a), and (5) of the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for Part A of the
Project available to VTSF, on a grant basis, under a Subsidiary Grant
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and VTSF, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
       (d)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Grant Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any
provision thereof.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
       (a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to
ensure the continued achievement of the Project's objectives; and
       (b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, in respect of Parts B
and C of the Project, and cause VTSF to maintain, in respect of Part A of
the Project, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of Parts B and C of the Project, and Part A of the Project,
respectively.
       (b)    The Borrower shall, and shall cause VTSF, to:
              (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                    (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                    Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                    with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                    applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                    Association;
              (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
                    in any case not later than six (6) months after the end
                    of each such year, a certified copy of the report of
                    such audit and management letter, by said auditors, of
                    such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                    have reasonably requested; and
              (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                    concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                    as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                    request.
       (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
              (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                    paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
Page  6
                    reflecting such expenditures;
              (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
                    has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                    which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                    payment out of the Special Accounts was made, all
                    records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                    and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
              (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                    records;
                    and
              (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                    the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                    Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                    separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                    year, together with the procedures and internal controls
                    involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                    support the related withdrawals.
                                     ARTICLE V
                                  Other Covenants
       Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause VTSF:
       (a)    to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice;
       (b)    to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers; and
       (c)    at all times to operate and to maintain its facilities,
equipment and other property, and from to time, promptly as needed,
to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound technical and financial practices.
                                    ARTICLE VI
                            Remedies of the Association
       Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
       (a)    A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
       (b)    The Borrower's instrument establishing VTSF shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of VTSF to perform any of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement;
       (c)    As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that VTSF will be able to carry out Part A of the Project; and
       (d)    The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of
VTSF or the suspension of its operations.
       Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely that
any event specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of Section 7.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE VII
Page  7
                         Effective Date; Termination
       Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
       (a)    the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly executed by
the Borrower and VTSF;
       (b)    the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Plan;
       (c)    VTSF has been duly established with an organization,
terms of reference, and staffing acceptable to the Association, and the
VTSF Operational Manual has been adopted;
       (d)    the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence,
satisfactory to the Association, that staff referred to in paragraph 8
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been transferred to the ETO;
       (e)    the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this
Agreement have been selected under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association;
       (f)    the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence
that accounting systems for the implementation of the Project,
satisfactory to the Association, has been established;
       (g)    the Borrower has submitted to the Association evidence
satisfactory to the Association showing that ONMOE had made the
necessary allocation in its 1996 budget in the amount of the CFAF 95
million to be transferred to ETO under paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement;
       (h)    the Borrower has adopted a work program under the Project,
including performance indicators, acceptable to the Association, for the
first twelve months period after the Effective Date;
       (i)    the texts referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 have
been adopted;
       (j)    the staff referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 have
been recruited in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
       (k)    the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence
satisfactory to the Association that the VTSF has been provided with
sufficient office space for its operations.
       Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association,
namely that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and VTSF and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and VTSF in accordance with its terms.
       Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VIII
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
       Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
Page  8
              Ministere des Finances
                et du Commerce
              Bamako
              Mali
                                                 Telex:
                                                 2559
       For the Association:
              International Development Association
              1818 H Street, N.W.
              Washington, D.C. 20433
              United States of America
              Cable address:                     Telex:
                     INDEVAS                     248423 (RCA)
                     Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                     REPUBLIC OF MALI
                     By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah
                                                 Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                   Regional Vice President
                                                                    Africa
                                    SCHEDULE 1
                     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                                  Amount of the
                                Credit Allocated
                                  (Expressed in      % of Expenditures
Category                        in SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)    Works                         700,000          85% of local
                                                      expenditures
(2)    Goods, Consultants'         2,400,000          100% of foreign
       Services and Training                          expenditures and
       for Subprojects under                          45% of local
Page  9
       Part A of the Project                          expenditures
(3)    Equipment, Vehicles,                           100% of foreign
       Furniture and Materials                        expenditures and
                                                      85% of local
                                                      expenditures
       (a)  under Part A             150,000
           of the Project
       (b)  under Parts B and      1,600,000
            C of the Project
(4)    Technical Assistance,                          100%
       Training and Consultants'
       Services
       (a)  under Part A           1,600,000
            of the Project
       (b)  under Parts B and      1,300,000
           C of the Project
(5)    Operating Costs               100,000            85%
       under Part A of
       the Project
(6)    Project Preparation           250,000            100%
       Advance
(6)    Unallocated                   900,000          Amount due pursuant
                                                      to Section 2.02 (c) of
                                   _________          this Agreement
       TOTAL                       9,000,000
                                   =========
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
       (b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which
the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for
such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
       (c)    the term "operating costs" means incremental Project related
costs on account of vehicle and equipment operations and maintenance,
communications (phone, fax, mail), office supplies acquisition, office
rent and utilities payment, and local staff salaries and allowances
(excluding civil servants).
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; (b) payments for expenditures under Category
(1), until the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence
satisfactory to the Association that all necessary authorizations for
works to be carried out under Parts A.4, B (b), and C (a) of the Project
have been obtained; and (c) payments for expenditures under Category (2),
until the Association has received evidence, satisfactory to the
Association, that all necessary legislative and regulatory texts,
acceptable to the Association, relating to the financing by employers of
VTSF activities have been adopted.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a) for works under contracts not exceeding $250,000 equivalent; (b) for
Page  10
goods, under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (c) for
services: (i) for firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000, and
(ii) for individuals under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent,
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
       The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and capacity
of the Borrower's vocational education and training services by increasing
their responsiveness to private sector employers needs.
       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:       Vocational Training Support Fund
1.     Promotion, appraisal, supervision, and evaluation of
skills-upgrading projects, submitted by individuals and private sector
organizations; and provision of Grants to finance such projects.
2.     Development of skills-upgrading capacity of the private sector
through training of trainers and acquisition of equipment and materials.
3.     Development of a national apprenticeship certification system,
including implementation of apprenticeship training programs, through
provision of technical assistance and training, carrying out of
workshops, and publishing and promotion of standards for the assessment
of workers' skills.
4.     Carrying out of civil works to rehabilitate the offices of VTSF.
Part B:       Pre-service VET
       Improving of quality, supply, and efficiency of the Borrower's
pre-service VET services through:
       (a)    acquisition of equipment, didactic materials, training and
technical assistance to: (i) improve quality of instruction, and (ii)
strengthen operational and managerial capacities of DNETP and schools''
directors and training supervisors; and
       (b)    carrying out of civil works to upgrade selected training
facilities.
Part C:       Employment and Training Observatory
       Establishment and operation of an employment and training
observatory to strengthen the Borrower's capacity to monitor, analyze,
and disseminate labor market information, including: (a) rehabilitation
of buildings and facilities; (b) provision of training and technical
advisory services, and acquisition of equipment and periodicals
publications, reference materials, and furniture; and (c) carrying out
of labor market and training surveys.
                                   * * *
       The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                                    SCHEDULE 3
                       Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:       General
       Goods and Works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Page  11
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Association in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:       International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1
thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B:
       (a)    Grouping of contracts
       To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in
       bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
       (b)    Preference for domestically manufactured goods
       The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
       Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
       territory of the Borrower.
Part C:       Other Procurement Procedures
1.     National Competitive Bidding
       Equipment and furniture estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $220,000
equivalent, and works estimated to cost less than $250,000, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.     International Shopping, or Procurement from UN Agencies
       Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent may be
procured either: (a) under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, or (b) from IAPSO in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
3.     National Shopping
       Goods estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines.
Part D:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
       Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
       With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  12
3.     Post Review
       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank on Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Association in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Association, with such modifications
as shall have been agreed by the Association.  Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Association, other standard
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.
       However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for
the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                    SCHEDULE 4
                              Implementation Program
A.     Overall Project Implementation
1.     The Borrower shall cause VTSF to implement Part A of the Project,
and shall implement Parts B and C of the Project, through CCC/FPI-OEF of
MESSRS, all in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan.
2.     Except as the Association  shall otherwise agree, for the purposes
of Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) cause VTSF to apply
the criteria, policies, procedures and guidelines set out in the VTSF
Operational Manual, and in the Project Implementation Plan; and (ii) not
permit to be amended or abrogated, the VTSF Operational Manual, the
Project Implementation Plan, or any provision thereof, in a manner which,
in the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect
the implementation of Part A.1 of the Project.
3.     The Borrower shall ensure that the positions of head of CCC/FPI-OEF,
and the Manager of VTSF shall, at all times during the execution of the
Project, be filled by persons having qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association.
4.     Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of this
Agreement: (a) the staff of CCC/FPI-OEF shall at all times include a
procurement specialist, and financial specialist acceptable to the
Association; and (b) the staff of VTSF shall at all times include a
procurement specialist, a financial specialist, three vocational training
specialists, and a communication specialist, all with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association.
5.     The Borrower shall: (a) by the beginning of the 1995/1996 academic
year: (i) not enroll new students in its Brevet de Technicien-level
training programs in customs, finance and workers' rights, and (ii)
Page  13
reduce the enrollment in its training streams in geometry and industrial
chemistry to fifty percent of its current level;
       (b)    at all times during the implementation of the Project,
limit the enrollment in its VET institutions to a level compatible with
the capacities of such institutions' practical training facilities, as
determined on the basis, inter alia, of the number of functional work
stations for each training program.
6.     The Borrower shall adopt a Decret and an Arrete, acceptable to
the Association, to reorganize its technical education and vocational
training establishments operated by DNETP, to strengthen their
management and resource generation capacities.
7.     The Borrower shall employ specialized private sector operators,
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, for the
preparation of technical specifications, the evaluation of bids and the
supervision of all works to be carried out under the Project.
8.     The Borrower shall transfer to the ETO a statisticien, a training
specialist, a computer specialist, a communications specialist, a
micro-economist and a macro-economist, all with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association.
9.     By the end of each quarter during the implementation of the
Project, commencing December 31, 1996, the Borrower shall transfer to
VTSF the revenues collected from the employers' contribution to the
financing of VTSF activities referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
10.    By May 31 of each year, commencing May 31, 1996, cause ONMOE
to: (i) transfer to ETO, for its operations, not less than CFAF 95
million out of the revenues generated by the Employment Services Tax,
and (ii) furnish to the Association reports, in such details as the
Association shall reasonably request, on its activities and financial
situation.
11.    The Borrower shall:
       (a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
performance indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
       (b)    furnish to the Association for its review and comments
quarterly progress reports on the status of the Project, including
regular beneficiary assessment and beneficiary feedback reports and
Subprojects completion reports;
       (c)    not later than November 1 of each  year, commencing on
November 1, 1997, undertake, in conjunction with the Association and
VTSF, a joint annual review on all matters relating to the progress
of the Project and, in particular, the progress achieved by the
Borrower and VTSF during the current fiscal year, having regard to
the monitoring indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of this
paragraph;
       (d)    not later than one month prior to each annual review,
furnish to the Association: (i) for its approval, a proposed annual
work program, including a proposed budget and financing plan, for
the forthcoming fiscal year, and (ii) for its review, a report in
such detail as  the Association shall reasonably request, on the
progress of the Project during the current year;
       (e)    following each annual review, act promptly and diligently
in order to take, or assist VTSF in taking, any corrective action deemed
necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the implementation of
the Project, or to implement, or assist VTSF in implementing, such
measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance
of the objectives of the Project; and
       (f)    promptly after the Effective Date, take all measures
Page  14
necessary on its part to organize, in conjunction with the Association
and VTSF, a workshop for the launching of the Project implementation
which shall cover, inter alia, disbursement and procurement procedures
and detailed timetables for the implementation of the Project.
12.    Midterm Review
       (a)    Not later than December 31, 1998, the Borrower shall carry
out jointly with the Association and VTSF a midterm review of the
progress made in carrying out the Project under terms of reference
agreed with the Association.
       (b)    The Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the Midterm
Review, furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status
of implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of
Project implementation generally.
       (c)    The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the
Midterm Review,  prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association,
for the further implementation of the Project having regard to the
findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action
program.
B.     Part A of the Project
13.    Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
       Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 2 above, no
Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit unless VTSF has determined that the Subproject satisfies
eligibility criteria acceptable to the Association, including those
specified in the VTSF Operational Manual.
14.    Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Subprojects
       Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Financing Agreements,
to be concluded between VTSF and the Sponsor or the Beneficiary, as thecase may be, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
which, inter alia, shall include the following:
       (a)    the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance
with the VTSF Operational Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and
in accordance with sound pedagogical, financial and managerial standards
and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Subproject;
       (b)    the requirement that: (i) the goods, and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement; and (ii) such goods, and services shall be used exclusively
in the carrying out of the Subproject;
       (c)    the right of VTSF to inspect, by itself, or jointly with
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods included
in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant records and
documents;
       (d)    the right of VTSF to obtain all information as VTSF or the
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration,
operations and financial conditions of the Subproject; and
       (e)    the right of VTSF to suspend or terminate the right of the
Sponsor to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject upon failure
by the Sponsor, or the Beneficiary, to perform any of its obligations
under its Financing Agreement.
15.    The Borrower shall cause VTSF to submit to the Association, for
its review or approval, as the case may be:
       (a)    not later than September 30 of each year commencing
September 30, 1996, a proposed annual work program, including a
Page  15
proposed budget and financing plan, for the forthcoming fiscal year; and
       (b)    quarterly and annual progress reports on the status of Part
A of the Project, including regular beneficiary assessment and beneficiary
feedback reports and Subprojects completion reports.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Accounts
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a),
(2), (3) (a), (4) (a), and (5) with respect to Special Account A, and
Categories (1) (b), (3) (b), and (4) (b), with respect to Special
Account B, set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
       (b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
       (c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to CFAF 375,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for
Part A of the Project (Special Account A) and an amount equivalent to
CFAF 375,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for Parts B, and C
thereof (Special Account B), to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to CFAF 200,000,000 in respect of Special Account A and an
amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000,000 in respect of Special Account B,
until: (i) the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account
allocated to Categories (1) (a), (2), (3) (a), (4) (a), and (5) plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for
Part A of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
SDR 1,500,000, and (ii) in respect of Special Account B, the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to Categories
(1) (b), (3) (b), and (4) (b) plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts B and C of the Project shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000.
2.     Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
       (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits into the respective Special Account of an amount which do
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
       (b)    (i)   For replenishment of the respective Special Account,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                    for deposits into the respective Special Account at
                    such intervals as the Association shall specify; and
              (ii)  Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                    documents and other evidence required pursuant to
Page  16
                    paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                    payments in respect of which replenishment is
                    requested.  On the basis of each such request, the
                    Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                    withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                    respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                    shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                    said documents and other evidence to have been paid out
                    of the respective Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures.
       All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
any Special Account:
       (a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
       (b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
       (c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions;
or
       (d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account minus the
total amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
       Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit
into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association
into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  17
       (b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such
outstanding amount.
       (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Accounts.
       (d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
