/JV5/62-& 676{
CIRCULATING COPY        RESTRICTED
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK Report No. P-600
IN GENERAL FILES
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
May 21, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recormmendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $US 1.8 million
to the Gabonese Republic to assist in financing an education project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.     In November 1965, upon the request of the Gabonese Government,
a Bank/UNESCO reconnaissance mission visited Gabon and identified an
education project which provided for the construction of new and the
extension of existing educational institutions in various parts of
the country. In June 1966, a UNESCO mission assisted the Government
in the preparation of this project. The project was appraised by a
Bank mission in June 1967. The mission reported that the success
of the project would depend to a very large extent on the French
government's assistance because, for a long time to come, most of
the teaching positions would have to be filled by expatriate teachers.
3.     The Bank then sought assurances by the French goverrment, par-
ticularly on the availability of additional key personnel required
for the efficient operation and supervision of the project. These
assurances were recently obtained and the French government (FAC)
has agreed to make a grant to Gabon to finance the foreign exchange
costs of key personnel to be provided for the project schools. Nego-
tiations with Gabon for the proposed Bank loan were conducted in
Washington in April 1968. The Government was represented by a dele-
gation headed by Mr. Emile Kassa Mapsi, Minister of Economic Affairs,
Planning, Development and Mines.
b.      The proposed loan would be the third operation of the Bank
in Gabon. In 1959, one year prior to the independence of the country,
the Bank made a loan of $35 million to Comilog for the development of
manganese deposits in Gabon. The loan has been guaranteed by the Gov-
ernments of Gabon, Congo (B) and France.   In July 1964, the Bank made
a loan of $12 million to the Government of Gabon for a road project.



- 2 -
5.     The following is a summary statement of Bank loans to Gabon
as of April 30, 1968:
Loan    Year  Borrower         Purpose         Amount    Undisbursed
-($`illion)
230 FR 1959   Comilog       Manganese ore      35.0           -
mining
385 GA 1964 Republic of     Road                12.0         0.2
Gabon
Total                   47.O
of which has been repaid
to the Bank and others 12.b
Total now outstanding   3L.6
Amount sold     26.7
of which
has been repaid  8.2  18.5
Total now held by Bank  16.1
Total undisbursed                     0.2
6.     The Bank is considering a $7.5 million loan to Gabon to assist
in the financing of a second road project. The Bank also has under
consideration a loan of about $50 million to the Goverrrnent of Gabon
to assist in the financing of the Owendo-Belinga railroad project
which would make possible the exploitation of iron ore deposits in the
Miekambo region. An international consortium including American and
European steel companies would own and operate the mining facilities.
The UNDP has financed a feasibility study of the railroad which was
completed in 1965, and a final engineering study which is expected to
be completed shortly. The Bank acted as Executing Agency for both stu-
dies. The international consortium is at present seeking long-term
commitments for the purchase of the iron ore in amounts adequate to jus-
tify the railway investment.



- 3 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.    Borrower:           The Gabonese Republic
Amount:             Equivalent in various currencies of $1.8 million.
Purpose:            To assist in financing a project for the con-
struction, extension and equipment of a teacher
training school, four secondary schools and
two accelerated industrial training centers.
Amortization:       In 31 semi-annual instalments commencing on
August 15, 1978 and ending on August 15, 1993.
Interest rate:      6 1/! per cent
Commitment charge:  3/4 of 1 per cent per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.    An appraisal report(TO 607a) entitled "Appraisal of an Education
Project" is attached. The Gabonese Government attaches high priority
to the project. Gabon is relatively rich in natural resources such as
minerals and forests, and has achieved a considerable expansion and
diversification in its industrial production; but the development of
the country's resources depends on the inflow of foreign skills to an
unusually large extent, even when compared to most other developing
countries. The Government has now realized the urgency to raise the
level of primary and secondary education in the country. The proposed
project is part of a comprehensive education program which has been
undertaken recently in order to reduce the dependency on foreign teach-
ers and to remedy progressively an acute shortage of skilled manpower.
9.    Specifically, the proposed project would consist of:
(i) the construction and equipment of a primary teacher training
college in Libreville and a new secondary school in Port Gentil;
(ii) extensions to three secondary schools in Franceville, N'Dende
and O0em;
(iii) minor extensions to two accelerated vocational training cen-
tersI
(iv) a four-year fellowship program for training of Gabonese
secondary school teachers; and
(v) provision of expatriate teachers (see paragraph 3 above).



- 1 -
10.    Total cost of the project is estimated at the equivalent of $3.6
million, with a foreign exchange component equivalent to $2.3 million.
The proposed financing plan would be as follows:
Bank loan                 $1.8 million (50 per cent)
French government grant   $0.5 million (13 per cent)
Gabonese contribution     $1.3 million (37 per cent)
The French government contribution would finance the fore-ign exchange
cost of the technical assistance item. The Banrk loan would be equivalent
to the foreign cost of all other items.
11.    The project would be carried out over a period of four years
(1968 - 1972). Awarding of construction contracts and the procurement
of general and instructional equipment would be on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUSijENTS AND AUTHORITY
12.    The Draft Loan Agreement between the Gabonese Republic and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section L, (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. The Draft Loan Agreement follows
generally the usual pattern for education projects.
PART V - THE ECONOIfY
13.    A report on the economy of Gabon (No. AF 67A dated May 15, 1968)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 21, 1968 (R 68-75).
lb.    The country has experienced an impressive economic growth since
1956 (15 per cent per annum in real terms in the period 1956-60 and
about 5 per cent since 1960). The recent levelling off of the rate of
growth is due mainly to a slower increase in the output of timber, man-
ganese and uranium. Gabon's export performance is good. The country
has always had a positive trade balance in the past decade, which,
together with an appreciable inflow of official and private capital,
has enabled it to keep its overall balance of payments more or less in
equilibrium in spite of considerable profit remittances abroad. Public
savings are satisfactory, amounting to about one-fifth of total current
expenditures.
15.    The country's medium-term economic prospects are good. The pro-
duction of petroleum may be expected to increase considerably in the
next years. In the longer run, the country's economic growth will
depend to a large extent on the exploitation of its huge iron ore re-
serves in the Mekambo area which is under consideration by an inter-



national group of steel producers.  The exploitation of the iron ore
would require the construction of a railroad to the sea for wThich a
final engineering study will be completed shortly. The railway would
also open up large new forestry reserves. However, the agricultural
sector, which employs 70 per cent of the active population, has been
lagging due to high land clearing costs, poor soils, marketing problems
and cattle diseases. Goverrmient technical assistance is being made
available to farmers in particular localities, primarily to increase
productivity. While rapid improvement could not be expected, develop-
ment of this sector could begin on a modest scale.
16.    The Government has, on the whole, a sound approach to its
development problems. It recognizes the importance of promoting pri-
vate enterprise, and has done well in attracting foreign capital.
The development program is well conceived and carried out effectively.
It is mainly concentrated on investments in the fields of transport
and communications, and seeks to increase Gabonese participation in
the economic activity of the country through improved education and
training.
17.    Debt service payments at present constitute nearly 9 per cent
of export earnings, but the service burden is expected to decline sig-
nificantly within the next five years. Meanwhile, the country should
be able to incur and service the comparatively modest additional exter-
nal indebtedness which it will need to contract in the short run primarily
for developing roads and education.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEKENT
18.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMNENDATION
19.    I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to the Republic of Gabon in an
amount equivalent to U.S.$1,800,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic of Gabon
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million,
eight hundred thousand United States dollars (U.S.$1,800,000),
to mature on and prior to August 15, 1993, to bear interest
at the rate of six and one-fourth per cent (6 1/4%) per annum,



- 6 -
and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be
substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions
set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Education Project)
between the Republic of Gabon and the Bank, which has been
presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment.
Washington, D.C.
May 21, 1968.



