                                                                                       78796
STRICTLY :ONFIDENTIAL

                                INTERNATIONAL          DANA FOR
                           RECONSTAUCTION AND           DVELOPIANT

                         INTERNATIO!AL        DEVELOPPENT ASSOCIATIO14




                                     JOINT    1EETING
                                                                    washington,     0.        C.
                                                                    Tuesday,   June      4,        160


                                                  of   the Executive     Directors of              the
                          A joint     meeting

                                                                  and Development        and         the
         International          Bank for Mcconstruction

                                Development Association was             convened   at    10:00
         International

                         a.m.   in   the     Woard Room,    1818 V 9trect,     N.W.,     nr.
         o'clock,

         Robert S.        McNamara,        President,      presidinq.
STRICTL   CONFIDENTIAL

                                 C 0~   T   E      I T   S




          2.   Proposed   boan     Gabon        (Mducation)
                                                                      8
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL




                  MR. McNAMARA:     Thank you very much.

                  And now we'll turn to the next item on the agenda,

                                                                for
         a proposed loan in the amount of $1.8 million to Gabon

         an education project.    Mr. Ba of the African Department will

         introduce it to you.

                   Mr.   Ba.

                   MR. BA:     Mr Chairman, Members of the Board:
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

                  The proposed $1.8 million loan to Gabon for

        education development is a small one compared to the loans

        already granted to Gabon or under consideration, but

        despite its small size, we consider it to be just as important

        as the larger ones.   The amount of money involved is not the

        governing feature of this project.   Its greater effect

        will be found, as we expect, in the technical skills and the

        expertise which it will progressively make available to the

        economy during the years to come.

                  In financial terms, most of the public investment

        program of Gabon has been focussed on transport and

        communications which are among the main factors in the

        development of the country, with the private sector investing

        in mining and timber.   However, the success of these schemes

        will depend on the availability of skilled manpower or trainable

        manpower produced by the education system in Gabon.     The

        educational and skill levels of the population are low:       only

         400 Gabonese students were in post-secondary schools in 1967.

        Almost 90% of the 2,000 high- and middle-level posts of the

         labor force are now occupied by non-Gabonese.

                   The initial big drive for expansion in primary

         education had an adverse effect on academic standards and the

         balanced growth of the system.   Schools became overcrowded,

         furniture and equipment supplies inadequate, and sub-standard
                                                                    10

STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL


        teachers had to be recruited.   The government's present

        plans for the educatiMxsector call for remedying some of

        the shortcomings and imbalances,and for developing national manEower

        resources so that Gabonese can gradually assume wider responsi-

        bilities and functions.

                  This policy has focussed attention on secondary

        education as the supplier of skilled manpower.     Present plans,

        therefore, aim at expansion and improvement of the secondary

        education system, including traifiing in agricultural, technical

        and commercial subjects.    It is within this framework that the

        present Bank project has taken shape.    It will assist the

        first phase of reforms to provide better teachers and rained

        manpower and will help to facilitate the further modernization

        of the Gabonese education system.

                  Thank you.

                  MR. McNAMARA:    Thank you very much.

                  Are there questions or comments on this item?

                  Mr. Merchant.

                  MR. MERCHANT:    One question, Mr.   Chairman.   To the

        best of my belief, I think this is the first time a Bank

        loan has provided, in the educational field, for the financing

        of external fellowships or scholarships, and that without

        criticizing that in any sense, I think this is a fine project

        and I think quite clearly that the provision of these fellowshi3s
                                                                       11
STRICTL   CONFIDENTIAL

          is essential to obtaining in time the indigenous teachers

          corps, but I wondered, since it seems to be a frequent problem

          with developing nations, I wondered whether there were any

          understandings that the Government had or assurances that

          might have been given the Bank as to the efforts to minimize

          the loss of students who go to a university or technical

          school abroad, and then fail to return to the country of their

          origin, and I wondered if the ones who would be the recipients

          of these fellowships, for example, would be under teaching

          contracts to the Government, to some other undertaking or

          understanding to minimize the risk of their loss to the

          country, once they're educated?

                    MR. McNAMARA:    I'll ask Mr. Ba to comment initially

          and then perhaps Mr. Knapp or Mr. Chadenet would wish to

          supplement it.

                    Mr. Ba.

                    MR. BA:     There's no formal agreement that the

          Government will ask the students to come back, but generally

          in the Gabon now they have all the students who have

          fellowships hav6    d sign an agreement to serve ten years in     K
          the public schools.

                    MR. McNAMARA: I think this is a fundamental point

          and I quite agree with the implication of Mr. Merchant's

                                                          by formal
          question, that we must assure ourselves, either

           agreement between the Bank Group and recipient, or by
STRICTLI CONFIDENTIAL                                            12




        examination of contractual arrangements, as in this case,

        between the recipient and the individuals, that they will

        return when financed by us, to their nation to serve it

        for a reasonable period, in this case ten years.

                  MR. MERCHANT:     Thank you, sir.

                  MR. McNAMARA:     Are there other comments or questions?

                  Yes, Mr. Knapp.

                  MR. KNAPP:    I thought perhaps I should comment that

        actually, Mr.   Merchant, you say this is the first case,

        but there have been quite a number of cases, particularly in the

        education field, and we had a meeting of the Loan Committee

        a couple of weeks ago, to review this as a matter of policy,

        to review what we had done and how far it ought to be extended,

        and what administrative arrangements ought to be made between

        us and some other agencies to supervise these fellowships.

        I think at an appropriate time, Mr. Chairman, we might bring

        a paper to the Board on this subject.

                  We have found that part of the answer of course

        lies in providing expatriate personnel for local training, and

        in a sense that's much more effective, reaches a much wider

        group; and if you send people abroad, you have just this

        problem you are speaking of, of which we're very conscious,

        and I think at an appropriate time we will have a paper showing

        how we propose to handle these problems.
                                                                       13
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

                    MR. McNAMARA:      I suspect there will be considerable

         discussion during the forthcoming year on the subject of

         education, as you will see from the administrative budget,

         which will be circulated to the Directors within the next

         week.   We are planning a rather substantial expansion of our

         activity in that field, particularly in the Projects Department,

         hence in the initiation, appraisal, and examination of new

         projects, and many of them will raise new problems of this

         type.

                    Are there other comments?

                    Mr.   Malaplate.

                    MR. MALAPLATE:     Mr. Chairman, I would like to

         say briefly that I am supporting this loan.       This country

         of about one-half the size of France has only one-hundredth

         of the population, it has very large resources in uranium,

         gold, gas, iron, wood, and has every kind of possibility

         and I think that education is really one of the bottlenecks

         and my Government is already helping in that field, and I

         am happy that the Bank is going to help, too, in the field

         of education.

                    I have two small questions, one which concerns not

         the report itself but the report on the economy of Gabon.

         This report is dated May 15, 1968, but in paragraph 14,

         page 4, there are some considerations of the political

         situation in Gabon and although unfortunately President
                                                                    14
STRICTLN CONFIDENTIAL

        Leon Mba I think about two months ago, or at least one month

        ago, long before the date of the report, who is mentioned

        as participating in the political life of the country, died,

        which I think isn't right;    and the second question concerns

        the report of the Statutory Committee which was very recently

        distributed, and I think although the Statutory Report has

        to be made, I wonder really what's the use of this report,

        because it is made in such general terms it really does not

        convey any new ideas in the report or on the usefulness

        of the project, and so on.

                  MR. McNAMARA:    Mr. Knapp.

                  MR. KNAPP:   Well, the Statutory Committee is required

        under the Articles to make the report, but I wouldn't want

         to say it's just a sheer formality; we regard it as an importa t

        document in which the senior officers of the Bank, joined

         by a senior representative of the country, go on record as

         endorsing the purposes of the project.     I would doubt

         myself whether building it up into another document, which

         would after all repeat all the things said in the report

         and President's Report, would be useful, but it is for record

                                                           provision
         purposes, I would say, and in satisfaction of the

         in the Articles of Agreement.

                   MR. McNAMARA:     Dr. Chen.

                   DR. CHEN:   Thank you, Mr.    Chairman.
                                                                     15
STRICTL' CONFIDENTIAL

                    While I support this loan, I have just one minor

        question to ask in regard to the Appraisal Report on the

        basic data of Gabon.     Under Population Growth, it is stated

        it's    .6 percent per annum, which seems to me to be exceptionally

        low for that part of the world, and I wonder whether it

        could be a mistake.

                     MR. McNAMARA:     Let me ask Mr. Ba to comment on it,

        and then I may have a comment of my own, perhaps.

                     The question is, is it correct to show the

         rate of population growth in Gabon as      .6 percent.

                     MR. GERMANACOS:     It is correct, sir.

                     MR. McNAMARA:     You have confidence in the reliabilit

         of their census statistics and associated data?

                     MR. GERMANACOS: I believe the Economic Survey Report

         also uses this figure.

                     MR. McNAMARA:     Well, the point I'd make, Dr. Chen,

                                                              of error
         is    iat I think we have, let's say, larger margins
                                                                 do in
         in some of our data relating to these countries than we
                                                              gather
         others, and we've noticed that recently in trying to

         together statistics, and I noticed that particular percentage

         here and would simply flag it as a question.

                      But I think it is important, however, to have the

         figure here.     What it really says is we don't believe there
                                                           I think we all
         is a population growth prdblem there, and on that
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL                                                     16




        igree.        Now,   whether it is   .6 or even 1.6, in any case it isn't

        3.6,   and that's the major point to emphasize.

                        Are there any other questions relating to this

        ?roposed loan?          If not, perhaps Mr.   Kochman would care to

           iomment.

                        MR. KOCHMAN: Mr. Chairman, I wish to express on

        behalf of the Government of Gabon our deep appreciation for

         he efficient handling of this project by the staff and

        officers of the Bank.            It is also my pleasure to thank very

        warmly my colleagues for approving this loan and to congratulate

        you, Mr.       Chairman, for presenting this proposal to our Board.

                         Finally, I would like to avail myself of this

        opportunity to say how glad I am to see that this project

        has been presented to our Board with eloquence and competence

        by an African staff memb er.

                         Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                         MR. McNAMARA:     I share in that feeling, Mr. Kochman.

        Thank you very much, sir, and it will therefore be approved.
