FILE COPY
Report No. 441a-1M
Jamaica:
Appraisal of a
Third Highway Project
June 24, 1974
Latin Anmerica and Caribbean Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                     =  Jamaican dollar (J$)
US$1.00                           -  J$ 0.91
J$ 1                              =  US$1.10
J$ 1 million                      =  US$1.1 million
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31
System of Weights and Measures
British/US                        Metric Equivalent
1 foot (ft)                       =  0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)       2                  1.609 kilometers (km)        2
1 square mile (mi2)               =  2.589 square kilometers (km2)
1 pound (lb)                      a  0.454 kilogram (kg)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADT           --  Average Daily Traffic
CIDA          -   Canadian International Development Agency
DC            -   Directorate of Construction
DENS          -   Directorate of Electrical and Mechanical Services
DM            -   Directorate of Maintenance
DMP           -   Directorate of Major Projects
DTS           -   Directorate of Technical Services
GDP           -   Gross Domestic Product
GNP           -   Gross National Product
JRC           -   Jamaica Railways Corporation
LVI           -   Lamarre Valois International Ltd., Consulting Engineers
MOW           -   Ministry of Works
NEC           -   National Economic Council
NPA           -   National Planning Agency
TPOS          -   T. P. O'Sullivan and Partners, Consulting Engineers
TRRL          -   Transport and Road Research Laboratory
UNDP          -   United Nations Development Program
USAID         -   United States Agency for International Development



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
TAB2E OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ....         ..........................  i - ii
1.   INTRODUCTION ........       ............................    1
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ............................    3
A.   The Country and its Economy .............           3
B.   The Transport Modes ..................              3
C.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination         6
3.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ...........................         7
A.   The Road System and Road Transport .........        7
B.   Road Administration:  The Ministry of Works.    8
C.   Road Planning and Financing ...............    .    9
D.   Engineering and Construction ...............  10
E.   Maintenance      ............... .................   10
4.   THE PROJECT .........       ............................   11
A.   Project Description .....      ...................   11
B.   Cost Estimate, Financing and Disbursements .   14
C.   Execution ...........     .......................   16
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION .............................   17
A.   General ............. .......................   17
B.   Arterial Road Construction Program ........   *   17
C.   Technical Assistance .....       .................   19
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...........  20
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. S. Hertel (Engineer) and
B. Chatelin (Economist) and has been edited by Hiss V. Foster



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
TABLES
1.   Road Investment Program
2.   Expenditure on Roads, 1965-1973
3.   Road User Charges
4.   Design Standards for Arterial Roads
5.   Cost Estimate
6.   Schedule of Disbursements
7.   Traffic Forecast
8.   Vehicle Operating Costs
9.   Economic Return
CHART
Structure of the Ministry of Works
MAP
Jamaica - Third Highway Project - IBRD 10989



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A IHIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The prime traffic modde in Jamaica is road transport.  The highway
network, comprising about 9,500 miles, is generally adequate in extent,
although of low geometric standard even for the arterial roads with very
heavy traffic. The railway network, totaling about 210 miles, carries all
the bauxite-alumina traffic, a negligible part of other freight, and a small
percentage of passenger transport. Air transport has only limited importance
for domestic traffic.
ii.       During 1968-1970, the Canadian consultants Lamarre Valois Inter-
national Ltd. (LVI) carried out a countrywide transportation survey, followed
in 1971-1972 by feasibility studies for 320 miles of main roads and, in 1973,
by final engineering for about 70 miles of high priority arterial roads.
LVI's services were financed by the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA).
iii.      The main element of the proposed project has been developed from
LVI's studies and comprises the first phase of the Government's 1974-1979
arterial road construction program, i.e., the improvement, mainly in the form
of new construction, of about 16 miles of two-lane arterial road sections
between Spanish Town and Mandeville and one four-mile two-lane arterial road
section between Spanish Town and Dcho Rios. The existing narrow and winding
roads on these sections pass through many smaller towns and carry from 4,000
to 6,000 vehicles per day; the new arterial roads would bypass the towns.
The road construction works would be supervised jointly by the Ministry of
Works (MOW) and consultants.
iv.       The proposed project provides also for the provision and installation
of vehicle weighing stations and the procurement of a small amount of geotech-
nical equipment. Technical assistance for transport planning for aid to local
contractors and for pavement evaluation and design is also included.
v.        Execution of the project would be the responsibility of MOW and would
extend over a period of about three years. This period is determined by the
time required for the civil works; these, in turn, have, in the Government's
construction program, been phased to restrict the load on the budget and on
MOW to acceptable levels.
vi.       About 86% of the construction works would be procured by international
competitive bidding in compliance with Bank Guidelines. This construction would
consist of a number of contracts, and bidders would have the opportunity to bid
for one or several contracts according to their capacity. The remaining 14%
of construction, comprising the earthwork and pavement base of about four



- ii -
miles of road, would be executed by HOW on force account. MOW has the re-
quired construction equipment, staff and expertise to carry out such works
efficiently. The weigh bridges for the vehicle weighing stations would be
procured by international competitive bidding; the geotechnical equipment
would be procured by negotiated contract.
vii.      Quantifiable benefits from the construction elements of the project
would derive from savings in vehicle-operating costs. On conservative assump-
tions, the economic return from the construction of the road sections would be
17% tc6 24%, and the economic return of the project as a whole would be 20%.
In adcition, the new road sections would reduce pollution and noise levels
in the many built-up areas that would be bypassed.
viii.     The project is estimated to cost US$23.6 million equivalent, with a
foreign exchange component of US$13.7 million. The Government is seeking tech-
nical assistance from UNDP and the British Government, amounting to about
US$0.1 million each, toward the foreign exchange co8ts; the project would pro-
vide a satisfactory basis for a Bank loan to cover the remaining foreign ex-
change costs of US$13.5 million equivalent; an appropriate term would be 25
years, including a four-year grace period.



JAMAICA&
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Jamaica has requested the Bank to assist in fi-
nancing a project consisting of: (a) the construction, including supervision,
of 20 miles of two-lane arterial road and about four miles of main access roads
comprising the first phase of the arterial road investment program for 1974-
1979; (b) establishment of permanent vehicle weighing stations and procurement
of geotechnical equipment; and (c) technical assistance for transport planning,
for aid to the local contracting industry and for a study of pavement design,
evaluation and performance. 1/ The total cost of the proposed project is
estimated at about US$23.6 million equivalent. The total foreign cost com-
ponent, estimated at US$13.7 million equivalent, would be financed by the
proposed US$13.5 million equivalent Bank loan and assistance being sought
from UNDP and the British Government, in the amount of US$0.1 million each;
the balance of US$9.9 million equivalent in local costs would be provided by
the Government.
1.02      This would be the third highway project financed by the Bank in
Jamaica. 2/ The first (Loan 408-JM, US$5.5 million, 1965) was made for de-
tailed engineering and construction, including supervision, of the Kingston-
Spanish Town road (15 miles of four-lane road) and the Moneague-Crescent Park
road (four miles of two-lane road). Initially, that project also included
construction of the Spanish Town-Bog Walk road (eight miles), but this, with
the Bank's approval, was subsequently deleted as a result of increased costs.
Execution of the project was delayed. because of difficulties in right-of-way
acquisition, unsatisfactory performadce of subcontractors, problems in re-
location of public utilities and inter-union labor disputes, resulting finally
in abandonment of work by the contractor after 90% completion, the contractor
claiming frustration of contract; his claims have now been settled througn
arbitration. The work was satisfactorily completed by force account. The
loan is fully disbursed.
1.03      The Second Highway Project (para. 1.04) originated from a National
Transport Survey which the Government mounted in 1968. The consultants for
that survey, Lamarre Valois International (LVI, Canada), with financing from
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), were required to (a)
establish and analyze costs of transportation by rail, road, coastal shipping
1/   The Government has applied for:  (a) UNDP financing for aid to the local
contracting industry; and (b) British Government financing for the tech-
nical assistance to study pavement design, evaluation and performance.
2/   It would also be the third project iln the transportation sector as a
whole, since the Bank Group has not financed projects elsewhere in the
sector, although an airport project has recently been appraised.



-2-
and air; (b) examine the capital investment proposed in each mode over the
next 10 years; and (c) project capital and recurrent costs through 1979, rec-
omending appropriate policies and measures for the most economical devel-
opment of the country's transportation system during that period. LVI's
report was issued in 1970; the main recommendations relating to roads were
that: (a) a major resurfacing program of paved roads should be undertaken
to prevent further deterioration of pavements and to reduce road-users' operat-
ing costs; (b) the structure and procedures of the road maintenance organiza-
tion should be improved; and (c) early construction/reconstruction of certain
high-priority roads identified in the report should be undertaken.
1.04      In 1972, acting orn the LVI recommendations relating specifically
to the resurfacing program and improvement of maintenance, Government retained
the UK consultants T.P.O'Sullivan and Partners (TPOS) to carry out a road
maintenance study; the study was partially financed by the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP), and the Bank acted as executing agency. The
consultants' recommendations formed the basis of the Second Highway Project,
the Road Improvement and Maintenance Project (Loan 899-JM, US$9.3 million in
1973), which comprised: (a) resurfacing of 440 miles of roads with an asphaltic
carpet and resealing of 250 miles of roads with a double surface treatment;
(b) procurement of maintenance equipment; and (c) technical assistance by
consultants to supervise the resurfacing and resealing works, assist in the
procurement of maintenance equipment, introduce rational costing and better
planning of maintenance operations, and provide training to staff of the
Directorate of Maintenance within the Ministry of Works (MOW). The project
is progressing satisfactorily.
1.05      This proposed Third Highway Project also originates from the rec-
ommendations of the 1968 National Transport Survey. In 1971, the Governmtent
commissioned LVI, again financed by CIDA, to carry out the recommendation
relating to high-priority roads, specifically, feasibility studies for about
320 miles of high-priority roads and detailed engineering for 40 miles of
secondary main and Parish roads 1/ and 70 miles of arterial roads. The work
was completed in March 1974. The arterial road construction in the proposed
project is based on this detailed engineering. 2/
1.06      This proposed Third Highway Project was appraised by Messrs. S. Hertel
(engineer) and B. Chatelin (economist) in December 1973. The report has been
edited by Miss V. Foster.
1/   The administrative unit of Jamaica is the "Parish" (of which there are
13). The Parish roads are also "public" roads in the normal sense.
2/   Other work recommended in the National Transport Survey is being financed
by other agencies (for example, the Inter-American Development Bank is
financing reconstruction of secondary main and Parish roads, and USAID
is financing feeder roads).



-3-
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   The Country and Its Economy
2.01      Jamaica, with an area of 4,410 square miles, is the third largest
island of the Caribbean. Its greatest length (east-west) is 146 miles, and
its greatest width (north-south) is 51 miles. A mountain ridge up to about
2,500 feet high runs east-west, separating the island into northern and southern
coastal areas. The island's natural resources include bauxite and other mineral
deposits in various locations in the central area; a pleasant tropical climate
and beaches suitable for tourism, primarily along the north coast; fertile
soils for agriculture; and fishing and forest reserves. Jamaica's population
of about two million has grown in the last ten years at a net annual rate
(allowing for migration) of about 1.5%; its population density, about 420
persons per square mile, is one of the highest among the Latin American and
Caribbean countries. Kingston, the capital, situated on the southern coast,
is the main market for the country's agricultural produce and imported goods.
Montego Bay, on the north coast, is the most important tourist resort.
2.02      The per capita GNP of Jamaica was US$720 in 1971. 1/  In real terms,
the growth rate of GDP has reached an average of about 5% p.a. over the last
five years. The mining sector, which accounted for about 13% of GDP in 1972,
and tourism are the most important contributors to the rapid growth of the
economy. Agricultural output has stagnated over the last decade, but the
Government expects that, following implementation of a major investment pro-
gram, it will stabilize in coming years at a higher level. Considering also
the output of substantial investments in mining, increases in industrialization
and the projected expansion in tourism, a growth in GDP of 6%-7% p.a. in real
terms could be attainable over the next few years. However, the attainment
of the rate of growth will depend very largely on Jamaica's ability to over-
come its foreign exchange constraints.
2.03      In spite of Jamaica's satisfactory growth rate in the past years,
unemployment remains high at about 15% of the labor force. The high level
of unemployment is explained, inter-alia, by the age distribution of the
labor force (biased toward the younger age groups), the low rate of growth
of the agricultural sector (the traditional labor-intensive sector), the
high proportion of unskilled labor among the unemployed, and the distorted
wage structure due to the very high salaries paid by the bauxite companies.
B.   The Transport Modes
(i) General
2.04      Because of Jamaica's relatively small size and the proximity of its
population centers, average haulage and travel distances are short. The trans-
port requirements of heavy exports are modest, since these are normally moved
by the shortest route to the ports located around the island. Practically
1/   Bank Atlas, 1973 Edition.



-4-
all bauxite and alumina exports are handled by the public or private railroads,
and petroleum products by pipeline; otherwise, roads carry the largest part
of freight transport (mainly import products from Kingston to the Taain popu-
lation centers and local agricultural produce) and practically all passenger
traffic. Basically, the transport system consists of about 9,500 miles of
arterial and secondary raain roads (together called "pubiic" roads) 1/ and
Parish roads, a 180-mile Government-owned railway, a few private railway lines,
five airports (two of them international), 13 ports, and petroleum pipelines.
The system is generally adequate in extent, although deficient in condition
and capacity.
(ii) Roads
2.05      Details of the road system and its administration are given in
Chapter 3.
(iii) Railways
2.06      The public railway system is operated by the Jamaican Railway Corpor-
ation (JRC). The system consists of a main line running diagonally across the
island from Kingston to Montego Bay (112 miles) and a branch line from Spanish
Town northward to Annotto Bay and then eastward along the coast to Port Antonio
(62 miles). The bauxite mining companies own and operate their own railway
lines, but they also utilize the public system to the extent that bauxite,
aluminum and materials associated with that industry represent about 98% of
JRC's total freight. This freight traffic has increased at about 7% per
annum during the last five years and is principally carried on the trunk
line (Montego Bay-Kingston). This trunk line also carries more than 70% of
total rail passenger traffic 2/; the rest of the network has very low density
traffic with few possibilities for development.
2.07      The National Transport Survey (para. 1.03) recommended, as first
priority, that the public railway's rates and fares should be revised to help
solve its deficit position and that uneconomic lines should be abandoned, or,
alternatively, that the Government should subsidize the cost of services pro-
vided by the railway for social reasons. The Government has since increased
its contract rates, and they now cover the capital and operating costs, includ-
ing overhead, of moving the mining traffic. In addition, in 1972, the
Frankfield-May Pen line (about 25 miles), one of the uneconomic lines, was
closed.  M!ost of the relatively small loss of JRC (about US$550,000 p.a.) is
now incurred on the line to Port Antonio. However, this line serves many
poor areas, and the Minister of Public Utilities, Communications and Transport
is reluctant to deprive them of the service, especially between Bog Walk and
Annotto Bay, where the road system is deficient. JRC is currently preparing
a five-year rehabilitation program and is negotiating technical assistance
under bilateral aid from Canada.
1/   See footnote 1/, page 2.
2/   Passenger traffic has increased slightly during the last five years to
reach about 40 million pass-miles in 1972.



(iv) Air Transport
2.08      Jamaica has two international airports, at Kingston and Montego Bay,
served by 11 foreign airlines and the national carrier, Air Jamaica. Internal
flights between these and three domestic airports at Ocho Rios, Port Antonio
and Tinson Pen (Kingston) are provided by a local airline, Jamaica Air Services.
In addition, there are four small public airports which accommodate general
aviation and over 30 private landing strips owned by the mining and sugar
companies. All public airports are operated by the Civil Aviation Department
of the Ministry of Public Utilities, Communications and Transport, although
it is intended that a Jamaica Airports Authority, soon to be created, will
operate the two international airports. Revenues from landing fees, rentals,
concessions and licenses, but excluding those from the passenger departure
tax, rose from US$730,000 in 1962/63 to an estimated US$1.7 million in 1972/73.
Operating expenditures increased during the same period from some US$510 p000
to US$1.7 million.
2.09      The sharp increase in tourism in recent years has had a major impact
on Jamaica's international air traffic. Passenger movements at the inter-
national airports increased between 1967 and 1972 at an average of about 12%
per annum to about 720,000 passengers per year in Kingston and 907,000 in
Montego Bay. Freight movements and general aviation traffic also increased
considerably. The sharp traffic increase has led to congestion in aircraft
ground operations and traffic handling at both international airports.  Based
on a scheme prepared by Canadian consultants (Kates, Peat, Marwick and Com-
pany, and Montreal Engineering) financed by CIDA, the Government requested
Bank financing for an airport development project to improve facilities at
both Montego Bay and Kingston Airports. A loan to help this development is
being considered by the Bank.
(v) Ports
2.10      Jamaica has 13 active ports.  Two of them, Kingston and Montego Bay,
are primarily general cargo ports and handle most of the country's imports;
the other 11 are specialized and handle mainly exports. Kingston handles over
80% of the island's imports (4.0 million metric tons total in 1970) and about
7% of its exports (13.0 million metric tons total in 1970). Among the other
ports, there are five efficiently handling the mining companies' export needs;
the largest, Port Rhoades on the north coast, handles five million tons of
bauxite annually. The other six ports are used to export agricultural products
such as sugar, molasses and bananas, although some agricultural products are
also handled through the mining companies' ports. All ports are presently
privately owned and operated. However, a strengthened port authority will
eventually own all the piers and wharf facilities for all the ports of the
island except the five mining ports. As a first stage, the port authority
will take over the Kingston port facilities and lease or rent them to private
companies.  The port authoritv will se responsible for tariff policy and will
be required to operate on a self-financing basis.



-6-
(vi) Pipelines
2.11      Pipelines owned and operated by the private sector carry fuel from
the ESSO refinery in Kingston to various major consumers, to the railway
loading station and from some ports to the bauxite mines and aluminum plants.
C.   Transport Policy. Planning and Coordination
2.12      Transport policy is the responsibility of several Government depart-
ments and agencies. The Ministry of Public Utilities, Communications and
Transport is responsible for overall policy formulation for aviation, ports
and railways, while the MOW is in charge of formulating policies for public
roads. Parish roads are under the jurisdiction of Parish Councils which, at
the national level, are the responsibility of the Ministry of Local Government.
The Ministry of Commerce and Tourism deals with policy formulation on shipping
matters.
2.13      Planning of public investments, inicluding investment in the trans-
portation sector, has, up to now, been perfcormed by the National Planning
Agency (NPA) under the guidance of the National Economic Council, a ministerial
body. NPA was established in 1972; previously, overall economic planning was
carried out by the Ministry of Finance. The National Transport Survey (para.
1.03) is presently used by the various Ministries as a basis for preparing
transport investment programs. Unfortunately, there is no transport economist
in Government, and no one is updating the findings of the Survey. This may
not be too serious in the very short term since the findings of the Survey,
issued about four years ago, are probably still valid. However, they may not
remain valid for long as conditions change, and, in view of Government's plans
for sizable investments in the transportation sector (about US$160 million
equivalent 1/ over the next four or five years), a continuous review of the
plans for the sector should be made. This review should preferably be made
by Government rather than by consultants, and this need, coupled with the
magnitude of the investment plan, would justify the creation of a capability
to analyze and coordinate the modal investment programs. During negotiations,
the Government informed the Bank that it was in the process of establishing
a transport committee in charge of defining and reviewing transport policy
and investment. The transport committee would, inter-alia, include represent-
atives of the Ministry of Finance; the Ministry of Works; the Ministry of
Public Utilities, Communications and Transport; and NPA. This. committee will
be assisted by a special working unit to be located in the Ministry of Works,
which already has a traffic unit, comprising at least one economist/engineer
specializing in transport, whom the Government agreed, during negotiations,
to recruit before June 30, 1975. The negotiating team reviewed, and agreed
on, the terms of reference proposed for technical assistance to be provided
by one or two transport specialists when the above transport planning unit is
set up.
1/ Approximate figures are US$100 million for roads, US$10 million for
railways, US$20 million for ports and US$25 million for airports.



-7-
2.14      Presently, the users of roads, ports,and airports meet the capital
and operating costs, including overhead, of these services; some of the rail-
way users pay only part of the costs of the services they receive. For high-
ways, users are not treated equally, e.g., diesel fuel is lightly taxed,
gasoline heavily taxed. Government policy on taxation of transport users has
not been defined in terms of specific goals, and available information does
not provide a basis on which to judge the adequacy of existing taxation
policies in relation to the efficient use of the transport system. However,
little competition exists among modes.  Each mode is highly specialized, and
diversion from one to another has occurred only on a small scale.
3. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.  The Road Szstem and Road Transport
3.01      The road network of Jamaica is, for the size of the country, rel-
atively extensive, totaling about 9,500 miles. Of this mileage, 7,200 miles
are suitable for vehicular traffic (about 2,700 miles, 75% paved, of arterial
and secondary main roads and 4,500 miles of parish roads); the remaining
2,300 miles are little more than bridle paths. Because of the rugged interior
of the country, the road system developed initially in the coastal zone; today,
the main road system can be characterized as a coastal ring road together with
three roads crossing the mountainous spine connecting the northern and southern
coasts directly (see Map).
3.02      The road network developed from horse-drawn carriage and bridle
roads by gradual improvement and adaptation to the motor vehicle; hence, the
geometric standards are, by modern criteria, only modest. Nevertheless, over
much of the network, such standards are adequate for the low traffic volumes,
although the pavement structures tend to be in need of resealing or strengthen-
ing.  The ongoing Road Improvement and Maintenance Project (para. 1.04) is
helping to improve some 690 miles of such roads, the work being largely con-
fined to pavement improvement, with only essential improvement of geometrical
features. However, for a few arterial roads carrying heavy traffic volumes,
the geometric standards and the poor state of the pavements are resulting in
dangerous conditions and congestlon. The major element of this proposed proj-
ect is directed toward reconstruction of some of the most heavily trafficked
sections.
3.03      Road transport has expanded rapidly In recent years.  Traffic counts
at about 50 points on the road network, carried out by MOW between 1964 and
1972, indicate that traffic volumes grew at an average rate of 8.5X per annum
for the network as a whole, with growth rates on individual roads varying
between 4% and 13% per annum.  Traffic growtn has been part±cularly high on
roads associated with bauxite (over 12% per annum) and tourism (over 10Z per
annum).  These rates of growth are generally consistent with other road tralaf-
indicators, such as the growth of gasoline consumption (about 11% per a-nua
between 1964 and 1970) and the growth of the vehicle fleet (the latter increasec.



-8
from about 23,000 units in 1955 to 130-000 units in 1972, at an average growth
rate of about 11% per annum). Heavy vehicles (about 27,000) account for only
about 25% of the total fleet, bui: the fleet appears adequate to satisfy the
freight transport demand.
3.04      Road Traffic Regulations lay down permissible axle loadings for pub-
lic service vehicles, but only gross vehicle weights for other vehicles.  The
Regulations, as currently framed, permit gross vehicle weights to exceed the
permissible values on the specific authorization of the Minister responsible
for transport and on payment of a special fee which varies with the amount of
overload so authorized.
3.05      The shortcomings of the present Regulations were discussed at length
in April 1973 during negotiations for the Road Improvement and Maintenance
Project, and satisfactory assurances were given by Government on necessary
action in a number of areas. Progress by the Government in these areas over the
past year has been satisfactory; specifically, permits for loads in excess
of normal maximum loads are issued on a more restrictive basis. Furthermore,
to grapple with the problems of unauthorized overloading of trucks, the Govern-
ment, helped by the consultants (TPOS) retained under the Road Improvement and
Maintenance Project, is already carrying out an axle load survey. To put
vehicle weight control on a more permanent basis, weighing stations should be
set up at key positions on the main roads; to this end, provision and instal-
lation of weighing stations is included in this proposed project (para. 4.06).
B. Road Administration: The Ministry of Works
3.06      The planning, construction and maintenance of arterial and second-
ary main roads are the responsibility of MOW. The technical work of MOW is
organized under the Chief Technical Director on a functional basis (see Chart);
thus, the Ministry's responsibility for roads is shared among five directorates.
The Directorate of Technical Services (DTS) is responsible for survey, design,
estimates, specifications, procurement of contract work above US$11,000 which
is financed from budgetary sources, land acquisition, traffic surveys, labora-
tory investigations and research; DTS's staff includes 46 civil engineers.
The Directorate of Electrical and Mechanical Services (DEMS) is responsible
for electrical installations in Government buildings and for all vehicles and
equipment of MOW; its staff includes 42 mechanical engineers. Specifically,
DEMS allocates and controls the funds for the operation, maintenance and re-
pairs of all plant and vehicles allocated to the directorates of MOW. The
Directorate of Maintenance (DM) is responsible for maintaining roads, bridges,
buildings and drainage channels; its staff includes five civil engineers. The
Directorate of Construction (DC) is responsible for execution and administra-
tion of all capital projects carried out by MDW and financed from the national
budget; its establishment includes 10 civil engineers. The Directorate of
Major Projects (DMP) administers and controls externally financed construction
projects. Its staff includes nine civil engineers.



-9-
3.07      The organizational structure of the MDW was overhauled 10 years ago
and is generally satisfactory. The DMP, however, must be significantly
strengthened to provide efficient administration of the proposed project
(para. 4.22).
C. Road Planning and Financing
3.08      The responsibility for planning of roads is exercised mainly by the
Chief Technical Director of MOW, assisted, for projects to be externally
financed, by DMP. The unit for infrastructure planning within NPA is respon-
sible for reviewing the investment programs of NOW and for coordinating them
with other transport investments, but, in fact, the unit does not have the
necessary expertise for analyzing, in depth, proposed Investments in the
sector (para. 2.13).
3.09      In the past, Government has relied on consultants to prepare high-
way investment programs, first the Transport and Road Research Laboratory
(TRRL) in 1962, and, later, LVI in connection with the National Transport
Survey.  The current investment programs (1973-1977) comprise about US$33
million for reconstruction and improver.ent of arterial roads, US$21 million
for secondary roads, US$15 million for feeder roads, US$11 million for bridges
and about US$34 million for other works (Table 1). This program, based mainly
on the conclusions of the National Transport Survey, appears well conceived
and represents the first phase of a longer-term program (1973-1982) designed
to provide Jamaica with a road network capable of satisfying the road transport
demand for the foreseeable future.
3.10      As a further measure to strengthen planning, particularly at the
modal level, and in a move tc put modal planning more on a continuing basis
than on the ad-hoc involvement by consultants, MOW has recently established
a traffic unit, and it appears to be working well. This unit should ensure
the collection, on a continuing basis, of the data necessary for rational
planning and should provide the stimulus for specific studies which may be
required.
3.11      Total expenditure on roads rose from US$10.3 million in 1965/66
to US$26.6 million in 1971/72, but dropped to an estimated US$23.7 million
in 1972/73 (Table 2). Expenditure on construction almost tripled over the
period 1965/66-1971/72, increasing from US$5.6 million to US$15.7 million,
but dropped sharply in 1972/73 to US$9.4 million because of lack of projects
available for construction; in the same period, maintenance expenditures
increased from US$3.5 million to US$9.1 million. This substantial increase
derived primarily from two factors: a special labor-employment maintenance
program (a result of Government employment policy) and general cost and
salary increases.
3.12      Road expenditures over the period 1965-1973 have been financed
mostly (94%) with local funds through budgetary appropriations. External
financing (6Z) has been provided by BRD, CIDA, USAID and IDB. Revenues
from road users, although not specifically earnarked for road financing,



- 10 -
have been consistently higher than total road expenditure (Table 3). The
Bank's participation, although small compared with total road expenditure,
represented about two-thirds of external financing during the period.
D. Engineering and Construction
3.13      DTS is responsible for all aspects (survey, site and laboratory
investigation and design) of capital projects financed wholly from the budget;
the standard and quality of work appear adequate.  DMP is responsible for
similar services for projects financed externally and has operated through
consultants. Since MOW intends that, in the future, DMP shall play an active
role in the contract administration of externally financed construction works,
it is planned to strengthen its staff significantly. Some strengthening is
necessary in connection with the proposed project (para. 4.22).
3.14      Construction is carried out both by force account and by contract.
DC is carrying out earthwork and pavement base construction by force account
(at a cost of about US$2.5 million equivalent per annum), but asphaltic paving
and structures are executed by contract. International competitive bidding is
used for externally financed work; work financed internally is awarded to
Jamaican firms either by competitive bidding or by negotiated contract. The
local capacity for road works comprises four firms specializing in asphaltic
concrete work and about 20 firms undertaking small scale civil works.
3.15      MOW had, for many years, a practice of fragmenting road construction
and improvement work into small lots; because of this practice, bidding became
uneconomical and, as a result, contracts below US$10,000 equivalent were pro-
cured by negotiation. This encouraged development of a local small-scale
contracting industry, but it had an adverse influence on unit rates, which
are much higher than in many other countries. The Government, in connection
with the Road Improvement and Maintenance Project, has already begun to phase
out the practice of negotiated contracts - apart from petty contracts of less
than US$550 equivalent or in excess of this figure in exceptional circumstances -
and expects to complete the task within two years of the date of the Loan
Agreement, i.e., by June 1975. This change may result in a wider interest
by both international and local contractors, leading to increased competition
and a lowering of rates.
E.   Maintenance
3.16      Road maintenance and the organization responsible for it (DM) were
examined in depth during preparation of the Road Improvement and Maintenance
Project (in 1973) and the project was specifically designed to improve both
the state of maintenance in the field and the structure and procedures of DM.
All aspects of the project are being implemented satisfactorily.



- 11 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(i)  construction, including supervision, of three new arterial
road sections (about 16 miles) between Spanish Town and
Mandeville, with three major access roads, and the arterial
road section (about four miles) from Bog Walk to Linstead,
with two major accesses;
(ii) construction/improvements of secondary access roads to the
arterial road sections;
(iii) procurement and installation of weigh bridges for permanent
vehicle weighing stations and procurement of geotechnical
equipment; and
(iv) technical assistance for
(a) transport planning;
(b) aid to the local construction industry; 1/ and
(c) a study of pavement design, evaluation and performance. 1/
The arterial road element of the project represents the first phase of the
arterial road reconstruction program recommended in the findings of the
National Transport Survey (para. 1.03). Detailed engineering has been carried
out by LVI with financing by CIDA. Government may request Bank financing for
the second phase, due to be completed by 1979.
(i) Construction of Arterial Road Sections
Spanish Town-Mandeville
4.02      The existing road from Spanish Town to Mandeville (48 miles) is,
apart from two short reconstructed and realigned sections, winding and narroas;
it has a 20-foot pavement with shoulders of varying width and passes through
numerous towns and villages. The pavement of asphaltic concrete is deteriorat-
ing. Average speeds are currently 25-30 m.p.h. for cars and 20 m.p.h. for
trucks. Current traffic volume is in excess of 5,000 vehicles per day.
1/   The Government is seeking financing from UNDP for the technical assistance
for aid to the local construction industry, and from the British Govern-
ment for the study of pavement design, evaluation and performance.



- 12 -
4.03      The project works would be concentrated on three sections - May Pen
Bypass I, May Pen Bypass II, and Williamsfield-Greenvale - and would provide
a fully engineered two-lane arterial road in these sections, with an additional
(climbing) lane on sustained gradients of 8Z. Design standards were agreed
during negotiations and are indicated in Table 4. The works include three
major access roads - two to May Pen and one to Mandeville. The project work
would involve heavy earthwork and rock excavation, and the pavement would com-
prise a crushed rock base and an asphaltic concrete carpet. Labor-intensive
methods are not suited to this type of construction; hence, the design has
been based on normal equipment usage. Nevertheless, the labor component is
estimated at 25%, and, in specific terms, work on these sections should pro-
vide employment for about 700-800 workers over the construction period.
Bog Walk-Linstead
4.04      The existing 4.5-mile road from Bog Walk to Linstead is part of the
arterial road from Spanish Town to the north coast at Ocho Rios. Another part
of this arterial road, the Moneague-Crescent Park section, was reconstructed
by force account under the first Bank highway project. The remaining sections
are scheduled for improvement in the Government's 1979-1983 five-year program.
The existing Bog Walk-Linstead road is narrow and winding and passes through
the villages of Bog Walk and Linstead; its pavement is in fair condition only,
and the average vehicle speed is 20-30 m.p.h. The current traffic volume
exceeds 5,000 vehicles per day. The nature of the proposed construction would
be similar to that for the Spanish Town-Mandeville Road (para. 4.03).
One major access to each of the towns of Bog Walk and Linstead is
included in the project.
(ii) Construction/Improvement of Secondary Access Roads
4.05      Sections of a number of existing secondary access roads will need to
be improved or reconstructed, particularly where they join the arterial roads.
Agreement on the sections to be improved was reached during negotiations.
It is proposed that construction of the junctions with the arterial roads be
included in the arterial road works, while the remaining improvements will be
undertaken by MOW and financed from budgetary funds.
(iii) Establishment of Permanent Vehicle Weighing Stations and Procurement
of Geotechnical Equipment
4.06      The construction of new sections of arterial roads will give Govern-
ment the opportunity to address itself to the problem of unauthorized over-
loading of vehicles, specifically by enabling it to plan for a rational loca-
tion of permanent weighing stations.  Under the proposed project, five such
stations would be provided. During negotiations, it was agreed that one
weighing station would be located on each of the sections of May Pen Bypass,
Williamsfield-Greenvale and Bog Walk-Linstead; determination of location for
the remaining two weighing stations will await the results of the axle load-
ing survey being carried out under the Second Highway Project. Geotechnical
testing equipment is for testing and research work in connection with road
construction and maintenance.



- 13 -
(iv) Technical Assistance
4.37      The project would provide technical assistance in three areas:
transport planning, aid to the local construction industry, and pavement
design. To develop a capability for transport planning, technical assistance
would be provided to MOW. This assistance would help in analyzing and re-
viewiilg the large transport investment program forecast for the next five
years and define priorities. It would also (a) define the minimum transport
data required for transport planning and the appropriate channel to collect
them; (b) prepare methodologies for transport cost computation and feasibility
studies; and (c) advise on transport coordination. Some 25 man-months of
consulting services are envisaged for assistance in this area.
4.08      The local contracting industry is relatively strong in one type of
work - the production and laying of asphaltic concrete -- but is otherwise
weak and small scale. This may be due, in part, to Government's policy of
fragmenting work to the point that it was inappropriate to bid it (hence,
negotiated contracts were resorted to). Under the Road Improvement and
Maintenance Project, Government agreed to phase out the practice of negotiated
contracts (para. 3.15), and the consequent return to competitive bidding should
help to "sharpen" the contracting industry.
4.09      The measure outlined in the preceding paragraph should help provide
an appropriate environment in which the local contracting industry may de-
velop.   In addition, the Government is now undertaking a substantially ex-
panded road investment program, and this will provide a stimulus to the local
contracting industry. To help it develop, technical assistance would be pro-
vided, under the proposed project, by experts working with the contractors'
associations and with individual firms in the fields of (a) work planning,
site management, equipment usage and personnel training; and (b) costing and
bid preparation. About 25 man-months of consulting services are envisaged
for this assistance.
4.10      Jamaica is currently in the position of having a relatively ex-
tensive paved road network but little information on the long-term perform-
ance of its pavements under traffic. Design to date has tended to be based
on experience in countries where long-term behavior data are available, e.g.,
the UK, but it is not proven that the data are relevant to Jamaican condi-
tions. A research program is needed, and a modest provision of technical
assistance is therefore included in the proposed project.
4.11      During negotiations, the terms of reference for retaining consultants
to provide technical assistance for transport planning (para. 4.07) were agreed.
During negotiations, draft terms of reference for retaining consultants for
aid to the local contracting industry were discussed, and Government will use
these as a basis for final arrangements for UNDP financing. Terms of reference
for the technical assistance for pavement design, evaluation and performance
will be agreed between the Transport and Road Research Laboratory (TRRL) and
the Government.



- 14 -
B.   Cost Estimate, Financing and Disbursements
4.12      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$23.6 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$13.7 million equivalent.
A summary of cost follows; details are given in Table 5.
Foreign
Exchange
J$ Million          US$ M4illion    Component
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total %
Part I: Items to be financed
with Bank assistance
(i)  Clivil works /1         6.65   9.30  15.95  7.35  10.24  17.59  58
(ii)  Supervision of (i)      0.70   0.90   1.60  0.77   1.00   1.77  57
(iii)  Weighing stations
and geotechnical
equipment               0.10   0.19   0.29  0.11   0.21   0.32  65
(iv)  Technical assistance   0.10   0.10   0.20  0.11   0.11   0.22  50
(v)  Contingencies
- physical              0.44   0.55   0.99  0.48   0.60   1.08
-price                  0.88   1.21   2.09  0.97   1.34   2.31
TOTAL         8.87  12.25  21.12  9.79  13.50  23.29  58
Part II: Items to be
financed with UNDP and
British Government assistance
Technical Assistance         0.10   0.20   0.30  0.11   0.22   0.33
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              8.97  12.45  21.42  9.90  13.72  23.62
/1   Excluding land aquisition costs estimated at US$2.6 million.
4.13      Construction costs have been based on the estimates of LVI, pre-
pared as a result of detailed engineering (1973), and have been increased to
include estimated price escalation up to bidding (bids are expected to be
opened in the Fall of 1974). Estimates assume that arterial road construc-
tion would be carried out by foreign contractors, 1/ with the exception of
earthworks and pavement base works on the Bog Walk-Linstead Section and
accesses thereto, which would be carried out by force account (para. 4.21).
The average construction cost for all road sections in the project is US$0.7
million per mile, excluding land acquisition, supervision and contingencies;
1/   The local contracting industry may be expected to be fully occupied with
resurfacing and overlaying under Bank Loan 899-JM, feeder road construc-
tion financed by USAID and reconstruction works of secondary main roads
financed by IDB.



- 15 -
including these, the cost is US$1.0 million per mile. This high cost is due
to (a) difficult terrain to be covered, high labor costs in Jamaica, and the
need for eight railroad separations and two miles of climbing lanes; and
(b) the risk factor arising from recent experience of labor unrest in Jamaica.
For the works on force account, the consultants' estimates have been reduced
by 15% to reflect the lower cost of construction on an assured and continuous
basis (MoW has been handling similar works competently over many years).
Additionally, in Jamaica, the pr;cing of force account work could be expected
to be less than for the same work performed by contractors, since the latter
would normally cover (and the Government would, therefore, pay for) all
potential risks, whereas, with force account working, Government would pay
only if the risks materialized. Costs of recently completed works by force
account validate this reduction.
4.14      Costs for consulting services for supervision, estimated at about
US$60,000 per man-year, are based on current costs for similar services by
foreign consulting firms working under comparable circumstances. On the other
hand, the costs for technical assistance are based on the assumption that this
assistance would be provided by individual foreign consultants and at current
rates for such assistance in Jamaica. The costs of local counterparts have
been included in the project.
4.15      A contingency allowance of 6% of construction costs has been included
to allow for increases in quantities; this is considered adequate in view of
the detailed engineering carried out. Price contingencies are partly incorporated
in the base cost, as will be the case with contractors' bids. The total costs,
including the price contingencies, are based on the assumption of about a 12%
yearly increase in construction costs over the construction period.
4.16      The foreign exchange component for construction works on contract
is estimated at 60% of total construction cost, excluding the cost of land
acquisition; including land acquisition cost, the foreign exchange component
is 52%. The corresponding figures for force account works are 50% and 45%.
For the civil works as a whole, the average foreign exchange component is
58%, excluding land acquisition.
4.17      The proposed loan would finance all foreign exchange costs of the
project except those financed by UNDP and the British Government. Local
costs would be met by Government from budgetary allocations.
4.18      Disbursements from the loan would be made on the following basis:
(a) for civil works on contract, 60% of construction costs;
(b) for civil works on force account, 50% of certified cost;
(c) for provision and installation of weigh bridges for permanent
vehicle weighing stations and procurement of geotechnical
equipment, 100% of the foreign exchange cost;
(d) for consulting services, 100% of the foreign exchange cost.



- 16 -
The procedures for determining the costs of civil works undertaken by force
account are being developed by MOW w;Lth the assistance of consultants retained
under the Second Highway Project. During negotiations,these procedures were
discussed in outline and they will subsequently be agreed in detail with the
Bank.
4.19      Based on the foregoing, and on implementation commencing late
1974, an estimated schedule of loan disbursement has been prepared (Table 6).
Surplus funds remaining in the loan account on completion of the project
should be cancelled.
C.   Execution
4.20      Execution of the project would be the responsibility of MOW.  Contracts
for civil works (excluding earthworks and pavement for the Bog Walk-Linstead
section and its two main access roads, but including all asphaltic surfacing)
and for supply and installation of weigh bridges would be procured by inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Geo-
technical equipment estimated to cost up to US$50,000 in the aggregate would
be procured by negotiated contract. The construction work subject to bidding
would consist of five contracts, and bidders would have the opportunity to bid
for one or several contracts, according to their capacity.
4.21      In accordance with MOW's request, earthworks and pavement (exclud-
ing asphaltic surfacing) for the Bog Walk-Linstead Section including accesses
thereto would be carried out by force account. MOW already has a force
account construction capability 1/ and wishes to retain it;
(a) To deal promptly with emergency situations (e.g., hurricane
damage) since the local contracting industry is currently
too small to cope with such situations;
(b) As a means of determining the true cost of performing various
construction operations (MOW is not convinced that bidding,
either international or domestic, is currently leading to
realistic prices and is confident that limited force account
work would prove to be cheaper than contract work);
(c) To have a restraining effect on unit prices of contract work.
MOW believes that its force account construction unit would benefit from the
discipline of a Bank-financed project, and from being subjected to the same
quality of supervision as would be applied to the remainder of the civil
works in the project. At the same time that the Government wishes to main-
tain, and to make more efficient, its force account unit, it wishes to
develop the local contracting industry to meet the increasing demand for
civil works construction. This policy, to which the present policy conforms,
was reaffirmed during negotiations.
1/ The force account construction unit performed very satisfactorily
under the First Highway Project, Loan 408-JM (para. 1.02).



4.22      Supervision of the civil works would be carried out joinmfly by
MOW (through DMP) and foreign consultants.  MOW does not wisn to retain  LVI
for this work; new foreign consultants would therefore be selected. The
number and qualifications of MOW staff in the supervisory team, the condi-
tions and terms of reference for the foreign consultants, and the nature of
the working arrangements between MOW and the consultants wereagreed with the
Government during negotiations.
4.23      To carry out the technical assistance, consultants accepable co
the Bank would be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
For assistance in transportation planning and to the local contracting in-
dustry, individual consultants would be provided over about a two-year period.
For assistance with pavement evaluation, MOW has approached the TRRL.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      The economic evaluation concentrates on the arterial road construc-
tion program (which would represent about 90% of the estimated project cost,
with an economic return on the investment of about 20%). A qualitative
assessment only is made of the proposed investment in technical assistance.
B. Arterial Road Construction Program
5.02      Except for a few miles of road recently built or improved, the
geometric characteristics of roads in Jamaica are poor and paving is poor/
fair. A large part of the network with relatively light traffic (less
than 2,000 vehicles per day) may easily be improved with better maintenance
and with either an asphaltic overlay or asphaltic surface dressing; this
treatment of relatively lightly trafficked roads is being carried out under
the Road Improvement and Maintenance Project. For the arterial roads, how-
ever, with heavier traffic (4,000-6,000 vehicles per day), such a treatment
is not appropriate, and the proposed project therefore concentrates on re-
construction of the arterial road sections.
5.03      The proposed project includes financing of construction of the
first phase of the 1974-1979 arterial road construction program. The se-
lected roads have a daily traffic of 4,000-6,000 vehicles and their improve-
ment is urgently needed. Three of the four proposed road sections (May Pen
Bypass I and II and Williamsfield-Greenvale) are part of the Spanish Town-
Mandeville road; Bog Walk-Linstead is part of the highway from Spanish Town
to the north coast.
5.04      The Spanish Town-Mandeville road links Spanish Town (48,000 in-
habitants), May Pen (32,000 inhabitants), Old Harbor (7,000 inhabitants) and
Mandeville (13,000 inhabitants). The total population of the direct zone of
influence has increased rapidly during the last years to reach about 185,000



- is -
inhabitants in 1972. An objective of the Government policy is to favor the
industrialization of this region, which has excellent prospects for future
economic development, in order to slow down the rapid growth of the Kingston
area. Large sugar fields and sugar factories are located in the south.
Bernard Lodge, south ot Spanish Town, Innswood Estate, a few miles west of
the same city, and the Monymusk sugar factory south of May Pen are important
sugar processing areas with an expected production of 230,000 tons of sugar
by 1980. The mining center of Lionel Town, south of May Pen, is developing
rapidly, helped by the alumina industry and a canning plant. The land is
suitable for agricultural production and has very good potential for citzs                4
fruit, bananas and corn, production of which is expected to reach 75,000 tons,
25,000 tons and 10,000 tons p.a., respectively, by 1980.
5.05      The highway from Spanish Town to the north coast serves some 165,000
people, gives access to Ewarton, the first and largest mining center of the
country, and carries an increasing amount of tourist traffic between Montego
Bay and Kingston. The area along the Bog Walk-Linstead section produces
mainly sugar, citrus fruit, bananas and milk products, which are shipped to
Kingston for export or local consumption.
5.06      Currently, the Spanish Town-Mandeville road carries about 4,000 v.p.d.
near Mandeville and about 7,000 v.p.d. near Spanish Town. On the Bog Walk-
Linstead section, the present traffic is about 5,000 v.p.d. On each section
of the proposed project, traffic growth has been between 7% and 9% during the
past ten years. A similar rate of growth can be expected. Nevertheless,
the present energy crisis may slow down high traffic growth. Therefore, more
conservative growth rates have been adopted for the purposes of this evalua-
tion as follows:
Average Yearly Increase for
1972       all Vehicles over the 20-year
ADT       Assumed Economic Life
May Pen Bypass                4,730                    4.0%
Williamsfield-Greenvale       4,140                    4.4%
Bog Walk-Linstead             5,470                   5.4Z
Detailed traffic forecasts per section and type of vehicle are given in
Table 7.
5.07      On the existing road sections to be rebuilt or improved in the
proposed project, the average speed is low (between 20 and 30 m.p.h.) due
to the very poor design characteristics, damaged paving and n?mierous cross-
ings through the centers of small towns or villages. The new alignments,
with a design speed of 50 to 60 m.p.h., would substantially reduce the
vehicle operating costs.



- 19 -
5.08      For the purpose of this economic evaluation, benefits have bee
limited to savings in vehicle operating costs.  However, the reconstruction
of the arterial sections would have, in addition, an important social func-
tion. Currently, all the sections run through the center of the towns and
villages, creating considerable nuisance and danger for the inhabitants; the
proposed reconstruction, by avoiding these heavily built-up areas, would
reduce air pollution, noise level and number of accidents.  These unquantifi-
able but, nevertheless, real "social" benefits would accrue directly to the
inhabitants along the route. The savings in vehicle operating costs would
accrue initially to the operators, and, because of competition in the industry,
would be passed on, in part at least, to the shippers and, ultimately, to
the general public.
5.09      Considering only operating cost savings (Table 8), the economic
return on the proposed investment in each of the arterial sections is as
follows:
May Pen Bypass                       24%
Williamsfield-Greenvale              17%
Bog Walk-Linstead                    17%
The return for the sections taken together is about 20%. A sensitivity
analysis of the effect of a construction cost increase indicates that, even
with a 15% cost increase, the arterial road reconstruction would still be
feasible (Table 9). Traffic growth rates have already been estimated con-
servatively (para. 5.06); hence, the sensitivity of the economic return to
further reduction in the growth was not considered. 1/
C. Technical Assistance
5.10      The technical assistance for transport planning should help ensure
that future investment in the sector would maximize socio-economic benefits.
In addition, the counterparts may, in future years, advise planning officials
concerned with other sectors of the economy on the principles of project
identification and evaluation. In quantitative terms, the total cost of the
technical assistance proposed for planning would represent only about one-
thousandth of the investment proposed in the sector over the next four or
five years (para. 2.13).
5.11      The technical assistance to local contractors should improve the
entrepreneurial and engineering capabilities of the industry. This, in turn,
should lead to better quality of work, more competitive pricing than pre-
viously, and a savings in foreign exchange as local contractors replace ex-
patriate firms.
1/   The Bank model was used for calculating the economic return.  In the
present case, this leads to a conservative estimate of benefits since it
does not take into account: (a) benefits deriving from reduction in rise
and fall of road; (b) benefits from introduction of climbing lanes; and
(c) the full benefit from decongestion.



- 20 -
5.12      The current "replacement" value of the pavements in Jamaica's
road system may be estimated at between US$50 million and US$100 million.
Pavement design, particularly with reference to the strengthening of exist-
ing pavements, is developing scientifically in many countries, but an essen-
tial element of the design is a knowledge of pavement behavior and the local
climatic, soil and traffic conditions. Such behavioral information has been
gathered over the past decade or so, particularly in the US and Europe. In
Jamaica, a start has been made on the determination of pavement conditions
under the Road Improvement and Maintenance Project, specifically for deter-
mining the thickness of asphaltic concrete overlays. However, in the long
term, to determine how the considerable investment may be preserved and how
pavements may be strengthened economically to cope with the requirements of
traffic, a research program tailored to Jamaican conditions is needed. The
technical assistance proposed in this area should enable the program to be
properly structured and should provide instruction for counterpart personnel
during the formative stages.
6.  AGREMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNDATION
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government on the
following:
(a)  development of a transport planning capability to
analyze and coordinate the modal investment programs
(para. 2.13); and
(b)  provision of adequate secondary road access to the
proposed reconstructed arterial sections (para. 4.05).
6.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on the
following:
(a)  extent of the expertise to be provided for the transport
planning capability and recruitment of at least one economist/
engineer specializing in transport before June 30, 1974
(paras. 2.13 and 6.01 (a));
(b)  design standards for the arterial roads (para. 4.03);
(c)  details of adequate secondary road access to the proposed
reconstructed arterial sections (para. 4.05);
(d)  location of the permanent vehicle weighing stations
(para. 4.06);
(e)  terms of reference for retaining consultants providing
technical assistance for the transport planning (para. 4.11);



- 21 -
(f)  the basis for costing force account work, the details of which
will be agreed with the Bank later (para. 4.18); and
(g) the number and qualifications of MOW staff to be provided
for the civil works supervisory team, the terms of refer-
ence and conditions under which foreign consultants would
be retained for the supervision, and the nature of the
working arrangements between the consultants and MOW
(para. 4.22).
6.03      With the assurances indicated in paragraph 6.01 and the agreements
indicated in paragraph 6.02, the project would provide a suitable basis for
a loan of US$13.5 million equivalent for a period of 25 years, including a
four-year grace period.
June 24, 1974






TABLE 1
JAMAICA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Investment Program
(US$ million)
1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/177   1977/78    TOTAL
Rural Feeder Roads  4/ 4.3                 5.2        5.8       0.3         -        15.6
Bridge Pogram g/                2.4        3.6        2.5       1.7        0.7       10.9
Secondary Parish IDad I/         -         4.4        5.9       6.3        4.1       20,7
Arterial Roads v/               0.4i       4.1        9.1      12.3        f.5       33.4
Other Works i/                 12.0                             4.44 1A4    5        34 °
19.1       25.0       27.7      25.0       17.8      114.6
Local Finaning                 15.5       16.3       15.8      14.9       11.7       74.2
Foreign Financing               3.6        8.7       11.9      10.1        6.1       40.4
2/ 60% financed by USAID
#/ 36% financed by the Canadian Government
]/ 50% financed by IB
50% finanted by IBRD
MOW and Mission estimates
Source: MOW
January 1974



JAMAICA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
jjpenditure on Roads, 1965-1973
(In US$ millions)
Financing
Jamaica Fiscal Year          Construction    Maintenance       Administration     TOTAL    Foreign 17 Local
1965-1966                 5.6              3.5               1.2            10.3        -        10.3
1966-1967                 6.6              4.5               1.2            12.3       0.1       12.2
1967-1968                 7.8              4.4               1.6            13.8       o.4       13.4
1968-1969                 8.6              4.2               1.4            14.2       0.8       13.4
1969-1970                 9.9              4.6               1.7            16.2       0.5       15.7
1970-1971                14.0              5.4               1.7            21.1       2.0       19.1
1971-1972                15.7              6.7              4.2             26.6       2.4       24.2
1972-1973                 9.4              9.1              5.2             23.7       2.7       21.0
Including expenditures on all arterial, secondary main and parish roads.
21   Including financing from IBRD (Loan 408-JM) CIDA (on-going Jamaica Transportation Survey and bridge
rehabilitation program), USAID (on-going Rural Roads Program), and IDB (reconstruction of secondary,
main and parish roads).
Source:  Ministry of Works, Consultants and Mission Estimates.
December 1973
January 1974 



JAMAICA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road User Charges
(In US$ millions)
Excise duty on    Import duties on      Customs duties  Excise duty   Licence duty on Road traffic
Fiscal Year   tubes and tires   road motor vehicles   on gasoline     on gasoline   notor vehicles  license duty   TOTAL
1957-1968           0.1               5.8                 0.3             6.8            0.1            4.7         17.8
1968-1969          0.5                6.3                 1.0             7.6            0.1            5.2         20.7
1969-1970          0.6                5,1                  -              9.4            0.1            6.2         21.4
1970-1971          0.7               10.3                                10.4            0.2            6.5         28.1
1971-1972           0.9              12.4                                12.6            0.2            7.7         33.8
Source: Ministry of Finance
December 1973
January 1974



TABLE 4
JAMAICA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Arterial Roads
/1
Type of Terrain
Flat
Design Element                                       Rolling    Hilly  Mountainous
Design speed                               mph         60         50         40
Minimum passing sight distance             ft        2100       1800       1500
Minimum horizontal radius                  ft        1040        700        430
Maximum grade                              %             6         8          9
Pavement width                             ft          24         24         24
Shoulder width                             ft            8         6          4
j/' These standards have been generally applied, but have been varied in specific
locations where their rigid application would be uneconomic.
Sources:  MDW and LVI
March 1974-



JAMAICA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost Estimate
% Foreign
J$ Millions          US$ Millions Equivalent  Exchange
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total  Component
Part I: Items to be financed by the Bank
17
A. Civil Works (Excluding land acquisition)
(i)  May Pen Bypass I                                     1.55     2.35     3.90      1.70     2.60     4.30      60
(ii)  May Pen Bypass II                                    1.45     2.15     3.60      1.60     2.34     3.94      60
(iii)  Williamsfield-Greenvale                              1.80     ?.85     4.65      2.00     3.15     5.15      60
(iv)  Bog Walk-Linstead                                    1.85     1.95     3.80      2.05     2.15     4.20      52
Sub-Total (A)                    6.65      9.30    15.95      7.35    10.214    17.9
B. Establishment of Weighing Stations and Procurement
of Geotechnical Equipment                                 0.10     0.19      0.29     0.11     0.21     0.32      66
C. Consulting Services
(i)  Supervision of construction of works under A         0.70     0.90     1.60      0.77     1.00     1.77      57
(ii) Technical Assistance to Government for
transport planning                                   0.10     0.10      0.20     0.11     0.11      0.22     50
-Sub-Total (C)                    0.80     1.00      1.80     WBd      1.11      1.99     56
D. Contingencies
(i)  Physical 6% of A                                     0.44     0.55     0.99      0.48     0.60     1.08
(ii)  Price                                                0.88     1.21      2.09     0.97     1.34      2.31
Sub-Total (D)                     1.32   1T76       3.08   717-        1.914    3.39
Total of items to be financed by Bank                  8.87    12.25    21.12      9.79    13.50    23.29
Part II:  Items to be financed by UNDP and British Gov.
E.  Technical Assistance for Help to Local Contracting
Industry (financed by UNDP)                                -        0.10     0.10      -        0.11     0.11
F. Technical Assistance for Pavement Design, Evaluation
and Ferformance (financed bY british uovernment           0.10     0.10      0.20     0.11      0.11     0.22
Total of items to be financed by UNDP and
_B_ Briti  Government            _                  ___    0.10-   Q02.0       OO_-O0_1- --              a-
Total Project Costs                       214                9.90                .2
1/ Estimates based on expected Fall 1974 prices, when bidding is likely to take place.
SOURCE: Mission- Estimates
May 1974



TABLE 6
JAMAICA
TBIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and                         Cumulative Disbursement at
Quarter Ending_   End of Quarter
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                         20
December 31, 1974                                          50
March 31, 1975                                            400
June 30, 1975                                           1,100
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                      2,000
December 31, 1975                                       3,200
March 31, 1976                                          9,600
June 30, 1976                                           6,200
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                      7,700
December 31, 1976                                       9,300
March 31, 1977                                         10,800
June 30, 1977                                          12,000
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                    13,200
December 31, 1977                                      13,500
Assumptions:
Call for Bids                      August, 1974
Bids Evaluated                      October, 1974
Award of Contracts                  November, 1974
Start of Construction               January, 1975
Completion Contracts                June, 1977
Sources: MOW and Appraisal Mission
May 1974



TABLE 7
JAMAICA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Forecast
1972      1979         1985        1995          Average Year
Increase
May Pen Bypass
Cars               2,730     3,765        4,960        7,850        4.7%
Vans               1,206     1,445        1,685        2,175        2 6f
Buses                 86       105           120         155        2.6
Light Trucks         602       670           735         850        1.8%
Heavy Trucks         106       175           270         550        7.4%
TOTAL         4,730     6,16770                  11,580        4.0%
Williamsfield-Greenvale
Care               3,140     4,360         5,775       9,230        4.8%
Vans                 650       760           875       1,100        2.3%
Buses                 40        50            55          70        2.5%
Light Trucks         264       285           310         350        1.2%
Heavy Trucks          48        80           120         250        7.4%
TOTAL         4,142     5 535        7,135       11,000        4.4%
Bog Walk-Linstead
Cars               3,850     6,045         8,010      14,100        5.8%
Vans                 890     1,215         1,480       2,195        4.0%
Buses                 62        85           100         150        3.9%f
Light Trucks         568       750           890       1,250        3.5%
Heavy Trucks          66       130           195         450        8.7%
TOTAL         5 436     8,225       10 675       18_145        5.4%
Source: MOW
January 1974



TABLE 8
JAMAICA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs
Old Road                          New Road
Speed  UST  per veh/mi              Speed      US$ per veh/mi
Cars             25 mph    0.338                      45 mph        0.275
Vans             25 mph   0473                       45 mph        0.383
Buses            25 mph    1.239                      35 mph        1.032
Light Trucks     25 mph    0.701                      35 mph        0.563
Heavy Trucks     25 mph    1.019                      35 mph        0.877
Sources: MOW, LVI
January 1974



TABLE 9
JAMAICA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Return
(Sensitivity Analysis)
1=5% Construction
Road Section                    Best Estimate       Cost Overrun
May Pen Bypass                      23.7%              19.8%
Williamsfield - Greenvale           16.8%              13.8%
Bog Walk - Linstead                 17.0%              13.9%
NOTE: No decreases in bene±'its have been assumed since these are
estimated conservatively (para. 5.06)
Source: Mission Estimate
January 1974






JAMAICA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Structure of the Ministry of Works
| Minster of Works
Parliamerntary Secretary
| Permanent Secretary |
Assistant Under Secretary               Chief Technical DirectoAssistant Under Secretary                                      Assistant Under Secretary
Administration                                                                        Personnel                                    Finance
Director of Technical              Director of Electrical                           Director of Maintenance            Directo  of                            of   jor
Services                       and Mechanical Services                                                             Construction
rvicea.                 ad_  .                    .                                                                                          roet
Architectural Branch               Workshoos Branch                                 Six Field Area Branches             Buildings Branch           Planning Section
(roads and buildings)
Lands and Survey Branch            Electrical Installations                         Kingston and St. Andrew             Road Construction          Major Projects
in Buildings Branch                              Corporate Area (buildings)         Branch                      Section
Quantity Surveying and             Equinment Pool
Contracts Branch
Civil Engineering Branch
Source: TPOS Road Maintenance Study 1972
March 1974






,840                                                         =                                '.:;      737 i'  flU               .5      :                                                  7207;0                                                                                                              Ut0 A'M /WCO                                     ^R 
DOD  ROADS 00 RE IMPROVED~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------RE1~ .,
7 Ll .. ; ; ,  r BUO; A N PORTS                                                            ,Ud~ Po'                                                                                                                                                 A            .-
+N N L O A L  MA d      $     /                                                                                                                                            oIRP O R T _iS  y  A  
COUNTO BOUNDARIESG) EA
RDOO'                                              YOTO                                                                                           700U                                                                                          TD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3O'~00
THItD HIGHWAT YROJECt > l; > A {t e r - E rE >\ ; ; Bn. WalkX j %lony H lInqb 9f4Y _MAREA
-- ROAD CONS!kUCTION \3, BaptSt, - i 5 LWII;oXhLsed <, ' t J ) ,i a Y; \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 
PRypspoEl                                                                           leT~z,A D VL                                                                                                                       i;1jl                                                  nln  pn               ;g         (         y         tk  kRv   1    lT-sE 
N..,Yy YRJEC Ee 9-M  T)\tJ e   s, X5wtKNSO EtD<eosRvsR 5
R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O AD  l MrR o vEM ENT  b    M AIN TENANCE PROJECT A Rl E N Gutter}>/ leen e hlAV p t - SPANISH ,> _4E cLSorl 2 c, > ;, P ~O " '
THIRST tilGWAY P  FROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HLo 0-M    1 t+_@ i#
RODCONST2LICTION                                                                                                                 tW                                                    i 
PRTE21L;       ROEOADS                                                                                                        I' ;Es    d   VILL  ;r-         ;0         ~                                    );                            '~                                                                                                                             4
SECONDAP M0)AINK EC    (L.., 09                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T                                                                             R-  ; -Q   JAICA
EIRST~ ~ ~  ~             ~                                                               ::A PA J:TL   40:'8-J,                           .                 :      :       : 
--    RCUNVERS         N7AI
7300 n ;4                                                                                                                                  iTHIRD  HiGHWAY0 :PfrOJECT73



