Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11951
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2006-MOR)
JUNE 7, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Appraisal Year Average  (1980)                           USD 1 -  DH 4.2
Intervening Year Average                                 USD 1 =   DH 8.7
Completion Year Average  (1990)                          USD  1 =   DH 8.1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Svstem                                    British/US  System
1 centimeter  (cm)                       -        0.39  inches  (inch)
1 meter  (m)                             =        3.28 feet  (ft)
1 kilometer  (km)                        =        0.62 miles  (mi)
1 square meter  (m2)                    =        10.76 square  feet  (sq.  ft)
1 square kilometer  (km2)               =         0.38  square mile  (sq. mi)
1 metric ton  (m/ton)                   =         0.98  long ton  (1g.  ton)
1 liter  (L)                            =         0.26 gallon  (G)
GLOSSARY
AH         -   Hydraulics Administration
(Administration de l'Hydraulique)
DRSC       -   Public Utility Directorate
(Direction des Regies et Services Concedes)
ONEP       -   National Water Production Agency
(Office Nationale de l'Eau Potable)
PERL       -   Public Enterprise Rationalization Loan
RAD        -   Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Casablanca
RADEEF   -   Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Fez
RADEEM   -   R6gie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricitd de Meknes
RADEEMA -   Rdgie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricitd de Marrakech
RADEEN   -   Rdgie Intercommunale d'Eau et d'Electricite de Nador
RADEEO   -   Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite d'Oujda
RADEES   -   Rdgie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Safi
RADEETA  -   Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Taza
RADEEJ   -   Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de la Province de El Jadida
RADEEC   -   Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Chaouia (Settat)
RADEET   -   Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Tadla
RAID       -   Regic Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricitd de la Province de Tanger
RAK        -   R6gie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Kenitra
RAMSA      -   Regie Autonome Multiservices d'Agadir
RDE        -   Rdgie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricitd do Tetouan
RED        -   Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Rabat-Sale
Regie      -   Municipal Public Utility Company
UNDP       -   United Nations Development Program
MOROCCO - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 7, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Morocco
Third Water Supply Prolect (Loan 2006-MOR)
Attached is the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Morocco -
Third Water Supply Project (Loan 2006-MOR)" prepared by the Middle East & North
Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the borrower.
The implementation of this large and unduly complex project took four
more years than projected. However, on completion, virtually all objectives were
achieved. Physical targets were met or exceeded although the number of house
connections for low income consumers was less than projected, due to the high
cost of connections. The financial position of the national entity is adequate
but cash flow problems remain due to late payment of bills by government
agencies. Overall the performance of the project is rated as satisfactory, its
sustainability as likely and institutional development as substantial.
The Project Completion Report's coverage and analysis of several
important  issues,  particularly  finance,  is  inadequate.    The  significant
contribution contained in Part II somewhat balances these shortcomings.
An audit of this project is planned.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2006-MOR)
Table of Contents
PREFACE .i...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................... . ii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .1.......               ..       ...   ..   ...   ..   ..      .    . .
Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Design and Organization   ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .    .   2
Project Implementation  ......  ..  .                 ..  ..  .   ..  ..  .    ..     .   3
Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Sustainability ......................... . 7
Bank's Performance    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Borrower's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Project Relationship ...................... . 8
Consultants'  Services   ......  ..  .                ..  ..  .   ..  ..  .    ..     .   9
Project Documentation and Data .....  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   9
PART II:PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Office National de l'Eau Potable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Direction des R6gies et Services Conced6s   . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Administration de l'Hydraulique   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
PART III:STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 67
Table   1:   Related Bank Loans   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Table  2:   Project Timetable    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Table  3:   Cumulative Loan Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Table 4: Project Costs .............                                                        71
Table   5:  Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Table   6:   Status of Compliance with Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Table   7:  Missions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Table  8:   Staff Inputs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
MAP: IBRD 24486
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2006-MOR)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report describes the preparation, appraisal, and
implementation of the Third Water Supply Project in Morocco, for which Loan 2006-
MOR in the amount of USD 87 million was signed on September 28, 1981 and became
effective on March 15, 1982. The original closing date of December 31, 1986 was
extended three times to December 31, 1989 because of Morocco's fiscal constraints
and the late transfer of loan proceeds from the Government to the executing
agencies.   An amendment to the Loan Agreement of March 24, 1987 reallocated
disbursement percentages and canceled USD 9 million from the loan.  The final
withdrawal from the loan account was made on May 22, 1990.  Ultimately, USD 78
million were disbursed.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared
by the Infrastructure Operations Division of Country Department I, Middle East and
North Africa Regional Office on the basis of, inter alia, the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Moroccan authorities, internal Bank memoranda, interviews
with former project officers, and completion reports prepared by the Office
National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP), Direction des R6gies et Services Conc6des
(Ministry of the Interior), and the Administration de l'Hydraulique (Ministry of
Public Works and Vocational Training). Part II of this PCR comprises these three
separate reports.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2006-MOR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Background and Obiectives
1.      In 1980, only 25% of the rural population had access to safe drinking
water. Although most of the urban population had access to public water, only 45%
had house connections. The Bank's lending strategy for the water supply sector was
still essentially geared towards helping the Government resolve major sector
issues, shaping a strong institutional framework, and providing urban areas with
safe drinking water. After 1980, the Bank shifted its emphasis towards improving
the access of low-income urban dwellers to the water distribution system through
house connections while expanding water supply in semi-rural and rural areas, where
more than half of the population resided.
2.      The Third Water Supply Project evolved from a long-standing dialogue on
sector development. In the late 1970s, that dialogue began to focus on possible
actions with a high social impact following an assessment of service deficits in
cities and rural areas.  The project thus aimed at providing greatly improved
access to safe water for the low-income residents of the largest cities and to the
population of the smaller and more remote rural centers bypassed by earlier sector
investments.  It also sought to continue the institutional development of the
national bulk water production agency (ONEP) undertaken by the two previous
projects, enhance ONEP's ability to monitor water quality and manage water supply
systems, and improve the capability in the sector to plan and prepare investments,
particularly in rural areas.
Implementation Exoerience
3.      The project was implemented in nine years rather than the five scheduled
at appraisal.  Over 300 contracts were awarded, including 73 on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) mainly for equipment. Both ICB contracts
and those awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) experienced
lengthy delays as sufficient counterpart funds were unavailable because of the
country's serious fiscal difficulties and mounting arrears owed to ONEP and the
water and electricity distribution companies (R6gies) caused by inadequate water
tariffs. There were no significant procurement bottlenecks, but the number and
variety of contracts complicated project management and Bank loan disbursements.
Although direct payment procedures were introduced and efforts made to set up
Special Accounts, late payments to executing agencies, contractors, and suppliers
continued.
4.      A line of credit allocated to ONEP helped finance the construction of 38
ONEP centers, six more than originally envisaged. Twenty-two of these centers were
destined for drinking water production and distribution, and 16 centers solely for
drinking water distribution.  ONEP also built and equipped two regional water
supply systems. The first tranche of the Errachidia-Erfoud-Rissani Regional Water



iii
Supply System was completed in 1985 according to schedule, whereas the two other
tranches, completed in 1987 and 1989, experienced considerable delays because of
lengthy negotiations with the municipalities responsible for water distribution
(para. 11).  Construction of another regional water supply system for Karia Ba
Mohamed began in early 1983.  Although operations were launched in March 1985
according to schedule, the system's water treatment plant operations had to be
interrupted a number of times because of the high turbidity of the Sebou river
during the rainy season. This required the construction of pre-settling facilities
at the treatment plant.
5.      The municipally-owned R6gies, under the tutelage of the Ministry of the
Interior, and ONEP carried out a social house connection program. Implementation
of this component by both the Regies and ONEP got off to a good start and was
generally successful despite lengthy delays in the transfer of disbursed amounts
from the Ministry of Finance accounts to the Regies and ONEP. By 1985, four Regies
included in the project had fully utilized their Bank loan amount allocations. In
response to requests from RED (Rabat-Sale) and RADEEMA (Marrakech), loan proceeds
were reallocated in 1987 and again in 1989 to enable them to continue their more
ambitious social house connection programs. By the end of project implementation,
both the Regies and ONEP exceeded their original targets.
6.      The Hydraulico Administration (AH) within the Ministry of Public Works,
in coordination with ONEP, oversaw the drilling and equipping of 21 boreholes and
19 wells at 15 ONEP centers for carrying out pumping tests and determining the
exploitable yield. This component was completed two years behind schedule, in mid-
1985, because of unforeseen delays in drilling boreholes.
7.      Studies financed under the project were successfully carried out for: (a)
the identification, selection, design, operation, and maintenance of water supply
systems in rural areas; and (b) an updated and enlarged water supply master plan
for the mid-Atlantic coastal region.   A third study aimed at improving the
organization of the water supply sector was not completed. Work on this study
could not start until AH had finished a rural drinking water supply master plan
financed by the United Nations Development Program. Therefore, it has recently
been decided that recommendations on institutional changes in the sector to
integrate water production and distribution in urban rural areas, as envisaged,
will be part of a sector study on water resources planned for FY95.
Results
8.      The proportion of the population with water supply connections increased
from 48% in 1981 to 65% in 1989. By the end of 1989, ONEP had installed 36,639
connections for the low-income population, or 115% of the original target. By the
end of 1989, the Regies had installed 92,659 social connections, or 105% of the
original target.   In the Errachidia-Erfoud-Rissani region, some 262,000 rural
inhabitants in 237 villages are being supplied with safe drinking water through
1,524 house connections and 250 standpipes, and in Karia Ba Mohamed, some 72,000
through 892 connections (815 private, 40 public, and 36 industrial connections, and
1 standpipe).
8ustainabilitv
9.      The Third Water Supply Project followed on the main objectives of the first
two projects by helping ONEP to focus on improved efficiency under an increasingly
decentralized organizational structure. As a result of improved efficiency, ONEP's



iv
permanent staff increased by only 9% between 1981 and 1989 compared with a twofold
increase in water sales for that period. The agency's training policy focussed on
skill upgrading of managers and basic training to accommodate the needs of new
technicians. Now that a reasonably viable institution exists on the production
side, sustainability will rest on addressing the following major issues confronting
the sector: (a) further development of ONEP's distribution capacity in small
villages; (b) institutional and operational strengthening of the Regies leading to
full managerial and financial autonomy; (c) setting of water tariffs that are
adequate to attain full cost recovery in the sector; and (d) settling of mounting
arrears owed to ONEP and the R6gies and prevention of the buildup of more arrears
in the future.   These objectives have been supported by the Public Enterprise
Rationalization Loan (PERL) and the National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project
and are the goals of the proposed Fifth Water Supply Project, to be appraised in
early 1993.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
10.     Clearly, project complexity contributed to the lengthy implementation
delays. There were many executing agencies (ONEP, the Regies, and AH) and a wide
variety of components, including rural water supply and master plan studies. The
number of contracts (over 300) further complicated project implementation and
monitoring. The lessons are that: (a) the more complex the project, the greater
the likelihood of lengthy delays in execution; and (b) overly optimistic
implementation periods for complex projects should be avoided.
11.     Completion of the Errachidia-Erfoud-Rissani regional water supply system
experienced considerable delays due to the innovative nature of the subproject,
time required for land expropriation, the local population's lack of ownership and
commitment, and time required for separate water distribution agreements to ensure
maintenance of public fountains in seven rural communes.   The agreements were
finalized in 1988 rather than in 1982, as initially planned.   Moreover, water
consumption in Errachidia-Erfoud was well below original targets (2 liters per
capita per day instead of the planned 40 liters per capita per day) because public
taps were not being used to the extent envisaged. The lesson is that some issues
(e.g., sociological implications) should have been taken into account in the
project design, other issues (e.g., action plan for land expropriation) should have
been addressed during project preparation, and other delays (e.g., water
distribution agreements with local communities) might have been avoided at the
onset of project implementation had the participants been adequately informed of
the legal aspects of the project and its conditionalities during the project launch
seminar. The preparation of the proposed Fifth Water Supply Project includes an
important social component designed on the basis of demand and capacity analyses
pertaining to future water customers in rural areas.
12.     Loan conditionalities focussed on ONEP's working and debt service coverage
ratios and did not take into account its growing investments. During negotiations,
it was agreed that ONEP would be required to maintain a working ratio in the order
of 65% for 1982 and thereafter.  During the 1980s, ONEP's working ratio showed
continuous improvement, reaching by 1984 the covenanted 65% in the Loan Agreement
and in 1988 55%, its lowest level before rising to 65% in 1992. By 1990, ONEP's
equity exceeded 80% of its liabilities, allowing for a positive working capital.
During the project period, its debt to debt-and-equity ratio never exceeded 25% of
its  capital.      Nonetheless,  ONEP's  financial  contribution  to  investments



v
deteriorated between 1987 and 1990 despite efforts under the PERL and the National
Water Supply Rehabilitation Project.   Towards the end of the extended project
implementation period, the Government and ONEP signed a performance contract, as
a condition of the PERL, specifying their respective obligations in terms of tariff
levels, operating ratios, Ministry of Finance control over investments, and the
Government's contribution to the investment program. At the same time, under the
National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project, the working ratio covenant was
changed to a cash generation covenant with a view to improving ONEP's financial
performance under its heavy investment program.   The lesson is that financial
covenants for utilities were not successfully designed and that a working ratio
(excluding depreciation) is not a valid indicator;   either an operating ratio
(including depreciation) or a cash generation ratio is an acceptable measure of a
utility's financial performance.
13.     The Bank was successful in garnering the participation of three R6gies
(RAD, RED, and RAK) in the social house connection program under the Second Water
Supply Project and in expanding the number of participating Regies under the Third
Project.   The Bank was less successful in helping the R6gies improve their
financial position or operations  and maintenance.   At the time of project
inception, it was not deemed necessary for the Bank and the Regies to enter into
formal project agreements in view of the minor scope of works involved in
installing house connections. However, in retrospect, it might have been wise to
have included several Regies as full partners since the serious financial and
managerial constraints on Rogie operations, in general, have intensified over the
years and must again be resolved some 12 years later through the Fifth Water Supply
Project. The lesson is that the earlier institutional and financial issues are
dealt with, the better the Government and the Bank can envisage overall sector
development.
14.     Although AH performed well in the execution of its investigations of water
resources, it was unable to avoid the considerable delays in implementing water
resource master plan studies because of the participation of multiple institutions
in the provision of data and discussion of reports and recommendations. The lesson
is that water resource studies are politically sensitive in arid and semi-arid
countries and by nature complex, and they require the input of many institutions
in water supply,  irrigation,  and power.   They can only be completed in a
satisfactory way by identifying relevant institutions at an early stage, setting
up an appropriate incentive structure, and creating a permanent coordination panel
at the national level.
15.     Project design relied heavily on ONEP's growing institutional capacity.
A valuable lesson was learned from the successful testing of ONEP's capability to
select and appraise subprojects financed through a line of credit. In addition,
Bank support to the Social House Connections Fund in three projects has been so
successful that under the Fifth Project, another replenishment will be made.
Achievements under the Third Water Supply Project were indeed substantial in terms
of the incremental population served, the number of new connections, and the
sustainability of objectives, particularly in view of ONEP's enhanced managerial
capacity. However, in the latter implementation years, a "2" rating was assigned
to the "development impact" of the project. Whereas a "3" rating would have been
more indicative of ONEP's financial performance, a consistently high rating for
development impact would have been fully acceptable.   The lesson is that the
assignment of project ratings needs to be given appropriate attention.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2006-MOR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Name               : Third Water Supply Project
Loan Number        : 2006-MOR
Loan Amount        : USD 87 million
RVP Unit           : Middle East and North Africa
Country            : Morocco
Sector             : Water Supply and Sewerage
Subsector          : Water Supply
2. Project BackQround
2.01    By 1980, Morocco's population was approximately 20 million, with about
9.3 million, or 47%, living in the urban areas. Overall growth in population had
been at 3% p.a. for the last five years, but was expected to decrease to 2.6%
over the next ten years. Whereas the rural population was increasing at 1.8%
p.a., the urban population was growing at about 4.8% p.a. In rural areas, only
25% of the population had access to safe drinking water.  Most of the urban
population had access to public water, but only 45% had house connections.
2.02    Before 1980, the Bank's lending strategy for the water supply sector had
been essentially geared towards helping the Government resolve major sector
issues, shaping a strong institutional framework, and providing urban areas with
safe drinking water. After 1980, Bank shifted its emphasis towards improving the
access of low-income urban dwellers to the distribution system through house
connections while expanding water supply in semi-rural and rural areas, where
more than half of the population resided. The Third Water Supply Project grew
out of an ongoing dialogue on sector development involving the Bank, the Moroccan
Government, and the Office National d'Eau Potable (ONEP).  The dialogue focussed
on possible actions with a high social impact following an assessment of service
deficits in smaller towns and rural areas.



- 2-
3. Proiect Oblectives and Description
3.01    Protect Obiectives.   The project aimed at providing greatly improved
access to safe water for the low-income residents of the cities and to the
population of the smaller and more remote centers bypassed by earlier sector
investments. It also sought to continue the institutional development of ONEP
undertaken by the two previous projects, enhance ONEP's ability to monitor water
quality and manage water supply systems, and improve the capability in the sector
to develop water resources and to plan and prepare investments, particularly in
rural areas.
3.02    Proiect Description.  The original project components were:
(a) a line of credit for the financing of subprojects consisting of the
expansion and upgrading of about 32 water supply systems;
(b) construction of, and equipment for, the Errachidia-Erfoud-Rissani and
Karia Ba Mohamed regional water supply systems;
(c) acquisition of laboratory and related equipment for four water quality
control laboratories, water meters, including calibrated test meters,
leak detection equipment, and maintenance and survey equipment;
(d) technical assistance in the design and calculation of distribution
networks, preparation of final designs and bid documents, setting up a
management information system, improving the operation of water systems,
and completing the inventory of ONEP's assets;
(e) training of laboratory staff in appropriate water treatment and control
techniques;
(f) social house connection program for low-income customers of ONEP and the
public utility companies (Regies) of Casablanca (RAD), F6s (RADEEF),
Kenitra (RAX), Oujda (RADEEO), Marrakech (RADEEMA), Meknes (RADEEM),
Rabat-Sal6 (RED), Safi (RADEES), Tanger (RAID), Taza (RADEETA), and
Tetouan (RDE);
(g) construction of, and equipment for, boreholes and wells in 24 centers
for carrying out pumping tests and determining the exploitable yield;
and
(h) studies for: (i) the identification, selection, design, operation, and
maintenance of water supply systems in rural areas; (ii) an updated and
enlarged master plan, drawn up originally for the Mid-Atlantic Coastal
Zone between Kenitra and Casablanca, and extended to the year 2010 for
meeting the water demand of the Mid-Atlantic Coastal Zone from Safi to
Kenitra, including the preparation of final designs and bid documents
for the first phase construction program, and (iii) improvements in the
organization of the water supply sector.
4. Proiect Design and Organization
4.01    Prior to project appraisal, ONEP prepared the initial reports needed to
identify and resolve issues relating to tariff adjustments and preliminary



designs for civil works of varying magnitude and at sites throughout the country.
The agency also provided data for defining the different project components.
These reports were reviewed by the Bank and served as the basis for appraising
the project.   The project was then designed with a view giving ONEP the
opportunity to sharpen its project preparation and appraisal capacity through a
line of credit.   The Bank appraisal mission assessed ONEP's management, its
overall investment program, as well as its approach, criteria, appraisal
techniques, and design characteristics used in subproject selection. ONEP would
carry out a master plan study for the mid-Atlantic region, while the studies on
regional water supply systems and sector organization would be entrusted to
another entity.
4.02    The Public Utility Directorate  (DRSC) within the Ministry of the
Interior collected relevant data from the Regies on the requirements for
increasing the house connections of low-income customers. Installation of house
connections to new low-income customers of the Regies would be carried by the
R6gies themselves.   Organization and implementation of works drew upon the
experience gained by the Regies under the Second Water Supply Project.
4.03    The Hydraulic Administration (AH) within the Ministry of Public Works
and Vocational Training was charged with carrying out the water resource
development component in coordination with ONEP. It would also provide a rural
drinking water master plan needed to complete the sector organization study.
5. Proiect Implementation
5.01    General.  The project was implemented in nine years rather than the five
scheduled at appraisal. Clearly, project complexity contributed to the delays.
There were many executing agencies (ONEP, the Regies, and AH) and a wide variety
of components, including a line of credit, social house connection funds, rural
water supply,  and master plan studies.   The number of contracts  further
complicated project implementation and monitoring.   Over 300 contracts were
awarded, including 73 on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB)
mainly for equipment.   Both ICB and those awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB) experienced lengthy delays as there were insufficient
counterpart funds available because of Morocco's fiscal difficulties and mounting
arrears owed to ONEP and the Regies, the consequence of inadequate water tariffs.
Although there were no significant procurement bottlenecks, the number and
variety of contracts complicated project management and Bank loan disbursements.
5.02    Civil Works.   This component, partially financed by a Bank line of
credit in the amount of USD 10 million, supported the construction of 38 ONEP
centers, six more than originally envisaged. Twenty-two of these centers were
destined for drinking water production and distribution, and 16 centers solely
for drinking water distribution.   The list of eligible centers was amended
several times with the result that a total of 43 centers were appraised. In
January 1981, the Beni Mellal, Fquih Ben Salah, and Kasba Tadla centers were
transferred to the local Regie (RADEET). On the other hand, additional centers
were included under the line of credit because water resources in the Taznakht,
Tinghir, Sidi Allal Tazi, Midelt, Goulmima, and Missour centers were
insufficient.    Because  of these  additional  centers,  execution of works,
originally scheduled for completion by mid-1988, was not completed until late
1989. However, by the end of 1985, the original component completion date, works
for 33 centers were either completed or underway. Eleven centers for production



- 4 -
and distribution and four for distribution only were completed, two for
production and distribution and three distribution only were nearing completion,
and two for production and distribution and 11 for distribution only had been
contracted out.
5.03    Errachidia-Erfoud-Rissani Regional Water Supply System.   The water
transport pipes were installed in three tranches, comprising: (a) setup of the
main water transport pipe for water supply of Errachidia and Erfoud; (b) the
installation of the water transport pipe for the supply of Rissani by the Erfoud
system; and (c) supply for villages in the Ziz Valley and the Tafilalet Lowlands.
The first tranche was completed in 1985 according to schedule, whereas the two
other tranches, completed respectively in 1987 and 1989, experienced considerable
delays due to the innovative nature of the project, time required for land
expropriation, time required for separate water distribution agreements to ensure
maintenance of public fountains in seven rural communes, and the local
population's lack of ownership and commitment to the project. The agreements
were finalized in 1988 rather than in 1982, as initially planned.   Water
consumption was well below original targets (2 liters per capita per day instead
of the planned 40 liters per capita per day) because public taps were not being
used to the extent envisaged.  The lesson learned is that some issues (e.g.,
sociological implications) should have been taken into account in the project
design, other issues (e.g., action plan for land expropriation) should have been
resolved during project preparation, and other delays (e.g., water distribution
agreements with local communities) might have been avoided at the onset of
project implementation had the participants been adequately informed of the legal
aspects of the project and its conditionalities during the project launch
seminar.
5.04    Karia Ba Mohamed Regional Water SuDplV System.  Construction of the
regional water supply system began in early 1983 and operations were launched in
March 1985 according to schedule.  However, the system's water treatment plant
operations had to be interrupted a number of times because of the high turbidity
of the Sebou river during the rainy season. This required the construction of
pre-settling facilities at the water treatment plant. In addition, the water
distribution system was expanded to allow for service to the villages located
along the water transport pipes linking the Karia Ba Mohamed treatment plan with
the distribution network. Works for these additional sections started in October
1988 and were completed in May 1990.
5.05    Social House Connection Program.  Implementation of this component by
ONEP and the Regies got off to a good start and was generally successful despite
initial delays of up to eight months in reimbursing R6gies for materials and
equipment.    Part  of  this  delay  resulted  from  cumbersome  administrative
procedures, part from inefficiency. Subsequent delays could be attributed to
urban rehabilitation projects that were lagging behind schedule. Between 1982
and 1985, ONEP installed 36,380 connections, out of an estimated 42,000.
However, only 40% of these connections were for the lower-income segments of the
population, mainly because of the reluctance of the rural population to borrow
for house connections. It was decided to extend the implementation deadline so
that the entire social house connection program could be carried out.   In
November 1983, the Loan Agreement was amended to extend participation to other
Regies. An increase in family income ceiling and an active campaign by DRSC to
promote the installation sped up the implementation of this program. By 1985,
four Regies had fully utilized their Bank loan amount allocations. In response



- 5 -
to requests from RED (Rabat-Sale) and later from both RED and RADEEMA
(Marrakech), loan proceeds were reallocated from RAD (Casablanca) in 1986 and
again in 1989 to enable RED and RADEEMA to continue their more ambitious social
house connection programs.
5.06    Water Resource Development.  AH, in coordination with ONEP, oversaw the
drilling and equipping of 21 boreholes and 19 wells at 15 ONEP centers for
carrying out pumping tests and determining the exploitable yield. This component
was completed two years behind schedule, in mid-1985, because of unforeseen
delays in drilling boreholes.
5.07    Rural Water SurPlv Systems Study.   Moroccan authorities,  with the
assistance of the World Health Organization and funding from the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP), launched in 1990 a rural water supply master plan
study dealing primarily with water supply for dispersed rural population. The
concurrent Bank-financed study of regional water supply systems was geared more
to agglomerated populations and limited to the province of Ouarzazate and some
30 smaller rural agglomerations.   The study experienced some delays when
discussions with the Rural Infrastructure Directorate of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform became bogged down.
5.08    Water Supplv Master Plan Study.   The updating and extension of the
drinking water supply master plan for the region located between Kenitra and Safi
was completed on schedule in early 1986. The study recommended the installation
of a pipeline between the Oum Er R'bia River and Casablanca. The cost of the
first phase of the project was estimated at USD 78 million.   The Saudi and
Kuwaiti funds financed the foreign exchange component for this phase, and service
began in 1991.
5.09    Water Supnlv Sector Organization Study.    The Ministry of Economic
Affairs entrusted ONEP with lead responsibility for implementing the first phase,
which consisted of updating and revising the 1975/1976 tariff study. This was
completed in 1983. The second phase was never undertaken. It was to have made
recommendations on institutional changes in the sector to integrate water
production and distribution in urban and rural areas. Work on this study could
not start until AH had finished a rural drinking water supply master plan.
Therefore, it has recently been decided that recommendations on institutional
changes will be part of a sector study on water resources planned for FY95 (para.
10.02).
6. Results
6.01    Proiect Costs.  The actual project cost was USD 137 million compared
with USD 169 million estimated at appraisal resulting in a 19% underrun. This
difference is attributable to devaluation of the Moroccan dirham by 50% in
relation to the US dollar. Lower final costs for some components, e.g., less
external assistance used by ONEP than initially planned, easily offset higher
costs for others, such as an increase in the number of centers financed under the
sector loan, the need to construction pre-settling facilities at the Karia Ba
Mohamed water treatment plant, and acquisition of equipment for additional ONEP
centers.



6.02    Disbursements. Disbursements consistently remained well behind forecast
amounts (30% in the early 1980s), partly because of the delays in project startup
and partly because of lengthy delays in the transfer of disbursed amounts from
the Ministry of Finance accounts to the R6gies and ONEP.  A new procedure of
direct payment by the Treasury to the R6gies' accounts was introduced in 1985.
Efforts were also made to set up Special Accounts.  Nonetheless, payments to
executing agencies, contractors, and suppliers continued to be late.  By the
first closing date, December 31, 1986, only 35% of the loan amount had been
disbursed. By the fourth and final closing date, December 31, 1989, over 1,100
separate withdrawals from the loan account had been made, with an average
withdrawal of about USD 67,000.
6.03    Achievement of Physical Targets. The proportion of the population with
water supply connections increased from 45% in 1980 to 65% in 1989. By the end
of 1989, ONEP had installed 36,639 connections for the low-income population, or
115% of the original target, and the Regies 92,659 social connections, or 105%
of the original target. In the Errachidia-Erfoud-Rissani region, some 262,000
rural inhabitants in 237 villages were supplied with safe drinking water through
1,524 house connections and 250 standpipes, and in Karia Ba Mohamed, some 72,000
were supplied through 892 connections (815 private, 40 public, and 36 industrial
connections, and 1 standpipe). However, water consumption in Errachidia-Erfoud-
Rissani was well below original targets (2 liters per capita per day instead of
the planned 40 liters per capita per day); public taps were not being used to the
extent envisaged because the sociological implications had not been taken into
account in the project design.   The preparation of the proposed Fifth Water
Supply Project, to be appraised in early 1993, includes an important social
component designed on the basis of demand and capacity analyses pertaining to
future water customers in rural areas.
6.04    Economic Justification.  The proposed regional water supply subprojects
represented the least-cost solutions based on discount rates from 8% to 12% for
providing the population in the project areas with adequate safe water.
Subprojects refinanced under the line of credit were subject to least-cost
alternative eligibility criteria applied by ONEP. Reevaluated economic rates of
return are unavailable because ONEP now needs to develop criteria for ex-post
project evaluation. Since ONEP did not reach projected sales in the regional
projects, economic rates of return for Errachidia-Erfoud-Rissani and Karia Ba
Mohamed waterworks were lower than foreseen.
6.05    Financial Performance.  Loan conditionalities focussed on ONEP's working
and debt service coverage ratios and did not take into account its growing
investments. During negotiations, it was agreed that ONEP would be required to
maintain a working ratio in the order of 65% for 1982 and thereafter. During the
1980s, ONEP's working ratio showed continuous improvement, reaching by 1984 the
covenanted 65% in the Loan Agreement and in 1988 55%, its lowest level before
rising to 65% in 1992. By 1990, ONEP's equity exceeded 80% of its liabilities,
allowing for a positive working capital. During the project period, its debt to
debt-and-equity ratio never exceeded 25% of its capital.   Nonetheless, ONEP's
financial contribution to investments deteriorated between 1987 and 1990 despite
efforts under the PERL and the National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project.
Towards the end of the extended project implementation period, the Government and
ONEP signed a performance contract, as a condition of the PERL, specifying their
respective obligations in terms of tariff levels, operating ratios, Ministry of



- 7 -
Finance control over investments, and the Government's contribution to the
investment  program.   At the same time,  under the National Water  Supply
Rehabilitation Project, the working ratio covenant was changed to a cash
generation covenant with a view to improving ONEP's financial performance under
its heavy investment program.
6.06    Environmental Impact.  The project had nothing but a positive impact on
the environment by contributing to improved environmental health conditions. The
provision of water distribution systems replaced wells in rural areas
contaminated by seepage from septic tanks and pits; sewerage connections in urban
areas and septic tanks in rural areas were made compulsory for project
beneficiaries.  The installation of better designed standpipes with adequate
drainage reduced levels of stagnant water, while greater numbers of low-income
urban and rural dwellers, as well as livestock, had access to safe drinking
water.   There was no adverse effect on wetlands or biodiversity,  nor was
resettlement necessary.
7. Sustainabilitv
7.01    The Third Water Supply Project followed on the main objectives of the
first two projects by helping ONEP to focus on improved efficiency under an
increasingly decentralized organizational structure. As a result of improved
efficiency, ONEP's permanent staff increased by only 9% between 1981 and 1989
compared with a twofold increase in water sales for that period. The agency's
training policy focussed on skill upgrading of managers and basic training to
accommodate the needs of new technicians.   Now that a reasonably viable
institution exists on the production side, sustainability will rest on addressing
the following major issues confronting the sector: (a) further development of
ONEP's distribution capacity in small villages; (b) institutional and operational
strengthening of the Regies leading to full managerial and financial autonomy;
(c) setting of water tariffs that are adequate to attain full cost recovery in
the sector; and (d) settling of mounting arrears owed to ONEP and the R6gies and
prevention of the buildup of more arrears in the future. These objectives have
been supported by PERL and the National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project and
are the goals of the proposed Fifth Water Supply Project.
8. Bank Performance
8.01    The  Bank  was  instrumental  in  improving  relations  among  sector
institutions and initiating and following up on discussions of sensitive issues
such as arrears, tariffs, division of responsibility, inter-agency collaboration,
and water rights. It also continued to assist ONEP in upgrading its management
systems and cost accounting with a view to improving investment planning
procedures.   Particular attention was given to ONEP's financial management
capacity as conditionalities focussed on its working and debt service coverage
ratios. The lesson learned that the Borrower with Bank assistance can achieve
financial objectives by complying with covenants geared to particular
circumstances. Another lesson was learned from the willingness of the Bank to
test ONEP's capability to select and appraise subprojects financed under a line
of credit, which was highly successful.
8.02    The Bank was successful in garnering the participation of three R6gies
(RAD, RED, and RAK) in the social house connection program under the Second Water



-8-
Supply Project and in expanding the number of participating R6gies under the
Third Project. The Bank was less successful in helping the Regies improve their
financial position or operations and maintenance.   At the time of project
inception, it was not deemed necessary for the Bank and the R6gies to enter into
formal project agreements in view of the minor scope of works involved in
installing house connections. However, in retrospect, it might have been wise
to have included several Regies as full partners since the serious financial and
managerial constraints on Regie operations, in general, have intensified over the
years and must again be resolved some 12 years later through the Fifth Water
Supply Project.  The lesson is that the earlier institutional and financial
issues are dealt with, the better the Government and the Bank can envisage
overall sector development.
9. Borrower Performance
9.01    ONEP performed competently, proving that it could benefit from a line
of credit.  It also increased its experience in building rural water supply
systems. RED (Rabat-Sale) continued to stand out in achieving its targets for
social house connections while all R6gies except RAD (Casablanca) and RAK
(Kenitra) made significant progress.  AH performed well in the execution of its
investigations for water resources but was unable to avoid the considerable
delays in implementing master plan studies because of the participation of
multiple institutions in the provision of data and discussion of reports and
recommendations.   The lesson  learned is that water resource studies  are
politically sensitive in arid and semi-arid countries and by nature complex, and
they require the input of many institutions in water supply, irrigation, and
power. They can only be completed in a satisfactory way by identifying relevant
institutions at an early stage, setting up an appropriate incentive structure,
and creating a permanent coordination panel at the national level.
10. Proiect Relationship
10.01   The Bank continued to foster the close relationships it had forged with
ONEP and AH under the first two projects. Since ONEP had already developed into
a competent institution in the field of water supply production, the success in
expanding the social house connection program under the Third Project allowed the
Bank to begin to focus on the Regies, which became the rationale for the ongoing
National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project. Closer ties between the Bank and
the Regies under the National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project has culminated
in a serious dialogue on future Bank financial support for their managerial and
financial restructuring and eventual full autonomy, which will be the main focus
of the Fifth Water Supply Project.
10.02   The relations between ONEP and AH were further strengthened, whereas
ONEP and the R6gies still need to rationalize their responsibilities for water
resource management in some regions of the country.  In fact, because of the
recent drought and increased demand for drinking and irrigation water, there is
an urgent need in Morocco for comprehensive water resource development planning
including environmental planning and management at the national level.  The
Government acknowledges that a rational approach to water resource management is
critical to the country's overall development and that continued participation
of the Bank is needed as a development catalyst, both at the micro level for
water distribution and at the macro level to assist in addressing intra-sectorial



- 9 -
issues. The upcoming (FY95) water resource management study will analyze and
recommend solutions to longer-term problems related to the scattered
responsibility for water resource management and lack of economic criteria for
resource allocation among competing demands for agriculture, industry, and human
consumption. It is envisaged that the study's recommendations and allocation
procedures will then be carried out through a follow-on Water Resource Management
Project, scheduled for FY96.
11. Consultants' Services
11.01     The consultants engaged by ONEP on behalf of the Government for the
rural water supply systems study, am well as those engaged by AH, performed
satisfactorily.  In addition, ONEP set up a cost accounting system with the
assistance of a consultant recruited through UNDP.  His services were fully
satisfactory.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01     Documentation and data contained in the Bank's files were generally
adequate insofar as the components implemented by ONEP were concerned, whereas
information on AH's implementation experience in carrying out the water resource
development component was scant and the quantitative results of the social house
connection program implemented by the Regies were missing. The completion report
submitted by ONEP furnished supplemental information, and those submitted by DRSC
and AH adequately bridged informational gaps.






- 10 -
MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Loan 2006-MOR)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
OFFICE NATIONALDE L'EAU POTABLE






- 11 -
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'EAU POTABLE
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2006-MOR)
Project Completion Report
Table of Contents
I.   Introduction
II.  Project Preparation and Appraisal
1.   Background
2.   Project Objectives
3.   Project Description
III. Project Implementation
1.   Startup
2.   Implementation Schedule
3.   Procurement
4.   Costs and Disbursement
IV.  Results of Operation
1.   Project Role
2.   Project Results
V.   Financial Results
VI.  Institutional Results
1.   Organizational Development
2.   Staff Development and Training Policy
VII. Summary
Annexes (see following page)



- 12 -
Annexes
1.   Project Implementation Schedule
2.   Estimated and Final Project Cost
3.   Cost per Project Component
4.   Project Cost per Category
5.   Inventory of Withdrawals by Category/year
6.   List of the Centers Affected by Social Connections
7.   List of the Centers Affected by the Sector Loan
8.   ONEP - Actual and Planned Operating Account, 1981-1989
9.   ONEP - Actual and Planned Operating Account, 1981-1989
10. Organizational Structure



- 13 -
MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Loan 2006-MOR)
GENERAL INFORMATION
Country:     Kingdom of Morocco
Project Beneficiary:      Office National de l'Eau Potable
Monetary Unit:      Dirham
1981      US$1       =    DHS 4.20
1989      US$1       =    DHS 8.14
Fiscal Year:      January 1 to December 31






- 14 -
MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Loan 2006-MOR)
I.   INTRODUCTION
This report describes the appraisal, implementation, and completion of the
ONEP component financed by the Third Water Supply Project of the World Bank
(Loan 2006-MOR).
The original loan amount was USD 87 million, of which USD 45.76 million were
allocated to ONEP. The loan was signed on September 28. Its initial closing
date was December 31, 1986, which was extended three times, i.e., to December
31, 1987; December 31, 1988; and December 31, 1989.
During project implementation and upon ONEP's request, the initial loan
amount was reduced from USD 45.76 million to USD 30.49 million. The final
amount disbursed to ONEP was USD 30.44 million.
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
1,. Background
Prior to the Third Water Supply Project, the World Bank financed two other
water supply projects:
*    The first project  focused on the first tranche of the Bou-Regreg
conveying complex, which supplies potable water to the area between
Kenitra and Casablanca on the Atlantic coast.   ONEP was the project
executing agency.
*    The second project focused on the second tranche of the above project,
for the potable water supply of Greater Agadir, as well as on the
installation of potable water connections for low-income populations in
the three cities of the Kingdom. Project execution agencies were ONEP
and the water supply distribution agencies of Kenitra, Rabat-Sale, and
Casablanca.
*    The third project was identified by the World Bank in collaboration with
the Moroccan authorities. This project continued the development of the
potable water sector and potable water connections and targeted the low-
income  population.    The  Hydraulics  Administration,  water  supply
distribution agencies, the Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture
Reform, as well as ONEP participated in project preparation.



- 15 -
2.   Proiect Oblectives
The project focused on a number of priorities in the potable water sector in
order to
*    facilitate low-income population connections to the public potable water
supply system;
*    construct two regional supply systems and 32 smaller production and
distribution centers to increase water supply, and improve ONEP's
activities in project planning, evaluation, implementation, and
maintenance;
*    enhance ONEP's main laboratory by equipping its regional laboratory,
creating a water quality control network that could be developed
throughout the Kingdom;
*    assist ONEP in strengthening its institutional capacity; and
*    examine  the  organization  of  the  water  supply  sector  to  improve
investment planning procedures.
3.   Prolect Description
ONEP's project components include the following:
3.1 Provision of 37,650 potable water connections for the low-income population
in smaller centers within ONEP's jurisdiction. The operation's goal was to
increase the population's potable water supply from 45% to 65% in 1985.
According to this plan, households who wished to be connected to the public
water supply system and who complied with World Bank eligibility requirements
were granted easier payment options.
3.2 Improvement of the production and water supply distribution system in smaller
ONEP centers. Thirty-two centers were initially selected, according to
criteria set forth by the World Bank.
3.3 Construction of two main water supply transport systems described below:
*    the Errachidia-Erfoud-Rissani water supply transport system at 320 1/s,
which supplies not only the above regions but also the rural populations
of the Ziz Valley and the Tafilalet Lowland;
*   the Karia Ba Mohamed water supply transport system at 30 1/s, which
supplies the city as well as the rural population living along the water
transport pipe.
The laying of these main transport pipes allowed ONEP to obtain first-hand
experience in the rural water supply.
3.4 Acquisition of equipment for four regional laboratories to improve control of
water quality, research equipment, and leak detection so that water
production and distribution facilities could be appropriately maintained and
water meters be purchased.



- 16 -
3.5 Technical assistance to ONEP and professional training to
*    improve the design and calculation of water distribution networks and
the preparation of detailed studies and bidding documents;
*    establish an improved cost-accounting system;
*    complete the inventory of ONEP's fixed assets; and
*    familiarize  laboratory  staff with appropriate water treatment  and
control methods.
3.6 Realization of two studies, namely
*    the study on the updating and extension of the potable water supply
master plan for the region between Kenitra and Casablanca on the
Atlantic Coast (to be extended from Kenitra to Safi), as well as on the
preparation of detailed projects and bidding documents for the first
stage of the construction program; and
*    the sector study on the reorganization of the potable water supply
sector.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.   Startup
The loan agreement was signed in September 1981. According to the initial
project schedule, works should have started in early 1982 and be completed in
late 1985.
There were no particular problems in launching the works:
*    in 1981, for the centers financed by the sector loan;
*    in May 1982, for the connections for low-income population;
*    in January 1983, for the regional water supply transport system of Karia
Ba Mohamed; and
*    in October 1983, for the regional water supply transport system of
Errachidia-Erfoud-Rissani.
Despite the fact that project works started on schedule, completion was
delayed for the following reasons:
*    the list of centers financed by the sector loan was modified, and
*    the water supply transport system of Errachidia-Erfoud-Rissani was
complex in nature.
2.   Implementation Schedule
Initial and actual implementation schedules are compared in Annex 1 and
explained hereafter.



- 17 -
2.1  Connections for Low-Income Population
By the end of 1985, the target goal of 37,650 individual connections to the
water supply system had to be achieved.   Since some ONEP centers were
retransferred to RADEET (Beni Mellal, F.B. Saleh, and Tadla) in January 1981,
however, ONEP installed only 31,750 connections. From 1982 to 1985, the ONEP
had to install another 9,500 standard connections.   Therefore, a total of
41,000 connections were installed, representing:
*    80% of connections for the low-income population, and
*    20% of standard connections.
The total number of water supply connections increased from 48% in 1981 to
65% in 1985, improving the overall water supply.
By the end of 1985, ONEP installed:
*    14,520 connections for low-income populations, representing 46% of the
target (31,750), and
i    21,860 standard connections representing 230% of the target (9,500).
Taking all connections installed between 1982 and 1985 into account, 36,380,
or 90% of the planned total were put into place, and by late 1985, the supply
rate reached 60%, approaching the initial target.
The overall goal was achieved within the planned time frame, even though only
40% (instead of the planned 80%) of all the connections were for the low-
income population. This reflects the population's willingness to pay cash
for being connected to the water supply network.
In view of the beneficial aspects of connections for the low-income
population and for water savings, it was decided to extend the implementation
deadline in order to carry out the entire program. Thus, at the end of 1989,
36,639 connections for the low-income population, or 115% of the target were
installed.
Annex 4 shows the list of participating centers.
2.2  Sector Loan
In order to improve the production and supply of potable water, it was
initially planned to establish 32 centers. By the end of 1985, the status of
the works was as follows:
*    the works for 15 centers, 11 of which were designed for production and
distribution, were completed (more than 50% of the total);
*    the works for 5 centers, 2 of which were designed for production and
distribution, were being completed (about 16% of the total); and
*    the works for 13 centers, of which 2 were designed for production and
distribution, were contracted out (about 40% of the total).



- 18 -
It should be mentioned that the original list of centers had to be modified
for the following reasons:
*    In January 1981, the Beni Mellal, Fquih Ben Salah and Kasba Tadla
centers were transferred to RADEET, the Beni Mellal agency.
*    Water resources at the Taznakht, Tinghir, Sidi Allal Tazi, Midelt,
Goulmima, and Missour centers were insufficient.
The final list includes 38 centers, of which
*    22 centers are destined for drinking water production and distribution;
and
*    16 centers are destined solely for drinking water distribution.
The works for all the centers were completed by late 1989 (see list of
centers affected by the sector loan in Annex 5).
2.3 Reaional Water Transport Pipes
2.3.1     Errachidia-Erfoud-Rissani
Considering the drilling test results, the flow rate reached 200 1/s instead
of the initially planned 320 1/s. Two additional drillings had to be carried
out to satisfy the planned flow rate.
The water transport pipes were installed in three sections:
*    The first section entailed the laying of the main water transport pipe
based on the Erfoud dwellings for water supply of the Errachidia and
Erfoud centers.  Works for this tranche started in October 1983, and
operations began in October 1985.
*    The second tranche entailed the installation of the water transport pipe
for the supply of Rissani by Erfoud. Works for this tranche started in
June 1986 and were completed in July 1987.
*    The third tranche entailed supply for Ksours (the rural villages) in the
Ziz Valley and the Tafilalet Lowlands. Works for this tranche started
in January 1988 and were completed in August 1989.
In addition, the water supply networks of Errachidia, Erfoud, and Rissani
were extended.
The first tranche was completed according to schedule, while construction of
the two others were considerably delayed for the following reasons:
*    project complexity and the fact that it was ONEP's first experience in
rural water supply;



- 19 -
*    it was necessary to cross through palm groves in order to service
Ksours, which required a considerable amount of time for land
expropriation;
*    the definition of project management made it necessary for more time to
be allocated to the study, which concluded that seven water supply
agreements should be arranged with seven rural communes, requiring the
services of a caretaker to manage the standpipes. These agreements were
finalized in 1988 rather than 1982, as initially planned.
The project has reached its objectives: in addition to the urban centers,
237 Ksours were supplied with 250 standpipes.   By the year 2000, 262,000
inhabitants should benefit from this project.
2.3.2     Karia Ba Mohamed
Construction of the water treatment center on the Sebou river (30 1/s output)
began in early 1983, and operations were launched in March 1985. The project
could be realized with a slight delay.   However, it should be noted that
during initial operations, the station had to be closed a number of times as
the Sebou river was exposed to unexpected currents during the rainy season.
Pre-settling was necessary in order to maintain the MES flow at 2 g/l. In
addition, the water supply distribution system was expanded to allow for
service of the villages located along the water transport pipe linking the
treatment center with the Karia Ba Mohamed station.   Completion of these
additional sections was delayed because works did not start until October
1988 and were completed in May 1990.
2.4  Acauisition of Miscellaneous Eauipment
There were no particular problems with the purchase of equipment. For this
project component, the following 67 contracts for a total of DH 29 million
were concluded:
i    maintenance material:    49 contracts of DH 16,259,000
*    laboratory material:      8 contracts of  DH  2,382,588
*    technical material:       6 contracts of  DH  2,787,000
*    water meter equipment:   4 contracts of  DH  7,602,000
2.5  Technical Assistance
Due to the exorbitant price for consultancy, ONEP did not solicit external
assistance as initially planned, but carried out the tasks through its own
means:
*    With the assistance of a consultant recruited through PNUD-OMS for
short-term missions, a cost-accounting system was set up and which
became operational in January 1987.
*    Fixed assets for which inventory was completed in 1989 were reconciled.
2.6 Studies
The study on the updating and extension of the potable water supply master
plan for the region located between Kenitra and Safi was completed on



- 20 -
schedule. Its results concluded that, in the first stage, Casablanca should
be supplied similar to Oum Erbia.  The respective project was ongoing and
service was supposed to start in early 1991.
Within the framework of the present project, the study on the organization of
the potable water sector could not be carried out, as all required conditions
(according to the definition of a rural potable water supply master plan)
could not be satisfied.   The study was delayed, and should be undertaken
within the framework of the National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project
(Loan 2825-MOR).
3.   Procurement
In this project, 323 contracts were concluded, 73 of which were launched
through international competitive bidding (ICB), totalling DH 214 million, or
40% of the total project cost.
It should be mentioned that ICB contracts require long delays and bid
packages do not always attract foreign enterprises. As a result, only a few
foreign enterprises participated in project realization. Project management
was also difficult, as the final contracts varied in nature.
4.   Costs and Disbursements
The table in Annex 3 presents the positive and negative differentials between
planned and actual costs for each project category.
The positive differentials apply mainly to the "connections for the low-
income population" and "technical assistance" categories, because technical
assistance was not provided as planned (para. 2.5), and material for the
center was not delivered for the connections for the low-income population.
The negative differentials apply to the "sector loan" and "regional water
transport pipes" components as the number of centers increased from 32 to 38
on the sector loan list, and the water distribution centers and pre-settling
facilities of the Karia Ba Mohamed treatment station were expanded for
regional water transport pipes.
The total project cost amounts to DH 527 million, exceeding the initial
estimated project cost of DH 434 million by 20%.
The disbursement cycle was influenced by project completion delays. Only 46%
of the loan proceeds were disbursed on June 30, 1986, the initial loan
closing date, which had to be postponed three times.   During the first
semester of 1990, the final withdrawal of funds took place.
It should be mentioned that the actual amount withdrawn was only S30.44
million. In fact, by ONEP request, part of the loan was cancelled (with a
revaluation of the US dollar) to decrease the loan amount from $45.76 million
to $30.49 million (Annex 1: Disbursements).
IV.  PROJECT RESULTS
The main project objectives were reached as the results were rather
satisfying.



- 21 -
ONEP was able to implement the planned program for the most important project
element: water connections for the low-income population. By 1985, 90% of
all connections were set up, 60% of the population were supplied with potable
water. Between 1985 and 1989, additional connections were installed and the
supply rate reached 115%, which represents a distinctive improvement in water
supply.
As for the Errachidia-Erfoud water transport pipe, 262,000 inhabitants were
serviced through special connections and 250 standpipes in 237 Ksours.
Hence, water supply in this region was considerably improved.
The same positive results apply to the Karia Ba Mohamed center. Due to this
project, the center's output exceeds demand during peak periods and obtains
a 76%-efficiency rate. In December 1989, 892 connections (815 private, 40
public, and 36 industrial connections, and 1 standpipe) supplied 7,200
inhabitants with water.
V.   FINANCIAL RESULTS
Annex 6 shows ONEP's working accounts (specifying the amount of water sold),
corresponding receipts and expenditures) for the fiscal years 1981-1989.
Throughout the entire decade, the gross working ratio has shown continuous
improvement; by 1984, it surpassed the ceiling stipulated in the loan
agreement. Due to the annual tariff increases set forth by the Government,
ONEP's receipts have increased and the ratio has dropped below 66%, reaching
its lowest level of 55% in 1988.
It should be mentioned that in 1981, ONEP was not granted the DH 5 million
working subsidy, envisaged during project appraisal.
(ONEP's balance sheet is given in Annex 7).
Given ONEP's activities, major installations are needed, such as treatment
center, pumping station, etc.; its assets are composed of more than 70% in
fixed assets and less than 30% in current assets for the expense account.
The latter one indicates that payments of arrears owed by agencies,
administrations, and municipalities have been substantial.
Despite actions taken within the project on the public enterprise reform loan
to alleviate debt, the problem still persists.
Capital assets exceed 80% of ONEP's liabilities, allowing for a positive
working capital. In addition, ONEP's debt ratio throughout the decade was
very satisfactory, as it did not exceed 25% of its capital  assets.  The
Agency's debt carrying capacity is, therefore, considerable.
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL RESULTS
1.   Development of the Organization
As ONEP focussed on improved efficiency, its organizational structure became
increasingly decentralized. Since 1981, major developments have occurred to
facilitate the completion of all tasks.  Annex 8 shows the organizational
structure.



- 22 -
2.   Staff Development and Training Policy
ONEP's permanent staff increased by barely 9% from 2,993 in 1981 to 3,276 in
1989.
In addition, ONEP's training policy focussed on training existing staff in
order to increase management efficiency and improve the quality of the
service.
It should be noted that prior to project startup and throughout its initial
phase, ONEP concentrated on basic training to accommodate the needs of new
technicians.
Since 1983, ONEP has offered a program of continuing education in order to
*    familiarize its staff with their tasks (through methodical, short-term
courses in modular format);
*    improve the knowledge of its administrative staff (through medium- and
long-term training, which provides access to promotion);
*    inform and sensitize professionals and technicians concerning current
problems and new methods (through short-term courses and seminars).
Since ONEP has increased its productivity by 50% between 1981 and 1989, the
above policy appears to be an effective one.
VII. CONCLUSION
The project has, in general, reached its objectives.
The "connections for the low-income population" program was achieved, and
improved potable water supply for the low-income population considerably.
Since 1987, ONEP has used a standard cost-accounting system. Inventory of
the Agency's fixed assets was completed in 1989.
However, the water sector organizational study could not be implemented
within the scope of this project, as all the conditions for such a study
could not be satisfied. Therefore, this study will be carried out within the
framework of the National Water Supply Project.



TIIRD WATER PROJECT
LOAN 2006-MOR
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
__________________________________________________________   1981    1982      1983    | 1984    | 1985    1 1986    | 1987    | 1988    | 1989
1. Sector Loanl
Peasibility Studies                                        ______________
Appraisal (ONEP)
Detailed prajct and bidding documents                                - -
Procuranat                                                   __        _____________
l  Implementation                                                  __    __     ____________
2. Regioal Water Supply System
2-1. Karia Da Moanmed
Daailed project ad bidding document                           _ _ _
. Procurmant                                                          ____
Implementation                                                           - - - - -  _
- Pipeline and Station
- Villages and sludge removal
2-2. Erchidia Erfoud
Ddaild Pioject and Bidding documents                               _
* Procurement
- 1st Phas
- 2nd and 3rd Phases
3. Community Connections                                                               _
4. Study on Coastal Ar-e
(-)  Planned Implemenation
(__) Actual Implcmentation



- 24 -
Annex 2
ESTIMATED AND FINAL PROJECT COST
(ONEP PART)
ESTIMATED
ITEM                     COST               FINAL COST         DIFFERENCE
(1)                (2)                  (2-1)
1. Sectoral Loan                                 156.3              237.77                 81.24
2. Regional Conveyance
- Errachidia-Erfoud                            150.32             176.70                 26.38
- Karia Ba Mohamed                               7.97              26.45                 18.48
3. Equipment Material
- Meters                                         7.72               7.60                (0.12)
- Laboratories                                   3.45               2.35                (1.10)
- Technical Maintenance                          5.85              19.08                 13.23
4. Technical Assistance                            6.90               2.56                (4.34)
5. Studies                                         5.66              11.17                  5.51
6. Training                                        1.40               0.44                (0.96)
7. Social House Connections                       88.33              43.23                (45.10
Total                                        434.13              527.35                93,22



COST BY PROJECT COMPONENT
COMPONENTS                            COST                                            PAYMENT SCHEDULE
INITIAL       FINAL        1981-1985       1986        1987       1988       1989      June 1990    End 1990
1. Social House Connections                            43.226         14.122       6.817       6.494       9.054     6.739          -            -
2. Sector Loan                                         237.769        81.020      42.320      20.180      53.940     29.324       6.194        4.791
3. Regional Conveyance
. Errachidia-Erfoud                                176.694        71.074       25.051      9.050      44.838     23.261       2.392         1.028
. Karia da Mohamed                                 26.453         15.127        .588                    1.938     6.150        1.127        1.523
4. Acquisition of misc. matenal                        29.035          5.408       10.394      4.480       4.407      2.474        .827         1.045
5. Studies and Technical Assistance                    13.733          5.16        1.019       1.650       2.350      1.469       1.013         1.072
Total                                                526.910       191.911       86.189      41.854    1652        69.417       11 553       9.459



PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY
COST                                            PAYMENT SCHEDULE
CATEGORIES                              INITIAL      FINAL       1981-1985      1986          1987        1988         1989     June 1990   End 1990
1. Civil Works
. Sector Loan                                      200.533      68.297       36.461        16.535       49.628      23.830      3.120       2.120
. Errachidia-Erfoud                                168.773      66.150       24.528        7.600        44.459      23.093      2.021        .922
|     Karia Ba Mohamed                              20.759       9.477        .544                       1.938      6.150       1.127        1.523
2. Equipment
Sector Loan                                       37.236        12.723       5.859        3.645        4.312       5.494       3.074       2.129
Errachidia-Erfoud                                   5.236       2.639        .385         1.392         .379        .168       .167         .106
Karia Ba Mohamed                                    5.694       5.650        .44
3. Acquisition of Misc. Material                      29.035       5.408        10.394       4.480        4.407        2.474       .827        1.045
4. Studies and Technical Assistance                   13.733       5.160        1.019         1.650       2.350        1.469       1.013       1.072
+ Studies Errachidia                                 2.685       2.285        .138          .58      _                           .204
5. Sub-Contracted Works                               31.142       9.918        4.383        5.344        5.738        5.759        -            -
6. Material for Social Connections                    12.084       4.204        2.434        1.150        3.316        .980         -            -
TOTAL                                           526.910       191.911      86,189       41.854       116.527     69.417      11.553       9.459
I



-  27 -                                                     Anmex s
INVENTORY OF WITHDRAWALS FROM LOAN 2006 BY CATEGORY/YEAR
CATEGO-   TOTAL AMT.                CATEG. I        CATEG. II         CATEG. III        CATEG.         CATEG. VI    CATEG.
RIES           OF                   CIVIL           EQUIPMENT    MISC.                 IV             SOCIAL           VII
WITHDRAWALS  WORKS                                     EQUIPMENT  STUDIES   CONNEC-   MATERIAL
TRAINING    TIONS/B.S.    FOR B.S.
YEARS
1983          1146006.68            358810.84        227787.67           0.00           118497.47      411563.57       29347.13
1984          3243680.83           2358998.75        150688.21         5472.56         108548.50       467514.12       152458.69
1985          5108863.66           3653369.13        785055.76         7897.44         197790.87       360844.74       103905.72
1986          4564183.08           2582713.25       1323039.65        192384.85         57648.02       245608.34       162788.97
1987          2790348.35           1840232.70        578926.49        20288.05          60550.24       230890.41       59460.46
1988          4841151.87           3225070.88        724549.32         16029.33        206319.87       596564.67       72617.80
1989          4769415.68           3616772.28        454726.50        190852.24        169393.41       289106.21       48565.04
1990          3974121.81           2244733.71        546870.49        524830.11        275609.48       233695.46       148382.56
Total         30437771.96           19880701.54    4791644.09         957754.58         1194357.86    2835787.52       777526.37_



- 28-                                          Annex 6
LIST OF CENTERS AFFECTED BY SOCIAL CONNECTIONS
NO. OF SC                          NO. OF SC
CENTERS         ACHIEVED           CENTERS          ACIIIEVED
1. TADOURANTE              1100      MAAZIZ                    122
BIOUGRA                   354      TIDDERS                    62
GUELMIME                 1540      OULMES                     97
TIZNIT                    110      ARBAOUA                    71
OULED TAIMA               602      AIN AOUDA                 122
TATA                      377      IIAD KOURT                  7
TALIOUINE                  11
SIDI IFNI                  69
TAGIIJUT                    1
2. OURZAZATE               1165    5. IMOUZZER                 170
EL KALAA                 2357      GUERCIF                   408
BEN GUERIR               2341      MISSOUR                   634
IMIN TANOUTE              407      TAOUNATE                  330
CHICHAOUA                 697      R. EL KHEIR                41
ZAGORA                    695      MLY YACOUB                114
BOUMALEN DADES            278      AL HOCEIMA                 62
SIDI RAIIAL               144      IMZOUREN                   16
SIDI BOUATMANE             79      TISSA                      66
AGDZ                      116      MATMATA                    14
TINGIIIR                  215      BOULMANE                    3
TAZNAKIIT                  25
3. BEN SLIMANE              995    6. EL AIOUN                 819
EL GARA                   235      BERKANE                   1571
BOUJAAD                  1764      TAOURIRT                  1174
BERRECIIID               1548      AHFIR                      91
BEN AHMED                 281      SAIDIA                     80
OUED ZEM                 1214      A.B. MATHAR               312
AZILAL                     41      DEBDOU                    134
DEMNATE                    48      NAIMA                      21
BOUZNIKA                   59
4. KHEMISSET               2270    7. BOUFEKRANE                73
TIFLET                    658      EL IIAJEB                 299
OUEZZANE                 1679      AZROU                     666
SIDI KACEM                219      IFRANE                     22
S. SLIMANE                638      MIDELT                    597
SK.EL ARBAA               322      ERRACHIDIA                982
BEL KSIRI                 614      GOULMIMA                  222
SIDI YAHIA                51       ERFOUD                    325
ROMMANI                    93      S. AIOUNE                  11
KHENIFRA                 1072
RISSANI                   217
RICII                     181
AOUTOUS                     I
AMALOU                     18
TOTAL 1                  25412      TOTAL 2                 11227
TOTAL                   36639



- 29 -                                      Annex 7
LIST OF CENTERS AFFECTED BY SECTOR LOAN
PLANNED CENTERS
AT TIME OF        CENTERS AFFECTED
PROVINCES         APPRAISAL         BY IMPLEMENTATION  REMOVED CENTERS   ADDED CENTERS
AGADIR            BIOUGRA           BIOUGRA
TAROUDANT         TAROUDANT
OULED TAIMA       OULED KAIMA
OURZAZAT          TAZNAKT                              TAZNAKT
TINGHIR                              TINGHIR
OURZAZAT          OURZAZAT
ZAGORA            ZAGORA
GUELMIM                              GUELMIM
MARRAKECH        IMIN TANOUT        TMIN TANOUT
CHICHAOUA         CHICHAOUA
EL KALAA          EL KALAA          EL KALAA
BEN GUERIR        BEN GUERIR
DENI MELL         BENI MELLAL                          BENI MELLAL
F.B. SALEH                           F. D. SALEH
K.TADLA                              K. TADLA
AZIZAL                               AZIZAL
BEN SLIMANE                          BEN SLIMANE
SErTAT            EL GARA           BEN AHMED                             BEN AHMED
BERRECHID                            BERRECHID
EL GARA
BOUJAAD                              BOUJAAD
OUED ZEM                             OUED ZEM
KENITR.A          SIDI YAHIA        SIDI YAHIA
S.A. TAZI         S. SLIMANE         S.A. TAZI          S. SLIMANE
S. KACEM          S. KACEM
OUAZZANE          OUAZZANE
AIN OUDA                             AIN AOUDA
KHEMISSET                            KHEMISSET
TIFLET                               TIPLET
FES               MY YACOUB         MY YACOUB
TAZA              GUERCIF            GUERCIF
MATMATA           MATMATA
R. KHEIR                             R. KHEIR
TAOUNATE          TAOUNATE          TAOUNATE
OUJDA             TAOURIRTE         TAOURIRTE
NAIMA             MAIMA
AIN B. MATHAR     AIN.B.MATHAR
EL AYOUN                             EL AYOUN
BERKANE                              BEKRANE
IFRAME            FRAME             IFRANE
AZROU             AZROU
A. TAOUJDATE                         A. TAOUJDATE
EL HAJEB                             EL HAJEB
KHENIFRA          MIDELT                               MIDELT
KHENIFRA          KHENIFRA
ERRACHIDI         GOULMIMA                             GOULMElA
BOULMANE          MISSOUR                              MISSOUR
TOTAL NO. OF   ~321                39                 9                  6
;CENTERS--X :



ONEP - ACTUAL AND PLANNED OPERATING ACCOUNT (1981-1989)
FIa Yeou fndin Decembe 31                   1961               19t2               los3               1964               1996               1966               1967               1U                 190
rPdlud    A1 ia  Planned    AG"   rImed    ACtua  Plumed    AtW  Planned    Aita  Panned                  Actal Pnd    Ahtuml Plned    Atual  Planed    Acual
Produced %w Vaukm                          24.00    28e30   30.00    210.20   364.0       3a.80   434.00    36.10    474.00   378.60    608.00   364.10    670.00   41600                43.90              47.80
Grow WVal Sale                             16.0    19640   244.8o    220.20    312o    2z66. e       60.00    29630   360.30   SWO.10    424.10   81u.50   477.70    301.00              3203zo
eal WAeR sae                                26.80    3.20      30.50    31.00     32.60    8330    34.60      29.50    41.00    30.30    4360    31.90        4.0      34.60              366.0              40.60
ow  Wit ad.                                106.76    58.e0    166.43    121.00   21&3.0    164.80   265.6    248.90   306.65    304.e0    351.06    348o0   421.18   422.00              506.20             537.60
eta Wagr sales                              25.60    26.40    31.97     28.o      36.13    36.30    40.84    40.30    6t.=0    4s.00       58.7     64.0       7A.48   63.70              7.40               79.80
Trgl Waler Be].                            134.65    11L620    17.40    147.60   248.73    1.10   806.70    29620   36.06   863.60    406.67   403.20   488.04   485.70                  686.00             617.40
Othw 5x? 76.7                                        12.70     12865    16.40     16.76     17.50    24.07     17.50    26.70    17.50     15.26    19.00    19.61    19.20               27.20              26.ao
ou. kiccm                                    2.31     e.60      2.4     10.90      3.az     13.0      8.67    10.50      4.70    16L.o      504     23ao      5.43    24.10               23.0               26.30
O1 Operadng sub.tda AbD                      80  5.00           6.00     0.00      5.00     0.00      6.00     0.00       .0      0.00      6.0      0.00     3.o0    0.00                 0.00               0.00
Incenina nlekrdtubdildbt                   /O.U8)        0    (O.64)        0    t2)           0    (0.82)        0    (1.0m         a    (1.183        0    (.36)        0                   0                 0
-
Toa  _,                                    140.06    140.40   207S8   178,10    274.06    221.70   338.42    =&60       M.35   367.60    433.96   446.60   81723    629.00               63640              670.50
OPERAMa EXPEiOMAE
Staf                                        563    64.20       67.87    74.30    74.00     s0.30     62.26     6.8      01.78    93.90    100.61    106.90    111.26    117.5            130.90             140.900
Enery end Fuel                              27.70    37.30    35-03     66.50    4.7       76t0    56.15      8.80    60.7t    96.00    6z76        07.80    102.76    110.43            121.60             138.40
Chim la Pp.64g                              10.47    166O      15.27    13.o      27.6     1.30    35.73      13.80    42.67    14.30      51.60    15.80 s   8.e6     1e.e0              1e60               z620
MaUeta NW Mlailenance                       16.63    17.10    21.01     17.40    25.69     13.60    41.06     18.50    46.6      11.40    44.66     16.60    61.2      21.60              24.70              28.20
Genera and Amnistagtie Cost.                 7.as     0.30     8.96     19.70     10.20    10.80     11.16    15.6      12.43    21.00     13.6    2za30      1a14    26.1O               33.10              33.30
Oiwr Expendgur.                              0.00    11.00     0.00     10.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.0      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00               4.50               S.40
Taxse.A0ar SW. end other Tans                0.63     e.10    13.43     11.o      18.3e    16.0      23.50    2020      27.07    24.30    26.36    30.30    33.01    3S.00                4.10               45.30
La" Accrued Eiap0ndfture                  (17.6n  2a.7) t2as6)    (31.2)   (26.942         64.6)   (3727      (3242)    (41.24   (6)   (31.46)    (34.7)   (37.31)   (025)                (27.4)            (0.6)
Pulia Total                                110.U6   141.10   141.49    170.70   178.72    13.10   214.81    217.20    24e65   237.40    290.12   267.80   342.6    304.60                848.60             30.10
Anmwllzae                                   33.13    47.20    35.1S    67.90   .6694       6630     61.65    127.10    68.7    13.10      0.45    140.00    09.71    167.00              213.50             204.60
Toal Op gt* kinom                          144.01    168.30    179.86    226.80   234.65    276.30   229    341.30   338.66   37mu0   386867   416.0    442.37   401.60                  52W                800.6
Nolt Opeabi bicn (km)                       4.04    (47.9)    27.80    (836)    39.39    (57.6      42.83      0.)    53.70    14.00    48.41       20.70    74.66     67.40              74.40              70.90
bt                                         20.71     130    30.383   82.20    32             .10    41.06     40.0    40.06    8370       61.60    62.30    47.66    6e79                O68.40              ee.8
Ml tIno   .eee})                          (18.77)    (04.2     z.5)    (75.7)     0.13    ($6.7)     0.67    (70.       1278    (40.7)    (3.19)    (52.5)    27.31    (16.3)           (11.00)             (15.7e)
eabocailn  at TaNMiawr Sale.
Io onlpenemd tar been hI ftjacl Corne       218       0.00    23.31      0.00    27.47      0.50     6.1       0.00   S3U         0.00    42.48      6.00    4648       0.00               0.00               0.00
LoeneadEiaadbimPt                              0    (12.4)        0      (3)         0      (.)         0    (13.2         0    (12.7)        0      ta8)        0    (13-3)               g4)               (12.1)
Not hco  lbosseee)terAdjueenent             86       (t7ae)    20.78   (8z2o.)     7.8    (A.4)   3sU         (634)    49.06    (24)       30.3    (60.3)    7373    (0.)                 (11.4I)           (7.86)
Opwad  Rab h 9                               74*      100%       M8A      979       06       579      am        6m       84e6*    81*       07%       60*      86*        6*      e         5866              6M               o



ONEP - ACTUAL AND PROJECTED OPERATING ACCOUNI (1981-1989)
F Yew         D.ownIW 31                    1911      1961     1562      1962     1362      16        1364     1364     196       196      1s"       Is"     1117      1?        1MS      1o6       196      1o"
Prand    AGta   Plmeed    Ahta   Plunned    AoSA  Plerted    Mmd  P  i_l   AActul  Plsrmd                 MAid  Pbnned    AId   Plmnsd    Aclud  PlmeId    Actuml
NetAsets                                 1,32Z.6  1,2569.0  1,9190.5   1,574.   2,777.66  2,4410  3,121.0   2,66   2m3727n  6,43.70   ,568.50  3,621.50  3,60346  4,118.80             4,394.00           4*664.60
Lo" 66,unue                               306.2    366.6     416.36    464.70   40162    672.30    674.80   79.36    65.8       35.00    76.02  1,317.30   666.75  1,241.00            1.576b             1,5f25.e
Asset934.13    6.70   1,4666  1,1365   2,24a67   713   2,64L46  2,12340  2,70.21  2.4370  2,62546  2,73160  2,944.75  2,787O                                                          301A.00 3e4860
W.k h Ptou                                 675,69   279.70    8600s    616.30    166.6    638.8    146    524.60   176.75   63.70    660.75   26830  1,174.21    606L10                   7o6              66o0
Total Amss                               1,310.02  1,14Z40  206317  1,754.60  2,443.23  2,231.2   2,691.36  2,646.00  2,s6L1  26.40   ,477.23  3,001.10  4,116.97  3,161.e0            3,684.60           4,061.80
Exleg. raw. dk                              0.00      ooo       0.00    7m.00      0.00    130.70     0.00   154.40     0O.    2101.60     0.00    20.60      0.0    23Z00              234.60             206.70
Treaswy Nobe                                 0.00     0.00      0.00     6.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00             207.20             187.60
Shars                                      23.02    27.10     22.10     27.70    23.60    S389       26.40    36.6e0    26       39.60    26.00    3230    26.40       38S0               37Z0              41.70
Oebh_Mm.t                                  139.32    177.0    144.36   z2eo    146.66    674.30    164.90   721.70    1.6    670.00    106.39   916.70    17241    604.00                64.70             61640
I,dud h  COoeldso                           0.00      0.00     4.70      0.00    27.76      0.00    60.61      0.00    66.3       0.00    63.96      0.00    79.81      0.00               0.00              0.00
waSable Ad equtudent                       1L10    68.60       6.00    6.10       8.07    136.30     6.6     91.0      8.1    11.70       11.7    162.70    14.15   261.30              306.90            2S.60
Total all"                                 174.4    21.60    160.33    644.0   206.0   1,04450   247.10   652.0    264.50  1.0.60    39,66  1,131.70   236.47  1,100.60                  994.60           1.162zo
Not Totd                                 1484.46  1,43420  z243650  2,17.20  2646.24  3,474.40  2,84364  2,3S64    3,170.41  4,066.70  3,79t  4,36420  4.414.44  4,614.60              5,121.20           6,6Z70
-- --         -- ----------------- ------   --------- ------ ------- ------                                                                                                                                                 L
As"ls and LUb*de
Owl Coel,do                               3S4.72   904.60  1,425.77  1,483.0  1,60314  2,362 10  1,81.69  24230  Z,068O6  2,73,0  22.41  2,70A.40  2,7.36  Z371.10                    3,246.70           3,677.60          1
Gov Oarnt. pas by Treasy Notes                        0.00               0.00               0.00               0.00               0.00                                  0.00            260.00             260.00
6ubsotuers' ooelteudo.                       1144    64.60    41.00     78.60     6S9.6    $S.IO      6.0    11370    116.70   173.90    1365    196.30    161.14    108.O              261.00             301.00
Plus reVade"                              164.44    154.40    164.44    164.4    154.44    154.4    18444    14.0    15440    1 0    164.44    U4A.40    164,1.44    1s5       14.40    04810              1430
Gains posse.)                            (1160)   (177.1)  (117.66)   P41)  (117.4)   r"074   (116.6)   (421.0)  (104.13)  (4"SA.4)  (107.32)   (536.6)   (50.01)  (569.2               (O.5)              (M064)
Nettod   s                               1,2.65  1,036.60  1,507.71  1,470.70  1,76.    2,9o0  z,0026   639,40         z      2,38a70   N,1SI9  zn763.60  2,14.9S  Z761.90              ,313.10         3*,Z10
Long term U.b645
Los                                       213.50    201,40    309.01   =22.S0   660.30   411.00   436.30   490        440.86   467.00   411.76   821.00    371.64    646.0              56O                523.o
Outf Lo.                                   S2"        0.00    219.16    37.00    273.72    231      27J.64     2.00   2MS 97    3910    414.38    6o.       6o."    416.40              434.30             466.30
Total Ubde to LT.                         20136   201.40    526.19   a66.30   66O2    645,10    71814   7660    707.66           73.10    825.1   S916      967.60    61.40             9197.30            s7s.30
P    e                                    187.69   167.90    2e0.44      6.60)    77.AS    S215O    167.16   547      190.76    660    2441    487.0    2966         716.               71240              840.70
thOu WS Ub s                                8.67      ,30      7.16     10.40    16.73     12.60    24.9      16.o    48.2       17.10    47.21    164.70    46e      67.0              90.40              110.50
Tdod o CoIs Ceoba                         164.55    1620    207.60      42       16.24    534.3    2         66A    226         570.60    361.62  e  1.10   341.61   601.60             610.60             961.30
Totl of ms  mod 6.556.1,464.46  1,434.20  2,243.O0  21176.0  O,6424  3,474.40  2,64646  3,64.6O  3,170.4   4,066.70  3,70.91  4,2654.10a 4,414,44  4,514.6                             6,121.2           6,611170I
PAM ad btlo                                  Om.29    0.16     0.2s      02       0.27      6.2      0.26      0,24     6.24     0.25      024        2       04                          0.23               0.2111



- 32 -An    10
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
General    |
Director I
- _- ____  __-----
water      ,GeneraL
IAuditinc !---------------------------l---Inspection
Control
I DepartmentI
l ____   ___    __ I     ~I                                  I
*                        ~~~~~~~~I                           I
, _ _   _ _ j            ~       ~~I I___nt _*__
Planning  I                               -----  :Acct.    ' " Internal
Division                         i                liDivisiohn' Auditing
'Management I
!                            kControL
1                            I--.-- _  _
lOrganization5
!secretary '                       !Mission
GeneraL                            Staff
- - - - - - - - - -
I          ~~~~~I                     I                        I[
-    -    ----- - -----------      ---------      ---------
lAtlantic  I   !Operations                iEquipmentl              lAdminist. j           IFinancial   i
ICoast Depti   !Department                !Departmeret             IDepartmentl           I& Computer
-----------               ---------      '---------                       Systems
!          ~~~~~I    .I                                        I1 ,_J
--                          -I -
.Major          IProduct        I         I Studies  I             jGeneral   1            IFinanciaI
jProductionl   !Division  I               I Divisionl IAffairs   1                        IDivisioni
IDivision         - I-------               !- -----'                Division  I
-------         !Mainte-                    Works                  I I_          -Account.
'Major        i  nance Dii,.'               Division!              'Training               -Division
lDeveLopmenl  1-------------I                ---_--_ I            IDivision  !
IDivision   I  IDistrib.                  I Topogra-!             jComputer
!-- -- - -- - -!    IDivision              !phic &   I                    -iivision
I    __J               ! Land     !             lAdminist. I           -    i-
17 Regio-                 I Division!              IDivision
Inal Div.                  -------
I _ _ _






- 33 -
MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Loan 2006-MOR)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEWFROM
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
DIRECTION DES REGIES ET SERVICES CONCEDES






- 34 -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY
I.    BACKGROUND
1.01        Borrower's Presentation
1.02        Sector Organization
1.03        Previous Bank Loans to the Sector
1.04        Bank Objectives for the Sector
II.   PREPARATION AND ANALYSIS OF THE THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
2.01        Project Origin
2.02        Preparation and Appraisal
(a)   Preparation
(b)   Appraisal
2.03        Project Objectives and Goals
2.04        Project Description
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - PROJECT COST AND OPERATION
3.01        Effectiveness and Startup
(a)   Effectiveness
(b)   Startup
3.02        Implementation Experience
3.03        Implementation Schedule
3.04        Procurement
3.05        Project Costs and Disbursement
3.06        Sources of Financing
3.07        Project Financing
(a)   Bank
(b)   FEC
IV.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
4.01        Social Performance
4.02        Economic Performance






- 35 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Loan 2006-HOR)
SUMMARY
This Project Completion Report presents the preparation, appraisal
and implementation of the Third Water Supply Project in Morocco, financed by the
2006-MOR Loan in the amount of USD 87 million. The loan was signed on September
28, 1981 and became effective in July 1982.   The closing date, originally
foreseen for December 31, 1985, was extended twice, first at the end of 1987, and
finally at the end of 1989.
The loan amount intended for the Social House Connection component,
was not only fully disbursed (USD 38.15 million) but was exceeded by USD 3.93
million, i.e., for a total amount of USD 42.08 million. The project successfully
reached its physical achievements, as the number of connections installed, i.e.
92,659, exceeded the estimates (88,700) by 5%.
This report was prepared by the Public Utility Directorate (Direction
des Regies et Services Concedes) within the Financial Division of the Ministry
of Interior. The report is based on data provided by the R6gies concerned.






- 36 -
I.    BACKGROUND
1.01        Borrower's Presentation.  The Kingdom of Morocco is situated at the
Northwestern part of the African continent. It is bound by the Mediterranean Sea
to the north, Mauritania to the south, Algeria to the east, and the Atlantic
Ocean to the west.
Water is scarce in Morocco, and only 6 percent of the exploited
resources are currently used for domestic and industrial consumption, as well as
for agriculture.   The drinking water sector is, in fact, one of Morocco's
priorities in its social and economic development policy.
1.02        Sector Oraanization.  The Hydraulics Administration of the Public
Works Ministry is in charge of water resources study and development. It is also
responsible for the operation, maintenance,  and monitoring of dams.            It
allocates water resources according to consumption needs, pending the final
decision of a Special Commission under the Prime Minister's Office.
Many entities are responsible for water production and distribution
of water in urban, semi-rural, and rural areas. The main production agency is
the Office National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP).  ONEP is responsible for water
production and transport in urban centers, as well as its distribution in some
urban and rural centers.   ONEP handles about 80 percent of water national
production, i.e., 520 million ms (1990), and its share of distribution is 13.10
percent (1990), serving about 241,000 consumers.
Sixteen municipal water distribution companies (Regies) distribute
water in 27 towns, inhabited by over 75 percent of the urban and semi-rural
population. These R6gies provide their own production estimated at 130 million
of mi3, i.e.  about 20 percent of the total production.    Their share of
distribution is 83.8 percent (1990), serving about 1,101,183 consumers.
Water management in some rural areas is provided by other entities
such as Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform and local governments.
1.03        Bank Previous Loans in the Sect. The Bank plays an active role in
the potable water development sector in Morocco and has already granted five
loans.
Loan 850-MOR, amounting to USD 48 million, was approved in 1972,
became effective in May 1973 and was totally disbursed in June,
1980.   This loan financed the construction of water production
facilities along the central Atlantic coastline from Casablanca to
Kenitra.
Loan S.7-MOR, amounting to USD  1.5 million and approved in August
1977, provided the foreign exchange required for a feasibility
study, including preliminary designs, for the sewerage facilities of
the Casablanca-Mohammedia area.
Loan 1724-MOR, amounting to USD 49 million and approved in July
1979, contributed to the financing of the expansion of bulk water



- 37 -
production and transmission facilities in the mid-Atlantic coastal
region, as well as for the Greater Agadir area. It also included
funds for credit facilities to finance house connections and related
charges for low-income customers of R6gies of Casablanca (RAD),
Rabat-Sale (RED), and Kenitra (RAK).
Loan 2006-MOR, for which the present Project Completion Report has
been prepared, has contributed to the financing of individual
connections to the water distribution network and to the improvement
of water production and supply at the national level.
Loan 2825-MOR, amounting to USD 60 million and approved in July
1987, aimed particularly at the rehabilitation of the existing water
supply facilities.
Loan 2826-MOR, amounting to USD 60 million and signed in July 1987.
This Loan related to the prevention of further deterioration of the
existing sewer systems in the Greater Casablanca area through an
extensive rehabilitation program; it also financed the Master Plan
Studies for Rabat-Sale, Fes, Marrakech, Mekn&s, Tangier, Agadir,
Settat, and Nador.
1.04        Bank Obiectives for the Sector.  The Bank's lending strategy for the
sector has been essentially geared towards assisting the Government in resolving
major sector issues and in shaping a strong institutional framework which will
efficiently contribute to the country's general development. The Bank no longer
focuses on the necessity to provide developed areas with safe drinking water, but
has shifted its emphasis towards improving the access of low-income dwellers to
the distribution system through housing connections, while contributing to the
improvement and operation of water supply systems in semi-rural areas, where more
than half of the total population resides. In the sewerage sector, the Bank aims
at assisting the Government in establishing financially reliable and efficient
institutions which will develop the sector through appropriate techniques of
waste water collection, treatment, and disposal.
The Third Water Supply Project, Loan 2006-MOR (RAD), aimed at the
main following objectives:
(a)   financing of connections to the distribution network at national
level (social house connection program) through the Regies and ONEP;
(b)   improvement of water production and supply systems at national level
(ONEP, Hydraulics Administration).
The water and power distribution companies were concerned with the
Project's first objective, i.e. access to credit for financing the social house
connection program for low-income customers, allowing for reimbursement over a
five-year period. This program, called "Social House Connection" is part of a
national plan aiming at improving sanitary and living conditions of residents of
the cities as well as of the population living in rural areas. All the R6gies
have had access to credit for financing the social house connection program,



- 38 -
except for RADEEN of Nador and RAK of Kenitra (this latter has cancelled the loan
after signing a subsidiary loan agreement).
The social house connection component was jointly financed by the
Bank and the Fonds d'Equipement Communal (FEC). The total amount of the 2006-MOR
Loan approved by the Bank was USD 87 million, of which USD 39,676,000 were
granted to the Regies.
The amount allocated by the FEC to the Regies as local counterpart,
was DH 84,190,000.
Before going through the technical aspects of the loan financing, it
should be noted that the social house connection component had already been
launched at the end of 1979, as a pilot program under the Loan 1724-MOR (Second
Water Supply Project). Three Regies located in the Second Water Supply Project
area, have benefitted from Loan 1724-MOR: RAD, RED and RAR. It was the first
time that distribution R6gies had benefitted from a Bank loan for the financing
of individual connections (see Second Water Supply Project, Completion Report,
prepared by D.R.S.C., 1989).
In view of the success of the social house connection program under
Loan 1724-MOR, the Moroccan Government and the Bank decided to extend this
program to the entire network of distribution R6gies, except for RADEEN (Nador),
under Loan 2006-MOR. It should be noted that under Loan 2006-MOR, two categories
of financing have been differentiated:  Category 6 "financing of connection
works" and Category 7 "financing of material and equipment".
The Staff Appraisal Report of Loan 2006-MOR provided  for the
installation of about 110,000 connections in the areas served by the R6gies.
The initial cost was estimated at about USD 58.65 million (DH 20.5
million in local currency), equivalent to DH 246.3 million (DH 86.3 million in
local currency).
The implementation of this social program was carried out by the
distribution R6gies themselves, each in the area it serves.
The R6gies - executing agencies - are commercial and industrial
public entities financially autonomous.  They are administered by a board of
directors, a management committee, and all their functions are managed by a
director. Their main activities are the following:
-     water and power distribution;
works and supply (connections, equipment of lots, etc.)
sewerage management by RAD at the Casablanca wilaya level, and soon
by the Regies of RED (Rabat), RAMSA (Agadir), RADEEN (Nador), RADEEN
(Meknas), RADEEMA (Marrakech), RADEEF (Fes), RAID (Tangier), and
RADEEC (Settat).



- 39 -
II.   PREPARATION AND ANALYSIS OF THE THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
2.01        Oriain. During the implementation of the Second Water Supply Project
(1978-79), it had been noted that the rate of connections at the national level,
was 45 percent in the urban areas, and 5 percent in the rural areas. These rates
varied from one town to another, according to neighborhoods' living conditions
and  level  of  equipment.    Slums  at  the  towns'  periphery  lacked  basic
infrastructure, including water supply systems, and their inhabitants had to
collect water either from public standpipes, or individual or collective water
fountains, or from itinerant water sellers, or even from neighbors.
The new water distribution R6gie customers must pay in advance, not
only for the installation cost of the connection, but also a contribution for the
initial connection. The connection installation cost for individual housing was
DH 840 in 1980 (USD 200), and the contribution DH 1200 (USD 285).   As the
installation cost and the contribution for the initial connection must be paid
fully, very few low-income households could afford an individual connection in
the  past.    The  Second Water  Supply  Project  included  financing  for the
establishment of a revolving fund to help low-income customers of the R6gies of
Casablanca, Rabat-Sa16 and Kenitra pay the installation costs.
This program was so successful that funds were insufficient to meet
the demand for credit.  Under the Third Water Supply Project, Loan 2006-MOR,
similar revolving funds would be established to finance the connection cost for
low-income customers in the areas served by the R6gies of F6s (RADEEF), Meknas
(RADEEM), Tetouan (RDE), Marrakech (RADEEMA), Taza (RADEETA), Oujda (RADEEO),
Safi (RADEES), Beni-Mellal (RADEET), Settat (RADEEC), Agadir (RAMSA), El Jadida
(RADEEJ), and Tangier (RAID).
2.02        Preparation and ApDraisal
(a)   PreDaration.  In view of the experience of Loan 1724-MOR, the
social house connection program at the Regie level, was based on studies and
information established by the Regies and analyzed by Bank experts.   These
studies concerned the identification of economic areas and the quantification of
connection needs (population, existing and provisional connection rates). This
identification lead to the designation of beneficiaries who had to conform to the
following eligibility criteria:
(i)      it must be demonstrated that the monthly household income is
below DH 1,500 (USD 357 at 1980 prices);
(ii)      no important  commercial  activity  can take  place  in the
dwelling concerned;
(iii)      the dwelling must be located in a densely populated area or a
low-income area;
(iv)      the dwelling must be of the traditional, or collective or
economical type;
(v)      in principle, the water meter diameter must not exceed 20 mm;



- 40 -
(vi)      dwelling must be occupied by its owner, and if rented, the
owner's agreement must be obtained to guarantee the
reimbursement of the amount paid for the connection
installation.
To adapt the income ceiling to inflation, it was agreed, during
negotiations, that this ceiling would be analyzed yearly by the Government and
the Bank, to determine the purchasing power evolution. It was estimated that
about 45 percent of connections installed by the Regies would aim at families
whose monthly income would be below the poverty line in urban areas, as in many
cases, an individual connection could serve two to three families (this case was
registered at RAD level).
As no Government contribution was provided, the interest rate to be
paid by the beneficiaries would be the weighted average of the Bank loan interest
rate, and the FEC 8.5 percent interest rate.
(b)   Appraisal.  The total project cost was estimated at DH 709.81
million (USD 169 million), with a foreign exchange component of DH 365.40 million
(USD 87 million), representing 52% of the total cost.
The cost estimates for the various project components was established
by consultants, ONEP and the Directorate of Local Government from the Ministry
of Interior. All estimates were updated at March 1981 prices (see page 17 of the
SAR).
2.03        Prolect Obiectives and Goals.  Although the number of dwellings
connected to the water distribution systems in urban areas during the last five
years (1975-80) has increased together the population increase, the rate of
service has increased very little. To improve this rate, the Second Water Supply
Project, Loan 2006-MOR, included access to credit for low-income customers in the
Casablanca, Rabat-Sale and Kenitra Regions, for the financing of the housing
connection costs and other related charges.
This program was so successful that the Loan 2006-MOR expanded this
program to other Regies and ONEP.  The percentage of population connected to
water distribution systems should, therefore, increase in the urban areas under
the project, from 45 to 65 percent in 1985, and to 75 percent in 1990.
2.04        Prolect Description.  The social house connection component of the
Third Water Supply Project aims at assisting the country in reaching its priority
objectives in the water supply sector, as it would provide improved access to
safe water for the low-income residents of the largest cities and to the
population of more remote areas, bypassed by earlier sector investments. This
component includes among its major features the improvement of water distribution
systems operated by the distribution R6gies, by establishing, or increasing,
funds for connections, through a revolving fund in each of the R6gies to finance
individual connections and related contributions.



- 41 -
The USD 87 million loan that the Bank has approved , was granted to
the Government, which onlent the proceeds to 11 distribution Regies and ONEP.
ONEP was the project greatest loan beneficiary, receiving USD 45.76 million,
accounting for 53 percent of the total loan amount.  An amount of USD 38.15
million, accounting for 44 percent of the loan amount, was initially onlent to
the R6gies to finance the foreign exchange cost of individual connections.
The Government would allocate the remaining USD 3.09 million to the
Hydraulics Administration for the water resources development program. The loan
was to cover the foreign exchange expenditure and the renewal of funds for
connections financing, and to finance about 45 percent of the project total cost.
Similarly, FEC had agreed to lend the Regies the necessary funds to cover the
local financing of credit for housing connections, including related charges for
low-income customers.
It should be noted that under the social house component of Loan
2006-MOR, two categories of financing were differentiated:
Category 6:  "Works on force account."  The installation of housing
connections and extension of distribution networks would be carried
out by the R6gies with their own means.   The R6gies   have the
necessary equipment and skilled manpower, and they have acquired the
necessary  technical  skills.    The  experience  acquired  by  the
Casablanca, Rabat-Sal6 and Kenitra Regies in the launching and
implementation of the first phase of the housing connection program
under the Second Water Supply Project (Loan 1724-MOR), has indeed
helped the other R6gies.  The percentage of expenditure financed
under this category is 65 percent of the net financing (Annex 1,
page 31 of the Loan Agreement).
Category 7:  "Materials and Equipment."  This category relates to
the acquisition of materials and equipment for the works under force
account. Equipment contracts, with or without installation, below
USD   250,000 each, with a total amount not exceeding USD   2.5
million, would be awarded after local competitive bidding.
Contracts above this limit would be awarded after international
competitive bidding, in accordance to the Bank Guidelines for
procurement procedures. The percentage of expenditure financed is
100 percent of the foreign exchange expenditure, and 48 percent of
the local currency expenditure. This disbursing rate has, however,
been revised and increased to 56 percent.
The terms of the Loan are 19 years, including four years' grace and
the interest rate was 7.9 percent. Interest and other charges would be payable
every six months on April 15 and October 15 of each year. The repayment schedule
is given in Annex 3 of the Loan Agreement. Works related to the project would
be fully executed by the Regies' own material and human resources, without major
modification of their internal structures. During the housing connection works,
R6gies were advancing their own funds for acquisition of necessary material,
while waiting for funds to be released.



- 42 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - PROJECT COST AND OPERATION
3.01        Effectiveness and Startup
(a)   Effectiveness.   The social house connection program became
effective with the signature on September 28, 1981, of the Loan agreement 2006-
MOR, between the Kingdom of Morocco and the World Bank.
In conformity to this Agreement, subsidiary loan agreements were
established on March 1, 1982, between the Government of Morocco and the eleven
R6gies (RAD, RADEEF, RADEEMA, RADEEM, RDE, RADEES, RADEEO, RAID, RED, RADEETA,
RAK), and were afterwards extended to RAMSA, RADEET, RADEEC and RADEEJ.
Similarly, on August 20, 1982, FEC and the Regies signed the loan agreement
governing local financing.
(b) Startup. The effective startup of execution differs by Regie
but generally speaking, launching of this program started during the second half
of 1982.   To launch the social house connection program at national level,
measures adopted during the 1724-MOR Loan project implementation, were applied
to all Regies.   Among these measures were the launching of a widespread
information campaign aiming at making local population sensitive to the program.
This campaign included, among others:
-     permanent sensitivity of the entire staff of the Regie;
-     information of population concerned by distribution of leaflets,
posters, door-to-door, etc.);
-     approaching local authorities to facilitate paperwork for connection
requests;
-     giving beneficiaries specific printed forms for connection requests;
-     training staff to ensure a good reception, handling, and followup of
connection requests.
3.02        Implementation.   During the implementation of the social house
connection program, some technical, administrative and financial difficulties
have occurred, which have hampered operations:
-     partial or total lack of refuse collection and sewerage systems in
some neighborhoods;
-     impact of standpipes on a number of connection requests in areas
affected by the program;
-     bureaucracy of formalities to fulfill the requests for connections;
-     beneficiaries' monthly income ceiling turning out to be too low;
-     delays in release of Bank's funds.



- 43 -
Corrective measures had to be taken to improve the implementation
rate:
-     extension of implementation deadlines:  the closing date, initially
established at December 31, 1985, was extended to end of 1987, then
to December 31, 1989;
-     amendment to the Bank's release of funds:  the Bank has raised in
February 1985 the disbursement rates for Category 6: "Works on force
account" and Category 7: "Materials and Equipment", to 75 percent
(instead of 65 percent) and 56 percent (instead of 48 percent)
respectively, retroactive to November 1, 1983, and valid until June
30, 1986. These rates have been maintained until the completion of
the social house connection program. To accelerate the release of
Bank's funds, a Special Account was open with Bank Al Maghrib,
through which funds are onlent to the R6gies;
-     transfer of funds among Regies:   several transfers of funds took
place among the loan various beneficiaries, to face the increase of
connection demand in some Regies. The various reallocations among
Regies and among categories have altered the initial allocations
(see Table 11);
-     financial revision of eligibility criteria:   the monthly income
ceiling by beneficiary was increased from DH 2,000 to DH 3,000 as of
May 1, 1984, so that a larger segment of the population could
benefit from the social house connection program.
The Regies have added to this general revision, accompanying measures
or internal technical and administrative measures, to accelerate the
implementation pace.
3.03        Implementation Schedule.   The subsidiary loan agreements of the
social house connection program projected 88,700 connections during the 1982-85
period.    The  implementation  schedule was extended  (1986-89)  to meet the
increasing connection demand. The Table hereunder shows the implementation by
Regies during the first period (1982-85) and the second period (1986-89).



- 44 -
SCHEDULE OF PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATIONS
PLANNED             ACTUAL               % OF IMPLEMENTA-
REGIES         PERIODS               CONNECTIONS          CONNECTIONS         TION RATES
82-85                      15.000               1.181                     7,87%
R.A.D.               86-49                           0               4.849
Total                     1I.000                6.030                    40.20%
82-45                       3.500               2.975                    35,00%
R.E.D.               8649                            0              15.426
Total                       3.500              18.401                   525,74%
82-85                       4.500               3.280                    72,89%
RAID                 86-49                           0               3.549
Total                       4.500               6.829                   151.76%
82-85                       6.200               5.221                    84,21%
RDE                 8649                            0                3.587
Total                       6.200               8.808                   142,06%
82-45                           0                   0
RAMSA                 86489                       6.000               1.968                     32,80%
Total                       6.000               1.968                    32.80%
8245                       14.000               2.872                    27,66%
RADEEF                8649                            0               2.995
Total                      14.000               5.867                    49,05%
82-85                       2.500               2.376                    95,04%
RADEEC                86-89                           0                3.993
Totl                        2.500               6.369                   254,76%
82-4                        4.000               2.945                    73,63%
RADEEJ                8649                            0               3.725
Total                       4.000               6.670                   166.75%
8245                        5.000               2.930                    5t,60%
RADEEM                86-89                           0                2.981
Total                       5.000               5.911                   118,22%
82-45                       5.300               5.567                    105,04%
RADEES                8649                            0               0.842
Total                       5.300               6.409                   120,92%
82-S5                       6.200               4.757                    76,73%
RADEET                86-19                           0                2.970
Total                       6.200               7.727                   124,63%
82-45                      10.000               5.893                    58,93%
RADEEMA                8649                            0                   0
Total                      10.000               5.893                    58.93%
82-85                       1.300               0.673                    51,77%
RADEETA                8649                            0                   0
Total                       1.300               0.673                    51,77%
3245                        5.200               2.448                    47,08%
RADEEO                8649                             0               2.656
Total                       5.200               5.104                    98,15%
8245                       82.700              43.118                    52,14%
TOTALGENERAL               8649                        6.000              49.541                    325,68%
Total                      88.700              92.659                   104.46%



- 45 -
It can be noted from the previous Table that the social house
connection program, was very successful, as the implementation rate exceeded 100
percent, compared with the initial projections.  This rate reached very high
levels for some of the R6gies:  RED: 525.7 percent; RADEEC: 254.8 percent;
RADEEJ: 166.7 percent; and RAID: 151.7 percent).
It must be noted, however, that this implementation rate only reached
48.61 percent during the first period, in spite of the high level for some Regies
(RADEES:  105 percent; RADEEC: 95 percent).   This is mainly due to start-up
problems faced by the Regies, particularly:
problems mentioned in para. 3.02, which lead to the extension of the
program duration;
delays or alterations in slum resorption programs;
some customers were located at the end of the distribution system,
which implied additional delays to extend the distribution network
prior to install the connection;
It should be also noted that after the Bank agreed to fund
reallocations among Regies, and among categories, Regies could receive additional
funds, which partially explains the implementation rates above 100 percent.
3.04        Procurement.   Contracts related to the social house connection
program were awarded by local bidding under the usual annual contracts that the
R6gies establish for their requirements in goods and works, according to their
specifications. Disbursements from FEC and the Bank were of 68 percent, compared
with the total amount of contracts made by the Regies for this program.
3.05        Cost and Disbursement.  Tables 1 and 2 hereafter detail the statement
of expenditure for the works executed on force account (Category 6), with or
without fee for the initial connection.
The following conclusions may be drawn from these tables:
the average cost of a connection with the initial connection fee, is
DH 3,354.61 per connection, while the average cost of a connection
without initial connection fee is DH 1,331.60 per connection;
the overall average cost for the social house connections financed
by the Bank and FEC is DH 3,3331.79 per connection.
on the 92,659 connections installed, only 17,809 were installed
without initial connection fee. This is due to the fact that the
program mainly concerned neighborhoods not equipped with drinking
water systems, which lead to customer contributions to the network
extension.



- 46 -
Total expenditure for the execution of the connection program has
reached DH 310,834,765.61 for all Regies concerned, of which DH 172,339,868.50
with initial connection fee, i.e. 56.69 percent.
3.06        Financinc. The financing of the social house connection program was
made on the one hand by the disbursements by the Bank and FEC (Table 3), and on
the other by the customer repayments, after deduction of the debt service (Table
4).
Table 5 shows that the ratio between cumulative disbursements at the
end of 1989 and the allocated amounts is 68.2 percent.
Tables 3, 4 and 5, indicating financial resources, only present
cumulative statements at the end of 1989, while a more objective presentation
should have been made, analyzing year by year disbursements, customers repayments
and maturities.
In this respect, it should be noted that most of the R6gies have
pursued the social house connection program with the revolving fund (generated
by beneficiaries repayments).
3.07        Disbursement Performance
(a) Bank. After the signature of subsidiary loan agreements and
during the execution of the loan, some modifications were made to the amounts
initially allocated by the Bank. It may be a total cancellation as was the case
for RAK (Kenitra), or partial cancellation (RADEEMA, RADEEF and RADEES), or a
reallocation among categories within the Regie (mainly from Category 7 to
Category 6), or reallocation from one Regie to another at Category 6 and/or
Category 7.
These modifications were introduced after agreement by the Bank, the
Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance.  During the fiscal year 1989,
the Bank started meeting all disbursement requests without preliminary
authorization and without taking into account the initial allocation.  This was
done to allow the Regies exceeding their quota to benefit from funds from other
Regies which had discontinued their participation in the program.
With respect to disbursement performance, Table 6 indicates
allocations as they were modified until the end of 1989 (USD 39.7 million) and
releases effectively granted by the Bank (USD 42 million), equivalent to DH 347.7
million, i.e. an overrun of about USD 2.3 million, which translates by a clear
success for RED, RADEEF, RADEEMA and RADEEC. The overrun for Category 6 should
also be noted, i.e. 115.7 percent.
(b) E. With respect to the local financing by FEC, Table 7 shows
that the overall rate of disbursement performance was only 79.7 percent, as on
DH 84.19 million allocated, only DH 67 million were used.  The RAD and RAMSA
R6gies have only reached 32.5 percent and 14 percent respectively in Category 7.
RADEETA had cancelled its credit.



- 47 -
Table 8 presents an overall disbursement performance amounting to DH
347.7 million for the Bank, and DH 67 million for FEC, i.e., DH 414.7 million.
It should be noted finally that during the execution of the program,
disbursements reaching the R6gies through the Ministry of Finance, differ from
the statements communicated by the Bank. A comparative situation is given in
Table 9.  The overall difference is USD  61,226.97, meaning a plus for the
R6gies, which is still unexplained.
IV.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
Through approval of credit for financing the social house connection
for low-income households and repayment facilities, the social house connection
program has had a driving impact on the social as well on the economic
performance.
4.01        Social Performance.  This program has connected 92,659 households to
the water distribution system. It has contributed to the improvement of sanitary
and health conditions of the connected families, and has therefore contributed
to the improvement of their living conditions, as well as public health and
socio-economic environment of the areas concerned.
4.02        Economic  Performance.    This  program  has  contributed  to  the
improvement of the connection rate for all Regies, which increased from an
average of 65 percent in 1982 to 80 percent in 1989.
This social program has also contributed to the elimination of
standpipes.   In fact, the number of standpipes in the areas served by the
participating Regies has decreased from 2,290 standpipes in 1962, to 1962 in
1989, i.e., the elimination of 228 standpipes.



TABLE 1: Statement of Expenditure for Works Carried on Force Account
lo.  of:  Amt.  of  t   Avg.  :   Connections  Costs                                    lOverhead  I                           Total      :Amt. grant.-.  Avg- I
I4gies ponnect.          Tax              Cost                                                          Costs------------------  a  C114+(31 )            for            Cost8t
t    (al  1     111       :11)1(11  HaterialSl salaries  : Total (21                        131       1      (4)       I     :S)          ref inan4116.(IS /aI :a
UAD    I   6.030,01   12.881.133,90 :2.136,17   I.65.619,617   1.325.7195,96 1 5.971.465,3  11.199.217,60   2.72.91,00   22.811.801,13   18.132.103,79 13.783,55 ::
IID       18.401,00   38.669.812,85 :2.10151 9.191.353,01   5.198.719,91 115.193.122,9    7143.102,06   1.383.110,51    .9819.8918,42  50 .730.512,15 :3.368,63 ,:
ID       18.808,001  24.131.797,52 :2.819,80  11.105.301,31 11.865.189,17   5.910.I91,85 I2.112.151,4  13.173.181,96;  31.763.221,79   36.763.229,73 ,1.173,85 :1
IAID        6.829,60 :11.151.516,12 12.512,11  41.30.232,141  3.411.501,35  0.219.731,71 :2.3819.905,27   1.340.876C,2 1 29.135.038,J0 :29.135.038,11 61.266,37::
RAK$S       1.968,00 1  3.208.933,01 h1.630,56 :2.31t.511,00: 1.411.738.12 t3.16.319,12 1   411.581,82 1    573.5$1,11    1.041.3193,i    7.751.603,51 :1.086,07 ::
IADIIC      6.3C9,00 I 9.578.233,21 11.503,88   9.7614.40,66           977.216,71 110.7141.67,4  :1.616.533,02 12.669.632,79  24.01.171,12 1 23.465.919,40  :3.863,63 :
RADII? ,   5.867,01    9.I45.168,59  1.611,012   3.636.119,32   1.951.119,30   5.517.693,12   1.127.674,112   2.064.60,66   11.725.450,01    13.197.315,66 :3.191,66 
IADIIJ ,   6.670,00    7.305.118,21 01.095,23 :5.704.961,13   1.460.711.30 ,1.115.51,131  2.111.235,52   2.135.206,48   13.712.381,20 118.712.381,20 12.815,1511
IADIIK I     .911,00 1  9.211.131,01  1.570,65 I4.46.36I,00   1.336.003,15   5.836.809,45    117.131,43 :1.895.230,16   17.117.602,01   15.131.562,48 :2.900,96::
lADIIO ,     .101,00    9.413.542,7  1191.56.1  I 3.3019.117,53 :   772.026,62  1.0181.111,15:    305.004,14 .   695.111,617   11.551.718,75:14.551.718,75 :z.esi,is  I
lADIES I   1.409,00 110.01.173,58 11.5M3,9  11.183.11,13   1735.017,57 :4.918.705,711  1.342.451,18 1   121.171,92 1 17.011.005,31 :17.0104.005,38 j2.CS3,11                                  0
1ADII?      7 727,00 :13.445.551,7 11.7140,17 1           -               -        :9.817.611,941  1388.215,22   1.621.837,59   25.353.323,72   21.911.025,01 :3.281,13 ,
IADIIEA    5.893,00 1  5.685.931,17 1  964,86   3.121.615,17 1 :.289.772,7:14 4.114.117,15   2.029.133,30:  1.3169.6187,25   13.119.110,37: 12.909.110,37 :2.290,71 1
ADIETA:,      673,00 ,  1.141.952,17 ,1.707,21 0                                   : 1.261.215,23 ,                                    2.416.108,20                    0 03.590,011
Total I 92.659,00 :172.339.868,52 11.859,94 :60.060.915,45 :21.803.431,13 :93.129.217,75 16.459.311,18 129.106.365,16 1310.834.165.61 1290.716.2219,13 .3.354,61 



TABLE 2: Statement of Expenditure for Works Carried on Force Account without Tax for Flrst Establishment
No.  of   '   Connections  Costs                             :Overhead                            T Total     i   Avg.,';
liqies :Connect  -------------------------------------------                 c t              as          1 2+3            Cost 
(a)       Materials ISalaries     Total I1                       (21)            131          11 (4)         14)1(   I.:
IAD           583,00   1.C56.151,82    335.396,18   1.391.551,00    219.329,55 '  211.513,92   1.882.394,417  3.228,81 Il
I1D         4.943,00   1.832.437,50  1.510.338,80   3.342.176,300   197.720,00    576.359,85  4.116.856,15    832,87
ID    ;                : ,                                         0,00:                t                          0,00
IAID             9,00        5.827,31        3.869,25         9.696,56        2.908,92        1.418,071      14.023,55 :1.558,17i
RAISA         964,00       829.125,16    518.203,22   1.347.328,38 :  170.885,84 :  209.129,89   1.727.344,11 :1.791,85 "
RADlIC        902,00   1.147.260,55    121.619,18   1.268.915,23    225.976,55    243.359,36  1.738.281,11 :1.927,141
RADIIF        399,00       282.018,40 : 139.171,20'    421.189,60            83.391,00    118.614,68'    653.195,28 :1.631,08 '
IADUEJ      3.777,00   3.750.917,37 1  950.729,12   4.701.616,49 :1.423.051,61:  683.067,65  6.807.765,75 01.802,13 1,
IADIEK      1.888,00 :1.398.114,42    474.043,68 :1.872.458,10:    22.317,51    256.322,07 :2.151.127,68 :1.139,37 :
RADIKO          22,00       10.862,69:    7.655,19           18.518,18          396,00        2.647,714      21.561,92 1  980,09  :
IADICS      2.185,00 :1.401.191,49:   256.885,66 :1.658.080,15    415.094,87               262.149,12  2.335.324,11 :1.068,80 "
BADIET?        166,00 1   131.205,63        83.200,56       214.406,19       11.963,32      28.056,04       254.425,55 :1.532,68  
BADEIEA:   1.971,00  1.029.570,90:   479.207,341  1.508.178,214   300.562,22    202.842,47 :2.012.182,93I1.020,89::
IADIITAI              i                                           0,00                                  :,oo ii
Total 1 17.809,00 112.874.994,24 4.880.381,18 :17.755.374,42 ;3.133.627,39 :2.825.480,86 :23.714.482,67 :1.331,60 li
---- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---



- 50 -
TABLE 3: Net Revenue Statement in DH at the end of 1989
Debt Service                              Net
R6gies   S.H.C.P.C.:-------------------               ---------------------- 'Revenues
Bank   (21       f.E.C i;l          Iotil  il        111.(41:51I5
RMbD    *  1.CW.541.25    11.121.8.18,2        1.503.00        1153.'36.35       S. 331.103.
RED   2E.511 .1  .81.3    5.105.5 .193 
RED    : c.9i 2.1!5, 1    14 ISSA12*5Lx       2.508.01C,07: 21.576.5S3             Sl5519.3"
DE  .   31.315.3073? 1 i.331.929.12   1.3l1.310.Pi   N.713.Z39.21 :1l.572.066  ::
RAID ; 14.088. 2,'l1 I 22 .770.600.2, 3.t17.641.07   25.143.241.36   8.53.200,65  U
MASA       5.446.10.05 1  j.511.454.73          610.721,50    2.167.171.23   3.279.929,82:.
RADEI     A3.217.51,3S    12.890.012,31   2.174.128,30            .66.440,61   7.763.211,25
RADGU V    14.17t.15,O0 I 11.153.270,06   7.601.617,51   13.176 3.,.1 UI.I03.572,63)U
AAIIEJ   201.131.;7.3?     13.196.631.02    2.980.910,21.  1.4177.511,28   3.653.94,09, 
AAMIA: 31.202.631.31 1 24.N22.179.05   j.837.552.71    31.A59.711.98               f451.106.8il
RUEO    !2.551013.13I  81 35.385.52  :3.567.13l.33 .10.522.817,85 1 2.023.196.08;
RDJU S' 3;.577.'iO.31 I  3.!44.024,58   31.900.532.31   [2.044.556, 1  23.629.413.46 1
~ADEEr    t 20.I17.S1.i   '  z12.163.571,;i  1.2714.255,33   li.437.$27,16 :4.319.237,62
MM          117,054.35          7iO'$.774A.i     3,33127,01    1-.453.173.94    .16.3.615,41  ,;
UErA.   ;.1V7.9SZ.5T I    49I      . 79.   1   107.511,24           Q17.137.0O    1.440.329,57 ,
........... ..... ....... .. .. .. :............ ------------------
oTat)lI 131I.S.636.21  t117i1.57.H1e   13.111.513.3l  227113.465.10  :82.507.170,51 U
.....       .C..       SocilHus....gConect.............P                m  C       t............. .
S.H.C.P.C.: Social Housing Connection Program Credit



- 51 -
TABLE 4: Connections Costs and Repayment (Category 6) in DH
RAgies    Amounts                Repayment in DH (Category 6)
granted            - _ _______________ _
,                    F.Bank  t  S.C  TotaL"
RAD      18.032.903,79   1 3.524.677,6t 5.250.000,00 : 18.774.677,66 .
RED    ! 56.730.512,.5   48.592.827,49 :   500.000,0C : 49.092.827,49 4 l
RDE      36.763.229,73   16.486.2?:,49   1.150.oCO,OC   17.636.271.4X  ,
RAiD       29.135.038,60   21.493.784,47 t   900.000,00 ' 22.393.784,47 '
RAMSA     7.759.603,54 ; 3.685.902,21 : 1.060.000,00    4.745.902,2; ,
RADEEC ' 23.465.979,40 : 14.640.529,87      920.000,00   15.560.529,7. ''
RADEEF   18.4S7.315,66   11.715.237,20   2.400.000,00   14.1.5.237.20 '
RADEEJ   18.78-.384,20   12.361.75,81       690.000.00   13.05l.75i.3. ;
RADEEM : 15.134.562,48   10.353.939,33      2Z-69.909,03   10.623.848,36
RADEEO   14.554.798,75 I' 3.418.533,19 t 900.000,00    4.318.533.19 
RADEES   17.004.005,38    4.903.637,73      950.000,00    5.8S3.637,73  ;
RADEET   21.950.025,08    9.945.645.39   1.150.000,00   11.095.645,39 I;
RAkDEEMA; 12.905.870,37    9.488.951,48 1 1.700.000,00   11.188.951,48 H
RADEE':AI    1267245,23      585979,95      193.920,00       779.899,95 H
Total 1 29I. 987. 474,365 1-181.197. 669,27 1 18. 033.829,03 1 199. .31.498, 30 H
_____ -------------_ ---------------------------------------------------_



TABLE 5: Bank Fmancial Performance in USD at end 1989
Cagegory  6  (Works)                               Category  7  (Materials)                ,           Category  6 +  7                     '
ligies,                                            r      1                     a  -         -       -      -r--                            -
IAlloca-   *Executon  Alloca-E ,                                        uxecution, Alloca-   i  Funds                              ,Executlon  ,
------- t UDI            'Releases' .       of Works  'tions              ' Releases  gl-       izrke   ' t.jqn             'Releases  'of  Wor-ks
lDO        1.446.157,00   1.14.615,43             113,7l2l  5.700.000,08s  1.867.793,00             85,4011 7.146.157,00   6.512.408,413             Sl,!311
IED        2.772.149,00 5.937.70,174              214,191:   861.100           61.611,55 0         100,001: 3.633.820,00   6.199.380,29             181,11:
Dt1    2.210.117,00 :2.166.212,62                  93,481: 1.695.511,00 01.791.925,5:              105,861; 3.905.994,06 :3.661.158,13;              98,851%;
[AID      3.160.490,60   2.473.949,78 1            72,541: 1.775.199,00 :2.441.668,31 1            137,541, 5.185.689,00 :4.915.118,09                911'9,1
DAISA   ;   350.600,02       416.895,20           127,681;   600.000,00        165.347,416          30,89E    950.000,00 1   632.242,66              i ,   66,5511;
IADEIC    1.510.000,00 11.181.210,31              111,31:,  921.100,00        9 936.261,18 1       101,101:,  .436.100,01 12.617.1771,49             107,45131
JADIIF    1.362.000,00 . 1.508.711,60             110,171' 1.310.000,000 1.480.648,69              113,0311 2.612.000,00 , 2.989.366,29 0            111,8811!
RADIEJ  11.449.720,00 , 1.454.H09,69              100,35s1  1.022.212,00 11.022.201,51              9 19,191' 2.4172.002,60 :2.177.014,20            100,20%';
ADIEIN       971.417,00 ;1.231.203,28             126,181, 1.150.000,00       830.140,19 0          72,251  2.127.117,00 :2.067.043,417               91,161;:
DADEKO  O   510.000,00       406.340,59 t          71,2910   930.000,00 :1.120.200,92              120,151J 1.500.000,00   1.526.541,51 0           1,111,::
1ADlES  '   561.866,00 I   561.866,39 1           100,001|   910.008,00       610.235,63             W 63,571: 1.521.874.00 :1.172.101,99 1           77,021::
IADEttl   1.010.000,00 :1.216.066,25              116,931; 1.146.000,00   1.281.808,135 1           61,101; 2.500.000,00 :2.41.8174,60:               99,911:n
lADI1A ,:1.145.166,00   1.115.165,40 ,           !00,0010 2.418.752,00 02.801.858,68 0            116,091: 3.563.918,00 :3.953.024,08              110,121::
RADEITA       61.029,00 1    61.029,26 0          100,0013           0,00 t          0,00 t                     61.029,10    1 61.029,21  "         100I,001
Total  :16.866.441,00 ;21.840.610,54            915,777:2o.aos.55,,o 126.241.469,95 1              91,271:39.6176.000,0  :142.082.280,19           106,0611
--- -- -- -- --- -- -- -  -- ---. - .   -..-- --. - -- --  -- --  - -- --- --. -. -. -  ---  -- -. --  ---. - --. -  -- ---  -- -- -- ---  -- -- --   -



TABLE 6: FEC Fimancial Performance in DH
Category 6 (Works)                                      Category 7 (Materials)                              Category 6 + 7
Ivgiei~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uzi ------------- faa -----------
R4gies                                                                                                                   as         Executior~3on     O  Fnds I  llca
411oca-  Funds                 1Executior   AJloca- , Funds    , Executionu Aloca-  , Funo
a                         ' oios  '                           Releases ' of   Works  '           tions            Releases. of  Works'
IAD        5.250.000,00   5.250.000,00              100,001'18.100.00,00   5.970.600,00                 32,451:23.650,000,00 h11.220.600,00               41,441::
RED          500.000,00       500.000,00             10,00i, 2.150.000,00 2 .150.000,00                100,001' 2.650.000,00 :2.650.000,00               100,001,,
IDE        1.iso.ooo,oo    1.150.000,00             100,001, 3.850.000,00   3.850.000,00 :             100,001' 5.000.000,00   5.000.000,00 :           -10O,01!
RAID     1   800.000,00       800.000,00            100,0013  2.800.000,00 :2.800.000,00:              100,001: 3.600.000,00 :3.600.000,00               ioo,ool:
RAlSA    :1.060.000,00    1.060.000,00              100,00,: 3.840.000,00        539.515,00             14,05l 1  I.900.000,00 :1.599.575,00              32,641U
RADEIC       920.000,00  '  920.000,00              100,001, 3.330.000,00   3.330.000,00               100,001,  4.250.000,00   4.250.000,00             100,001:
IADEEF    2.100.000,00   2.400.000,00               100,001, 8.600.000,00 :8.600.000,00:               100,001l11.000.60, ,00 :11.000.000,00             100oo,0O
RADEEJ       690.000,00       690.000,00            100,001: 2.100.000,00   2.100.000,00               100,001: 3;090.000,00 :3.090.000,00:              100.001:"
IADEEK N     850.000,00       269.909,03 '           31,151; 3.100.000,00 . 3.100.000,00:              100,0011 3.950.000,00   3.369.909,03               85.31,11
R lADIEO  '   900.000,00      900OO.000,00  :       !00,001, 3.200.000,00 :3.200.000,00                IOO,OOI, 4.100.000,00 :4.100.000,00               lo0,00,,
lADIES       950.000,00 ;   950.000,00              100,001, 3.250.000,00 ,3.250.000,00                 o00o,oo:, 4.200.000,00   4.200.000,00 1          100,001'
RADEET   : I.liO.OOO,OO ' i.iSO.OOO,oo ,            IOO,OOS; 3.850.000,00 :3.850.000,00                100,001' 5.000.000,00 ,5.000.O00,00 ,             100,0011,                      w
RADEEKA   1.700.000,00 , 1.700.000,00 :             100,001   6.100.000,00 :6.100.000,00              100,0011 7.800.000,00  17.800.000,00              100,001,'
RADRETA      200.000,00   1  93.920,00,              96,9611   800.00C,00 ,             0,0O             0,00   1.000.000,00      193.920,00            19,391,,
total  :18.520.000,00 :11.933.829,03 1              96,831165.610.000,00 :49.140.175,00 ,              71,831:84.190.000,00 :67.014.004,03 1             79,671"
-- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- .-   - - -- .-   - - -- - .    -. - - - -- -   - - - --.-- - -- - -  - - -- - -



- 54 -
TABLE 7: Situation of Funds Releases Bank + FEC in DH
Category  6                      Category  7                           Total h7
ligims  ------- ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 1------- 
Bank        :    I.C        '   Bank         :    F.I.C          Bank         '     .I.C       :
W      ' 13.524.177,I6  1 5.250.000,00 1,39.445.615,90 : 5.970.600,00    52.910.293,56 :11.220.600,10 1
IID      48.592.827,45      500.000,00    6.622.108,99   2.150.000,00 :55.214.936,48   2.650.I00,10
0I     :16.416.271,49   1.150.000,00   16.363.000,55   3.850.000,00 :32.849.272,44   S.o00o.100,i0 :
UiD   521.143.784,47        800.000,00  119.470.925,84   2.800.000,00   40.91(310,31 1 3.100.100,10
lUBA  1 3.635.902,21 t1.060.000,00:  1.509.072,31            539.575,00    5.194.974,52 ,1.595.575,00::
1lDF t11.715.237,20   2.100.000,00 :11.874.630.0Q    8.600.000,00   23.589.867,24 !11.000.000,10  :
WIIJ :12.311.751,81         190.000,00 1  8.868.763,716   2.400.000,00   21.230.515,57 i 3.091.000,00 :1
ADIE :10.353.139,33:   265.905,03 1 5.899.424,93 :3.100.000,00: 16.253.361,26 :3.369.909,13 ::
lRDIKO    3.418.533,r9      500.000,00 :  9.169.555,76   3.200.000,00 1 12.588.088,95   4.101.000,00 ::
WDIC I14.640.529,817        920.000,00 : 8.176.138,68 :3.330.000,00   22.81i.668,55 1.251.000,00
AII    9.945.645,31   1.150.000,00 1 10.731.722,32   3.850.000,00 :20.6177.367,71  5.000.000,0O 1
RADIIKAI  9.488.951,48 :1.700.000,00   23.865.508,82:  6.100.000,00   33.354.410,30 : 7.803.000,00
WRDIITAI    SIS.9SS,9S  :   193.920,00 1                                      585.919,95      193.920,00 11
tIA S 1 4.903.137,73       950.100,00 , 1.555.880,48 :3.250.000,00 :  9.455.518,21 :4.280.000,00 1
Totil 1181.197.669,27 117.933.829,03 :166.552.348,78 149.140.175,00 :347.750.018,05 :67.074.004,03 ::



- 55 -
TABLE 8: Comparative Situation of funds Releases between Bank and Rkgies in USD
Category 6 (Works)                              Category 7 (Materials)    G. Diff..,
Ugies, ------ - ---------------- -----------------------                                                      M    21 ,
lRegies  Data  Bank  data.Diff.(!)  Regies  DatA  Bank  data   Diff                                              8
lAD        1.644.615.43  : 1.644.615,43:0         0,30   4 .867.793,00 14.867.793,00                0,00 10.00 ,'
*ID     I  5.937.708,74 :5.900.626,30   37.082,44           861.671,55        861.671,55            0,00     37.082,44 '7
IH         2.066.232,62  :2.086.624,73  I120.39),111I 1.794.925,51          1.774.534.79 1  24.390,72             (1,39),'
IAID       2.473.949,78   2.473.949,98,          (0,20)1 2.411.668,31    2.441.668,31              0,00 '         (0,20)18
IJIW    1    446.855,20     446.895,20            0,00 a    185.347,46        185.317,46           0,c0l           0,00 
IADIIC    1.681.210,31   I.i91.672,84                       9310.662,63)t   536.267,18  936.267,18 1  0,00 0  (10.162,531',
UDIII,  1.508.717,60   1.508.717,60               0,00 ! 1.180.648,69    1.480.648.69               0,00           0,00 '
WIIJ    1.451.809,69  :1.459.517,46   (4.707,77)' 1.022.204,51    1.022.281,74                    (77,23)1   11.785,00)7'
wAin       1.236.203,28   1.236.203,28 1          0,00      1 830.840,19:    830.840.19             0,00           0,00
UIN     I406.340,59 1   406.340,59                0,00o  1.120.200,92       1.120.111,22           59,70          59,70 ,
MIR$         561.866,39       561.866,39          0,00 1   610.235,60         960.007,96 11349.772,36)1  (343.772,36):;
bAllET 0  1.216.066,i5   1.216.056,21             0,041 :1.281.808,35,  1.281.809,17,             (0,82):         (0,78),
lAUIR:   1.145.165,40   1.145.165,56 I           (0,161: 2.807.858,68 1  2.418.751,69 ! 389.106,99 1  389.106,83 8
NADIiTA       61.029,26 I    61.029,00            0,26 j           0,00 1            0,00 'j        0,00 1         0,26
Total :21.840.810,51 :21.839.290,57:   1.519.97 :20.211.469,95   20.181.762,95 1  59.707.00                 6 61.226,97 8
=- -     -  -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -



- 56 -
MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Loan 2006-MOR)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
ADMINISTRATIONDE L'HYDRAULIQUE



- 57 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2006-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Water Resource DeveloDment Component
1.    Prolect Oblectives
The Third Water Supply Project financed by the Bank under Loan 2006-MOR
aimed at:
-     increasing safe water supply by installing house connections for the
low-income population;
-     assisting ONEP in strengthening its operational and organizational
capacity;
-     improving   and   coordinating   decision-making   procedures   for
investments in the potable water sector.
2.    Composition of the Proiect Component
The Water Resource Development component of the Project consists int
-     Part E:  Water resource development by installing boreholes and
wells with infiltration passages in about 24 centers;
-     CateRory 4:  Consultant services and training.
3.    Loan Amount
The total loan amount allocated to the Water resource Development component
was USD 7,983 million, of which USD 2,630 million were allocated to Part E, and
USD 5,353 to Category 4.
4.    Loan Duration
The Loan Agreement was signed on September 9, 1981 and became effective on
March 15, 1981.  The Project completion, initially foreseen for December 31,
1988, has been extended to December 31, 1989.
5.    Physical Results
5.1   Part E: Water resource Development
In order to develop underground water resources, a contract was awarded to
three local firms, one being a pilot enterprise.



- 58 -
a)    Composition of works
Works consisted in exploration drilling and trial boreholes in 15 urban
centers scattered throughout the Kingdom of Morocco, with the exception of the
Saharan Provinces located south of Tan.
Three workshops had been foreseen for Contract 21/86/DRPE:
-     Workshop B:  air survey
-     Workshop D:  trial boreholes
-     Workshop E:  rotary survey
b)    Organization of Studies and Hydrogeological Follow-up
Preliminary Studies
Studies started with desk work, i.e., analysis of available geological
maps, interpretation of aerial photographs (and in some cases satellite
photographs), analysis of data from IRE's files, archives from the Water resource
Division (DRE), or from Hydraulics Regional Directorates (DRHs). Installations
were then proposed, and in most of the cases, an installation report prepared.
These studies were carried out either by the Water Resources Division (DRE)
in Rabat (90 of the time) or by the Hydraulics Regional Directorates (DRHs)
concerned.
Afterwards, several field missions took place for each center to:
-     verify the real situation of the center's water production;
-     analyze local hydrogeological conditions; and
-     install boreholes.
Hydrogeological Followup
Each tubewell workshop was supervised by a hydrogeologist/engineer residing
on the work site, and assisted by a technician, whenever necessary.   This
engineer had the authority to take any decision concerning the functioning of the
work site under his charge.  He kept the DRH concerned, or eventually DRE in
Rabat, informed of progress and technical or hydrogeological problems
encountered. He prepared a report once the work was finished. Most of these
reports were completed and published. After developing trial boreholes and flow
yield tests, a summary note on local hydrogeology and operation possibility was
written for some areas.
At the central level at the DRE in Rabat, a Project Manager assisted by an
expatriate adviser, performed overall supervision with respect to the
hydrogeological, technical, financial, and administrative aspects of the
operations.



- 59 -
Long Duration Flow Yields Testing
Some "D" trial boreholes were tested over a several-day period with a
pumping group from DRPE (Research and Planning Department, Hydraulics
Administration)  and also with DRPE  financing.    These boreholes had been
previously developed and tested for one or two days by the Agency. These long
duration pumping tests were indispensable to the enhanced assessment of the
operational flow.
c)    Results of works
The Project has developed new underground water resources and brought to
light  the existence  of  several  aquifers.    Seventy percent  of  the works
accomplished were positive (See Table 1). These installation works have allowed,
inter alia, the sector to meet water demand in several centers such as Essaouira,
Midelt, Chemaia, Azrou, Guercif, El Gara, Larache, and Azizal, and confirmed
interest in integrating several aquifers into the observation network:
-     Turonien of Essaouira;
-     Lias of Midelt; and
-     Pliocene (close to Guercif).
5.2   Category 4:  Consultants Services and Training
Under Category 4 of the Loan, DRPE has employed consultants to carry out
master plans studies of water resource development of the following basins:
Sebou, Bou Regreg, Oum Er-R'bia and Tensift;
-     Moulouya; and
-     Loukkos, Tangier area, and Mediterranean coasts.
5.2.1 Integrated Master Plan Study of Water Resource Development of the
Sebou. Bou Regreg and Oum Er-R'bia Basins and the Tensift Basin
The contract for the study signed with a joint venture composed of one
local and two foreign firms was approved on January 5, 1984.
The integrated master plan study of water resource development for the
Sebou, Bou Regreg, and Oum R'bia basins aims at defining a optimal scheme for the
mobilization of underground water resources in a technical and economic point of
view, taking into account their availability, technical, economic, and social
constraints, quantitative and qualitative nature of the demand, orientation, and
objectives of social and economic development plans at regional, national and
sectoral level, and protection and conservation of the envirormental hydraulic
resources. The other objective of the study was to establish the pre-feasibility
of integrated development projects for the supply of drinking, industrial, and
irrigation water, hydro-electric power production, and protection against floods.



- 60 -
The study was divided into two missions:
-     Mission I, concerning a critical analysis of the existing situation,
assessment of, and comparison between, resources and water needs,
lasting 12 months.
This mission included:
Sub-mission I-A:  critical analysis of existing situation.
Sub-mission I-B:  water resource study.
Sub-mission I-C:  water demand study.
Sub-mission I-D:  resource/needs results, critical analysis of medium- and
long-term equipment schemes, their improvement, and
formulation of new schemes.
-     Mission II, concerning the technical and economic optimization and
the establishment of the master plan lasting eight months and
including:
Sub-mission II-A: Technical and economic optimization study to define the
most effective scheme among the ones selected at the end
of Mission I.
Sub-mission II-B: Pre-feasibility study of selected works.
Four more missions were added to the initial contract:
Missions III and IV, subject of Amendment No. 1 approved on October 8,
1986. These missions concerned an integrated master plan study for the
water resource development of the Tensift Basin and the coastal Essaouira
Basins. This area has been linked to the Sebou, Bou Regreg, and Oum Er-
R'bia areas because of their water resource interdependence. Missions III
and IV were divided into sub-missions as were Missions I and II.
Mission V was subject of Amendment No. 2, approved on November 25, 1988.
This mission was added to reinforce the project management team in view of
the importance of the studies and to update the hydrogeological situation
in the area under study.
By the loan closing date, Mission I studies were completed and approved by
the Hydraulics Administration, except for the report concerning preliminary
hydraulic works for water transfer, which is still in draft. At the end of this
mission, scenarios for developing water resources to be studied under Mission II
were selected during a coordination meeting held in June 1989 between the
Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform.
Mission II was launched by a methodology note during October 1989.



- 61 -
Reports of Mission III including four sub-missions (III-A, III-B, III-C and
III-D) were also prepared, except for the report on Water Quality and Water re-
use of sub-mission III-C, and reports of preliminary studies on a new dam
location and the report on resources/needs of sub-mission III-D. Reports of sub-
missions III-A and III-B were all approved , except for the "Pollution" report
and the "Agriculture" report.
5.2.2 Integrated Master Plan Study for Water Resource Development of the
MoulouVa Basin
The Integrated Master Plan Study for Water Resource Development of the
Moulouya Basin aimed at defining an optimal scheme for the mobilization of
underground water resources from technical and economic standpoints, taking into
account their availability, technical, economic and social constraints,
quantitative and qualitative nature of the demand, orientation, and objective of
social and economic development plans at regional, national and sector levels,
and environmental protection and conservation of hydraulic resources.
In addition to the Moulouya Basin, the area covered by the study included:
-     the Oued Kert watershed located West of the Mediterranean area
between the Moulouya mouth and the Trois Fourches Cape; and
-     the Moroccan side of the Oueds Kiss and Isly watersheds located
northwest of the Moroccan-Algerian border.
The contract for the study carried out by a joint venture was approved on
August 13, 1985.  The study also included two missions:
-     Mission  I,  concerning  the  critical  analysis  of  the  existing
situation, assessment of, and comparison between resources and water
needs, and formulation of development schemes, lasting last eight
months.
-     Mission II, concerning the technical and economic optimization and
the establishment of the master plan lasting four months.
By the loan closing date, December 31, 1989, all studies of Mission I had
been completed and approved by the Hydraulics Administration. The first phase
of Mission II concerning the technical and economic optimization and the
establishment of the master plan had been practically completed. The engineer
in charge of the study also made a field mission to collect data required for the
second phase of Mission II regarding the pre-feasibility study of the works
included in the plan.
5.2.3 Integrated Master Plan Study for Water Resource Development of the
Loukkos, Tangier, and Mediterranean Coast Basins
The contract for the study signed with the group composed of one local and
two foreign firms was approved on March 18, 1988.



- 62 -
The integrated master plan study of water resource development for the
Loukkos, Tangier, and Mediterranean coastal basins aimed at defining an optimal
scheme for the mobilization of underground water resources from technical and
economic standpoints, taking into account their availability, technical, economic
and social constraints, quantitative and qualitative nature of the demand,
orientation and objective of social and economic development plans at the
regional, national, and sector levels, and environmental protection and
conservation of hydraulic resources under different scenarios of demand
development.
The other objective of the study was to establish the pre-feasibility of
integrated development projects for the supply of drinking, industrial, and
irrigation water, hydro-electric power production, and protection against floods.
The study was divided into two missions:
Mission I:
Sub-mission I-A:  critical analysis of the existing situation.
Sub-mission I-B:  water resource study.
Sub-mission I-C:  water demand study.
Sub-mission I-D:  resource/needs results, critical analysis of medium- and
long-term equipment schemes, their improvement, and
formulation of new schemes.
Mission II:
Sub-mission II-A: Technical and economic optimization study to define the
most effective scheme among the ones selected at the end
of Mission I.
Sub-mission II-B: Pre-feasibility study of selected works.
The terms of the contract were modified following an amendment approved on
November 5, 1990. The modifications are as follows:
-     expansion of the area under study to include the Souk El Arbaa of
the Ghrab Center;
-     expansion of the study horizon up to the year 2030 instead of 2020;
-     increase of the number of preliminary projects for dams to establish
under sub-mission I-D up to 17 projects instead of 15, of which a
maximum of 13 new sites instead of 10; and
-     extension of the duration of Mission I, to 14 months instead of
eight in view of the increase of the scope of the study and the



- 63 -
difficulties encountered in collecting data from the various sectors
concerned.
The following studies were completed by the loan closing date:
-     sub-mission I-A studies: analysis of the existing situation;
-     sub-mission I-B studies:  water resource assessment;
-     sub-mission I-C studies:  water demand assessment; and
-     studies related to the pre-selection of dam sites and preliminary
projects for new dam sites (sub-mission I-D).
The resource/needs study of sub-mission I-D was almost completed.
5.2.4 Workshop on systems analysis applied to water resources
The contract signed with a foreign firm for the organization of a workshop
on systems analysis applied to water resources was approved in December 1988.
The workshop was organized between June 12 and 23, 1989 for the cadres of
the Planning and Water Management Division of DRPE and Service Chiefs of the
Planning and Water Management of Hydraulics Regional Directorates.
After two days of theoretical courses on the application of systems
analyuis to the planning of water resources, participants made simulations on
micro-computers to analyze the behavior of the watershed CITARUM system in
Indonesia.
6.    Financina and Loan Disbursement
6.1   Part E:     Water resource Development
The project cost has amounted to DH 15,444,808.67, i.e. 100% of the
committed amount, 80% of which, i.e. DH 12,338,246.94, were financed by the World
Bank, representing about 59Z of the amount of the Part E of the loan (see Table
No. 2).
6.2   Catexorv 4: Consultants Services and Training
At the loan closing date, December 31, 1989, the level of payments amounted
to DH 30,544,331.74, i.e. about 682 of the amounts committed at that date (See
Table No. 2).
The amounts disbursed by the Bank amount to DH 17,859,955.67, i.e., about
40% of the amount of the loan for Category 4.
The implementation of the Integrated Master Plan Study for the Sebou, Bou
Regreg, Oum Er-R'bia, and Tensift Basins experienced some delays which were



- 64 -
reflected on the level of payments and disbursements. The main reasons for these
delays were:
the particular nature of the study, which was the first of its kind
to be launched by the Hydraulics Administration;
the extent of work to be accomplished under these studies and the
complexity of problems related to the water resource development in
the Sebou, Bou Regreg, and Oum Er-R'bia region. This region has, in
fact, about 50% of the water resources of the whole country and
concentrates 55% of irrigable land and 80% of national processing
industries;
the lack of preparation of the user sectors which do not answer in
a timely manner requests for data made during the execution of the
first studies;
slow review of reports by user sectors, in view of the large number
of services and consequent delay in decision making regarding the
orientation of the studies.



- 65 -
TABLE 1: Sunmmary of Project Works
Throughput (Liter per
second)
Bore-                              size
Province                Center                holes       Wells     Total      (in meters)     Wth Air       Pumpig
SAFI                    CHEMAIA                   6          2          8           635          25            210
IFRANE                  AZROU                     6          1          7           506          48             44
KHENIFRA                MIDELT                    6          1          7          1078          50             85
MARRAKECH               IMINTANOUT                2          0          2           205          26
ESSAOUIRA               TAMANAR                   0          1          1           305
ESSAOUIRA                0           1         1           111                         112
LARACHE                 LARACHE                   0          2          2           184                         87
SETrAT                  EL GARA                   0          1          1            55                         60
BEN AHMED                0           2         2           112                          70
TAZA                    GUERCIF                   0          3          3           322          58            136
l. AMLIL                 0           2         2           478                          14
KHOURIBGA               GOUFAF                    0          1          1            75.5                       11.5
OUJDA                   BERKANE                   0          1          1           148.5                       55
AZILAL                  TANANT                    1          0          1           500           9
l  AZILAL                0           1         1         1,007                         S0
TOTAL                   15                        21         19        40         5,722         206            934.5



- 66 -
TABLE 2: Summary of Contracts Fmanced under Loan 2006-MOR
(in DH)
Commitments              Payments                  Loan Disbursements
(December 31, 1989       (December 31, 1989)    (December 31, 1989)
1 - Part E
Construction and equipment of
borehoLes and weLLs with infiLtration
gaLleries                                            15.422.808,67             15.422.808,67             12.338.246,94
2 - Category 4
Master pLan study for Moulouya                        6.887.975,87              6.459.370,78              4.024.377,96
Master plan study for Sebou, Bou
Regreg, and Oum Er-R'bia                             28.665.586,11             19.336.487,30             11.405.713,90
Master plan study for Loukkos,
Tangier, and Mediterranean coastal
basins                                                8.895.649,25              4.652.423,39              2.351.134,08
Workshop on systems anaLysis appLied
to water resources                                      486.303,10                 96.050,27                  78.729,73
SubtotaL Category 4                                           44.935.494,33             30.544.331,74              17.859.955,67
Total                                                         60.358.303,00             45.967.140,41             30.198.202,61



- 67 -
MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Loan 2006-MOR)
PART HI: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



- 68 -
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan Number and Title             Purpose                          FY      Status
Loan 850-MOR         Financing of the first phase construction program    72   Completed
First Water Supply    of water storage, production, and transmission     PAR #3721
Project             facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast, as well as  12/16/81
for ONEP's training center and a nationwide tariff
study.
Loan (S-7 MOR)       Provision of foreign exchange for the preparation    77   Completed
Engineering Loan to the of a feasibility study, including preliminary    PCR #5131
Sewerage Sector      designs for the sewerage facilities in the          6/14/84
Casablanca-Mohammedia area.
Loan 1724-MOR        Expansion of bulk water production and        79   Completed
Second Water Supply  transmission facilities along the Mid-Atlantic      PAR #8725
Project              Coast, as well as for the Greater Agadir area and   6/08/90
funds for credit facilities to finance house
connections and related charges for low-income
customers.
Loan 2820-MOR        Rationalization of the complex set of institutional   87   Completed
Public Enterprise   relationships between the Government and its         PCR, 2/91
Rationalization Loan    enterprises to promote public enterprise financial
autonomy and accountability, enhance their
managerial autonomy, and rationalize the role of
the state in the economy.
Loan 2825-MOR        Rehabilitation of the existing installations to  87   Ongoing
National Water Supply  increase the quantity of water available for
Rehabilitation Project  distribution and reduce operating costs, and
improvement of overall sector management and
investment planning through the creation of a
Higher Water Council and a sector investment
coordinating committee, and the enforcement of a
water code.
Loan 2826-MOR        Prevention of further deterioration of the existing    87   Ongoing
Greater Casablanca    sewer systems in the Greater Casablanca area
Sewerage Project     through an extensive rehabilitation program, and
promotion of the establishment and development
of appropriate institutional, financial, and
technical structures to manage sewerage services
in major urban centers.



- 69 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Planned      Revised     Actual
Identification                                     06/79
Preparation Beginning                              08/79
Preparation End           10/80                    11/80
Pre-appraisal Mission     09/80                    10/80
Appraisal Mission         09/80                    11/80
Loan Negotiations         03/81                    04/81
Board Approval            05/81                  05/28/81
Loan Signature                                   09/28/81
Loan Effectiveness      10/31/81                 03/15/82
Loan Closing            12/31/86     12/31/87    12/31/89
12/31/88
Project Completion      12/31/85     12/31/86    04/30/90
12/31/88
09/30/89



- 70 -
Table 3: Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(USD millions)
Actual
Original                 vs.
Quarter    Estimate    Actual    Estimated
Dec. 1981                                    l
Jun. 1982        0.4         -         -
Dec. 1982        6.4         0.8       13%
Jun. 1983       15.2         4.3      28%
FY84
Dec. 1983       27.6         7.8       28%
Jun. 1984       41.1        11.4       28%
IFY85
Dec. 1984       53.8        14.9       28%
Jun. 1985       76.2        19.4       29%
EY-M
Dec. 1985       79.3        23.3       29%
Jun. 1986       85.7        27.6       32%
FY 87
Dec. 1986       87.0        30.5      35%
Jun. 1987                   34.3      39%
Dec. 1987                   40.6      47%
Jun. 1988                   46.9      54%
Dec. 1988                   51.3      59%
Jun. 1989                   58.4      67%
Dec. 1989                   63.2      73%
Jun. 1990                   78.0      90%



Table 4: Project CostQ
(USD milion)
APPRAISAL                      ACTUAL                     .
____________________Local    Foreign               otal   fLocal : -Foreign     Total   - a iatio tna
Une of Credit and
Regional water supply systems  54.06    28.91     82.97     39.39     19.98     59.37    (23.60) 72%
Equipment and materials         1.93     2.25      4.19      4.52      5.75     10.27      6.08 245%
Water resource development      2.85      3.57      6.42     2.10      2.63      4.73    (1.69) 74%
Consulting services, technical
assistance and studies        0.24      9.70      9.94      0.00     3.84       3.84    (6.10) 39%
Fund for house connections                                                       5
(a) ONEP                   2.38      4.42      6.80      1.59      3.70      5.29    (1.51) 78%
(b) Regies                20.54     38.15     58.69     11.54     42.10     53.64     (5.05) 91%
TOTAL                        82.00     87.00    169.00     59.13    78.00         3      317 7



Table 5: Project Financing
(USD milion)
APPRAISAL                         ____ ACTUAL
v : ; :-:-- - :: ----vern-Gove::rn:::--::----:-.:::
- ONE :     FEC: --::  :-k               :  N-P :- -- -  .n-
Lne of Credit and
Regional water supply systems     6.58                47.48     28.91       6.58               32.81    19.98
Equipment and materials           1.93                           2.25       0.85                3.67     5.75
Water resource development                             2.85      3.57                           2.10     2.63
Consulting services, technical
assistance and studies                               0.24      9.70                                    3.84
Fund for house connections
(a) ONEP                     2.38                            4.42       1.59                        3.70
(b) Regies                             20.54                38.15                11.54             42.10
Total               : -:10.8                                    9         11       3



Table 6: Status of Compliance with Covenants
Page I of 2
jLoanlProject
Agreement             _
Reference                       Description                                                  Status of Compliance
LA 3.02 (a)     Completion of Water Supply Sector Study, by April 1982.   Deferred to the ongoing National Water Supply Rehabilitation Project
and tariff study updated under the Public Enterprise Rationalization
Loan.
LA 3.02 (a)     Completion of Water Resource Development Studies in    Complied with in December 1984.
coastal area, by December 1983.
LA 3.02 (a)     Completion of Rural Water Supply Study, by June 1983.  Complied with in June 1985.
LA 303 (a)      Employment of consultants by ONEP for studies of rurl  Complied with in January 1983.
water supply systems, by December 1982.
LA 303 (b)      Initiation of recommendations of sector study, by June 1983. New tariff study carried out under Public Enterprise Rationalization
Loan.
LA 305 (a)      Progress reports on the house connection program, water  Enforcement deferred to the ongoing National Water Supply
resource development, and studies.                     Rehabilitation Project.
LA 307          Agreements between ONEP and the Govemment for two      Complied with in June 1986.
regional water supply systems, by December 1982.
LA 4            Certification of financial comptroller of appropriate use of    Complied with in December 1987.
loan proceeds, by December 1987.
Amendment to   Opening of special account, by March 1987.              Special Account was never opened.
LA 202
SL 3            Provision of funds for Rurl Water Systems Study, by    Complied with in December 1987.
December 1986.



Table 6: Status of Compliance with Covenants
Page 2 of 2
Loan/Project
Agreement
Reference                       Description                                                  Status of Compliance
PA 202 (a)      Employment of consultants for final design and bid     Complied with in September 1982.
documents, by September 1982.
PA 202 (a)      Employment of experts for strengthening performance, by    Complied with in December 1982.
September 1982.
PA 203 (a)      Employment of consultants by ONEP for studies of rural  Complied with in February 1982.
water supply systems, by January 1982.
PA 204          Agreements between ONEP and the Government for two     Complied with in June 1986.
regional water supply systems, by December 1982
PA 207 (b)      Quarterly progress reports submitted by ONEP, beginning in  Complied with.
June 1988.
PA 305 (a)      Employment of experts by ONEP for inventory of assets, by  Complied with in June 1986.
September 1982.
PA 403          Establishment of a list of appropriate indicators to monitor   Complied with in January 1982.
operating efficiency, by October 1981.
PA 404 (a)      ONEP working ratio not exceeding 66%, by December 1987. Complied with in December 1984.
PA 404 (c)      Preparation of forecast of revenues and operating cost for    Complied with in October 1987.
reviewing adequacy of tariffs, by October 1987.
PA 405          Debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3.           Complied with.



- 75 -
Table 7: Missions
Slat.            '                      le S" ciali'"tio:                  ... .  -
Cycle  Year  ... Staff   Field~ ~~ Represented              Ratin,s ..........
Identification  07/79       2       10         Sanitary engineer
Preparation     10/79       4       21         Financial analyst
Sanitary engineer
Economist
05/80       3      20         Sanitary engineer
Financial analyst
Economist
Pre-Appraisal    09/80      2       24         Sanitary engineer
Financial analyst
Appraisal       11/80       5       17         Sanitary engineer
Loan officer
Financial analyst
Economist
09/81       1       12        Sanitary engineer
Supervision     01/82       2        4         Sanitary engineer
Financial analyst
06/82       2       4         Sanitary engineer       1
Financial analyst      1
11/82      2       14         Sanitary engineer
Financial analyst      1
02/83       2       5         Sanitary engineer
Financial analyst      2         Financial
06/83       2       5         Sanitary engineer                 Managerial
Financial analyst      2         Financial
11/83       1      14         Financial analyst                 Managerial
03/84       3      24         Sanitary engineer       2         Financial
Financial analyst                Managerial
Procurement engineer    2        Financial
09/84       3       18        Sanitary engineer       2         Financial
Financial analyst                Managerial
Procurement engineer
04/85       2       17        Sanitary engineer       2         Managerial
Financial analyst
04/86       3       14        Sanitary engineer
Financial analyst      2         Financial
Economist                        Managerial
12/86      2       14         Sanitary engineer       1         Financial
Financial analyst                Managerial
10/87       3      14         Sanitary engineer
Financial analyst      1
03/88       1       25        Sanitary engineer
08/88       2       17        Sanitary engineer       1
Financial analyst
10/88      2       17         Sanitary engineer      2
Financial analyst      2         Financil
06/89       1       17        Sanitary engineer
11/89      2       14         Sanitary engineer      2          Financial
Financial analyst
05/90       2      21         Sanitary engineer       2         Financial
Financial analyst
Completion      11/91       1       14         Sanitary engineer      2         Financial
1/    1 - Problem free or minor problems.
2 - Moderate problems.
3 - major problem; which are being addressed.
4 - Major problems; which are not being addressed.



- 76 -
Table 8: Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
Loan
Preparation Appraisal Negotiations Processing Supervision  PCR -T:-.
To FY 83    47.7    38.2        10.6      13.3      26.2            136.0
FY 84                                             17.7              17.7
FY 85                                             14.2              14.2
FY 86                                              8.2               8.2
FY 87                                             18.7              18.7
FY 88                                             12.7              12.7
FY 89                                             10.2              10.2
FY 90                                              7.4               7.4
FY 91                                                                0.0
FY 92                                                        0.8     0.8
FY 93                                                        3.8     3.8
Total    - - --47.7    382     10.6      13.3     115-.3  - 4.6   229.7






MAP SECTION






I D kATE ROUO- PhSAWk GCNLWThR-                                                        ~L~~                                AU
Luff  YSItMIs.. ID 1M9 . ~ATLANTIC OCEAN                                            /UDA
A   ~9                           X,.  .-
-,V
VI   EGCO:% "PIO  3O4DARIES'J~, 2.                                                         KEI                   K-
Ai1~~~~~~~AOOn,. ftIYEAA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o..
P!FRA      CI IT                                                             CASAB[ANCA4d.S-1-       N
RAESTiNATIONAL CAMTYAI"
-.-INTrERNATIONAL BOUNDARtY  a-  Ah
SET7ATO             hU.6
0.                               ~~~~O-WoI,o\                      I              o
-~~~                                                                                                                 A~~~OXE,  BOUND,ARYGuo
~~,           fN<.-~~-AMAK AKECH            7
Au'R  ~~ ESSAUR
1-d TI.
~~:4~~~                           *TAT,~~~~~~ ~~   BOUNDARY                              ~
~~~ZNiT ~    ~        TAA ~
MMJR  93



