Document of
The World Bank                               Vt
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3339a-MOR
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
oF THE
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
May 6, 1981
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 14, 1980)
Currency Unit    - Moroccan Dirham (DH) - 100 centimes
US$1.00           - DH 4.20
DH                - US$0.24
DH 1,000,000      - US$238,095
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)              - 0.04 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                    - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               - 0.62 miles (mi)
1 square meter (m2)            - 10.8 square feet (sq. ft.)
1 hectare (ha) (10,000 m2)   - 2.47 acres (ac)
1 square kilometer (km2)       - 0.386 square miles (sq. mil)
1 liter (1)                    - 0.264 US gallons (gal)
1 cubic meter (m3)             - 35.3 cubic feet (cu ft.) - 264 US gallons (gal)
1 cubic kilometer (km3)        - 264,000 million US gallons
1 cubic meter per
second (m3/sec.)            - 22.8 million US gallons per day (Mgd) or
35.4 cubic feet per second (cusecs)
liters per capita
per day (lpcd)               - 0.264 US gallons per capita per day
liters per second
(1/sec.)                    - 15.8 US gallons per minute
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AfDB   - African Development Bank
EC     - European Community
FEC    - Fonds d'Equipement Communal
KfW    - Kreditanstalt f 1r Wiederaufbau
ONEP   - Office National de l'Eau Potable
RAD    - Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et
d'Electricite de Casablanca
RADEEF - Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Fez
RADEEM - Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Meknes
RADEEMA- Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Marrakech
RADEEO - Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite d'Oujda
RADEES - Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et
d'Electricite de Safi
RADEETA- Regie Autonome de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite de Taza
RAID   - Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite
de la Province de Tanger
RAK    - Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite
de Kenitra
RDE    - Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite
de Tetouan
RED    - Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite
de Rabat-Salé
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   TEE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR ....         ...............  1
General  ................................................    1
Sector Organization ....................................  2
Sewerage Sub-sector .................................... 3
Service Levels .........................................   3
Sector Program and Priorities .......      ...................  4
Previous Bank Loans ....................................  4
Bank's Objective for the Sector ......       ..................  5
II.    THIE BENEFICIARIES ......................................  5
The Office Nationale de l'Eau Potable (ONEP).                 5
Background.                                                   5
Organization and Management.                                  6
Personnel and Training.                                       7
Accounting System.                                            7
Billing and Collection.                                       8
Taxes.                                                        9
Audit and Insurance.                                          9
Low Income Population - House Connection Component .         10
III. THE PROJECT.                                                    11
Project's Objectives .Il
Scope of the Project                    .l
Cost Estimates .15
Project Implementation .17
The House Connection Component .17
ONEP - Sector Loan Component .18
ONEP - Regional Water Supply Systems .                       20
Studies and Water Resources Development .21
Land Acquisition .22
Work on Force Account .22
Procurement .23
Disbursements .24
Monitoring System .26
This report was prepared and written by Messrs. Johanngeorg Renkewitz and
Johan van Beuzekom.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)                                        Page No.
IV.  FINANCE ................................................        27
Financing  Plan   .........................................     27
House Connection Program - Regies ......................        28
Water Resource Development - Study for Rural Systems ...        30
ONEP   ...................................................      30
Financing of ONEP's Project Components ....     .............   30
ONEP's Past and Present Position .......................        31
Tariff - Cost Recovery .................................        32
ONEP's Future Finances .................................        34
V.   ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS ...........................        36
Least Cost Solution ....................................        36
Institution Building ...................................        37
Environmental and Health Aspects .......................        37
Benefits to the Population .............................        38
Impact on Poverty ......................................        39
Risks .    ..................................................   39
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....      .............  40
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex No.
1.   Fund for House Connections of Low Income Customers
2.    Statement of Expenditures
3.    Sub-projects in Sector Loan Component
4.    Selection Criteria and List of Documents to be Prepared for
Sub-projects in the Sector Loan Component
5.   Water Resource Development - List of Centers
6.    Project Costs and Annual Investments
7.    Project Implementation Schedule
8.    ONEP - Organizational Structure
9.    ONEP's Financial Statements, 1978-1987:  Income Statements, Cash
Flow and Balance Sheets.
10.    Monitoring Indicators
il     Selected Documents and Data in the Implementation Volume
12.    Selected Documents and Data in Project File.
MAPS
Map No.
IBRD 15497R Water Supply Systems in Project Area
IBRD 15570R ONEP Centers
IBRD 15498   Errachidia - Erfoud Regional Water Supply Project
IBRD 15499   Karia Ba Mohamed Regional Water Supply Project



CHAPTER I
THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
General
1.01     By the end of 1980, Morocco's population was approximately 20
million, with about 9.3 million or 47% living in the urban areas, which
ranks Morocco as one of Africa's most urbanized nations.  Most of the urban
population is concentrated in the six major cities: Casablanca with
3,000,000 inhabitants, Rabat-Salé with 800,000, Marrakech with 438,000, Fez
with 459,000, Meknes with 335,000, and Tanger with 286,000.  More than 30%
of this population segment live in shantytowns (bidonvilles) at incomes
well below the 1980 urban poverty threshold of DH 770 (US$183) per family
per month.
1.02     Overall growth of population has been at 3% per annum for the last
five years, and is expected to decrease to 2.6% per annum over the next ten
years. Whereas the rural population increased in the past at approximately
1.8% annually, the urban population grew at about 4.8% annually. Migration
to urban areas from rural areas with limited employment opportunities is
the major reason for this disparity. The pace of urbanization as expressed
by the differential between the two growth rates is rather high, and is
expected to continue for some time. In the past the growth of the urban
population was concentrated in the large agglomerations along the Atlantic
Coast, and it is now increasingly affecting the mid-sized cities. These
cities have experienced a higher than average growth rate for all urban
areas. Migration from the rural areas to the cities brought about housing
shortages and has been increasingly directed into ever expanding shanty-
towns and other densely populated and poorly serviced districts.
1.03     Water is scarce in Morocco.  6% of the exploited resources are
used for domestic and industrial purposes and 94% for agriculture. The
overall national water balance is relatively well known, but much remains
to be done to determine the regional water balances.
1.04     Most of the potable water supplied to settlements up to medium-
sized cities is groundwater. However, as existing sources become exhausted
or deteriorate in quality through intrusion of salt water near the sea, or
as a result of over exploitation, the additional water needed to supply the
larger cities is surface water brought from great distances, requiring
storage basins, treatment and large transmission pipelines. The physical,
chemical and bacteriological quality of drinking water supplied in most of
Morocco's urban areas is acceptable. However, this is not the case in most
of the rural areas where groundwater is often contaminated through
unsanitary domestic waste disposal.



-2-
Sector Organization
1.05     The study and development of water resources is the responsibility
of the Hydraulic Department of the Ministry of Equipment. This department
is also in charge of the operation, maintenance and control of all major
dams. It participates in the allocation of the water resources amongst
various consumers, which is finalized by a special commission in the Prime
Minister's Office.
1.06     Production and distribution of potable water are assured by dif-
ferent agencies depending on whether the demand is in urban, semi-rural or
rural areas. These agencies depend on, or are under the tutelage of,
either the Ministry of Equipment, the Ministry of Interior, or the Ministry
of Agriculture. The most prominent is the Office National de l'Eau Potable
(ONEP), the agency which is under the tutelage of the Ministry of Equipment
responsible for development, production and transmission of water to the
urban centers. The Government established ONEP to have a competent insti-
tution that would ensure production of water of acceptable quality to meet
basic needs and that would initiate development of water services including
distribution in those smaller towns where financially self-sufficient
régies could not yet be created. Sixteen independent municipal enterprises
(regies) assure water distribution in 27 urban agglomerations that comprise
more than 75% of the urban and semi-rural population (about 7.2 million in
1980). Water distribution for the remaining urban population is generally
assured by ONEP and occasionally by a municipal water service.
1.07     In the administratively chartered semi-rural centers, with about
1.5 million inhabitants (1980), water services are operated by ONEP acting
for the Ministry of Equipment.  The "Direction de l'Amenagement et de
l'Equipement Rural" of the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for the
unchartered rural centers with a population of about 10.7 million. Funds
to cover the capital costs of the investment program for works carried out
in these rural centers are included in the budget of the Ministry of Agri-
culture. Operation of these systems is assured by the communes which are
also in charge of their maintenance and can call upon the technical service
at the provincial level for assistance. This arrangement though adequately
conceived needs strengthening to ensure that these rural systems are
properly designed, operated and maintained, which would also ensure that
bacteriological contamination is avoided.
1.08     This division of responsibilities could be thought of as restric-
tive to a proper management and development of the sector. However, a
continuous dialogue and cooperation between the concerned agencies ensure
that solutions are being sought and no hindrance to the development takes
place. The Government is taking the necessary steps to ensure that ONEP
will in future concentrate more on the development and production of pot-
able water while through the creation of new regies or the extension of the
service areas of existing ones the distribution systems will be further
extended.



-3-
Sewerage Sub-sector
1.09     Sewerage exists in all of the medium-sized and large cities.  As
the systems have not been extended to keep up with the rapid growth of the
population and industry, they are presently insufficient. In the coastal
communities, most of the collection systems discharge at the shoreline,
causing serious bacteriological contamination of the coastal waters and
pollution of the beaches which in some cities has already led to occasional
closing of bathing beaches and restriction of fishing in the surf zone.
1.10     Sewage collection and disposal is presently assured by municipal
services. A special commission within the "Direction des Collectivités
Locales" of the Ministry of Interior is in charge of supervising studies
for the construction and operation of sewerage including treatment.
Studies for a number of urban areas are presently under preparation. In
the past lack of adequate institutions resulted in a shortage of trained
staff. The Moroccan Government has recognized this deficiency and is now
taking measures to ensure that future sewerage operations will be entrusted
to the regies presently in charge of water and electricity distribution.
Service Levels
1.11     Many urban or village water supply systems date back to the Middle
Ages. These systems were replaced by modern installations during the first
half of this century. The existing systems are, however, becoming insuffi-
cient to meet the requirements brought about by increased urbanization and
industrial activities. Water production systems have presently reached
their full operating capacity in about 60% of the larger cities (those
exceeding 100,000 inhabitants), in about 62% of the medium-sized cities
(between 15,000 and 100,000 inhabitants), in about 58% of the smaller
cities (below 15,000 inhabitants) and in about 70% of the rural centers;
they will have to be expanded accordingly.
1.12     Today, all of the urban population has at least limited access to
piped water, but only about 45% is supplied through house connections. The
remainder draws water at public standpipes, mosques or neighbors. The
access in parts of the shantytowns is sometimes insufficient as often more
than 2,000 consumers use a multiple faucet standpipe and walking distances
to these standpipes can exceed 500 meters. In the rural areas about 25% of
the population has access to safe public water supply; 5% of the population
has house connections, an additional 10% has access to public standpipes
and another 10% draws water from public wells. The remaining 75% of this
population depends on traditional sources, private wells or rainwater
storage tanks, which often pose considerable health hazards due to
bacteriological contamination.
1.13     Whereas the number of households connected to the water distribu-
tion system in the urban areas over the last five years has increased with
the growth of the urban population, the service level has not increased
substantially. In order to improve the service level, the Second Water



- 4 -
Supply Project (Loan 1724-MOR) included credit facilities for low income
customers of the regies of Casablanca, Rabat-Salé and Kenitra for financing
the cost of individual house connections and related charges. The response
to this operation has been so enthusiastic that the proposed project fore-
sees to extend this operation to eight other regies and ONEP. As a result,
the percentage of the population connected to the water distribution system
is expected to increase in these areas affected by the project from pre-
sently 45% to 65% by 1985 and to 75% by 1990.
Sector Program and Priorities
1.14     High capital and operating costs of water systems made it neces-
sary for the Government to set priorities in view of limited funds.  The
first priority was therefore accorded to the densely populated areas where
limited financial resources benefit a maximum of the population. The
Government is now increasingly directing its efforts to the medium-sized
cities and agglomerated villages. Improvements of the water supply systems
in the sparsely populated areas are more difficult to achieve because of
the higher per capita cost of serving these areas and difficulties in
organizing operation and maintenance which have to date precluded a major
impact on access to safe water from public facilities for some 10,000 ham-
lets scattered around the country. A pilot project has been formulated and
is expected to be financed by bilateral agencies.
1.15     A recent assessment of the investments for meeting basic water
supply and sewerage needs showed that these would require for alternative
service levels between 1.5% and 0.6% of GNP, or between 7.5% and 3% of the
gross fixed investments. The high service level foresees that by the year
2000, 75% of the urban population would be connected to the water distribu-
tion and sewage collection systems and that the remaining 25% of the urban
population and 75% of the rural population would be served by standpipes.
This would require yearly investments of about DH 650 million. The lower
service level would accommodate the increases in population at existing
insufficient service levels and would represent average yearly investments
of DH 320 million in the next five years.
Previous Bank Loans
1.16     The Bank is playing an active role in the sector development and
has so far extended three loans to the sector. Loan 850-MOR for US$48
million was approved in 1972, became effective in May 1973 and was fully
disbursed in June 1980. The project has achieved its objectives and has
been instrumental in creating with ONEP a competent institution in the
field of potable water production in Morocco. The project provided financ-
ing of the first phase construction program of water storage, production
and transmission facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast, as well as for
ONEP's training center and a nationwide tariff study. Operation of the
training center will have a long lasting impact on ONEP's future develop-
ment. Also, the tariff structure that was adopted by the Government on
the basis of the tariff study will through recognition of the underlying



- 5 -
principles foster the future development of the sector as a whole. The
second loan (S-7 MOR) of US$1.5 million (Board presentation in August 1977)
provides the foreign exchange for the preparation of a feasibility study,
including preliminary designs for the sewerage facilities of the
Casablanca-Mohammedia area. The third loan (1724-MOR) (Board presentation
in July 1979) includes the expansion of bulk water production and trans-
mission facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast, as well as for the Greater
Agadir Area and funds for credit facilities to finance house connection and
related charges of the low income customers of the water distributing
regies of Casablanca, Rabat-Salé and Kenitra. Implementation of the
components is progressing satisfactory after initial delays.
Bank's Objective for the Sector
1.17     The Bank's sector lending strategy is essentially geared towards
assisting tlhe Government in resolving major sector issues and in shaping a
strong institutional framework, which will effectively contribute to the
country's overall development process. The Bank's involvement in the
sector has shifted its emphasis from providing water to the economic growth
centers of the country to assisting the country in improving the access of
the low income population to the water distribution system through
individual house connections, and in ameliorating the construction and
operation of water supply systems in semi-rural and rural areas where more
than 50% of the total population lives. The Bank's objective in the
sewerage sub-sector is to assist the Government in creating competent and
financially viable institutions that would develop this sub-sector through
use of appropriate technologies for sewage collection, treatment and
disposal.
CHAPTER II
THE BENEFICIARIES
2.01     The main beneficiaries of the proposed project would be ONEP and
the low income population not yet connected to the water distribution
system in the area served by ONEP and the water distributing regies of
Casablanca (RAD), Fez (RADEEF), Marrakech (RADEEMA), Meknes (RADEEM),
Tetouan (RDE), Safi (RADEES), Oujda (RADEEO), Tanger (RAID), Rabat-Salé
(RED), Taza (RADEETA), and Kenitra (RAK) as well as of those regies
recently created.
The Office National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP)
Background
2.02     ONEP was established in 1972 by replacing the "Regie des Exploita-
tions Industrielles" (REI) previously in charge of bulk water production,
in order to build up the managerial, technical and financial resources for



-6-
that part of the water supply sector responsible for water production.
ONEP is owned by the Government and is under the tutelage of the Ministry
of Equipment. It has the status of an autonomous public enterprise but is
managed in accordance with principles applicable to a commercial under-
taking. ONEP is the borrower of one previous Bank loan (Loan 850-MOR), and
the beneficiary of a second loan, made to the Government (Loan 1724-MOR).
2.03     The objectives for establishing ONEP have been met.  ONEP has
today a well experienced staff in the technical fields, partly a result of
scholarships and implementation of its own training program. Some
strengthening is still needed in parts of ONEP's financial operations and
in its management information system.
2.04     ONEP gained over the years in strength.  Water sales increased
from 66.4 million m3 in 1972 to 204.7 million m3-in 1980 and are
expected to reach 525 million m3 by 1987. Water production facilities
existing at the time of its creation were, except for those on the Mid-
Atlantic Coast, not transferred to ONEP but remained with the regies or
municipalities. As a result ONEP met in its earlier years only peak water
demand out of expensive new sources whilst the base demand was satisfied by
the distributing regies out of the original less expensive sources. Growth
of the population and hence the ever-increasing water demand is gradually
reducing the relative importance of the regies own sources.
Organization and Management
2.05     A board of 20 members supervises ONEP's activities.  Represented
in the board are delegates from ministries and government agencies as well
as ONEP's customers in the persons of the presidents of the seven regional
assemblies and by two directors of water distributing regies. A technical
committee composed of four board members follows up on the board's deci-
sions. The overall control exercised by the Government covers major
decisions such as approval of major investments, operating budgets, borrow-
ings, tariff levels, code of employment and major procurement but does not
affect ONEP's operational autonomy.
2.06     ONEP's general manager is appointed by the King and is responsible
for day-to-day operations. The existing organizational structure was
developed by consultants under the First Water Supply Project (Loan
850-MOR) and implemented in 1978 after approval by ONEP and the Ministry of
Equipment (Annex 8). This structure responds to ONEP's operation which is
scattered around the country. ONEP's operations are adequately managed.
2.07     Like all other public enterprises in Morocco, ONEP is subject to
the control exercised by the financial controller and the accounting
agent. These are "a priori" controls which ensure that adequate funds are
available when entering into commitments and when making payments.
Although these controls could be thought of as restricting excessively the
financial autonomy of ONEP, in practice, this has not been the case, and
has not caused undue delays in ONEP's transactions. Whereas the financial



- 7 -
controller is responsible for a group of enterprises or agencies, the
accounting agent is assigned to one enterprise. The financial controller
attends meetings of the board, and those of its technical committee in an
advisory capacity.  All purchases exceeding DE 50,000 as well as all real
estate transactions and awards of contracts are subject to his approval.
The accounting agent, who is appointed by the Minister of Finance, but
reports to ONEP's general manager, is responsible for all payments and has
to ensure that payments are made only within approved budgets and available
funds.
Personnel and Training
2.08     ONEP's salary structure, though somewhat lower than that of the
private sector, is adequate when considering the whole compensation package
designed to attract qualified personnel interested in the career prospects
of a fast-growing organization. From a staff of some 1,300 employed in its
water activities in 1972, ONEP's staff has increased to 2,733 at the end of
1980, out of which 135 were in senior positions. In 1972, ONEP relied
heavily on expatriate staff when about 51 expatriates were employed, a fair
number in senior positions. This has changed considerably, as now only 12
expatriates are employed in professional positions.
2.09     Faced with a shortage of skilled operators and workers capable of
being promoted to a foreman position, ONEP has within the scope of the
First Water Supply Project (Loan 850-MOR) established a training center
that offers one to two years training courses for mechanics, treatment
plant operators and equipment specialists. By 1982, when the training
program will be completely implemented, 120 students should graduate every
year. In order to acquaint newly recruited staff members with the job
requirements, ONEP organizes each year several three months familiarization
courses. However, similar good recruitment results were not always real-
ized in the accounting and finance departments.
Accounting System
2.10     ONEP's accounts are kept on an accrual basis.  Bookkeeping trans-
actions are gradually being transferred to its computer system. Due to the
volume of the postings and the extension of ONEP's services over the whole
country, delays have, in the past, been unavoidable in closing the accounts
at the end of the fiscal years.
2.11     As envisaged in the First Water Supply Project (Loan 850-MOR),
ONEP retained the services of management consultants who developed a new
accounting system, including billing, cost accounting, cash flow forecast-
illg, budget{ng and inventory controls. When finally implemented, this
system should overcome the deficiencies that existed in the past, and
should also provide the data needed for management.
2v12    hinplemenitation of the new accounting system as developed by the
nglts-tc   preved to be more difficult than originally anticipated.  ONEP



- 8 -
has according to existing agreements continued the employment of consul-
tants to assist in implementing this system. Although a considerable part
of this system's various components, in particular the computer applica-
tions, have been implemented, quite some work still remains to be done.
2.13     Instead of continuing the employment of consultants, ONEP has
decided to retain, in future, the services of three experts specialized in
managing public utilities. ONEP expects that the advice to be given by
these experts would provide a better training opportunity to its staff.
It is foreseen that one expert would be attached to the deputy general
manager's office.  This expert would concentrate on the implementation of
the management information system. The second expert, who would be
attached to the office of the Director of Finance, would assist in the
implementation of the cost accounting system. The third expert would
assist in improving the operations of ONEP's water production and distri-
bution systems. Assurances were obtained from ONEP during negotiations
that it will employ, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, these
public utilities experts, by November 30, 1981, at the latest.
Billing and Collection
2.14     ONEP bills the regies every month for the volume of water con-
sumed. All other customers are billed quarterly for the volume of water
consumed and for a fixed fee covering meter rent and maintenance of connec-
tion. Bills are considered overdue after 45 days. Modifications are
presently being implemented which foresee billing of individual customers
on a rotating basis every three months and which would reduce the payment
period to 30 days.
2.15     Collection from individual customers has been good partly because
of the possibility of water cut-off, and partly because of collection
through the judicial system. Collection from government agencies, some
regies and municipalities had, however, over the years deteriorated. The
Government settled with ONEP all arrears due for water purchases incurred
prior to June 1, 1978, by its agencies, the regies of Marrakech and Safi,
and the municipality of Sale. ONEP is now collecting on behalf of the
Government all those overdue water bills.
2.16     In accordance with existing procedures, funds for the payment of
water charges covering the water consumption of government agencies between
June 1 and May 31 of each subsequent year are included in the operational
budget of the following year. In previous loan agreements the Government
agreed to cause its agencies, the regies and municipalities to make payment
to water distributing agencies including ONEP, within 120 days. These
agreements are restated in the loan agreement. While ONEP has experienced
an improvement in the payment of water bills by government agencies in the
past two years this situation could deteriorate in the future. The Govern-
ment has therefore instituted a special interministerial commission that
has as one of its tasks, to propose amendments to present legislation
regulating payment of bills for services rendered to its agencies and to



lay down principles and safeguards to ensure prompt payment in the future.
The report of this commission has so far not been finalized as the problem
of settling bills for services rendered affect all government agencies and
include all categories of services the Government is contracting.
Taxes
2.17     All water sales are subject to a 6.38% sales tax.  In addition, a
11.25% tax for services rendered is levied on the flat charges for meter
rental, maintenance of house connection, and the labor component of the
cost of house connections. ONEP is not liable for income taxes, but has to
pay the sales taxes included in its purchases and acquisitions.  The rates
vary between 4.17% and 15% according to the nature of the goods procured
and average at about 11.25% for goods and services procured for carrying
out ONEP's investment program. A tax credit against the water sales tax is
earned by ONEP for taxes levied on energy, fuel and chemicals which are
consumed in the production of water. A similar provision exists in
principle for the recuperation of taxes included in capital goods procured
only for the production of water. This tax credit can however be claimed
only once the works are commissioned, and is in general limited by the
annual amount of taxes collected on water sales and related services in the
year of commissioning.
Audit and Insurance
2.18     The existing agreement between ONEP and the Bank provides for the
external audit of ONEP by independent auditors. The agreement foresees
that the audited financial statements be submitted to the Bank within six
months after the close of the financial year. This has been restated in
the proposed project agreement.
2.19     The quality of the audit performed by independent auditors has
been adequate. So far, ONEP's accounts have not been certified due to
numerous adjustments that have to be made in view of the present book-
keeping system and because titles for a considerable part of ONEP's assets
relating to its operation in the country's interior still have to be estab-
lished.
2.20     Establishing of titles is time consuming; and ONEP has in com-
pliance with existing covenants initiated a program to take inventory of
all its assets which will enable it to take all action necessary to estab-
lish legal title to its assets. In order to expedite this task, ONEP has
decided to retain the assistance of specialists. An agreement was there-
fore reached with ONEP during negotiations that it would retain the
services of specialists, by latest November 30, 1981, for assisting in
taking inventory of its assets. Agreement was further reached with ONEP
during negotiations that it will value or revalue its assets from time to
time in accordance with appropriate and consistently maintained methods of
valuation or revaluation acceptable to the Bank.



- 10 -
2.21     ONEP carries insurance adequately covering the risks of a public
utility. The policies are with a Moroccan insurance company and relate to
workman's compensation, and third party liability of its operations.
Low Income Population - House Connection Component
2.22     Approximately 30% of the 9.3 million urban inhabitants live at
monthly family income levels at or below the urban poverty threshold of
DH 770 (US$183). About two-thirds (1.9 million) live in shantytowns and
the other third (0.9 million) in densely populated districts in the
medinas. The low income population including the urban poor that live in
areas where the eleven regies (para. 2.01) as well as ONEP provide water
services would benefit from the house connection component. The population
in these areas is expected to grow in the twelve agglomerations served by
the eleven regies from 6.35 million in 1979 to 8.27 million by 1985
representing an annual growth of 4.4% and in the 81 centers where ONEP
provides water distribution services from 1.29 million in 1979 to 1.64
million by 1985.
2.23     Installation of house connections is possible in the medinas and
other densely populated districts. Most of the houses there formed
previously the shantytowns and have over the years been upgraded through
self help into permanent structures. The pace of rendering the dwelling in
the shantytowns into permanent structures has increased over the years.
Although, most of these dwellings lack formal legal status, the Govern-
ment has accepted their existence and is now encouraging the installation
of public services, such as electricity, water and sewers. As the struc-
tures in these ares become more permanent, water distribution systems are
being installed and the service by public water taps is gradually phased
out. This in turn enables the municipality to install and operate public
taps in those areas where the newly arrived migrants settle.
2.24     Installation of public taps poses no great difficulty.  However,
their operation can become difficult as the municipalities have to pay for
the water drawn which requires sufficient budgetary resources. The
proposed project would, through the house connection component, reduce the
quantity of water supplied through public taps and thus allow meeting the
cost of operating additional public taps in areas where the existing
service level by public taps is insufficient.
2.25     Given the delegation of part of the decision-making process to the
local level and the increasing involvement of elected representatives in
addressing themselves to improvements in basic services, there is every
reason to believe that these public taps will be installed. Furthermore,
the publicity for tne individual house connections will also draw the
attention to improvements of service level by public taps.  The involvement
of the elected representatives cannot be under estimated as experience has
demonstrated under the Second Water Supply Project (Loan 1724-MOR).



- il -
CHAPTER III
THE PROJECT
Project's Objectives
3.01     Ihe proposed project will assist the country in meeting a number
of priority objectives in the water supply sector. First, it will markedly
increase the access to safe water supply through individual house connec-
tions for up to now neglected segments of the population not only in the
major cities but also in those areas of the country that have not received
a fair share in the economic growth. Second, the construction and imple-
mentation of two regional water systems and of some 32 smaller water pro-
duction and distribution systems should not only improve service levels in
these areas, but also further improve ONEP's capacity in the planning,
evaluation, execution, operation and maintenance of smaller water systems
and deal with some institutional aspects. Third, providing training to the
heads of four regional water testing laboratories, as well as the
acquisition of necessary equipment, should provide the basis that adequate
water quality control will be exercised throughout the country. Fourth,
the technical assistance program to ONEP should enhance its operational and
manageriaL capabilities. Fifth, the water resource development should not
limit itself to the execution of the related works, but should lead in the
future to a well coordinated approach for establishing priorities and
funding for all water resource development. Sixth, linked to some degree
to the aforementioned objectives are the proposed studies. The study for
improvements in the sector should not only provide the basis for better
coordinated planning, but also review the sector organization and suggest
ways to overcome duplication of efforts by reviewing the investment deci-
sion process. The study related to rural water systems should address
itself to questions related to the identification and selection of projects
and should specify appropriate arrangements related to their implementa-
tion, operation and maintenance. The study for the third phase development
of water resources for meeting the future demand at the Mid-Atlantic Coast
from Kenitra to Safi would ensure that all alternatives are investigated
and would provide the basis for a rational investment decision.
3.02     Finally, it is expected that these components will further promote
the application of a rational tariff structure. This would ensure the
generation of funds necessary for future expansion of increasingly more
expensive water supply facilities while at the same time fostering an
economic use of increasingly scarce water resources.
Scope of the Project
3.03      The proposed project includes eight main elements:



- 12 -
(a) Improvements in the water distribution systems of the water
distributing regies of Casablanca (RAD), Fez (RADEEF), Marrakech
(RADEEMA), Tetouan (RDE), bafi (RADEES), Oujda (RADEEO), Tanger
(RAID), Meknes (RADEEM), Rabat-Salé (RED), Taza (RADEETA), Kenitra
(RAK), as well as of those regies recently established and agreed
upon and of ONEP by establishing, and increasing revolving funds
in the form of a rollover operation within each of these regies
and within ONEP to finance house connections and related
contributions towards the extension of the distribution system
payable by the low income population at the time of connection to
the system.
(b) Improvement and expansion of the water production, transmission
and primary distribution systems of about 32 centers where water
services are presently assured by ONEP.
(c) Karia Ba Mohamed Regional Water bupply: Construction of a
regional water supply system, including inter alia, a raw water
intake, lifting stations, treatment plant, reservoirs, water mains
and primary distribution network, as well as, power supply, tele-
communication facilities, and staff housing.
(d)  Errachidia-Erfoud Rissani Regional Water bupply:  Construction of
a regional water supply system, including inter alia, construction
and equipping of three boreholes with pumps and related equipment,
chlorination facilities, water mains, reservoirs, pumping
stations, distribution networks, power supply and telecommunica-
tions facilities as well as staff housing.
(e) Water Resource Development: Construction and equipment of bore-
holes and wells in about 24 centers for carrying out pumping tests
and determining the exploitable yield.
(f) Equipment: acquisition of laboratory and related equipment for
four water quality control laboratories, water meters, including
calibrated test meters, leak detection equipment and equipment
necessary for maintenance and surveys.
(g) Technical Assistance and Training: Technical assistance for
assisting ONEP in the design and calculation of distribution net-
works, preparation of final designs and bid documents, in setting
up a management information system including cost accounting, in
improving the operation of its water systems and in completing the
inventory of its assets, as well as training of laboratory staff
in appropriate water treatment and control techniques.
(h) Studies:
(i) a study on improvements in the organization of the water
supply sector;



- 13 -
(ii)  a study related to the identification, selection, design
operation and maintenance of water supply systems in rural
areas;
(iii)  a study including the updating and enlarging of a master
plan, drawn up previously for the Mid-Atlantic Coastal Zone
between Kenitra and Casablanca, and to be extended to the
year 2010 for meeting the water demand of the Mid-Atlantic
Coastal Zone from Safi to Kenitra, as well as, the prepara-
tion of final designs and bid documents for the first phase
construction program.
3.04     New customers of the water distributing regies and of ONEP have to
pay in advance not only the cost of installing the house connections, but
also pay a contribution to the expansion of the distributing system. The
cost of a single dwelling connection averaged in 1980 DH 840 (US$200), and
the contribution to the distribution system DH 1200 (US$285). This contri-
bution is assessed in proportion to the length of the facade (ONEP), or the
square root of the surface of the plot (regies). As the connection fee and
the contribution towards the extension of the distribution system usually
have to be paid in full before the connection is made, only a small number
of the low income group could in the past obtain an individual house con-
nection. The Second Water Supply Project (loan 1724-MOR) included funds
for the setting up of a revolving fund in the form of a rollover operation
for financing the installation of house connections for low income
customers of the water distributing regies of Casablanca, Rabat-Salé and
Kenitra. The response to this operation, which was envisaged as a pilot
operation, has been so overwhelming that the demand for the credit
facilities cannot be met by the funds provided for these cities. The
proposed project would cover the unsatisfied demand for installing house
connections within Lre enlarged areas of jurisdiction of the regies of
Casablanca, Rabat-Salé, and Kenitra. In addition, the proposed project
would set up similar revolving funds for eligible low income customers of
the areas served by the regies of Fez, Tanger, Meknes, Tetouan, Marrakech,
Taza, Oujda and Safi, as well as, for new customers of other regies
recently established and of ONEP living in those areas where ONEP is in
charge of distributing the water. Funds would be included under this
project component for the installation of about 110,000 house connections
for the regies, and an additional 37,650 for ONEP. This would altogether
improve tlhe service level of some 275,000 households and increase the
percentage of the population connected to the distribution systems from
presently 45% to about 65% by end 1985.
3.05     The sector loan component to ONEP for financing expansion and
improvement of water production and distribution systemns in about 32
smaller centers determines a line of credit that could automatically be drawn
upon by ONEP if five selection criteria are met (para. 3.25 and Annex 4).



- 14 -
3.06     The first of the two regional water supply systems is relatively
small and covers the town of Karia Ba Mohamed and some hamlets between the
town and the Sebou river. As no suitable groundwater is available, surface
water from the Sebou river remains the only available source. This water
has to be treated and slow sand filtration is indicated, in view of the
relatively small flow required. High level of turbidity during heavy
rainfalls will require additional presedimentation with occasional addition
of flocculants. The project component would provide for treatment of 20
1/sec of water abstracted from the Sebou river, a 5 km transmission main to
the distribution points and necessary storage facilities. It would improve
the water supply of a population of 7,300 which is expected to grow to
9,850 by 1990.
3.07     The scope of the second regional water supply system is much
larger and would benefit an existing population of 170,000 in an over 100
km long area of the Ziz valley between Errachidia and Erfoud and the
Tafilalet plain around Rissani. Approximately 75% of this population live
in rural areas. Yields of the present sources which supply the existing
water systems are very limited and fully utilized. The water, which is
provided to only a fraction of the population living in the project area,
is of bad quality (high salinity combined with serious contamination).
These sources would be replaced by the project as it is more economic to
increase the amount of water to be provided by the new sources by a small
fraction than to eliminate existing contamination by construction of sewer-
age. This project component would provide groundwater (332 1/sec) through
a 100 km long transmission main of a varying diameter to the distribution
points. Some 130,000 inhabitants that live in the rural areas will for the
first time be provided with safe water.
3.08     In order to ensure appropriate operation and maintenance, ONEP
will be in charge of the two regional systems, including their construc-
tion. ONEP is already operating the water systems in Errachidia, Erfoud,
and Karia Ba Mohamed. In future, ONEP will also provide water from the new
system that would supply Errachidia and Erfoud to the town of Rissani and
to the smaller rural centers and hamlets in the interlying areas. Con-
ventions and agreements which will be concluded between ONEP and the
administrative bodies of these centers are presently being drafted. They
outline the duties and rights of the parties, applicable water tariffs and
billing and collection procedures.
3.09     The experience to be gained from the implementation of these two
sub-projects, in particular the administrative arrangements that would
ensure proper operation and maintenance, should facilitate future Bank
projects for rural areas in Morocco. In order to ensure that the afore-
mentioned agreements become legally binding (para. 3.08) before the two
regional systems become operational, assurances were obtained at the time
of negotiations that the Government will ensure that these agreements be
concluded by December 31, 1982, at the latest.



- 15 -
3.10     In 24 centers where ONEP assures water services, water resources
are either fully exploited or will soon become fully exploited (see
Annex 5). The water resource development component of this project
provides for the "Direction de l'Hydraulique" of the Ministry of Equipment
to undertake the necessary prospections and test borings to confirm the
availability of groundwater and to determine the exploitable quantities for
these centers. The work to be carried out includes the construction of
boreholes and wells for future exploitation.
3.11     Acquisition of laboratory equipment for four regional laboratories
would enable ONEP to have the necessary equipment to control closely the
water quality in all regions of Morocco irrespective of its distance from
Rabat. Acc[uisition of technical and maintenance equipment and materials
would enable ONEP to carry out its studies and surveys more efficiently and
to ensure a proper maintenance of its installations and networks.
3.12     The technical assistance component would allow ONEP to engage five
experts to assist in the design of distribution networks, the preparation
of bid documents in the technical field, in establishing a management
information system as well as a cost accounting system and in improving the
operation of its water systems. At the same time, these experts would
further train local staff. Furthermore other specialists would assist ONEP
in establishing titles to its assets. The training component is primarily
designed to train the four future heads of the regional laboratories in
appropriat,s water testing and control procedures.
3.13     The proposed project would provide funding and the Banks' assist-
ance for the sector study that forms part of the Second Water Supply Proj-
ect (Loan 1724-MOR) without providing financing. The study for meeting the
future water demand in the Safi - Casablanca - Kenitra Coastal Zone will
investigate alternatives and should enable ONEP to plan and execute the
development program of the necessary sources in a timely manner. The study
of the rural water systems will be undertaken under the supervision of the
appropriate agency or services of the Borrower. This study would address
questions related to the identification, selection and design criteria of
projects as well as to their operation and maintenance. It would further
systemize the Government's approach and efforts in improving service levels
in the rural areas.
Cost Estimates
3.14     The total project cost is estimated at DH 709.81 million
(US$169.00 million) with a foreign exchange component of DH 365.40 million
(US$87 million) equal to 52% of the total cost. The estimated cost, which
are summarized below, are detailed in Annex 6.



- 16 -
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  % of
Item                     -----DH million------  -----US$ million-----  Total
Sector Loan               65.66   41.76  107.42  15.64    9.94   25.58   15.1
Regional Water Supply
Systems                69.25   39.89  109.14  16.48    9.50   25.98   15.4
Equipment and Materials  6.61    7.73   14.34   1.57    1.84    3.41    2.0
Water Resources
Development             11.99    9.80   21.79   2.86    2.33    5.19    3.1
Consulting Services,
Technical Assistance
and Studies            18.97   14.12   33.09   4.52    3.37    7.89    4.7
Base Cost                172.48  113.30  285.78  41.07   26.98   68.05   40.3
Physical Contingencies  14.67    9.11   23.78   3.49    2.17    5.66    3.3
Price Contingencies      40.06   25.35   65.41   9.54    6.03   15.57    9.2
Fund for House
Connections
(a)  ONEP              30.92   57.41   88.33   7.36   13.67   21.03   12.4
(b)  Regies            86.28  160.23  246.51  20.54   38.15   58.69   34.8
Total Project Cost       344.41  365.40  709.81  82.00   87.00  169.00  100.0
3.15     The cost estimates were prepared for the various components by
consultants, ONEP and the "Direction des Collectivités Locales" within the
Ministry of Interior, reviewed by and found acceptable to the appraisal
mission.  Equipment prices were determined by analyzing recent inter-
national and local bid awards in Morocco. Civil works estimates are in
line with construction price levels prevailing in Morocco. All cost esti-
mates have been adjusted to March 1981 price levels. Physical contingen-
cies for the Regional Water Supply Systems, the sub-projects in the sector
loan component and the development of water resources have been estimated
at 10%. Taking into account ONEP's familiarity with the areas covered by
the sub-projects, including the geographical, geological and topographical
conditions, these contingencies seem adequate. Customn duties and appli-
cable local taxes are included in the base costs and amount to DH 210
million (US$50 million). Provisions have been made for price escalation
for the period during which the project will be executed. Prices are
assumed to increase by 11% in 1981, by 9% in 1982 and by 8% annually
onwards. Both the Moroccan and international levels of inflation were
forecast to move in parallel.
3.16     The project provides for an estimated 520 man months of consulting
services to carry out the studies and to assist ONEP in the preparation of
final designs and bid documents and construction supervision. The esti-
mated cost of these services is DH 18.6 million (US$4.4 million) and
averages on a man months basis at DH 36,000 (US$8,500). In addition, the
project provides for an estimated twelve man years of experts as technical
assistance to ONEP estimated at DH 6.1 million (US$1.45 million) or
DH 42,000 (US$10,000) per man month.



- 17 -
Project Implementation
3.17     The various components would be implemented from 1981 through 1985
by different Government agencies. The house connection component would be
implemented by the regies and ONEP. ONEP would also be responsible for (i)
the sub-projects included in the sector loan component; (ii) the two
regional water supply systems; (iii) the training of staff of the water
quality testing laboratories and the acquisition of equipment for four
laboratores; (iv) the acquisition of maintenance and operational equipment
and materials; (v) the technical assistance component and the two studies
related to improvements in the organization of the sector and to the
updating and enlarging of the master plan for meeting the future water
demand along the Mid-Atlantic Coast from bafi to Kenitra. The "Direction
de l'Hydraulique" would be responsible for the water resource development
component of the project and an appropriate agency or services of the
Borrower for the rural water systems study. A project implementation
schedule covering all project activities bas been discussed with the
relevant authorities and is attached as Annex 7. This schedule was agreed
upon during negotiations.
The House Connection Component
3.18     Revolving funds in the form of a rollover operation to finance
house connections of future low income customers of the eleven water dis-
tributing regies and ONEP would be set up as a distinct operation with
separate accounts within each of the regies and ONEP (Annex 1 and 2).
3.19     The following criteria would ensure that the target population,
lacking the means to pay cash for the installation of individual house con-
nections, would benefit from this operation;
(i)  proof that monthly family income is less than DH 1500 (Us$357)
(1980 price level);
(ii) no important commercial activity on premises;
(iii) location in a zone classified as either densely populated or as a
low income housing area;
(iv) economic or collective type or traditional style of construction;
(v)  diameter of water meter in principle not to exceed 20 mm; and
(vi) owner occupancy or in the case of leasehold either the owners
agreement or adequate arrangements that would ensure repayment.
3.20     In order to allow for adjustment in the income ceiling because of
inflation, an agreement was reached during negotiations that this ceiling
be reviewed annually between the Government and the Bank to take care of
developments in the purchasing power. It is expected that the afore-
mentioned eligibility criteria and the repayment terms of five and a half



- 18 -
years would allow also the urban poor to benefit to the maximum extent
possible from this operation, as in a considerable number of cases the
connection will be shared by two or three families. About 45% of the
connections to be installed by the regies and 52% of those to be installed
by ONEP under this project component would benefit families with a monthly
income under the urban poverty threshold of DH 770 (US$183). As no Govern-
ment subsidies are foreseen, the interest rate to the beneficiaries would
be the weighted average of the interest rate on the Bank loan and the 8.5%
interest rate of the Fonds d'Equipement Communal (FEC).
3.21     Water resources that would meet the increase in demand, forecast
for the regies, are secured.  However, some water production and trans-
mission facilities will have to be increased. The associated works which
form part of ONEP's investment program will be executed during the Five-
Year Plan period (1981-1985). Although the necessary investments are
included in the draft Five-Year Plan (1981-1985) assurances were received
at negotiations that, should the need arise, the Government would make
available sufficient funds to ONEP to finance the expansion of water
production and transmission facilities for the areas served by the regies
as and when needed to meet the expected growth of demand.
ONEP - Sector Loan Component
3.22     ONEP will appraise the sub-projects under the sector loan com-
ponent according to the method described in Annex 4. With the preparation
of the proposed project and the evaluation of other projects, ONEP's staff
has considerably increased its appraisal competence and ONEP has now the
necessary capacity that allows delegation to ONEP of appraising the sub-
projects. Identification of least cost solutions as well as the benefits,
to name only a few aspects of this work, is now consistently carried out.
ONEP's staff, in particular in the planning division which is responsible
for appraising the sub-projects, is familiar with appraisal techniques.
This staff has not only the necessary educational background required for
these tasks, but also experience in implementing projects which is a
further asset for appraising projects. The staff is highly motivated and
strives that established deadlines are adhered to. Implementation of these
sub-projects is carried out by other divisions which have the same com-
petence.
3.23     Design standards for the sub-projects included in the sector loan
component were reviewed and found acceptable by the appraisal mission. The
centers that would be included in this project component have been identi-
fied (Annex 3) and the availability of water resources has been confirmed.
3.24     The basic criteria that ONEP would apply in selecting centers to
be included in this project component would be the discounted (8%) per
capita investment and operating cost of the proposed facilities in the
respective center. However, other socio-economic aspects of the sub-
projects would also be considered such as potential for industrialization,
existing service levels, the availability of social infrastructure such as



- 19 -
schools ancl health care facilities.  Based on the available data, the
average cost of expanding the production including the distribution system
has been determined to approach a power function and the average cost for
improving only the distribution system, as another power function relating
the future population to be served to the associated investments.
3.25     In principle, ONEP would give priority to sub-projects with the
lowest discounted investment and operation per capita cost. Any
sub-project with a discounted per capita cost not exceeding the average
cost expressed as a function of the additionally served population, by more
than 1.28 times the standard estimate of error or the absolute average by
more than 1.28 times the standard deviation would automatically be eligible
for financing under the proposed Bank loan. This ceiling value would
exclude the upper 10% of the projects, representing the most costly ones.
In addition, the following criteria would have to be satisfied that:
(i) the overall investment cost for a particular center would be below
DH 5 million (US$1.2 million) in 1980 prices;
(ii) the sub-project being the least cost solution;
(iii)  the financing of local cost assured through inscription in the
approved Government's investment budget for ONEP; and that
(iv) sufficient water resources are secured.
Any sub-project where the average discounted per capita cost exceeds the
established ceiling values, or that requires investments exceeding DH 5
million (US$1.2 million), or that would not meet any of the other selection
criterias would require special justification by ONEP and the explicit
approval of the Bank before it could be financed under the sector loan
component of the Bank-loan. This would apply most likely to 57% of the
total sector loan component.
3.26     Annex 4 gives an outline cf the method ONEP would have to follow
in computing the discounted per capita cost and includes a list of data
that ONEP would have to compile for each sub-project. Feasibility studies
for each sub-project and the data to be compiled by ONEP would be forwarded
by ONEP to the Bank. The Bank would pass its comments within 30 days of
receipt of the above documents by the Bank. Similar procedures would apply
for those sub-projects where Bank approval is required (para. 3.24). ONEP
would, furthermore, prepare the aforementioned documentation for all
sub-projects prior to inviting bids.
3.27     During negotiations assurances were obtained from ONEP that it
will:
(i) follow the procedures outlined in Annex 4;



- 20 -
(ii)  forward to the Bank, prior to the invitation to bid for each sub-
project, the information as described in Annex 4;
(iii)  seek Bank approval for investments exceeding DH 5 million (US$1.2
million) in 1980 prices for each sub-project and for sub-projects
where the discounted per capita cost exceed the agreed ceiling
value;
(iv)  will observe the eligibility criteria such as;
(a)  the sub-project being the least cost alternative;
(b)  the local cost financing being assured through inscription in
the approved Government investment budget for ONEP; and
(c)  availability of secured water resources; and
(v)  seek Bank approval if it wants to either replace or add one center
to the list of centers as provided in Annex 3.
3.28     Feasibility studies, final designs and the bid documents for the
sub-projects in the sector loan will be prepared by ONEP. On the basis of
these documents, ONEP's staff will appraise these sub-projects. Four sub-
projects concerning the centers of Matmata, El Gara, Chichaoua and Midelt
have already been appraised and meet the selection criteria. Final designs
and bid documents are under preparation. ONEP has the capability to carry
out these tasks. Reinforcement of and technical assistance to its staff is
needed in the field of distribution network design and preparation of bid
documents, which would be best achieved through the engagement of two
experts. These experts would assist ONEP in carrying out these tasks and
at the same time provide additional training and transfer of know-how to
ONEP's staff. Assurances were obtained from ONEP during negotiations that
it will employ, by November 30, 1981 at the latest, such experts on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
ONEP-Regional Water Supply Systems
3.29     ONEP has initiated the final design for the two regional water
supply systems. ONEP is, furthermore, about to engage consultants for the
preparation of the final design of the more sophisticated aspects of the
Errachidia-Erfoud regional water system. These consultants would also pre-
pare the relevant bid documents.
3.30     Construction supervision will be performed partly by ONEP and
partly by consultants. ONEP's staff has acquired valuable experience in
this type of work, in particular, during the supervision of the first and
second water supply project. However, the volume of supervision necessary
in the future would exceed the capacity of ONEP's staff and ONEP intends to
engage consultants for specific supervision activities. Assurances were,
therefore, obtained from ONEP during negotiations that it will engage



- 21 -
consultants on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank: (i) for the
design and preparation of bid documents for the Errachidia-Erfoud-Rissani
regional water supply system by latest November 30, 1981; and (ii) as and
when needecl to ensure adequate supervision of the implementation of the
Bank financed sub-projects.
Studies ancd Water Resources Development
3.31     The sector study will be executed by ONEP under the supervision of
an ad hoc committee attached to the Prime Minister's Office. Draft terms
of reference were discussed with the Moroccan Authorities. Consultants
will be engaged to carry out this study. It is essential that after review
and adoption by the Moroccan Government, the consultants recommendations be
implemented. Agreement was, therefore, reached during negotiations that:
(i)  ONEP will, by January 1, 1982 at the latest, engage consultants to
carry out the sector study on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank;
(ii) the findings of the consultants be made available to the Bank for
comments; and that
(iii)  after review and adoption, implementation of the recommendations
is initiated by the Government by June 30, 1983, at the latest.
3.32     Ihe updating of the water supply master plan, including the prep-
aration of final designs for the first phase project for the Mid-Atlantic
Coast between bafi and Kenitra, will be prepared by consultants to be
engaged by ONEP. Preparation of the study, including the final design and
preparation of bid documents is estimated to take 30 months. The terms of
reference, were reviewed during negotiations. Furthermore, agreement was
reached during negotiations that:
(i)  ONEP would engage consultants for this project component on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank by January 1, 1982, at the
latest;
(ii) ithe findings of the consultants at the various stages be discussed
with the Bank; and that
(iii)  the final design, including bid documents, be completed by
December 31, 1984, at the latest.
3.33     The study relating to water supply systems in rural areas would be
executed by an appropriate agency or services of the Borrower.  An
understanding was reached at negotiations that this agency will be
identified by the Borrower by September 30, 1981 at the latest. Terms of
Reference were discussed during negotiations and will be agreed upon once
the agency or services has or have been identified. Assurances were
obtained from the Government during negotiations that consultants will be
engaged by December 31, 1981 at the latest on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.



- 22 -
3.34     The development of water resources in the 24 centers will be
executed by the "Direction de l'Hydraulique". The sites where boreholes
and wells will be constructed and tested will be determined through
mathematical models of acquifers and earlier experience. Analysis and
interpretation of the data obtained will be performed by the "Direction de
l'Hydraulique". During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that the Bank's concurrence would be required, should the
"Direction de l'Hydraulique" wish to modify the list of the centers as
shown in Annex 5.
Land Acquisition
3.35     Most of the installations included in the proposed project will
be constructed on land either already acquired by ONEP or on land owned by
the Government or where the Government has easements or rights of way.
Temporary occupation of some land might be needed for stockage of
materials. Although, ONEP will try to acquire the ownership of all land
not presently registered in its name and rights of ways through normal
procedures, difficulties might arise in obtaining these rights, which could
cause delays in project execution unless the Government takes special
expropriation procedures. During negotiations, assurances were, therefore,
obtained from the Government that it will promptly take all steps necessary
to enable ONEP to acquire expeditiously the right to occupy land and to
obtain easements needed for the project.
Work on Force Account
3.36     Installation of house connections to low income customers and the
extensions of the distribution systems would be carried out by the water
distributing régies and ONEP on force account. These organizations have
the necessary equipment and trained workers available. No difficulties are
expected in recruiting and training additional workers should the need
arise. In the past, the regies and ONEP constructed most of the house
connections and the extensions to the distribution systems, and acquired
the necessary skills. Furthermore, scheduling flexibility, which is not
available to an outside contractor, is required in installing the house
connections. For these reasons the installation of house connections and
the extension of the distribution systems on force account would be justi-
fied.
3.37     The experience gained by the regies of Casablanca, Rabat-Salé, and
Kenitra in launching and executing the first phase of the house connection
program financed under the Second Water Supply Project (Loan 1724-MOR)
would be used in executing this project component by the other regies and
by ONEP for those centers where it assures water services. Detailed
planning of work would precede the actual installment of house connections
in order to ensure that more or less all houses on a street will be
connected to the distribution system whilst the installation crews are in
the area. This would not only ensure streamlining of this operation
through adequate administrative procedure, but also achieve substantial
savings to the future customer.



- 23 -
3.38     ONEP will establish a special planning and coordinating unit that
will determine that for each center a detailed program is established, that
the necessary quantities of materials and equipment are at the disposal of
each center and that the necessary skilled and semi-skilled labor force is
available. Furthermore, ONEP's middle management, the direccor of its
regional centers and the managers of the centers, will be made fully aware
of the benefits of this operation in order to ensure their full coopera-
tion, which is essential for a successful operation.
Procurement
3.39     Two project components comprise the construction of two regional
water supply systems and improvements in 32 smaller water supply systems.
In view of the size and the dispersal both in terms of time and location
the works for these smaller sub-projects would not attract the interest of
foreign bidders. Procurement under local competitive bidding (LCB) would,
therefore, be the optimum. Recent experience with international competi-
tive bidding (ICB) shows that only local and foreign firms represented in
Morocco have submitted bids for similar type of civil works contracts.
Accordingly, contracts for civil works and construction of pipelines and
distribution networks estimated not to exceed Us$l million each and
US$12 million in the aggregate, and contracts for the supply with or with-
out installation of equipment, estimated not to exceed US$250,000 each and
Us$2.5 million in the aggregate, would be awarded through LCB, which is
open to participation by locally represented foreign firms. In addition,
the project as a whole has been advertised internationally so that
interested foreign firms would have the time and opportunity to establish a
local representative in order to participate in the bidding process. Con-
tracts exceeding these limits would be procured through ICB in,accordance
with the Bank's guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f.
price of imported goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to domestic manufacturers in evaluating the bids. It is estimated
that contracts up to 50% of the value of the above components of the
project would be awarded through LCB and the remaining 50% through ICB.
3.40     Smooth execution of the program of installing the house connec-
tions for new low income customers of the regies and ONEP including the
extensions to the distribution system requires that the related materials
and equipment are at the disposal of the regies and ONEP at the beginning
of each year. The regies and ONEP would, therefore, acquire these
materials and equipment prior to their installation.  These materials will
be procured through ICB in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for
contracts exceeding US$250,000 each aggregating to Uzdî.5 million for RAD,
RADEEF, RADEEMA and ONEP each.  Contracts for the supply of materials below
these ceilings and for the smaller regies will be awarded through LCB in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.41     During negotiations confirmation was obtained that existing regu-
lations do not contravene the Bank's Guidelines for procurement.



- 24 -
Disbursements
3.42     The proposed loan of US$87 million would be disbursed against the
cost of the project items as follows;
Amount of the Loan
Allocated expressed in    % of Expenditures
Category                          -Ub$----------                to be financed
(1)  Civil works and construction           20,320,000              36%
of pipelines
(2)  Supply and installation of              5,350,000              54%
equipment
(3)  Acquisition of equipment                1,690,000              54% of local
and materials                                                  expenditures and
100% of foreign
expenditures
(4)  Studies, training, technical            3,180,000              50% of local
assistance and consultants'                                    expenditures and
services                                                       100% of foreign
expenditures
(5)  Water resource development              2,630,000              45%
(6)  Works carried out under force                                  65% of net
account bye                                                    financing
(a)  ONEP                              4,420,000
(b)  Casablanca (RAD)                   3,450,000
(c)  Fez (RADEEF)                       1,590,000
(d)  Marrakech (RADEEMA)                1,140,000
(e)  Tetouan (RDE)                        710,000
(f)  Safi (RADEES)                        600,000
(g)  Meknes (RADEEM)                      600,000
(h)  Oujda (RADEEO)                       570,000
(i)  Tanger (RAID)                        490,000
(j)  Rabat-Salé (RED)                     430,000
(k)  Taza (RADEETA)                       140,000
(1)  Kenitra (RAK)                        110,000
(7)  Acquisition of materials and                                   100% of foreign
equipment for works to be                                     expenditures and
carried out under force account by:                           48% of local
expenditures



- 25
(a)  ONEP                               9,250,000
(b)  Casablanca (RAD)                   7,000,000
(c)  Fez (RADEEF)                       3,310,000
(d)  Marrakech (RADEEMA)                2,360,000
(e)  Tetouan (RDE)                      1,490,000
(f)  Safi (RADEES)                      1,250,000
(g)  Oujda (RADEEO)                     1,230,000
(h)  Meknes (RADEEM)                    1,150,000
(i)  Tanger (RAID)                      1,060,000
(j)  Rabat-Salé (RED)                     820,000
(k)  Taza (RADEETA)                       310,000
(1)  Kenitra (RAK)                         240,000
(8)  Unallocated
(a) in respect of Categories
(1) through (5)                    2,010,000
(b) in respect of Categories
(6) through (7)                    8,100,000
TOTAL                                  87,000,000
The estimated schedule of disbursement is as follows:
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(
FY and Quarter               Disbursements - half year         Cumulative       %
-------------------US$ Million------------------
1982
lst and 2nd quarter                         0.35                   0.35           1
3rd and 4th quarter                         6.00                   6.35          7
1983
Ist and 2nd quarter                         8.84                  15.19         17
3rd and 4th quarter                        12.41                  27.60         32
1984
Ist and 2nd quarter                        13.51                  41.11         47
3rd and 4th quarter                        12.72                  53.83         62
1985
lst and 2nd quarter                        13.39                  67.22         77
3rd and 4th quarter                        12.09                  79.31          91
1986
Ist and 2nd quarter                         6.39                  85.70         98
3rd and 4th quarter                         1.30                  87.00        100



- 26 -
3.43     Disbursements would be fully documented except for withdrawal
against Category 6 where certified statements of expenditure would be
used. Documentation therefore would be retained by ONEP and the regies for
review by supervision missions (Annex 2). Due to the difference in repay-
ment terms between the Bank loan and the accorded credit facilities, addi-
tional credit facilities can be financed out of the repayments made by the
beneficiaries. This rollover operation would increase over a period of
four years by some 33% the level of credit facilities. Safeguards that
guarantee the reutilization of the repayments for new credit facilities
were established with the becond Water supply Project. These were restated
in the loan agreement (paras. 4.06 and 4.12) and will ensure that the
repaid credit facilities are not used for financing other purposes.  As the
Bank loan would cover identifiable foreign exchange cost of the instal-
lation of individual house connections and related charges which amount to
48% of costs, disbursements would be made at 65% of the amounts requested
on the basis of certificates of expenditure to ensure that the Bank loan
would be disbursed against the foreign exchange cost of the total program
including the financing resulting from the rollover mechanism over the
initial four-year period (Annex 1). Any funds disbursed for the acquisi-
tion of materials and equipment needed for the installation of house con-
nections would be deducted from the net amounts requested for reimbursement
according to statement of expenditures. The unallocated proceeds of Ub$8.1
million would be disbursed in the same manner as for the identified regies.
3.44     The closing date of the proposed loan would be December 31, 1986
to allow sufficient time for settling final accounts and release of reten-
tion money.
Monitoring System
3.45     During project execution appropriate indicators will monitor the
financial and technical targets set for the project. Annex 10 provides the
forecast values of these indicators which were discussed with ONEP during
negotiations. Assurances were obtained during negotiations from ONEP that:
(i)  it will report quarterly to the Bank on the progress of the proj-
ect components for which it is responsible and on the evolution of
the relevant indicators; and
(ii)  it will take any reasonable remedial action discussed with the
Bank, should this become desirable, for the proper execution of
the project or the efficient management of the institution.
Progress in the execution by the regies of house connections to be financed
under the respective project component will be automatically monitored
through the statement of expenditures for work on force account (Annex 2).
3.46     Furthermore assurances were obtained from the Government during
negotiations that it will see to it that the "Direction de l'Hydraulique"
reports quarterly on the progress made in the development of water
resources as included in the project.



- 27 -
3.47     Finally, agreement was reached at negotiations that within six
months fol'Lowing the closing date of the loan the Government for the fund
for financing house connection of low income customers of the regies and
for the water resource development component, and ONEP for its project
components, will prepare and submit to the Bank a completion report on the
execution and the initial operation of the project components, the costs
and the benefits derived or to be derived thereof, the performance and
fulfillment by the Government, including the "Direction de l'Hydraulique",
the regies and ONEP of their respective obligations under the loan and
project agreement, and the accomplishment of the objectives of the Bank-
loan.
CHAPTER IV
FINANCE
Financing Plan
4.01      The table below sets forth the financing of the various components
of the project.
1DB      us$                     %
----Million--       of Subtotal   of Total
House Connections Regies
Onlent Proceeds of Loan           160.23      38.15        65.0
FEC Loan                           86.28      20.54        35.0
Subtotail                         246.51      58.69       100.0          34.7
ONEP
Onlent Proceeds of Loan           192.20      45.76        44.3
Government Contribution           196.39      46.76        45.2
Internal Cash Generation           45.73      10.89        10.5
Subtotal                          434.32    103.41        100.0          61.2
Water Resource Development
(Direction de l'Hydraulique)
Onlent Proceeds of Loan            11.97       2.85        45.0
Government Contribution            15.01       3.57        55.0
Subtotal                           26.98       6.42       100.0            3.8
Rural Water Systems Study
Onlent Proceeds of Loan             1.00        .24        50.0
Government Contribution             1.00        .24        50.0
Subtotal                            2.00        .48       100.0           0.3
Total                               709.81    169.00                       100.0



- 28 -
4.02     The proposed Bank Loan of USi87 million would be made to the
Government which would onlend predetermined portions to the eleven water
distributing regies and ONEP. ONEP would be the major beneficiary of the
proposed loan with Ub$45.76 million representing 53%. Another Ub$38.15
million corresponding to 44% of the loan amount would be onlent to the
regies to cover the foreign exchange cost of the house connection operation.
4.03     The remaining US$3.09 million would be made available by the
Government to the "Direction de l'Hydraulique" for the envisaged develop-
ment of water resources and to the appropriate agency for the rural water
supply study. The proposed loan would cover the total foreign exchange
expenditure and would, by considering the rollover operation of the fund
for financing house connections (para. 3.43 and Annex 1), correspond to
approximately 45% of total project cost.
4.04     The "Fonds d'Equipement Communal" (FEC) within the "Caisse de
Dépôt et de Gestion" (CDG) has agreed to lend to the regies funds to cover
the local cost financing of providing credit facilities to finance house
connections including related charges for low income customers.
House Connection Program - Regies
4.05     The regies will acquire materials and equipment needed for the
installation of house connections and the extension to the water distribu-
tion system prior to execution of works (para. 3.40). As the proposed Bank
loan would cover only the foreign cost financing for the related procure-
ment estimated at 48%, the local cost financing would have to be advanced
to the regies by the FEC under its lending agreements.
4.06     Setting up within each regie a revolving fund in the form of roll-
over operation to provide credit facilities to low income customers for
financing the cost of a house connection and related charges would require
that the following agreements be concluded:
(1) between the Government and each regie which would provide for;
(a)  onlending of US$30.05 million equivalent as follows:  Casablanca
(RAD) US$10.45 million; FEZ (RADEEF) Ub$4.9 million; Marrakech
(RADEEMA) US$3.5 million; Tetouan (RDE) US$2.2 million; Safi
(RADEES) US$1.85 million; Oujda (RADEEO) Ub$1.8 million; Meknes
(RADEEM) US$1.75 million; Tanger (RAID) US$1.55 million; Rabat-
Salé (RED) US$1.25 million; Taza (RADEETA) Ub$0.45 million; and
Kenitra (RAK) US$0.35 million, with the provision that of these
amounts the following amounts could be disbursed for the acquisi-
tion of related equipment and materials:  Casablanca (RAD) US$7.0
million; Fez (RADEEF) US$3.31 million; Marrakech (RADEEMA) Ub$2.36
million; Tetouan (RDE) u' .  s million; Safi (RADEES) US$1.25
million; Oujda (RADEEO) US$1.23 million; Meknes (RADEEM) US$1.15
million; Tanger (RAID) US$1.06 million; Rabat-bale (RED) US$0.82
million; Taza (RADEETA) Us$0.31 million; Kenitra (RAK) Ub$0.24
million; and US$8.1 million for other regies to be selected in
agreement between the Government and the Bank or for an increased
program of the above listed regies; and that



- 29 -
(b)  (i)  the regies would apply the aforementioned eligibility
criterias (para. 3.19);
(ii) the whole repayment period by the benefitting customers will
not exceed five and one-half years;
(iii) the amounts received by the above regies from the beneficia-
ries for meeting these debt service obligations be used
exclusively in the following order:
(a) interest and service charges for the IBRD and the FFC
loan;
(b) repayment of IBRD and FEC loan; and
(c) financing of new house connections of eligible customers;
(iv) the above regies would keep separate accounts regarding this
operation which would be available to the Bank;
(v) the Financial Controller of the regies in his capacity as
"Commissaire aux Comptes" would annually certify the accounts
regarding this operation; and that
(vi) such certificates be made available to the Bank.
(II)  between the FEC and each regie which would provide for financing from
FEC for the following amounts:  regie of Casablanca (RAD) DH 23.65
million, regie of Fez (RADEEF) DH 11 million, regie of Marrakech
(RADEEMA) DH 7.80 million, regie of Meknes (RADEEM) DH 3.95 million,
regie of Tetouan (RDE) DH 5.00 million, regie of safi (RADEES) DH 4.2
million, regie of Oujda (RADEEO) DH 4.1 million, regie of Tanger
(RAID) DH 3.6 million, regie of Rabat-Salé (RED) DH 2.60 million,
regie of Taza (RADEETA) DH 1.0 million, and regie of Kenitra (RAK) DH
0.75 million, with the provision that the regies could withdraw for
thet acquisition of related materials and equipment the following
amounts; regie of Casablanca (RAD) DH 18.4 million, regie of Fez
(RADEEF) DH 8.60 million, regie of Marrakech (RADEEMA) DH 6.10
million, regie of Meknes (RADEEM) DH 3.10 million, regie of Tetouan
(RDE) DH 3.85 million, regie of bafi (RADEES) DH 3.25 million, regie
of Oujda (RADEEO) DH 3.20 million, regie of Tanger (RAID) DH 2.80
million, regie of Rabat-Salé (RED) DH 2.15 million, regie of Taza
(RADEETA) DH 0.80 million, regie of Kenitra (RAK) DH 0.60 million;
andl DH 17.65 million of which DH 13.75 million for the acquisition of
materials and equipment.



- 30 -
4.07     To ensure that all the relevant arrangements for setting up the
revolving fund are concluded, agreement were reached at time of negotia-
tions, that the Government will (i) onlend the proceeds of the loan as
specified above on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank which would
include those listed above; and (ii) see to it that the lending arrange-
ments between FEC and the regies be executed on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. signing of the subsidiary loan agreements between
the Government and the regie of Casablanca (RAD), Fez (RADEEF), Marrakech
(RADEEMA), Meknes (RADEEM), Tetouan (RDE), Safi (RADEES), Oujda (RADEEO),
Rabat-Sale (RED), Tanger (RAID), Taza (RADEETA) and Kenitra (RAK), as well
as signing of the lending agreement between the FEC and each of the regies
would be a condition for disbursing the relevant portion of the loan. The
signing of similar agreements would also be a condition for disbursing the
relevant portion of the loan for any additional regie.
Water Resource Development - Study for Rural Water systems
4.08     The water resource development investigations will be carried out
from 1981 through 1983 and the study for the rural water systens in 1981
and 1982. In order to cover also the local cost financing the budget of
the "Direction de l'Hydraulique" would have to provide the following
amounts for the water resource development: DH 4.91 million (Us$1.17
million) in 1981, DH 16.22 million (US$3.86 million) in 1982, and DH 5.85
million (US$1.39 million) in 1983. bimilarly the budget of the agency
responsible for executing the rural water systems study will have to
include DH 0.45 million (US$0.11 million) in 1981, and DH 1.55 million
(US$0.37 million) in 1982 to cover also the local cost financing.
4.09     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it will see to it that the budgets of the "Direction de l'Hydraulique"
and of the agency or services in charge of the rural water systems study
contain the indicated amounts for covering the cost of the water resource
development investigations and the rural water systems study and that it
will provide any funds necessary to complete the investigations and the
study.
ONEP
Financing of ONEP's Project Components
4.10     Out of the proposed loan Us$45.76 million would be onlent by the
Government to ONEP for covering the foreign exchange cost of (i) the two
regional water systems; (ii) the sector loan component; (iii) the setting
up of a revolving fund for financing house connections of low income
customers; and (iv) studies, technical assistance including training and
acquisition of equipment and materials. The local cost financing would be
provided by a Government equity contribution of DH 196.39 million (Us$46.76
million) for covering the relevant cost of the two regional water systems
and the sector loan component. ONEP's internal cash flow would provide for
local cost financing of DR 45.73 million (US$10.9 million) for the other
components.



- 31 -
4.11     The terms of the Bank loan which assume a maturity of 17 years
including i-our years of grace and an annual interest rate of 9.6% would be
passed on to ONEP.
4.12     Onlending arrangements between the Government and ONEP would
therefore have to foresee that the Government will (i) onlend US$45.76 mil-
lion out of the proceeds of the proposed loan to ONEP; (ii) provide an
equity contribution of DH 196.39 million out of which DH 4.52 million in
1981, DH 51.21 million in 1982, DH 70.26 million in 1983, DH 62.49 million
in 1984, and DH 7.91 million in 1985; (iii) provide any cost overrun
financing necessary for implementing the project components; (iv) see to it
that ONEP will in granting credit facilities to low income customers for
financing the cost of house connections and related charges (a) apply the
eligibility criteria as listed in para. 3.19; (b) set up separate accounts;
(c) have these accounts audited by independent auditors; (d) utilize the
received debt service payments exclusively first for debt service payments
for the relevant portion of the Bank loan and thereafter for granting new
credit facilities.
4.13     Agreement was reached with the Government during negotiations that
the aforementioned onlending arrangements be executed between the Govern-
ment and ONEP on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Furthermore,
signing of the subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition to declare
the loan effective.
ONEP's Past and Present Position
4.14     The Government has entrusted to ONEP the operation of water supply
systems in some 80 smaller towns and rural centers as no other competent
agency exists. Unit production costs in some of these centers are up to
eight times higher than those found along the Mid-Atlantic Coast because of
lack of economies of scale. Tariffs in line with these costs could be pro-
hibitively high and might further contribute to the exodus from the rural
areas. Improvements in the operating efficiency that would somewhat reduce
these losses can only be achieved over a longer period. ONEP is under
existing agreements committed to carry out and implement the findings of a
study that would identify ways to improve the operating efficiency of the
water supply systems in these centers. This study has started and should
be completed before the end of 1981.
4.15     Instead of providing direct larger payments to ONEP to cover the
aforementioned losses which would provide a negative incentive to ONEP to
improve the operating efficiency, the Government has contributed heavily in
the past to ONEP's investment program and is committed to do so in the
future. These contributions have been made towards ONEP's equity in order
to strengthen its financial position. A substantial part of the Govern-
ment's contribution towards ONEP's investment program originates through a
variety of taxes in the water supply sector, such as taxes on water sales,
services rendered and goods procured. Levying of taxes on water sales,
particularly at these high levels is rather uncommon in the sector, because



- 32 -
of its regressive impact on basic services. Based on a conservative esti-
mate, the Government collected through taxes on water sales alone, about DH
22 million in 1979 and DH 23.5 million in 1980.
4.16     In 1979 ONEP met the rate of return covenant as laid down in the
loan agreement of the Second Water Supply Project (Loan 1724-MOR) of 2% on
its net fixed assets. According to unaudited accounts ONEP met this
covenant for 1980. These rates of return translate into a working ratio of
78%.
Tariff - Cost Recovery
4.17     Tariffs have to be assessed by considering the sector as a whole,
i.e., including the activities of the water distributing régies. Existing
tariff levels went into effect in October 1977 following a remarkably com-
prehensive study of the cost of developing future water resources. The
finally proposed tariffs at the production and at the distribution level
were determined on the long term average incremental cost of future water
resources in different areas. In order to provide for cost recovery and to
the maximum extent possible of self-financing combined with some debt
financing the study recommended annual adjustments for inflationary
increases. The finally decreed tariff levels are based on 1975 cost data
and were adjusted for the 1976 price level. Since then no adjustment for
inflationary increase has taken place.
4.18     The tariff structure is adequate.  The bulk tariff is uniform and
the retail tariff differentiates between residential, commercial and indus-
trial usage. The residential tariff provides a quarterly maximum consump-
tion of 30m3 at a concessionary rate. This quantity is considered to be
sufficient to meet the basic water needs, primarily of the lower income
population of an average sized family. The highest tariff bracket applies
to residential and commercial use in excess of 30m3 per quarter. Retail
levels for ONEP's customers in the smaller centers in the country's
interior apply the same principle but are much lower than those along the
Mid-Atlantic Coast.
4.19     The level of existing tariffs has in the past been adequate, as
the sector as a whole achieved an overall rate of return on net fixed
assets well in excess of 7% primarily because the revenues of the regies
are sufficiently high to finance all their investments either through
customer contributions or through their cash flow. The high degree of
self-financing has made it possible for construction of necessary
expansions to be carried as required; indeed no extended shortages due to
insufficient storage or transmission capacity at the distribution level
have been observed.
4.20     However, present tariffs would in future not ensure the financial
viability of ONEP. In order to determine the size of a tariff adjustment
to compensate for past inflation, ONEP has updated the first tariff study.
Accordingly ONEP has put forward to the Government a proposal which fore-
sees a significant tariff adjustment in 1981 and the introduction of a



- 33 -
system that wculd automatically ensure adjustments of tariffs should this
become necessary in view of justified increases in operating costs. This
request is presently being reviewed by a special Government tariff commis-
sion. Prior to negotiations the Prime Minister advised the Bank that the
Government: has the firm intentioon to implement before the end of 1981,
after review of the proposals put forward by the tariff commission, tariff
adjustments that would ensure the financial viability of the sector
including ONEP.
4.21      Implementation of the envisaged tariff adjustments as well as a
system that would allow automatically for a yearly compensation of infla-
tion would ensure that the resulting level of tariffs would be adequate.
Such tariff levels would meet the long term average incremental cost of
water for the sector as a whole using a discount rate of 8% and would
ensure ONEIP's financial viability.
4.22      The most efficient way to 1ink such tariff levels to ONEP's opera-
tion would be achieved through a working ratio which would measure its
revenues against the operating expenses excluding depreciation. Increases
in the operating efficiency of ONEP would be reflected in this ratio and
monitored through appropriate indicators that ONEP would develop. In order
to ensure future solvency of ONEP, an appropriate limitation on future
incurrence of debt has been specified in the project agreement. Such an
approach would support the Government's concern for improving ONEP's
operating efficiency and would be readily understood by elected representa-
tives and Government officials overseeing the sector and who have to
approve any action regarding tariffs of ONEP. Moreover, these arrangements
would further improve the continuous dialogue between the Bank and Govern-
ment aiming at developing and strengthening the sector. Previous arrange-
ments require ONEP to meet, by 1982, a rate of return of 5% and 7%
thereafter. A working ratio of 66% would result in a rate of return of
ONEP's net fixed assets, varying between 3% and 4%, which in turn would
achieve an overall rate of return of more than 7% on the net fixed assets
employed in the sector because of the high degree of self financing of the
regies. Existing lending agreements have, therefore, been amended by the
following covenants, which were agreed upon during negotiations:
(i) the Government will continue to establish water tariffs for the
sector as a whole to ensure that water revenues will be sufficient
to recover at an appropriate discount rate, all operating main-
tenance and administration expenses, as well as the costs of
investments required for renewal and/or expansion of water produc-
tion and distribution systems over the economic life of said
investments;
(ii) the Government will continue to maintain water tariffs for the
water supply sector as a whole that provide for a concessionary
rate for water volumes supplied and required to meet basic
domestic needs;



- 34 -
(iii) ONEP will take all necessary actions to adjust its tariffs regu-
larly so that from 1982 onwards its operating expenses excluding
depreciation will not be higher than 66% of its operating income.
(iv) ONEP prepares by October 31, 1981, at the latest, a list of
appropriate indicators that would monitor the efficiency of its
operation and that such list be provided to the Bank for comments;
and that
(v)  ONEP would not incur any long term debt (except for projects
financed by the Bank) without the Bank's concurrence unless its
net revenues at the time of incurrence, before depreciation and
interest, be at least 1.3 times the maximum future annual debt
service on the proposed loan and existing debt.
4.23     In view of the program to monitor and increase ONEP's operating
efficiency, in particular of the centers and the need to assess the ade-
quacy of its tariff levels, agreement was reached at negotiations that ONEP
prepares by the end of October of each year, a forecast of its revenues,
operating cost and of the efficiency indicators for the next year that
would enable the Government to review the adequacy of tariff levels for
meeting the covenanted ratio between operating expenses and income and that
a copy of such forecast be furnished to the Bank.
ONEP's Future Finances
4.24     The table below sets out ONEP's estimated requirements for the
project construction period (1981-1986) and the sources from which they
would be met assuming tariff increases in line with the aforementioned
working ratio:



- 35 -
1981 - 1986
DH           US$       %
----i milions----
REQUIREMENTS:
Project Expenditures                               434.32       103.41    14.1
Expenditures for Second Water Supply Project       576.92       137.36    18.7
Other Projects Including Renewal                 2,042.75       486.37    66.1
Interest During Construction                        36.33         8.65     1.1
TOTAL REQUIREMENTS                      3,090.32      735.79   100.0
SOURCES
Internal Cash Generation                           747.88       178.07
Less:  Debt Service                                345.94        82.36
Increase in Other Working Capital               .96          .23
Add:  Decrease in Cash Balance                      14.72         3.51
Net Internal Cash Generation                       415.70        98.99    13.5
BORROWING',
Proposed Bank Loan                                 192.20        45.76     6.2
Proceeds of Existing Bank Loan.                    156.43        37.24     5.0
Proceeds of Other Loans                            280.19        66.71     9.1
Other Loans, Not Identified Yet                     52.00        12.38     1.7
Long-term Payables                                 160.00        38.10     5.2
TOTAL BORROWINGS INCLUDING                840.82      200.19    27.2
LONG-TERM PAYABLES
Government Equity                                1,718.18       409.09    55.6
Customers Contributions                            115.62        27.52     3.7
Sub-total                               1,833.80      436.61    59.3
TOTAL SOURCES                           3,090.32       735.79   100.0



- 36 -
4.25     Apart from project expenditures the requirements include DH 1801.7
million (US$428.9 million) for investments in bulk water production
facilities and DH 241.4 million (US$57.5 million) for increasing the capa-
city of the water systems in the smaller cities and centers. Net internal
cash generation would provide about 13.5% of the investments and customer
contributions 3.7%. Some DH 575 million (US$136.9 million) of the Govern-
ment's contribution towards ONEP's overall investment program of DH 1,718.2
million (US$409.1 million) would be collected by the Government over the
construction period through customs duties, and various taxes levied on
equipment, materials and service, contracted by ONEP for carrying out the
investment program. Other loans refer to two loans from the Kreditanstalt
fUr Wiederaufbau (KfW) (DM 65 million and DM 18 million - US$34.2 million
and US$9.5 million) and one from the European Community (EC) for DH 80
million (US$19 million). These loans are associated with specific invest-
ments. The KfW loans relate to the co-financing for the second Water
Supply project and to installations to be constructed in the Al Hoceima
area. The EC loan pertains to future water production facilities for Safi
and Nador. Agreements for these loans have either been finalized or are
about to be finalized. A loan of DH 25 million (US$6 million) was con-
tracted by ONEP in 1978 from the African Development Bank (AFDB) for
financing part of the cost for extending water production facilities for
Marrakech. Other loans out of as yet unidentified sources are assumed to
become available by 1986 for financing the third phase water production
scheme on the Mid-Atlantic Coast.
4.26     ONEP's forecast financial statements through 1987 are shown in
Annex 9. The principal assumptions in establishing the projections are as
follows:  (i) tariffs would annually be adjusted for inflation which after
an initial tariff increase in 1981 to compensate for past inflation would
allow ONEP to meet the working ratio; (ii) operating costs would increase
according to higher production levels, however these increases would be
mitigated through improvements in ONEP's operating efficiency. ONEP's
financial performance is expected to improve. Internally generated funds
would finance varying levels of its investments, i.e. between 6.5% and
27.1%. Internal cash generation would cover debt service adequately.
Forecast levels of the debt service coverage would meet the proposed
covenanted 1.3 times.
CHAPTER V
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Least Cost Solution
5.01     The two proposed regional water supply projects aim at improving
the service levels of the water supply to the urban and rural population in
the project areas. The designs of the proposed systems are in accordance
with sound engineering principles. The overall design of the proposed



- 37 -
system, pipe sizes, configuration of the pipe lines, as well as location
and dimensionl of pumping station, reservoirs and other project components
were reviewed by the mission and found acceptable. The proposed projects
represent the least cost solutions based on discount rates from 8% to 12%
for providing the population in the project areas with sufficient safe
water.
5.02     For the sub-projects in the sector loan component, ONEP will carry
out a comparison of feasible alternatives to determine the least cost
solution in a given location. The calculation of the per capita discounted
operating and investment cost per sub-project and hence the determination
of its eligibility for financing under the Bank-loan would be made for the
least cost alternative. Criteria used in the design of the sub-projects
were reviewed by the appraisal mission and found acceptable to the Bank.
The appraisals performed by ONEP for four sub-projects follow this approach.
Institution Building
5.03     The project will further enhance ONEP's capabilities related to
conceiving, planning, appraising and implementing projects. The technical
assistance component will ensure that the objectives for ONEP's development
are met, primarily in the managerial aspects of its operation. The pro-
posed fund for house connections for ONEP's future low income customers
would not only provide immediate benefits for the target group but also
increase awareness and commitment of ONEP's staff at all levels for provid-
ing minimum basic services. At the same time, this component would improve
planning and execution capabilities at the local level, i.e. operation of
the centers. Similar considerations apply to the fund for house connection
of new low income customers of the regies.
5.04     The proposed studies - the study concerning improvements in the
organization of the sector, the study related to rural water systems and
the study concerned with updating the water master plan for meeting the
future water demand along the Mid-Atlantic Coast - will not only propose
solutions and identify projects and actions, but will in addition ensure
that the agencies concerned continue the dialogue aimed at resolving issues
such as meeting future water demand through providing the related services
at reasonable cost in a well planned way. The proposed water resource
development would help to ensure that this dialogue starts at a very early
stage.
Environmental and Health Aspects
5.05     The proposed project is not expected to have any significant
adverse effect on the environment. Practically all towns in the project
area have partial sewage collection systems, and those inhabitants living
in legalized settlement areas or on the fringes thereof, and who are not
connected to these systems, have other means, like septic tanks or seepage
pits, to dispose of their waste water. Although this may occasionally
pollute the nearby wells, this problem would be overcome through the pro-
vision of water distribution systems as contained in the project as these
wells would no longer be used.



- 38 -
5.06     An engineering study for the greater Casablanca sewerage is in
progress (Loan S-7 MOR). This study will evaluate various technological
solution for the safe disposal of sewage, aspects related to the operation
and maintenance of the collection systems and treatment works and will also
address itself to institutional and cost recovery aspects. Stagnant water
found around some standpipes is due to improper operation and poor drain-
age. This situation is expected to improve with the installation of better
designed additional standpipes which would show to the municipalities the
need to establish an improved preventive maintenance program and to install
new standpipes with adequate drainage.
5.07     Health benefits although not quantifiable will be significant in
view of the proposed replacement of polluted sources. The value which the
population attaches to these improvements and the resulting decrease in
health hazard should not be underestimated. A recent survey of teaching
methods in primary schools and teacher training colleges suggests that
health education is adequate and that the population appreciates the value
of safe water and proper waste disposal. This fact is underlined by
another investigation carried out in shantytowns where the local population
contributed to the construction of sewers in order to eliminate health
hazards.
Benefits to the Population
5.08     The three major components of the project:
(i)  the funds for house connections of new low income customers;
(ii)  the sub-projects of the sector loan component; and
(iii)  the two regional water systems
would result in major benefits for the population living in the relevant
project areas and for those families eligible under the operation of the
fund for house connections. The fund for house connections would in its
initial four year period substantially improve service levels to the low
income population and would at time of project completion provide
individual house connections to the water distribution system to
approximately 1.6 million persons living in some 275,000 households
Service levels for a further 420,000 inhabitants would be improved through
the 32 sub-projects included under the sector loan component. Finally, the
two regional water systems would improve water services for another 300,000
inhabitants. The majority of these 2.3 million inhabitants will for the
first time have either at least a safe non-polluted water supply or greatly
improved access to it. Approximately 210,000 beneficiaries of this project
live in rural areas.
5.09     As the two proposed rural water supply systems would to a small
extent provide additional safe water to livestock, the local population in
the affected project zones would derive indirect benefits in the form of an
increase in the value of livestock estimated to be at least 10%.



- 39 -
Impact on Poverty
5.10     The project's impact on poverty will affect both the urban and the
rural population. Approximately 448,000 persons living at or below the
urban poverty threshold (DH 770 = US$183 per month and family in 1980) will
benefit from the house connections component to be executed by the regies
and another 224,000 through ONEP's house connection program. Moreover, an
additional 210,000 persons with incomes at or below the urban poverty level
will benefit from the other two components, the two regional water systems
and the sector loan component.  Finally, water services to about 160,000
persons living at or below the rural poverty threshold (DH 516 = US$122.8
per month and family in 1980) would be greatly improved.  In all, 0.8
million urban poor and 160,000 rural poor would benefit from the project.
By taking into consideration the rural poor, approximately 48% of the loan
amount would be attributable to the urban and rural poor.
5.11     The envisaged eligibility criteria, as well as the repayment
terms, should allow for affordability. While outlays for food consumption
for approximately three days previously had to be sacrificed for water
obtained from vendors, this will change in future. More water of better
quality will cost less and correspond to 0.9 times the outlay for daily
food consumption. As the connection will be shared by several families in
most cases, the recurrent charges for the house connection should not
exceed 4% of each family's income. In those few cases where a connection
would serve one family, the recurrent charges for the house connection
would correspond to 8% of their income. Data collected in relation to the
execution of the house connection program as included under the Second
Water Supply Project (Loan 1724-MOR) suggests that the population is
prepared to make sacrifices in order to have access to the wate,r distribu-
tion system.
Risks
5.12     The projected tariff adjustments are not expected to have a
substantial influence on water consumption as the major part of these
increases will affect the more affluent consumers using in excess of
30 m3 per quarter. The risks of not achieving the technical, financial
and organizational objectives of those project components that fall within
ONEP's implementation responsibility are low.  For the sector loan com-
ponent, water resources are known and ONEP has already carried out indivi-
dual appraisals, which are acceptable.  Design and construction of the
sub-projects are straightforward and should pose no difficulties. The two
regional water systems also pose no great difficulties as far as design,
execution and operation are concerned. The institutional questions, which
concern administrative arrangements for billing, collection and operation,
will be resolved long before construction is completed, as the responsible
Government agencies have already reached agreement in principle on these
issues.



- 40 -
5.13     Although the number of house connections that will be installed
over the project period of four years (approximately 150,000 house connec-
tions) may raise doubts as to the institutional, administrative and imple-
mentation capabilities, these are not wéll founded. The enthusiastic
response of the population to this project component of the Second Water
Supply Project (Loan 1724-MOR) established the need and the demand for such
an operation. The three regies that were included under that operation
(Casablanca, Rabat-Salé and Kenitra) have demonstrated their capabilities
not only in executing the house connections but also in determining the
necessary administrative procedures that streamline this operation. This
experience will be used in extending this operation to the area covered by
eight more regies and ONEP.  Last but not least, the support exhibited by
the elected representatives for this operation should ensure that the
targets will be reached.
5.14     With the tariff adjustment mentioned in para 4.20 the average
incremental cost of water would be met. They are adequate using a discount
rate of 8%. The benefit/cost ratio for the house connection component
varies from 1.7 to 1.9 using discount rates of 10% and 8% respectively.
5.15     The project would create about 1,150 temporary jobs during the
implementation period and about 700 permanent jobs necessary to operate and
maintain the works. About 80% of the temporary jobs and about 50% of the
permanent jobs would go to unskilled workers.
CHAPTER VI
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     Agreements having been reached on the issues referred to in
Chapters II through IV of this report, the proposed project is suitable for
a Bank loan of US$87 million to the Kingdom of Morocco for a term of 17
years including 4 years grace.



- 41 -
Annex 1
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Fund for House Connection of Low Income Customers
Background
1.       Future customers of the regies and ONEP have, prior to connecting
to the water distribution system, to pay the cost of installing the house
connection, and to make a certain contribution towards the extension of the
distribution system. For a typical one family dwelling unit of the lower
income population, this requires in 1980 prices payment of approximately DH
2,000 with one-third covering the house connection and two-third the con-
tribution towards the extension of the distribution system. This contribu-
tion is assessed for the regies on the square root of the plot in order to
eliminate inequities that would exist if the facade would be used. ONEP,
however, still bases its contribution on the facade. The requirement to
pay this contribution together with the cost of the house connection, in a
lump sum, is sound from the point of view of the regies and ONEP seeking to
achieve an adequate cash flow for financing necessary extensions. However,
this arrangement has in the past, limited access to safe water by the lower
income segment of the population.
2.       The Second Water Supply Project, therefore, included funds that
would allow eligible low income customers to pay in installments for the
installation of a house connection and the related charges. The credit
facilities that will be extended under the proposed project to eligible low
income customers will be repaid within five and a half years, at a much
shorter term than that of the Bank loan and the local loan from the Fonds
d'Equipement Communal (FEC). Because of this difference in maturities and
after deducting the repayments for the Bank and the FEC loan, part of the
repaid amounts of the principal can be rolled over to grant additional
credit facilities. This rollover operation would allow to finance over the
initial four-year-period, the installation of an additional number of house
connections, which would result in a total number of new house connections
which is at least 30% greater than the number of house connections that
could be financed without the rollover operation.
Scope of Operation
3.       The demand for these credit facilities which were provided under
the Second Water Supply Project (Loan 1724-MOR) greatly exceeded the funds
earmarked for this operation which was designed as a pilot operation. The
proposed project would cover the unsatisfied demand within the area served
by the regies of Casablanca, Rabat-Salé and Kenitra, which now cover a
greater jurisdiction. In addition, funds for credit facilities would be



- 42 -
Annex 1
Page 2
included for future low income customers of the regies serving: Fez,
Tanger, Tetouan, Oujda, Taza, Marrakech and Safi, as well as for ONEP's
future low income customers. The funds foreseen for this operation would
allow the execution of some 110,000 house connections in the areas served
by the above mentioned regies and some 37,650 house connections for the
areas served by ONEP. Approximately 30% of these house connections would
in the first four years of operation be financed through the rollover
operation.
Target Group
4.       The target group for this operation would be the population living
at low income levels in the densely populated areas of the respective towns
and centers where installation of house connections is possible. These
areas are primarily the medinas and low income housing settlements mostly
on the fringes of the towns, where most of the dwelling have been upgraded
to hardcore structures which are arranged in a regular pattern. Although
most of these dwelling lack formal legal status the government has accepted
this existence and is now encouraging the installation of public services
such as electricity, water and sewers. With the installation of water
distribution systems public taps are phased out. This in turn allows the
municipalities to install adequate public taps in those areas where the
newly arrived migrants settle and where service levels are often
insufficient. Installation of public taps poses no great difficulty as the
cost are modest. The operation however requires that sufficient budgetary
allocations are available. As the proposed project would, through the
house connection program reduce the quantity of water drawn at existing
public taps, the corresponding budgetary allocations would meet the cost of
operating additional public taps in areas where service levels are
insufficient. As the advertising campaign for individual house connections
will also focus on the need to improve service levels of the population
living in areas where installation of individual house connection is not
possible, this will result in a demand for installing additional public
tape. The experience of the house connections program of the Second Water
Supply Project has shown that the elected representatives have become
actively involved in promoting this operation and in requesting additional
financing.
5.       It is expected that over the initial four-year-period
approximately 1,600,000 inhabitants representing 275,000 families will
benefit from this operation. Approximately 45% of these live at, or below
the urban poverty level (DH770 per month a family) in the areas served by
the regies and 52% in the areas served by ONEP.
Eligibility Criteria
6.       The Second Water Supply Project established eligibility criteria,
which have so far proven adequate. These eligibility criteria provided for:
(i) proof of monthly family income lower than DH 1,000;
(ii) absence of commercial activity on premises;



- 43 -
Annex 1
Page 3
(iii) location in a zone classified as densely populated or low income
housing area;
(iv) economic type or traditional style of construction;
(v)  diameter of water meter not to exceed in principle 20 mm; and
(vi) owner occupancy with the exception of traditional multitamily
dwellings.
These eligibility criteria would be also applied under the proposed project
with the following modification:
(i) raising of the income ceiling to DH 1,500 with the provision to
allow for an annual review in line with inflation;
(ii) allowing financing of house connections in leasehold
properties; and
(iii)  adjusting the repayment terms from a maximum of 20 quarters to 22
quarters, in order to compensate for a higher interest rate.
7.       The first modification would be in line with adopted Government
social policy that foresees a certain decrease in the rent payments by
families with a monthly income lower than DH 1,500. Through the second
modification, installation of individual house connections in leasehold
property would become possible as the new customer would have to provide
either an a[greement by the owner or in the absence thereof, a promissory
note indicating his identification card number. Should the new customer
living in leasehold property move before final payment of the outstanding
principal the next tenant would assume the responsibility to service the
outstanding debt. As the interest under this operation would be at 9.2%
per annum, representing the weighted average between the Bank loan and the
8.5% interest carrying FEC loan, the repayment of the principal would be
over 22 quarters. This would result in an annuity similar to that at the
lower interest rate of 7.9% of the Second Water Supply Project.
Financing
8.       The funds needed for launching this rollover operation would be
provided by the Bank and the FEC for those credit facilities to be granted
by the regies, by the Bank and ONEP for those to be granted by ONEP. The
Bank loan would cover identifiable foreign exchange costs of the
installation of the individual house connections and related charges, which
are estimated at 48%. In order to ensure that the Bank would disburse for
the total foreign exchange cost of the overall program including the
financing of additional house connections that result from the rollover
mechanisms in the initial four-year-period, disbursements would be made on
the basis of certificates of expenditure at 65%. This percentage was
arrived at by relating the amount of the foreign exchange cost of the
overall program of 48% to the amount of the net financing needed for this
operation after deducting the funds that could be relent through the
rollover because of the difference in maturities between the credit
facilities on the one side, and the Bank/FEC loans on the other side.



- 44 -
Annex 1
kage 4
Organization of Execution of Works
9.       The experience gained by the regies of Casablanca, Rabat-Salé, and
Kenitra in launching and executing the first phase of the house connections
financed under the Second Water Supply Project would be used in executing
this project component by the other regies and in the centers operated by
ONEP.  The elected representatives of the wardens as well as promoting
campaign would advertise this program.  Detailed planning would precede the
actual installation of the house connections, in order to ensure that more
or less all houses on one street will be connected to the distribution
system during the time when the installation crews are in the area.  This
would also ensure that specific administrative procedures can be followed,
which would streamline the operation.
10.      As far as the house connection program for ONEP's customers is
concerned, a planning and coordinating unit would be established. This
unit will ensure that for each center a detailed program for the
installation of house connections will be established, that the necessary
quantities of materials and equipment are at the disposal of each center
and that the necessary skilled and semi-skilled labor force is available.
Furthermore, the directors of ONEP's regional centers and the managers of
the centers will be made fully aware of the benefits of this operation in
order to ensure their full cooperation.



- 45 -
Annex 2
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Statement of Expenditures
1.       The Kingdom of Morocco would onlend part of the proceeds of the
Bank loan totalling US$30.05 million equivalent to the eleven regies
responsible for water and electricity, listed below and US$13.67 million
equivalent to ONEP. US$8.1 million would be made available either to
existing regies to increase their program of installing house connections
or to regies recently established.
Regie                                        Amount
Casablanca (RAD)                         US$10.45 million
Fez (RADEEF)                                 4.90    "
Marrakech (RADEEMA)                          3.50    "
Tetouan (RDE)                                2.20    "
Safi (RADEES)                                1.85
Oujda (RADEEO)                               1.80    "
Meknes (RADEEM)                              1.75
Tanger (RAID)                                1.55
Rabat-Salé (RED)                             1.25    "
Taza (RADEETA)                                .45
Kenitra (RAK)                                 .35
Sub-Total                                US$30.05
ONEP                                     US$13.67
Unallocated                               US$8.10
TOTAL                               US$51.82   II



- 46 -
Annex 2
Page 2
2.       These proceeds would in general be disbursed against the statement
of expenditures certifying the amount of credit accorded to new low income
customers of each regie and ONEP for payment of the costs of installing
house connections and the related charges for extension to the distribution
system. However, as the regies and ONEP would need to have at their dis-
posal the materials and equipment needed to install the house connections
and for extending the distribution system prior to execution of works, part
of these proceeds would be disbursed for the acquisition of these goods.
Procurement of these materials will be done through international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines with the exception
that for contracts of less than US$250,O00 and for a maximum in the aggre-
gate of Ubs1.5 million each for the regie of Casablanca, Fez, Marrakech and
ONEP procurement may take place through local competitive bidding.
Materials for the smaller regies will be locally procured. Disbursements
made for the acquisition of these materials and equipment would be deducted
from the statement of expenditures in order to eliminate double financing.
3.       The statement of expenditure, an outline of which is attached,
would show the total amount of credit provided by the regies and ONEP.
After deducting the amounts resulting from rollover and the amounts dis-
bursed for the acquisition of materials and equipment, the net financial
requirements would be determined which would be the basis for disburse-
ment. On the statement of expenditure, the components of the credit, i.e.,
the cost of the house connection and the related charges for extending
the distribution system, and the amounts related to the acquisition of
materials, payroll, general expenses and taxes would also be identified.
4.       In the past, the regies and ONEP have executed all house connec-
tions and extensions to the distribution system on force account. The same
system would be followed under this operation. The regies and ONEP have
the trained workers available and the necessary equipment as well. Should
the need arise to recruit additional workers, no difficulty is expected in
training them. Acquisition of additional equipment would be financed by
the project.
Administrative Arrangements and Accounting Procedures of the Regies
5.       The accounting and administrative procedures of the regies are
well established and satisfactory. Accounts have been computerized and
are processed in a centralized, computing department within the regie of
Casablanca (RAD). Identification of individual works, use of materials and
equipment, as well as personnel costs pose no problem. The activities of
the regies are subject to control at several levels. Like all other
enterprises in Morocco, the regies are subject to the controls exercised by
the financial controller and the accounting agent. These are "a priori"
controls which insure that adequate funds are available wlhen entering into
commitments and when making payments. Although these controls could be



- 47 7
Annex 2
Page 3
thought of as restricting excessively the financial autonomy of the regies,
in practice, this has not been the case and has not caused undue delays in
the regies' transactions. Whereas the financial controller is responsible
for a number of regies, the accounting agent is assigned to each enterprise.
The financial controller is appointed by the Minister of Finance,
independent of the regies and acts also as the "commissaire aux comptes".
He attends all board meetings and those of the technical committee in an
advisory capacity. All purchases exceeding DH 50,000, as well as all real
estate transactions and awards of contracts are subject to his approval.
The accounting agent, who is appointed by the Minister of Finance and
reports to the general manager of each regie, is responsible for all
payments and has to insure that payments are made only within approved
budgets and available funds.
6.       A board of twelve members supervises the activity of each regie.
Eight members are elected among the members of the Municipal Assembly.
The other four members represent the Ministries, such as: Ministry of
Interior, Ministry of Equipment, Ministry of Finance and the Local
Government. A technical committee composed of three board members and
assisted by the municipal engineer, the financial controller of the regie,
the director of the regie and any other person whose presence is useful in
view of the point of discussion, follows up on the board's decision and
supervises the management of the regie.
Administrative and Accounting Procedures of ONEP
7.       The Administration and accounting procedures of ONEP are well
established and satisfactory. Like the regies, ONEP is subject to the
controls of the financial controller and the accounting agent. A board
with 20 members supervises the activity of ONEP. Eleven members are public
officials representing ministries and government agencies, which have a
particular interest in ONEP and the sector. The other nine members
represent ONEP's customers, insofar as seven members are the presidents of
the seven regional assemblies and two are the directors of water
distributing regies.
Retention of Detailed Documentation, Verification of Accounts
8.       Detailed documentation to support statement of expenditures would
not be submitted to the Bank for review but would be retained by each of
the regies and by ONEP for inspection by Bank representatives. The regies
and ONEP would keep separate accounts for this operation. Supervision
missions would make spotchecks to satisfy themselves that the materials in
question were procured and that the loan for which reimbursement is claimed
was granted to low income customers in compliance with the eligibility
criteria and was used for the installation of house connections and related
extension to the distribution system. The intervention of the accounting
agent and in particular, the financial controller, in certifying the
statement of expenditures will provide adequate safeguards that the
statement of expenditures is properly prepared and in accordance with the



- 48 -
Annex 2
Page 4
legal requirements of the project, i.e., that the monies have actually been
spent and used for the purpose of the project.
9.       The financial controller, in his capacity as the independent
"commissaire aux comptes", would at the end of each calendar year certify
that the regies' accounting procedures and internal controls, relating to
the statement of expenditures, are adequate and that the certificates are
properly prepared and in accordance with the legal requirements of the
project.
10.      The yearly audit of ONEP by independent auditors would review the
accounts related to this operation, as well as the adequacy of the
procedures followed, including internal control.



STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURES                               PROCEDURE I
Form 1C
LOAN             MOR                                  Work Executed on Force Account - Category                        Date:
PERIOD FROM         TOC)                                                                                               Request No.
SUB-LOAN AGREEMENT .......................
No. of     Location     Credit Allocated   Out of which for   Out of which for    Materials   Payroll   Overhead   Taxes |
Contract   (District)    (Amount in DR)    Connection (DH)    Contribution to          (DR)       (DR)        (DR)      (DH)*   REMRKS
Extension of Dis-
tribution System
_  __ _ _____ _             (DH)          ___ _ _ _
TOTAL:
Total DH              less available from rollover DE =                net financing DH                out of which 65% eligible DH
less DR               outstanding balance provided for acquisition of materials/equipment = DH                   requested for reimbursement,
The aggregate amount disbursed to date on the basis of certified statements of expenditures including the amount hereby requested
totalling DH                          does not exceed by one-half the aggregate amount disbursed to date for acquisition of equipment and
materials of DHE     __        _
We hereby certify that the above mentioned loans have been accorded for the proper execution of the Project activities with the terms and
conditions contained in Loan Agreement         MDR.  All, the relative authenticating detail, the expenditures incurred together with
supporting documentation are available for review at_______________t_________________________________
(Namne of accounting or other departmnent where the
supporting documentation is filled)
* No reimbursement of taxes under Bank loan                                                                                                                   oJx
Representative af ....................                                                                   Authorized Representative................



- 50 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                       Annex 3
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUB-PROJECTS IN SECTOR LOAN COMPONENT
Economic Region              Province                 Center
I                    AGADIR                   BIOUGRA
TAROUDANT
OULAD TAIMA
OUARZAZATE              TAZNAKT
TINGHIR
ZAGORA
OUARZAZATE
II                    MARRAKECH                IMIN TANOUT
CHICHAOUA
EL KALAA-DES-SRAGHNA   EL KALAA-DES-SRAGHNA
BEN GUERIR
III                    BENI MELLAL              BENI MELLAL
FKIH BEN SALAH
KASBA TADLA
SETTAT                  EL GARA
IV                    KENITRA                  SIDI YAHIA
SIDI ALLAL TAZI
SIDI KACEM
OUAZZANE
V                    TAOUNATE                 TAOUNATE
TAZA                    GUERCIF
MATMATA
FES                     MOULAY YACOUB
BOULEMANE               MISSOUR
VI                    OUJDA                    TAOURIRT
NAIMA
AIN BENI MATHAR
VII                    ERRACHIDIA               GOULMIMA
MEKNES                  IFRANE
AZROU
KHELNIFRA               MIDELT
KHENIFRA



- 51 -
Annex 4
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
THIRD WATER bUPPLY PROJECT
Selection Criteria and List of Documents to be Prepared
for bub-projects in the Sector Loan Component
I.  selection Criteria
1.01 Consideration will be given in upgrading and expanding the water
distribution system and production facilities in a number of intermediate
cities and villages in order to satisfy the medium term potable water
demand. The cities and villages concerned are listed in Annex 3. The
selection of the sub-projects will be based on a number of criteria
described under 3 (i) through 3 (v).
1.02 In principle, priority should be given to the centers with larger
population since normally the discounted per capita investment and
operating cost increases as the population connected decreases.
1.03 The selection criteria are as follows:
(i)  sufficient water resources to satisfy the demand over the life
span of the sub-project must have been identified;
(ii) the total investment cost of the sub-project must not exceed DHS
million (in 1980 prices);
(iii) the sub-project under consideration should be the least cost
solution to satisfy the demand;
(iv) financing of the local cost of the sub-project is assured by
inscription of the relevant amounts in the approved Government's
investment budget of ONEP.
(v)  the discounted cost of the sub-project per additional consumer
must fall under a certain ceiling value. This ceiling value which
is a function of the size of the center, is indicated on page 6,
for sub-projects involving only improvements and expansion to the
distribution system, and on page 7, for systems involving
improvements and expansion of the production and distribution
system.
1.04 The aforementioned discounted cost per additional consumer will be
calculated as follows:
(a) the capital cost of the sub-project, including investments needed
to fully utilize the sub-project's facilities over its life span



- 5'2 -
Annex 4
Page 2
(40 years), will be expressed in 1980 price levels Any
investments aiming at i7nproving or maîntaining the services of
existing consumers will be subtracted from the stream of costs;
(b)  the incremental operating expenses resulting from the proposed
expansion of the system will be calcullated for each year of the
sub-project's life span and expressed in 1980 prîce levels;
(c)  the total sub-project cost (sum of a and b) for each year will be
discounted at the rate of 8% ta obtain the 1980 present value;
(d)  the incremental population which will be connected each year wll
be discounted at the same rate;
(e)  the discounted cost per additional consumer will be the ratio
between the discounted total cost of the sub-project anc the
discounted annual incremental Dopulation served by the sub-project.
1.05 Any sub-project listed in Arnex 3 and satisfying above criteria
described in paragraph 3 (i) through (v) will automatically be eligible for
financing under this Bank loan.
1.06 A sub-project which does nlot satisfy one or more of the above
criteria, but for which ONEP wishes to secure the Bank financing, will
require the specific approval of the Bank.  To this effect, ONEP will
submit to the Bank the documentation on the particular sub-project as
described under II of this Annex together with an additional justification
for making the proposed investment.
1.07 The ceiling value as mentioned in paragraph 3 (v) is chosen in
such a way as to exclude the upper 10%. of the sub-projects, being the most
expensive ones. It was determined by analyzing the 21 sub-projects where
improvements in the production and distribution facilities are foreseen and
Il sub-projects where only improvements in the distribution facilities are
foreseen. For each of these sub-proiects9 the discounted per capita
investment and operating cost were calc-ulated. The sample data are shown
in the two graphs on pages 6 and 7, related to the discounted incremental
population. This relation is expressed through a regression analysis as a
power function which is shown as a straight line on double logarithmic
scale.  This line indicates the average  iîscounted per capita investment
and operating cost as a function of the discounted incremental population
and is augmented by 1.28 times the standard error of estimate to arrive at
a ceiling value which excludes the upper 10% of the sub-projects, this
being the most costly.
1.08 As the discounted per capita cost increases with a decreasing
incremental population; it is desira-c-le ta exclude also 10% of the most
expensive smaller centers as a larger population will benefit from the same
investment in larger centers where per capita investments would be lower.



- 53 -
Annex 4
Page 3
This was achieved by adopting an absolute value of the discounted per
capita cost which is determined by augmenting the average discounted per
capita cost by 1.28 times the standard deviation.
1.09 The results are shown graphically for centers involving only
distribution on page 9 where the ceiling value as a function of the
discounted incremental population is expressed by the formula:
y = 1160 x.-J06 + 265 DH
and the absolute ceiling is at 956 DH
1.10 For centers involving production and distribution, the results are
shown graphically on page 10 and where the ceiling value as a function of
the discounted incremental population is expressed by the formula:
y = 1940 x -0-506 + 605 DH
and the absolute ceiling is at 1730 DH.
II. Documentation for the Appraisal of Sector Loan Sub-projects
2.01 For each sub-project ONEP will prepare a file which will contain
the documents as detailed below.
2.02 For sub-projects meeting all the selection criteria as described
in paragraph 1.03 the file containing the documents (para. 2.04) will be
forwarded to the Bank for ex-post review as soon as the ONEP appraisal has
been completed, but in any case before any bids are invited.
2.03 For sub-projects which do not satisfy any of the selection
criteria as described in paragraph 1,03 the file containing the documents
(para. 2.04) will be forwarded to the Bank together with justification for
these investments and a request to approve the project under consideration
for Bank financing.
2.04 The file for each sub-project will contain:
The feasibility study of the sub-project which will contain:
A.   A Descriptive Note -
(i) a general description of the center, giving its coordinates,
the economic activity and other relevant facts;
(ii) a description of the actual water production and distribution
system (and layout - 1/10000), status of maintenance, storage
capacity, water resources, constraints, service levels, water
quality, etc;



- 54 -
Annex 4
Page 4
(iii) a short description of the sewer system (+ layout 1/10000),
service levels, individual waste water disposal systems,
percentage of population with a house connection for water
and not connected to a central sewer system and percentage of
population connected to a central sewer system and without a
house connection for water.
B.   A Master Plan to the Year 2000
(i) a master plan to ensuring a sufficient production and an
adequate distribution of potable water till the year 2000,
with a layout 1/10000.  A phasing of the construction and
approximate cost estirmate in 1980 constant prices per
construction phase and a preliminary planning. An economic
comparison of the different alternative solutions and an
estimate of the required personnel for operation and
maintenance;
(ii) in estimating the water consumption and demand, the following
data will have to be gathered or forecast for the years 1970
through 2000 at five-year intervals:
- Total population
- Population with water connections (in number and percentage)
- Net water consumption - liter per capita per day (lpcd)
- Number of house connections
- Water consumption of the connected population (m3/day)
- Consumption per house connection (liter/day)
- Number of public fountains
- Population served by public fountains
- Water consumption per person per public fountain (lpcd)
- Total water consumption of all public fountains (m3/day)
- Municipal consumption (m3/day)
- Industrial consumption (m3/day)
- Other consumption (s ecify) (m3/day)
- Total consumption (m /day)
- Gross consumption per inhabitant = total consumption (lpcd)
total population
- Unaccounted for water-%
- Water quantity to be supplied (m3/day)
- Monthly peak coefficient
- Daily peak coefficient
- Hourly peak coefficient
- Losses in production system - %
- Losses in transmission system -
- Required production capacity



- 55 -
Annex 4
Page 5
C.   A Detailed Study for the First Construction Phase
(i)  a detailed description of the investments included in this
phase
(ii) a layout of the distribution network 1/5,000 or 1/2,000
(iii) the longitudinal profiles of the main pipelines
(iv) hydraulic calculations
(v)  layout and section of major structures
(vi) cost estimates identifying local cost, foreign exchange
requirements, taxes and custom duties, per year and total for
the following categories:
(a) civil works;
(b)  supply and installation of equipment;
(c) pipelines;
(d) distribution networks;
(e) power supply lines;
(f) purchase of land; and
(g) other (specify).
Production and distribution have to be kept separate.
D.   A Financial Study
Total and additional cost per year for an eight to ten years period
for:
(i) operating cost;
(ii) maintenance cost;
(iii) revenues.
The operation cost has to be subdivided into:  personnel, energy, materials,
transport, chemicals, overhead and depreciation.
(iv)  a computation of the rate of return of the investment;
(v)  a computation of the average long-term incremental cost of water,
including a comparison between this price and the actual tariff at
its highest bracket;
(vi)     a computation of the discounted cost of the project per additional
consumer.
E.   The Appraisal
The appraisal will be based on the data listed under A through D.
Proof has to be given that the selection criteria of paragraph 1.03 have been
satisfied, and that based on the detailed cost estimates of C (vi), the chosen
alternative solution is indeed the least cost solution.



-56 -
Annex 4
Page 6
KiNGDOM OF MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SELECTION CRITERIA
DISTRIBUTION
DH
I ~ ~    ~                                                                          l   i -  -
10000 
3000 _                                                                 -                           t
2000t
1500 
o 1000       _       _           __ - -_-
800                                     79              _  _                           ___ _______ __ I__r__ 
.   300 -                                                                     r                                - 
C~~~   =eligVaul
26300                       5    6   7   8  9 10              15       20      2    30> 4025              6     0      9     0
500 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Iceeta  ouainx10
600            51    7      7 3  9_ 10            1         035                               6     1     9     00
400                                                                              x 1000
200                                   k                      _
Ç=Ceilfng Value                                                                         4
150
*=Sample Data                                                                                     4
2           3        4      5    6   7   8  9  10              16      20      25   30       40      50   60  70  80 90100
Discounted f ncremental PoPulation x 1000
2           3        4      5    6   7   8  9 10              15       20      25   30       40     50   60   70 8090 100              150
Incremental Population x 1000
3  4  5    6    7   8  910~il           1.5      20     25   30        40     501  60   71108090 100            150       200
Population x 1000



-  -5                                                        Annex  4
Page 7
KINGDOM 0F MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SELECTION CRITERIA
PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION
OH                                                                                                                                                 O
10000                                                                          ______                    1                                            DH
30003- ---                                                                                                                                          3
2500 -
C> 2000                                                                                                                  f2 ~
~~~   1OOOj                   __                                                                                                   e~~~~~~~~ 13
8 00
600                                                                  20__ _ _ _ __ _ _ _~_            _  __  _  _  _  _  _  _
*M    500                         5__ _ __ _ _ _
12*
190                      1~~~= 94OX-0.06 
400 _____________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
400~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
146
300                                                          -    -  -   -_                         _  _  _
2501
200  __  _ _ _ __ _ _      _ __ _ _ ___                                         _ _ _ __ _ _  _
150                  ceiling Value
* Sample Data
1                    2           3        4      5    6   7   89 10                15      20     25   30        40     50   60 70 8090 100
Discounted Incrernental Population x 1000
2            3,       4     s    6    7  8  9 10              1 5      20    25   30        40      50   60  70  80 90 100          150
Increamental Populationi x 1000
3       4      5    6   7   8  9 10              15       20     25   30       40    50   60  70 8090100o               1510     200
Population x 1000
WorJd Bank - 22332



- 58 -
KINGDON OF MOROCCO                    Annex 5
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT - LIST OF CENTERS
Economic Region            Province                    Center
I                 AGADIR                       TAROUDANT
OULED TAIMA
OUARZAZATE                  KELAA MGOUNA
TINGHIR
TAZNAKHT
ZAGORA
II                 MARRAKECH                    IMIN TANOUTE
III                 EL JADIDA                    SIDI BENNOUR
AZILAL                      DEMNATE
AZILAL
BENI-MELLAL                 FQUIH BEN SALAH
KHOURIBGA                   OUED ZEM
IV                 KENITRA                      MECHRA BEL KSIRI
SOUQ EL ARBAA
OUEZZANE
V                 FES                          IMMOUZER KANDAR
VI                 OUJDA                        AHFIR
TAOURIRT
VII                 MEKNES                       EL HAJEB
KHENIFRA                    KHENIFRA
MIDELT
ERRACHIDIA                  GOULMIMA
RICH



- 59 -
K1NGDCO  OF M0R0CCO                                      Annex 6
Page 1
THEID MATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUtARY 0F PROJICT COSTS
Item                                             Local   ForeiRn    Total          Local    FOreign    Total         %
-------- DH MilliOn ----- -----US$ Mii1on-
ONEP
I.  Sector Loan
Land                                     0.05        -       0.05          0.01        -       0.01
BOreholes and Wells                      3.30       1.86     5.16         0.79        0.44     1.23       0.7
Civil WOrkS                             17.42       9.76    27.18          4.16       2.32     6.48        3.8
Equipment                                8.50       9.73    18.23          2.02       2.32     4.34        2.6
Pipelines                               36.39      20.41    56.80          8.66       4.86    13.52        8.0
Sub-Total Sector Loan                   65.66      41.76   107.42         15.64       9.94    25.58       15.1
II. Rexional Mater SupplY SystemE
ERRACHIDIA - ERFOUD
Civil Works and Pipelines               60.08      30.95    91.03         14.30       7.37    21.67      12.8
Equipment                                5.60       6.56    12.16          1.33       1.56     2.89       1.7
KARIA BA MNHAME1)
Civil Works and Pipelines                2.96       1.66     4.62         0.70        0.40     1.10       0.7
Equipment                                0.61       0.72     1.33       . 0.15        0.17     0.32       0.2
Sub-Total Regional W. S. S.             69.25      39.89   109.14         16.48       9.50    25.98       15.4
III.  EuipDment & MaterialS
Water Meters                             3.00       3.51     6.51          0.71       0.84     1.55       0.9
Laboratory Eqluipment                    1.33       1.57     2.90          0.32       0.37     0.69       0.4
Technical and Maintenance Equipinent     2.28       2.65     4.93          0.54       0.63     1.17        0.7
Sub-Total Equipment &  Materials         6.61       7.73    14.34          1.57       1.84     3.41       2.0
IV. Engineering and Supervision                11.72       6.87    18.59          2.79       1.64     4.43        2.6
V. Techrica1 Assistance and Training           3.75       3.75      7.50         0.89       0.89     1.78        1.1
VI.  Studies (2)                                2.50       2.50     5.00          0.60       0.60     1.20        0.7
VII.  Physical COntingencies                    13.47       8.15    21.62          3.21       1.94     5.15        3.1
VIII.  Price Contingencles                       38.24      24.14    62.38          9.11       5.74    14.85        8.8
IX.  Fund for House Connections                30.92      57.41    88.33          7.36      13.67    21.03       12.4
TOTAL - ONEP                         242.12     192.20   434.32         57.65      45.76   103.41      61.2
DIRECTION HYDRAULIQUE
Water Resource Dew1opment               11.99       9.80    21.79          2.86       2.33     5.19        3.1
Physical Contingencies                   1.20       0.96     2.16          0.28       0.23     0.51        0.3
Price Contingencies                      1.82       1.21     3.03          0.43       0.29     0.72        0.4
TOTAL                                   15.01      11.97    26.98          3.57       2.85     6.42        3.8
MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
Study Rural Water Supply SystemS         1.00       1.00     2.00          0.24       0.24     0.48        0.3
REGIES
Fund for House Connections              86.28     160.23   246.51         20.54      38.15    58.69       34.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      344.41     365.40   709.81         82.00      87.00   169.00     100.0
_: == _l: = _       ___       ____     : _= = _     _ _          __ 



981            1982                               198~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.      1984.61.1                            1.I 1985                        9050 9.1.4    .2
boa2  1228182             bail~~~~~~0.2  0~.861  23.01.     0.6*1     Enil-       eo291        la5.6    9o5848       s5o         1k.19    !3!630    Total           44441     5a.0e       total
.20                -           -         - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20.0  -.  0.05        .4        1-    -                 -l,         -.9      l-0         _2.4         -.          -5         .057         - 1    _0.054
5408601<8.020.12.   -           -         -          ~~~~~       ~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~2.43 12  9.8  01. U,  07.20 "  10.       0.52       20.2      0.92           -           . 9     1. -         2~1.22     25.96      5.16e
019- O-.4...-                                                           90   2.8      4      292           .6 4.       95-~ 1-  i 13.4       1.2l        0.512     8.31        0.0          .53      1.4         12.2          _. 30    22.18
8q69.0                                -           -                    2.-92       0.25     40.324        2.201       3.2            026 045  1l        1.59    16.48          1.42        1.71      2.19         9.506       9.22e    18.3-
198328                                            -         -           .-          54      10.1         1.52l        2.1      19.52         . 11.20    9.59      10.9         2.45        1.9        .930.09 0               0.44)    99.90
546-529.0 1                  -~~~~~~~~~O.  -0    0-          2.2         13.00     53.20        24.82       15.82     0.264        52          9.31     25.02         4.88         02.9     9.1   0.1      6         1.70    13.12
96s0o1  oo lsg.709                              4 .  -   -               I 2.2  22 Il       32         2.49        1.5       1.16          .I92       0.9      2.5    0      .49        0.29      0.9          1.2          .12     10.92.
9o9-Ttr.1 O         -                     -         22~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~.22  14.30  36.92  22.3  02.40  44.20        12.00       10.24      25.7                    00        9.24m20.02              4.93    129.19
Polo. I             .           .         -          0~~~ ~ ~~~~~         ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~.90  1.83  4.71  26.0  3.96  9L.92  5.59    3.31      5.9         1.2          .0        .9          6.23       10.2-3    10.46-
9696.289629        0.23        0.40      1.93        ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~         ~~~~~~4.4  1.12  5.9 01I.85    .9 1e4.312        0.529      06.12      0.09         0.9        007.6                  2.22        2.40e     9.314
Ptto. 3009.2..     6.03        0.01      0.04        1~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~.30  0.18  0.69  .4  0.       00-RL    10.26        1,1         0.09     0.23         0.8         002       01           4.50        033       12
99202.l                              0. as 889C1.92                     4.2         .60      61.52        1.94        0.351     1.3        09.69         4.02    16.92         9.2         069       03.46                   2t.43     10`.94
059   8988.d111-.                                         0-C         12.02        6.99      19.2        24.0        02.3      36.41        24.0        12.38    00.95          .                                40.0        30.953    91.03
-M 89.8.9                                                               1.11        1.30       0.44       35.24       1.62,     4968         28.24       21.60    413            --,,590                                       6.6      110
Ci-il9.  0.68n8.-                                                      13           .5       .±226                     .0       49            .2         15 .92                 .           .         .           6 .35       3.23     10.3
LIE  .0.11    ..LZL     ~~~~~~.922   2.3   461              0.2         03         .3          09 .51               1.3           .4.3                                          401       84
8.6-Stoal    -             O ~~~~~~~~0.98    0   42           62          05         23          94          00       04           94         12.000    46.40          .              8.                00.46      45.4     12.9
floto  04-66o.n.                    .0402.      .6        O1            .0         4.2        33           .0         00 0..26              9.42        5.49     14.957-  .9-                                    1.16        00.53     2.59
20200  wu991 m      'q                 L                    ..i.z       1JJ9        91.04      30.0        35.1 31Z              j            3.98        224941.0                                                 9.5         59.16
08.69 962808 592 168.0108.  .   .         -           2~~~ ~~~~~~          ~~~~~.99 .1  .1. W 06  4.621-  .           .    .            -         .           . 1-                              2.9M        1.-       4.62
88.989              .           .         -          0~~~ ~ ~~~~~           ~~~~~       ~     ~     ~    ~ ~         ~~~~~.91  0.22  1.31                                                       1                 .91  0.22  9.30
~~~~6~~~~~~a9 ~~~~~~~~~~~  .  .         .~~~1.7                 1Il        319        .a 0.30 07  03        I.74                                                                              2.30        0.23      0.59
89.8680.9                                       1.8       0.2          1049       0.00       0.3          . e         .4       .~            .                                                                   2.22        026       0.3
18189 0908829s688        0.00                0~~~~~~~~~001  .01  0.32  0.3 Il     40                                                                   .            .          -         -l0.54I0.32                       0.9
5908008  890002   0                            .29       .38          .53        3.05       2.59             .         .         ..                             ..                            .                 ,2         3.24      2,92
919   585*   48  816   996         14          1.09-2.19             2.36        04.69     39.29       35.9        002l5.9e8 02.49                             64.3           -           .                    9.14        59.14    35.4
8088  astr                                        .         .0          4.00       1.12       2.12        01.3        1.3       21            .01.10              210,.M                              .            .30        3.593     9.39
IoIs.oryqo  e.9                                  4       0-8          1.2         0.52I      2.91       -.9          .e        -M                                                         .         .13                     1.52      2.90
2.'88699 & 8888,8.998.. 89010.909  -  .   .           1~~~ ~ ~~~~~~.47  1.22  3.49      0.09       2.931      1.74          .I        0.1 .                   .           .~                    2.28       2.05      4.3
18-20                                                                 1 .68 3.      11.4     9.26       1.81       14.10      3.1          1.20        9.193     2.12         9.9        a.4        -4          6.61       27.03     14.1
9988  c.ts..6.                       .                                2.697       2.39     10.09         2.401       2.348   04.98         20          0.-39     0.210        7,        .42       4_.           1.22        4.4       1 -
58284 ~~~~9WT 8486059559209.9           .1.9       4,~          .~9        S            0         2.0         2.50      4.26         2.2         152       28                                                          .  m9   1  1.09
-- U 0-1    0-           40.7        0038       9.34        0._4        0.1      __ 43 
T.8846o.6  ..8a8..'.        0~~~ ~~.334  0.14    41.9         0.66        1.49       1,97        1.01        4.01     4190          .                     ..                       .                      .19      30.05     63.40
1.92. 0oe808.98.            0.01~~~~o-  0.026     0.03        216l        0.18       0.6          .21        0.21      1.2          -           .         .                                              .10         .0       09
50945909661058586                     7059            096  92          192        1921       1234        312         1223      2445          -                                                                    .5-0       3.45    26.90
99965  %-I* 4t.-8  Ooa.              2,22        0.02      0.44        0.26        02          .2         0 0.0.20 -            1.5                                 .                                              .26        2.24      3.4
1802. Oo.86..o6..     0.01         -        0.09~       ~~~~~      ~~~~~ 0.0. 1 .13.3  0.10.1                    034           -                    ..                                             032        0.3       0.26
99wj99g.1                                  .2      0-4          0.30        0.30       0.150       03          0.0       26           0.0        01        020                                              .0         020      90
89 -86.-914.75921.39 20.16                    0.99      0.4250.2240.58.1.50                            0.14        0.19      0.43.0                                                               -.-2         1.70e      0.96    24.18
9.6-22100                   2.54        2.05     4.09         2.9-0,      6.4959    16... 30     5.54        2.10    43.29          -.~                   .            .                                13.9       1.26       3.9
15908 20.99888988.8  0.06  0.16  0.92  0.08  0.62      1.85        0.99        0.48      1.09          .           .        .            .           .         .           1.92       2.72      2.09~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ----- ----  ----  ----  ---    ---



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1981                     1982                    1983                     1984                     1985
ITEM   -  2    3    4  i 2    3     4      _     2     3      4           2     3      4     t     2      3      4
SECTOR LOAN
Feasibility Studies-                                    -     -
Appraisal (by ONEP)                         =                 -                -       -            =
Final Design and Tender Documents                     .              _
TenderProcedures
Execution of Works--                                                                   -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -
REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS
KARIA BA MOHAMED
Final Design and Tender Documents
Tender Procedure
Execution of Works
ERRACHIDIA-- ERFOUD
Final Design and Tender Documents
I Pipelines
Il OtherWorks                                     _    _       _                                                                                                          .                                   I
Tender Proc edure
I Pipelines
Il Other Works
Execution of Works
I Pipelines-                                                                    -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -
Il Other Works-                                                                              -      -    -      -      -     -     -     -      -
HOUSE CONNECTIONS
ON EP                                                                                                                                                            
REGIES                                                                     - =         =     -           -             =   =   =   =                  =   = =
MISCELLANEOUS
Sector Study
Study Safi - Kenitra Coastal Zone                                    _                                    _                  _
Rural Water Supply Systems Study                                                                                                                                                                          O _  =  = - r
Water Resource Development                                           _    =                  _      _
World Bank - 22331



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ON EP - Organizational Structure
Board ol Directors 
|  General Manager 
Deputy Manaqer                                               |        Aui
IGeneral SecretarY)
vJaie, S.Pppiv                    dîoto                        Finance, Accousntrng,
Inl an   NIdiI VI   _ 
/.rBul   Supp   |.   Smll an  Medifn Wors   Lare Wors   Oec)atioand                 & Data Processing
General
g.0-| Service                             tudies                                                                                                                                                         Accou.tin        -|Maintenance  Personnel  l  t
Marrakech                                                                                     -L              m        P         +       Tranong         l                                    _|  Billing/CollecBiC t
_Regional Servicer s                                                                                                                                                                                        s
Ftabatmet                      ESeution I. a                                            -| -,--Support Services                Cost Accounting
_|   Regional Service    t  i                                                                                                                                      -|   Data Processing
Meknes  
_      gadir              *.         Technical Service   |i
World Bank- 22346
Proinc   S    Water Qualitv
p,ovi ncial Service 11  _     -           ro



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1/
ONEP - INCOME STATEMENTS - ACTUAL    (1978-1980) AND PROJECTED (1981-1987)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                   1978           1979           1980            1981           1982           1983            1984           1985           1986            1987
~----------------------~---------~-------- ----------------------- m/3 Million -------------------___-__--______________________________---
Water Produced                                 181            206            224             242            306            384            434             474            508            570
Water Sold Bulk                                122.0          149.0           167.0          186.2          244.6          312.6          360.0           390.3          424.1           477.7
Water Sold Retail                               21.0           24.0            25.3           28.8           30.5           32.6           34.6            41.0           43.6           46.2
---------------------------------------------------------------- DH Million --------------------------------------------------------
Operat ing Revenue s
Water Sales Bulk                              55.11          61.33          67.22         105.75          155.43         213.60         265.86          305.68         351.08         421.16
Water Sales Retail (net)                      26.76          30.53          35.80           28.80          31.97          36.13          40.84           51.30          58.79           67.48
Total Water Sales                           81.87          91.86         103.02         134.55          187.40         249.73         306.70          356.98         409.87         488.64
Other Fees/Charges                             8.32          10.95          13.41            7.67          12.85          16.76          24.07           26.70          15.25           19.51
Other Income Net                                .71           3.21           2.86            2.31           2.84           3.28            3.87           4.70           5.04            5.43
Government Operating Subsidy                   5.00           5.00           5.00            5.00           5.00           5.00           5.00            5.00           5.00            5.00
Less-  bad Debt Provision                     (1-11)         <1.24)          (136)          ,Ç58)           (.64)          (,72)           (.82)         (1.03)          1.18)         (I1.35)
Total Revenue                               94.79         109.78         122.93          148.95         207.45         274.05         338.87          392,35         433.98         517.23
Operating E peses
Personnel                                   42.49          48.45          53.32           56.53          67.87          74.99          82.25           91.78         100.51         111.25
Energy & Fuel                               11.40          15.86          18.24           27.70          35.93          46.87          58.15           69.71          82.75         102.76
Chemicals                                    6.94           8.60           9.89           10.47          18.27          27.63          35.73           42.87          51.60           65.66
Materials                                    6.83           8.46            9.31          10.24          12.70          17.85           23.36          25.83          19.91           23.50
Maintenance                                  3.48           4.31           4.96            6.29           8.31          11.74           17,70          21.13          24.77           27.75
General & Administrative Expenses            5.04           6.24           6.99            7.69           8.96          10.20          11.19           12.49          13.68           15.14
Water Sales Tax and Other Taxes              5.77           7.41            7.78           9.63          13.43          18.36           23.50          27.07          28.35           33.91
Less:  Capitalized Expenses                  8.20          14.13          15.12           17.67          23.98          28.92          37.27           41.20          31.45           37.31
Sub-Total                                   73.75          85.20          95.37         110.88          141.49         178.72         214.61          249.68         290.12          342.66
Depreciation                                30.72          32.22          34.94           33.13          38.16          55.94          81.68          _88.97          95.45           99.71
Total Operating Expenses                   104.47         117,42         130.31         144.01          179.65         234.66         296.29          338.65         385.57         442.37
Net Operating Income (loss)                 (9.68)         (7.64)          (7.38)          4.94          27.80          39.39          42.53           53.70          48.41           74.86
Interest                                    13.75          13.09          13.65           20.71          30.33          39.26          41.96           40.95          51.60          47.55
Net Income (loss)                          (23.43)        (20.73)         (21.03)        (15.77)         (2.53)           .13             .57          12.75           (3.19)         27.31
Reallocation of water sales tax to
offset loases of rural centers              18.26          19.94          22.63           21.65          23.31          27.47           35.31          36.33          42.49           46.48
net income (1bas) after above adjustments(5.17)             (.79)           1.60           5.88          20.78          27.60           35.88          49.08          39.30           73.79
Working Ratio inl.                             78             78             78              75             68             65             63              64             67              66
1/  1980 Results Preliminary



EINGD0M OF IMROCCO
TdIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJE0I
ONE? - ChSBl FLOW - hCTUAL   (1978-1980 AND PROJECTED 1981-1987)
Fiscal Yacr Ending D-cenher 31                    1978           1979           1980           1981           1982           1983           1984           1985           1986            1987
s                                                    _ __ ~~~~~~~~~~~~----------------------------------------- DR miilliot --------------------------------------------- ------------
Internal Sources cf Fonds
operantog Il-cos  befoca Ocprcccltioo (1)      21.04          24.58          27.56          38.07          65.96          95.33         124.21         142.67         143.86         174.57
Rscuperation cf Taxsc                            _              -              -            10.13          34.57          50,46          18.8O          12.38          11.44          11.52
Intrertt Fsycoests for ho-se Connectio.. .                      _              _              _             9.38           1.39           2.96           4.69           3.             4.88
Sub-Total                                      21.04          24.58          27.56          48.20         101.11         147.17         145.97         159.74         160.60         190.97
Operational Requirepenots
Incretse (Deorcrase) in 17orking               (9.47)         (1.58)          5.36         (37.49)        (22.64)         67.68          34.65          49.67         (90.91)          (5.97)
Capital other thon Cash
Intersst
Previous IRD Lending                        13.75          13.09          13.65          16.65          20.10          23.66          24.62          23.45          22.01          20.56
Frop-nnd IBRD L9os- -                                         -                                           0.58           1.38           2.96           4.69          17.50          15.61
Other Losns                                     -      -                     -             4.06,         10.23          15.60          17.34          17.38          17.39           16.26
Total Ioterest                               13.73          13.09          13.65          29.71          3.91           40.64          44.92          45.664         56.90            2.43
A-Osti-aticc cf Los
Frecios. IBRD Lcnding                         5.00           5.25           7.39           6.21           6.67           7.16          17.97          18.54          19.17          19.81
1r-posed ITORD  on                             -              -              ---            -              -              -                                          14.78           14.78
Other boansco                                                 -              -              -              -              -             0.82           6.36          11.87          12.62
Total Asoortloobfoo                           5.00           5.25           2.39           6.21           6.57           7.16          18.79          24.90          45.92           47.21
Total Dobt Service                           18.75          18.34          21.04          76.92          37.58          47.90          63.71          70.54         102.72           99.64
Total Operational Requirercots (2)            9.28          16.76          26.40         (10.57)         14.94         115.48          98.36         120,21          11.91           93.67
8alance cf Interoal Fonds Avilable           11.76           7.82           1.16          58.77          76.17          31,69          47.61          39.53         148.79           97.30
for Ioveotnnento (3)
Capitul loveotocots:
Second Frojeet                               -              -             8.50          93.09         241.49         158.03          84.31            -              -               -
Fropolsd Frojoot                             -              -              -             5.87         107.84         145.30         134.00          42.11            .-
Ren-ealo and other Frojocta               135.22          56.22         112.06         335.54         475.02         177.74         126.62         237.22         690.61         728.29
Interest Capitalized                                                                     0,76           2.33           3.59           8.67          12.58           2.60           24.68
Total Copital Investosets (4)             135.22          56.22         120.56         435.26         825.88         486.46         353.60         290.91         698.21         752.97
balnc0  to be Financed                       123.46          48.40         119.40         376.49         737.71         454.77         305.99         251.38         549.42          655.67
Finaoced by Bsrrowing
Frior IBRD L ediog                             14.00          12.63          13,66          36.59          72.69          40.93           6.22             -              -              -
Proposed IBRD Losa                                -             -              -             1.58          29.98          57.33          59.32          38.53            5.46
Othnr coans                                       -              -            5.83          77.02         136.33          55.36          1h.48             -              -              -
Other   ooans, not identified                     -              -              -             -              -              -               -              -           160.00         180.00
To1tal borrooing                               14.00          12.63          19.49         115.19         239.00         153.62          77.02          38.53         165.46          180.00
Long-Terp Payablc                                 -              -              - _6.00                     8.00          13.80          15.00            8.80            -              -
-ovecostoot Cootrfhotlcnc Oifsetticg Losse    18.76           19.94          22.63          21 59          22.15          27.05          34.48          35.29          41.23           44.97
cf Rosal Cootoro thro-gh Rcalloo.tio- of
Woter Soles Tac
Other Govorotost Contribhtio..                 49.99          48.04          20.04         214,32         452.92         236.32         154.27          141.77        325.23          409.00
Costonor Contrihutions                          4.13           1.74           1.91           8.40          11.64          18.77          26.95          29.90                          24.48
Total foveroncot ond Cootogcrs                 72.39          69.72          44.58         244.31         486.69         282.14         215.70         206.96         386,42          478.45
Contributions
TOTAL FUNDIN1                                   96.38         82.35          64.07         365.50         733.69         450.76         307.72          -53.49         551.88         658.45
Cash locose (Derease for Year)                 37.08          33.95         (55.33)        (10.99)         (6.02)         (4.01)          1.73           2.11            2.46           2.78
Cash at Ocgisoing of Tsar                      84.55          47.47          81.42          26.09          15.10           9.08           5.07            6.80           8.91          11.37
Cash ot Eld af YeFr                            47.47          81.42          26.09          15.10           9.08           5.07           6.80            8.91          11.37          14.15
Debt Service Covorage (Tieo)                    1.1            1.3            1.3            1.8            2.7            3.1            2.4             2.3            1.6            2.0
Setornol Financing ef Capital loc1 ornto 2/  8.7              13.9            1.0           13.5           10.4            6.5           13.5           13.6           27.1            14.8
do --- os 7 of Net Fixed Assots PlFs        1.5            1.0            0.1            5.3            5.1            1.4            1.9            1.4            4.7             2.6
Work in Progress (annool average)
1/ 1980 resltis Fresldnaey
if Lino 3 os pereentoge of lion 4



KINGL'OM OF MOROCCO
THIR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ONEP - BALANCE SIEETS ACTUAL    1978-1980 AND PROJECTED 1981-1987
Fiscal Year Fnding December 31                  1978           1979           1980           1981           1982           1983           1984           1985           1986            1987
-----------------------------DH-  Mi llion  -------------------------------------------------
Fixed Assets                                  986.41       1,039.08       1,163.08       1,332.95       1,919.56       2,777.59       3,121.09       3,372.78       3,585.50       3,803.49
Less Depreciation                             303.67         330.75         365.69         398.82         436.98         492.92         574.60         663.57         759,02         858.73
Net Fixed Assets                            682.74         708.33         797.39         934.13       1,482.58       228467         2.546.49       270921        22 *826.48      2,944.76
Work in Progress                              125,66         124.07         120.63         375.89         580.59         158.56         149.86         176.70         650.75       1 _74  1
Total Fixed Assets                          808.40         832.40         918.02      1.3l0.02        2.063.17      2.443.23        2,696.35       2_885.91       3,417723       4 _ll8.97
Stocks                                         13.90          17.34          19.07          20.02          22.10          23.60          25.40          26.67          28.00          29.40
Accounts Receivable                           146.58         125.66         134.46         139.32         144.36         149.58         154.99         160.59         166.39         172.41
House Connectionis                               -              -              -              -             4.79          27.76          59.91          88.33          83.92          79.51
Cash & Equivalent                              47.47          81.42          26.09          15.10           9.08           5.07           6.80           8.91          11.37          14.15
Total Current Assets                          207.95         224.42         179.62         174.44         180.33         206.01         247.10         284.50         289.68         295.47
Total Assets                                1,016.35       1,056.82       1,097.64       1,484.46       2,243.50       2,649.24       2,943.45       3,170.41       3,766.91       4,414,44
Equity & Liability
Goverument Contributions                      608,16         676.14         718.81         954.72       1,429.77       1,693.14       1,881.89       2,058.95        2,425.41      2,879.38
Customers Contributions                        17.39          19.13          21.04          29.44          41.08          59,85          86.80         116.70         136.66         161.14
Revaluation Surplus                           154.44         154.44         154.44         154.44         154.44         154.44         154.44         154.44         154.44         154.44
Earned Surplus (loss)                         (5752)         (78.25)        (.228)        (115.05)       (117.58)       (117.45)        1             (]04.13)       LlO7.2)          (8Qj)
Total   gu                                    722.47         771.46         795.01       1023.55        1,507.71       1,789.98       2006           2225.96        2,609_]9       3.114.95
Long-Tenn Debt:
Previous IBRD Lending                       169.31         174.55         182.00         211.92         277.45         300.41         288.09         268.92         249.11         228.78
Proposed IBRD toan                             -              -              -             1.58          31.56          88.89         148.21         171.96         162.64         147.66
Other Loans                                                    -            5.83          82.85         219.18         273.72         278.84         266.97         254.35          240.96
Other Loans, Nonidontified                                     --                                   -                     -              -                          160.00          3o0.00
Total _n-Terp Debt                            169.31         174.55         187.83         296.35         528.19         663.02         715.14         707.85         826.10          957.60
Accounts Payable                              119.32         103.42         108.59         151.89         186.44         148.45         153.16         138.78          232.41         241.39
Long-Tenn Accounts Payable                        -             -              -             6.00          14.00          29.00          44.00          52.00           52.00          52.00
Current Maturities of Long-Term Debt            5.25         _7.39            6.21           6.67           7.16          18.79          24.90          45.82          47.21          48.50
Total Current Liabilities                      124.57        110.81         114.80         164.56         207.60         196.24         222.06         236.60          331.62         341.89
Total Equity and  ,iabIlit                  1,016.35       1,056.82       1,097.64       1,484.46       2,243.50       2,649 24       2,943.45       3,170.41       3,766.91       4,414.44
Debt Equity Ratio                              19:81          18:82          19:81          22:78          26:74          27:73          26:74          24:76          24:76          24:77
1/  1980 results prelssinary



KINGDOM OF lDROCCO
THIRI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
Indicators                                                    Unit                1981           1982           1983            1984            1985           1986            1987
1.  STAFFING
Permanent Staff                                          Number             2,725          3,000           3,300          3,500           3,600           3,700          3,800
Staff per Million m3 Produced                            Number                 11.3            9.8            8.6             8.1             7.6            7.3             6.6
2.  SYSTEMS OPERATIONS
Water Produced                                            106 m3/year          242            306            384             434            474             508             570
Water Sold in Bulk - Mid-Atlantic                         106 m3/year           99.8          148.5          194.4           229.3          245.7           263.0           299,8
Water Sold in Bulk - Interior                             106 m3/year           86.4           96.1          118.2           130.7          144.6           161.1           177.9
Water Sold in Retail                                      106 m3/year           28.8           30.5           32,6            34.6           41.0            43.6            46.2
Unaccouted-for Water                                           7                il.            10             10               9              9               8               8
Connections                                              x 1000                 77             86             99.4           11.7.3         135.7           145.4           156.9
3.  FINANCE
Working Ratio                                                  i                75             68             65              63              64             67              66
Cash Generation I  1/                                                          13.5            10.4            6.5            13.5           13,6            Z7.1            14_8
Cash Generation Il 2/                                          7/                5.3            5.1            1.4             1.9            1.4             4.7             2.6
Debt Equity Ratio                                                           22:78          26:74           28:72          27:73           24:76           27:73          30:70
Debt Service Coverage                                                            1.8            2.7            3,1             2.3            1.9             1.6             1.9
Average Rate - Mid-Atlantic Coast                        DN/r3                    .67            .71             .75            .80             .85            .90             .96
Average Rate - Interior Production                        DH/m3                   .45            .52             .57            .63             .67            .71             .75
Average Rate - Retail Supply                              DH/m3                  1.00           1.05           1.11            1.18            1.25           1.35            1.46
Operating Expenses - Mid-Atlantic                         DN/m3                   .58            .52             .55            .63             .65            .68             .70
Operating Expenses - Interior Production                  DH/m3                   .45            .52             .57            .62             .65            .69             .71
Operating Expenses - Retail Supply                        DH/m3                  2.24           2.44           2.67            3.03            2.97           2.85            3.05
4.  HOUSE CONNECTIONS FINANCED UNDER PROJECT
Casablanca (RAD)                                         x 1000                                 4.50           9.00            9.00           7.50             -
Fez (RADEEF)                                             x 1000                   -             2.10           4.20            4.20           3.50             _
Marrakech (RADEEMA)                                      x 1000                   -             1.50           3.00            3.00           2.50
Tetouan (RDE)                                            x 1000                  -              0.93           1.86            1.86           1.55             -
Safi (RADEES)                                            x 1000                  -              0.80           1.59            1.59           1.32             -
Oujda (RADEEO)                                           x 1000                   -             0.78           1.56            1.56           1.30             -
Meknes (RADEEM)                                          x 1000                   -             0.75           1.50            1.50           1.25             -
Tanger (RAID)                                            x 1000                  -              0.68           1.35            1.35           1.12             -
Rabat-Sale (RED)                                         x 1000                  -              0.52           1.05            1.05           0.88             -
Taza (RADEETA)                                           x 1000                  -              0.20           0.39            0.39           0.32             -
Kenitra (RAY)                                            x 1000                   -             0.15           0.30            0.30           0.25             -                            1
ONEP                                                     x 1000                   -             2.00           9.20           13.20          13.20             -               _
1/  Net cash generation as   of capital investment in the year.
2   Net annual average cash generation as % of net fixed assets plus work in progress.



- 67 -
Annex 11
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Seleted Documents and Data in the Implementation Volume
Document No.
1     Terms of Reference for a Study on the Organization of the
Structure of the Water Supply Sector.
2     Terms of Reference for the Updating and Enlarging of the Master
Plan, for the water supply to the Mid-Atlantic Coastal zone from
Safi to Kenitra, and the Preparation of Final Designs and Bid
Documents for a First Phase construction Project.
3     Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to ONEP.
4     Terms of Reference for a Rural Water Supply Study.
5     Cost of House Connection and Participation to the Extension of the
Distribution System.
6     Year Financial Requirement for House Connections.
7     Year Financial Requirement for Supply of Materials.
8     Water Resources for the Twelve Agglomerations benefitting from the
House Connection Program of the Eleven Regies.
9     Estimated Water Demand for the 32 sector Loan bub-Projects.
10     Appraisal and Implementation of Sub-Projects under Sector Loan
Component.
il     Errachidia - Erfoud Regional Water bupply sub-Project.
12     Karia Bo Mohamed Regional Water bupply Sub-Project.
13     List of Contracts.
14     Equipment and Materials for ONEP.
15     Assumptions for Financial Forecasts of ONEP.
16     Schedule of Estimated Disbursements per Semester.
17     Population and Cost Data for sub-projects in Sector Loan Component.
18     Data on Water Resources for Centers in Water Resource Development
Component.



- 68 -
Annex 12
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
belected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Ai.      Provisions Tarifaires et Financieres 1981-1987 Roland Olivier
Conseil
A2.      Resources et Besoins en Eau Potable des Centres Urbains et Ruraux
ONEP
A3.      Plan de Developpement Economique et social 1981-1985 - ONEP
(a) Presentation du Plan Quinquenal
(b) Note de synthese
(c) Situation des Besoins et des Debits Equipes et a Equiper
(d) Bilans Physique et Comptable du Plan Triennal 1978-1980
(e) Programme d'Investissements
(f) Besoins en Personnel
B1.      Alimentation en Eau Potable de la Vallee du Ziz Premier Rapport -
SCET, Maroc
B2.      Alimentation en Eau Potable de la Vallee du Ziz Etude de
Factibilite - SCET, Maroc
B3.      Etudes Pilote sur les Branchements Sociaux - ONEP
(a) Goulmima
(b) Ben Slimane
(c) El Gara
(d) Ben Guerir
(e) Boulmane du Dades
B4.      Operation Branchements Sociaux - ONEP
B5.      Operation Branchements Sociaux
Ministere de l'Interieur
B6.      Feasibility btudies prepared by ONEP for the Water Supply
Sub-Projects of:                                                                 t
(a) Karia Ba Mohamed
(b) Errachidia - Erfoud
(c) Chichaoua
(d) Midelt
(e) Matmata
(f) El Gara



- 69 -
Annex 12
Page 2
B7.      Financial Analysis and Appraisal Reports prepared by ONEP for:
(a) Chichaoua
(b) Midelt
(c) Matmata
(d) El Gara
B8.      Final Designs prepared by ONEP for the Water zupply bub-Projects
of:
(a) El Gara
(b) Chichaoua
Ci.      Report on the Karia Ba Mohamed Regional Water Supply sub-Project.
C2.      Report on the Errachidia - Erfoud Regional Water Supply
Sub-Project.
C3.      Urban Poverty Aspects of the House Connections.
C4.      Financial Working Papers
G5.      Water bupply and bewerage bector Memorandum.



r



____________- ________________________________, __________, ____                                                                                     IBRD   15497R
-36°                                        12°                                                         8'              Aa 4°                                                                                     FEBRUARY 1981-
QOR OCC O
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                                                                    TAN IC ÉR
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS IN PROJECT AREA                                                                                     Asitcl '                    HOCEIMA               »
REGIONAL WATER SUPPLIES                                                                            tcrcEe4TEOAN  '  CHAOUEF                  -                       Said,a
RABAT  REGIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT  (Towns wlnere population                                                                                                                     ` \ KsurEEIMA  NA BOF
wilI benefit from house connection prograons to be                                                                                                                     mi.V°çr  y BT«    °_ __
administered by Regies-)                                                                                e So.keIA,6oci    TAouNAT-                            o   a  Laaelne
Azrou  CENTERS IN SECTOR LOAN COMPONENT                                                 e             Mch                                                                  L: 'd 
CITIES                                                ~                                                   I                 raB.i         io __Lan 
MEDIUM  TOWNS                                                                                       A     d               bd\ --$)    3                      OUJDA            )
SMALL TOWNS                                                                              I ABT oQiifet   M EKE                                                    Ain Be nir
Vi   ECONOMIC  REGIONS                                                                                         KHEMi
MOUNTAINS                                                                                BEST                                 SIo
RAINFALL OVER 400mm, PER YEAR                                   C           CASASLANC>LIMA E
RIVERS                                                             enia,-
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                              Tnndr=ra      )
INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES                                            f          FAT.         /KHOuRIBe d-LK                                                 F
L                                   KH~KORB~  0ne-e, E NIF8 A                                 
WATER DISTRIBUTION  AND PRODUCTION                                         AD            SETTATD   L  A >o -                      °Borl,
b     ONEP M no.ge-heh of ONEP Ownnd     '                   a                      oie   Tedn   o 
-32'                         es   oDtuno o  &OperaIed                             O+ °</EL KELAAE K           ES       EAL    H         I       D       I       A                  APPPOXI^OOÙND4L A.          G 9     -32°-
-32,  ~ ~    ~          ~         ~         ~        ~           JA F                                                                    A  D-A32-
*           *e                              ,.                               g                          a  tK   A    <     4 ;           t%
I aQ2i A
ESSAOUI Ai
ESAQUIRA)         A  AEC
0                    2T 0       300A                      i                :  R     P0    T' {                   FZaor 
L~~~~~~~~~   ThA  -p I~                                                                                                       b- p,p- by th W\i B-k =fff -dt--l anYl udmnoteeasauoayeiovrneto
/ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h  -[ thi,g -p d. -tpy - thc pcel h   ,dBk-
T<IZNIT
12/                                   TIZNIT                                                                                      4 _'






IBRD 15579
-36°                                         12°                                                           8°                           `  SPAIN  )                      4                         \;   ;       \     Q fEESRUA_  I981E
MOROCCO                                                                                                TANGER   -                    d'.         rone& a           Seo
THIRD WATER  SUPPLY  PROJECT                                                                                                      TANJ6Z7 jTETouAN
ONEP CENTERS                                                                                                       ETC AEFHOCEIMA                             0
O) HEADQUARTERS                                                                                                            E     N     AHC~                   ~Ati
As   REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS                                                                                                         /          tOuiSt      NADOR / B @            *
3     ONEP CENTERS                                                                                              0LCyIoe XUJDA
Titgh,t  CENTERS WHERE WATER RESOURCES ARE TO BE DEVELOPED                                  f    ^Coonf Kile ia                       U       - NAT
ORGANIZATIONAL  LINK                                                              ;         Sd ANI ad@    <r                                                ®Taoorct,          \
[~jECONOMIC  REGIONS                                                                             KE,R~~EAj/tQL GeeÇ
MOUNTAI NS                                                                  .               Sale  tVi  SIid                  F             TjZA        J     Ai Beni Mather,
RAINFALL OVER 400mm. PER YEAR                                                             RAT    T                            yY3J    M tMEKNES  c Matmcta   / 
RIVERS                                                                                  BI~AyYaE S
PROVINCIAL  BOUNDARIES                                                            A                   MFRANE                                          -t          Vl -
RABAT  PROVINCIAL CAPITALS                                                        CAALAC    ENRnn,t 
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                             KIN&  1  'MA  C4                             VI
EL JADS AAA    <~te,chid Gaa                                                                                                         o  /~ 
E L         5   j Ahned       OB                 t F ;r                    fFAGUI G                                          m rn
J A DI D A       E.   J-
3 *           t                                      ;'            t                                           \                                               >-RgolM4/ARva»ÆF_   É5U>t                   Lz,StE  .  FERer     la
ar                                                            SAF/0               Bec Goetir         MEL LAL ~~~~~~~~~"'SAFl                                                                  FIGUJIG,0
-32                         Lo                                                                             EL EL       EL                    tE-'-               HII                  4PRXAAeolv."3
DES S RARHN A
&         ?Ç       --H           Tareet         A ;ZILAIz 
RSSAOUIRt1~ ~~~~~di hlri*N
~ESSA0U1RJ chic/t-tua                                 ~<EIa
.          /00        20T 300                                                      - e;                           -
KILOME TERS                                                              (          GJA2AZT
Tarouddn   j
pAit Melloul                                                                 offioe.oyogtot th    o /09/-5/oos o ooy 'tl   totohtor Th.    .fedoo,oOothOr
Inezoane -  Ou/ad Toitir~~~~~~~~    p~~        N               hovodonos s~~~how oo ths ontP do flot ,mpY -~.o thto p,,rt of th,, Wor/d Raok -rd /
r    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~r~*IZNIT
TI~~~~~~~~~~~~N~~~~~~~~/Ts                                                                                                    -j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4






IBRD 15498
0 -  '.,'                                                              -  -d   ' -.204        8° d-
A                                                                                              h _    loi lterheortro,y   RABAT
Addf7kh,//  >;\>__ __ ofI tlhofh -Spn'-h                                                                           oMeknes o
-s.                                     \'; 32°                                                               Q *
ER RACHIDI;A                                                                   AILA NT/C                          C..
El Kasba el Kedi       \                                           Canary/s.           -   A  L G  E R I A
°%~~~ouc                               .-\l /l /L I-\w
\\Aouf ou3s
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                                                                  '             M
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT )
Errachlidia-Erfoud    Regional  Water  Supply                                                      ,
P~ROPOSED FACI .ITIES:             / / 
J /Blrhma
SUPPLY PIPELlNE/
:   SUPPLY TO HAMLETS
RESERVOIRS
:: PUMPING STATION
'' BOREHOLES\
EX ISTI NG FACL LIT IES.                \
WATER TOWERS 
*  RESE RVOI R                            \
\    C    ~~RIVERS                               'J
0    2   4   6   ~8   40
M  0F MR                           OKILOMETERS
THIRD WATER SUPPLY~~~~~ PrOECT
. Metguida\
Ksar Jebil i         Si Fio\
PROPOSED FACILITIES    Faid
Oled. Saidan          t  RISSÀNI . Dar el Beido .
0(                   Rt rnRel   -                    \\
UPOled. Si. BraTiOm .Nerhine
Tinrheras,                   \              
Ka. BezmSEV    I
Megid u
Ksar                                                                      FEBJAeY198



t,



IBRD 15499
ho i?iSouozi uKINGDOMA   OF  MOROCCO  FEBRUARY 1981
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KARIA-BA-MOHAMED                              Ka ria-Ba-Mohamed
Regional Water Supply
SUPPLY PIPELINE
SUPPLY TO HAMLETS
-  .Internaslonal Boundaries    Proie i cu'2l                       WATER TREATMENT PLANT
hr,dt    a   î    RABA-l  0)e  nes                               IT
o                       O                                    PUMPING STATIONS
32'         oc                                                          EXISTING RESERVOIR
eteIîc                 O                                           ROADS
0O                                               TOWN
~~' <~~~~  ~~-   H~~IVERS
g~~~~~ IN                                                                     i
aay/S                    A   L GE  R 1C A 
I~~~~~~ 0 1 13K
240                                  x    240-
N       ~~~~Th,s map has been prepared by the World Bank's staff exclusive/y for the convenience
P~~4   A  I ~~  I J  or the readers of the report ru onic rn     attaohed  The deromna~fn,na:OS sed and the
12~~~~~       L      N  j    o~~~~~~~~ff ilates, any judgment on the leqal status of any territory or any~ endorsement or
--         10        j I   Occeotance of guchboundar Ioeedar es 'ehown t, rc  m  on ThE prANT
___  Ofdtt,etesrnhértgrrior; RAAMene    i,z.                  IN4K



