Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
cP. flvr4K'-
Report No. 5467-BEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 18, 1986
West Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This docment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auth'oreation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0           =    CFAF 345   1/
CFAF 1 million   =    US$2899
Sw F 1.0         =    US$.56
SDR 1.0          -    US$1.1776
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)      2           3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m )      =   10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2 =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) =   0.38 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)               2.47 acres
1 metric ton (mton)      =   2,205 pounds (lb)
I hectoliter (hl)        =   26.4 gallon (gal)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1J The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio
of FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFCAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGB         -  Foodstuff    Imports    and    Distribution    ("Societe
d'Alimentation G4nerale du Benin")
BCEAO       -  Central Bank for West African Countries ("Banque Centrale
des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest")
BBD         -  Development Bank ("Banque Beninoise pour le
Developpement")
BCB         -  Commercial BAnk ("Banque Commerciale du Benin")
CAA         - Debt Management Agency ("Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement")
CEN         -  Cabinet ("Conseil Executif National")
CIB         -  Ceramics Manufacture ("Ceramique Industrielle du Benin")
CNCA        - Agricultural Credit Bank ("Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole")
COBENAM     -  Shipping ("Compagnie Beninoise de Navigation Maritime")
CTR         -  Commision for Training and Redeployment ("Commission pour
la Formation et le Red6ploiement du Personnel")
FNI         -  State Investment Fund ("Fonds National d'Investissement")
IBETEX      -  Textile   Manufacturing    ("Industrie   Beninoise   des
Textiles")
IGE         -  State Auditing Body ("Inspection Generale d'Etat")
ISC         -  Interministerial Steering Committee ("Comite Directeur")
MJSE        - Ministiy of Justice in Charge of State Enterprises
OCBN        -  Railways ("Organisation Commune Benin Niger des Chemins
de Fer et des Transports")
ONP         -  Pharmaceuticals Imports and Distribution Company ("Office
National de Pharmacie")
PHU         -  Project Management Unit ("Cellule du Projet")
PPF         -  Project Preparation Facility
SCB         -  Cement Production ("Societe des Ciments du Benin")
SOBEPALH    -  Palm Oil Company ("Societe Beninoise de Palmier a Huile")
SOBETEX     -  Textile  Printing  Company   ("Societe  Beninoise  des
Textiles")
SOGECOB     -  Consumer Goods Imports ("Societe Generale de Commerce du
Benin")
SONACI      -  Cement Production ("Societe Nationale des Ciments")
SONACOP     -  Oil  Products  Distribution   ("Societe  Nationale   de
Commercialisation des Produits P6troliers")
SONAFEL     -  Fruits and Vegetables  ("Societe Nationale des Fruits et
Legumes")
SONATRAC    -  Freight Forwarding and Consignment ("Societe Nationale de
Transit et Consignation")
SOTRACOB    -  Freight Forwarding and Consignment ("Socift6 de Transit
et de Consignation du Benin")
SPA         -  Senior Project Advisor
TRANSBENIN  -  Trucking Company ("Soci6t6 des Transports Routiers du
Benin")
UMOA        - West  Africa  Monetary  Union  ("Union  Monetaire  Ouest-
Africaine")
rThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoization.



BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE ...........................    i-ii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMM4ARY ...........................              iii-v
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II.  THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR           .        .                 2
A. Economic Settinge............. ......................      2
B. Past Expansion of the Public Enterprise Sector             3
C. Performance of the Public Enterprise Sector.               9
D. Recognition of Sector Issues .12
III.    REFORMING THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR   .       .13
A. IDA's Policy Dialogue with the Government .13
B. Delineation of the Public Enterprise Sector .14
C. Public Enterprise Sector Managemet .17
D. Financial Viability of Enterprises .19
IV.   THE PROET........................                             21
A. Objectives.. . ....... .        ...                       21
B. Project Description .21
C. Relationship to Sector Reforms .21
D. Rehabilitation of Selected Enterprise        s            22
E. Assistance for Training and Redeployment of
Personnel .28
F. Project Management .29
G. Status of Project Preparation and Implementation
Schedule .30
H. Project Preparation Facility.                             31
I. Project Cost and Financig   ..31
J. Procurement   ..33
K. Disbursements of IDA Funds   .           .34
L. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements....    36
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS    ..36
A. Benefits .36
B. Risks .37
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATIONS ..          ......     37
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Benin in May 1984. The mission members were M. Wormser (mission
leader), C. Morin (senior counsel), D. Bovet and A. Tarnawiecki
(consultants). D. Lavoie, D. Williams and D. Jaekel were responsible
for the typing and for the overall presentation of the report.



ANNEXES
Page
2-1 List of State-Owned Corporations                ..                  39
2-2 Institutional Frameork .41
2-3  Major Provisions of Benin's Investment Code .45
2-4  Financial Performance of Selected Public Enterprises..             46
2-5  Impact of Public Enterprises on the Banking System.........    47
2-6  Financial Flows between the Government and
the Public Enterprise Sector......................        ..      50
3-1 Policy Statement .54
3-2 Action Progra. .60
3-3  Public Enterprises Envisaged for Rehabilitation or
Liquidation under the Project .67
3-4  Terms of Reference for the Development of a MIS .82
3-5  Terms of Reference for a Study on the Indebtedness
of the Public Enterprises .86
4-1  Terms of Reference for Rehabilitation Study .89
4-2  Project Management Organization Chart .94
4-3  Summary Terms of Reference for the Senior Project Advisor          95
4-4 Project Implementation Schedule .97
4-5  Projected Quarterly Disbursements of IDA Credit ........          98
AP
IBRD 18443R.



BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. General
Code
1.    Table Ronde des Partenaires au Developpement
Economique et Social de la Republique
Populaire du Benin, Rapport de Presentation,
Cotonou; 1983. (5 vols)                          129.214 (1-5)
2.     Benin, Country Economic Memorandum; August
1983.                                           LEAP-gen
3.     Catram, Etude du Transit International des
Marchandises au Benin; Octobre 1983.             129.925
4.    Miscellaneous Working Papers and Financial        221.928 (A4-1
Statements on BCB, BBD and CNCA.                A4-2, A4-3)
5.     Benin, Plan Comptable National; 1982.           Benin-182
6.    Republique Populaire du Benin, Perspectives
de Trafic sur l'Axe de Transport Cotonou -
Niamey, Fouchier; October 1983.                 221.928 (A-6)
7.    Andre Hovine, Les Finances Publiques au
Benin; April 1983.                              221.928 (A-7)
8.     Study of Labor Law in Benin, Liz Hunt; 1982.   221.928 (A-8)
9.     Benin - Accounting and Auditing Profile,        LEAP-Accounting
Uche Mbanefo; May 1983.                         procedures
B.  Documents relating to the Project                        221-928 (B-I
thru B-LI)
1.      Groupe de Travail du Comite Interministeriel
des Entreprises Publiques, Rapport sur les
Entreprises Publiques, Nora; April 1967,
Paris.
2.     Law 82-008 of December 30, 1982 governing the
relations between the State and State-owned
enterprises.
3.     Decree No. 84-59 of January 26, 1984 setting
an interministerial committee to
review quarterly reports from public
enterprises.



- ii -
4.     Decree No. 85-271 of July 12, 1985 setting
up a Project Unit to manage the public
enterprise sector rehabilitation project.
5.     Decree 84-4 of January 9, 1984 setting up an
interministerial steering committee to
supervise the implementation of the Public
Enterprise Sector Rehabilitation Project.
6.     Operational Budget for the Project
Management Unit.
7.     Technical Assistance Requirements.
8.     D. Bovet (Consultant), Reports on Benin
Public Enterprises; 1982 and 1983.
9.     A. Tarnaviecki (Consultant), Reports on
Visits of Benin Public Enterprises;
June 1984.
10.      Plan for Dissemination of Benin's National
Accounting Plan, Cotonou; August 1984.
11.      Project Cost and Financing.



- {ii -
BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              People's Republic of Benin.
Beneficiaries:          - Selected Public Enterprises.
- Ministry of Justice in charge of State
Enterprises.
IDA Credit:            SDR 12.8 million (US$15 million equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms.
Co-financing:           Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation
Sw F 15 million (US$8.4 million equivalent).
On-lending Terms:       Funds would be passed on by the Government to
beneficiary enterprises as loan or equity or a
combination of both according to the financing
plan of each enterprise rehabilitation program.
Loans would have maturities ranging from 3 to
12 years, including 1 to 3 years of grace at an
interest rate of 12% per annum. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:   This  project  aims  at  assisting  Benin  in
rehabilitating its public enterprise sector. At
the sector level, the project will support the
Government in implementing an agreed program of
reforms aiming at (a) improving the management
and operation of the public enterprise sector and
(b) curtailing State involvement in the economy,
encouraging private sector participation and more
careful screening of new public undertakings to
ensure their economic and financial viability.
At the enterprise level, (a) diagnostic studies
will be conducted for selected public enterprises
to  assess   their  potential  viability,   and
liquidation plans will be prepared for those
enterprises found uneconomic, and (b) rehabilit-
ation will be undertaken in two stages for those
enterprises diagnosed as viable; in a first
stage, an emergency program will be implemented to
arrest their further deterioration; in a second



- iv -
stage, a full rehabilitation program setting
specific conditions for efficient and profitable
operation,  will be  carried out.   The project
comprises   technical   assistance,   a   credit
component for enterprise rehabilitation, and
financing of training and redeployment of staff
laid off.
Project Benefits:       The project would rationalize the management of
the public enterprise sector and improve its
impact  on  the  economy.   Improvements  in  the
institutional   framework,   pricing   policies,
monitoring systems, and increased enterprise
autonomy should enhance enterprise efficiency and
profitability. Liquidations and better screening
of new projects will reduce budgetary drains
caused   by   uneconomic   public   undertakings.
Rehabilitation programs for selected public
enterprises should reverse their negative impact
on the budget and on the banking system and set a
new model for the relationship between the State
and public enterprises.
Project Risks:         A first risk attached to this project is that the
proposed reforms, which represent a significant
departure from policies pursued in the past,
would encounter political or social opposition
during their implementation, in particular the
more   sensitive   changes   (e.g.   enterprise
liquidations and personnel reductions). However,
the commitment of the Government as reflected in
a Policy Statement and actual steps taken since
1982 provide reasonable assurances in this
regard, with the conditionality attached to the
release  of  IDA  funds  providing  additional
safeguard towards ensuring implementation of the
agreed  reforms.   Assistance  in  training  and
redeployment of staff being laid off would also
alleviate the social cost of this program. A
second risk is the uncertainty of private sector
response to the Government's privatization policy
underway.   This  risk  is  alleviated  by  the
increasingly positive response shown recently by
both foreign and local potential investors.



-v-
Estimated Costs: a/
Z of Base
Foreign   Local   Total      Cost
----US$ million--
Technical Assistance                 3.7       1.9      5.6         18
Enterprise Rehabilitation            li.8     11.2     23.0         73
Training and Redeployment
Assistance                          -        2.9      2.9          9
Total                               15.5      16.0     31.5        100
Financing Plan:
IDA                                9.6       5.4     15.0         47
Swiss Government                   5.9       2.5      8.4         27
Government                                   8 B.1    8.1         26
Total                             15.5      16.0     31.5        100
a/ Net of taxes and duties.
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year  FY87   FY88   FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
-- --   -US$ million------
Annual             1.5*   2.1    2.3   2.3   2.2   1.8   1.3    .9    .6
Cumulative         1.5    3.6    5.9   8.2  10.4  12.2  13.5  14.4  15.0
* Including the repayment of PPF advances.
Estimated Completion Date: December 1994
Economic Rate of Return:    N.A.
Map: IBRD 18443R.
WAPID
November 1986



BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      From  a  limited  involvement  in  the  economy  until  the
mid-1970's, the State expanded its control over most of the productive
sectors and services including agricultural processing, manufacturing,
mineral production, banking, transportation, public utilities, consumer
goods, imports and distribution. The 57 public enterprises in existence
in Benin account for three-fourths of the industrial production, and
about 55% of domestic banking credit outstanding to enterprises (June
1985).   Inadequate  start-up  conditions,  conflicting  objectives,  an
inefficient regulatory and institutional framework, lack of monitoring
systems, and deficient management led to a rapid deterioration of their
performance  and  financial  condition.    So  far  this  deteriorating
situation has had a limited impact on public finance as most of the
funding was channelled through the banking system, but it represents
today a major contingent liability on the economy. The domestic banking
system which had heavily financed the expansion and operation of the
public enterprise sector has been destabilized by growing arrears on its
loans to state-owned firms.
1.02      The Government, in recognition of the worsening situation of
public enterprises and of their negative impact on economic growth and
public finances, took a number of remedial steps in April 1982, but
these were only partially implemented due to limited financial resources
and lack of adequate technical expertise. In 1983, Benin requested IDA
to assist in the rehabilitation of the public enterprise sector and
IDA's dialogue with the Government over the following two years led to
the design of the proposed project. Its objectives would be to help the
Government implement the major policy changes needed to rehabilitate the
sector.   Specifically,  the  project  would  help  (a) redirect  State
involvement in the economy towards priority areas of public management;
(b) reform the regulatory and institutional framework within which
public enterprises operate; and (c) rehabilitate selected enterprises
which can be made economically and financially viable. Over the last
years, the Government in its policy dialogue with IDA on the public
enterprise sector, has demonstrated its commitment to reforming the
sector. It has now agreed on an Action Program which forms the core of
this project.   IDA's continued involvement through financing of this
project will provide Government with the support it Is seeking for
implementing such a program.



-2-
II. THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1. Background
2.01      lenin  is a small country  in West Afric    covering about
112.600 km ; it is bordered by Nigeria in the east, *ogo in the west,
and Niger and Burkina in the north (Map IBRD 18443R). Benin has 150 kms
of shore, and extends over 700 km. from north to south.   It has a
population of 3.8 million (1984). With a 1985 GNP per capita of US$267,
Benin ranks among the least developed countries.  The country's economy
is dominated by the primary sector, employing three-fourths of the
active population, producing 40% of aggregate domestic output and
generating around half the foreign earnings.   The secondary sector,
despite rapid expansion in recent years, accounts for only 15% of GDP.
The tertiary sector centers around informal trade and transit services
to  neighboring  cotntries.   The  exploitation  of  two  known  mineral
resources, oil and limestone, began recently (1982). As a member of the
West African Monetary Union (UMOA-"Union Monetaire Ouest-Africaine"),
Benin shares a common currency (CFAF), Central Bank (BCEAO-"Banque
Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest") and credit and monetary
policies with Burkina, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo.
2. Economic Growth
2.02      The relatively high growth rates in the late 1970's reflected
the favorable evolution of the economic situation in neighboring
countries and the undertaking by the Government of major state projects
(Seme Petroleum, Save Sugar and Onigbolo Cement).  This situation came
to an abrupt end by 1982; a severe drought substantially affected
agricultural yields;  the closure of the Nigerian market delayed the
commercial operation of the completed cement and sugar plants;  the
stimulus to tertiary sector activity from neighboring countries was
sharply reduced with the end of oil and uranium booms and with the
closure of the Nigerian border; and capital expenditures settled back to
a more modest level.  The growth rate of the economy fell below 2%
during 1983 - 1984. A modest recovery in GDP growth occurred in 1985
owing mainly to an exceptional performance of the agricultural sector.
3. Public Finances
2.03      The  financial  position  in  the  late  1970's,  although
increasingly burdened by the expansion of the public sector, also
benefitted from high revenues derived from the Nigerian and Burkinabe
economies. This favorable situation deteriorated after 1982 as growing
outlays  on  administration  drained  reduced budgetary resources.   An
overall budget deficit equivalent to some 102 of GDP appeared in 1983;
increasing external current imbalance had to be financed largely by
coumercial borrowings; scheduled debt service as a ratio of exports of
goods and non-factor services worsened from 2.6% in 1978 to about 20Z in
1983. The foreign asset position of the banking system weakened as the



- 3 -
public sector's net position deteriorated, and Benin developed arrears
on  its external and domestic obligations.   The persistence of these
trends has given rise in 1986 to occasional delays in meeting the
monthly payroll.
4. Prospects
2.04      In the years ahead, economic slowdown in neighboring countries
is expected to continue to constrain demand in Benin's industrial and
service sectors. High state expenditures without simultaneous increase
in revenues should result in further deterioration of the public finance
position. Even taking into account the relative improvement in the
trade balance expected after completion of the large industrial and
petroleum projects, rising interest payments could keep the current
account deficit above 10% of GDP through 1990, and contribute to the
accumulation of arrears on external debt payments. Sustaining real per
capita income over the next few years will therefore require dramatic
measures to improve efficiency of key s,ectors of the economy
predominantly organized as state enterprises during the 1970's, and to
optimize the use of scarce budgetary resources.
B. Past Expansion of the Public Enterprise Sector
1. Origin
2.05      The  public  enterprise  sector  emerged  in  1974  when  the
Government adopted policies aimed at shifting key sectors of the economy
from foreign domination to state leadership. Previously, the State had
ownership interests in less than half a dozen firms, mostly in
traditional areas of public involvement (e.g. railways, power). The
objectives of the new policy were to strengthen national control over
economic development in line with planned priorities. The Government
considered tighter control over the economy to be more likely to
optimize resource allocation, accelerate growth, and bring about social
improvements.
2.06      Most public enterprises were created between 1974 and 1978, as
shown in the chart below:



-4-
Pace d Pubic Ents,pd. Ceafion
15
10                    r
I
X )   F-1   m           I  I
P.. 10 1970 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 7s 79 8D
oYer of Cotion
=                      '.':4:d~~~~~W     Bgnls-26M
a/ Sample of 31 enterprises.
Increased State control was achieved in a variety of ways. First, the
Government took over several firms from their foreign owners against
-ompensation. This was the case in the banking sector, where all three
foreign banks were merged into a single state-owned commercial bank;
similarly, the interests of the six international oil companies
operating in Benin were bought out to form a national petroleum
distribution  company.   Second,  in  cases  where  the  Government  had
minority holdings, it increased its share and its active control of the
enterpribe. This occurred in the cement and textile sectors. Third,
the State created a number of new public enterprises reducing the
economic importance of existing private enterprises in their sector of
activity. Since 1974, all major new ventures in Benin have been set up
as state-owned companies.
2. Role of Public Enterprises
2.07      Public  enterprises  are now predominant  in Benin's  nodern
sector. The 57 public and semi-public enterprises encompass all sectors
of the economy and employ approximately 28,000 persons. They absorbed
about 55% of d,aestic credit outstanding to enterprises (June 1985),
represent 75% of Benin's external debt service. They also account for
three-fourths of industrial production.   They are set up  as State
companies  ("Societes d'Etat"), mixed  economy  enterprises  ("Societes
d'Economie Mixte") or public establishments ("Offices").
2.08      Benin's public enterprises were set up  in industrial and
service sectors (Annex 2-1). Industrial public enterprises encompass
agro-processing (oil palm products, fruits and vegetables, cotton), and
traditional import-substitution activities (textiles, brewery, cement



-5-
from imported clinker,  ceramics and sugar).   Public enterprises in
service sectors are involved in utilities (power, water supply,
telecommunications), import and distribution (foodstuffs, garments and
appliances,   pharmaceuticals,   and  petroleum   products),   transport
(railway,  port,  trucking,  bus  companies,  shipping,  and  freight
forwarding), finance, and hotels.
3. Conditions of Creation
2.09      Poor Desig.  Many Beninese public enterprises were plagued
from the outset with flawed project design.  New ventures were not
always based upon reliable economic appraisal. Three agro-industrial
firms were created on the basis of exaggerated yield estimates; the
design of a major textile project (IBETEX) did not adequately identify
the high product quality, substantial working capital, and reliable
marketing partners required to compete effectively in Europe. Promotion
by foreign suppliers of their equipment regardless of project economics
led to unviable investments, e.g. CIB (industrial ceramics).
2.10      Low Equity.  Another source of problems, associated with the
hasty creation of numerous public undertakings was the inability of the
State to contribute adequate equity.  This was particularly the case for
ventures such as IBETEX (textiles), SONAFEL (fruits and vegetables), and
TRANSBENIN (trucking) in which low initial capital and inability to add
capital later (para 2.21) led to a spiral of increasing indebtedness and
financial losses.  Similarly, the ill-fated 50 provincial enterprises
created in the mid-1970s, now dissolved, were not provided any initial
equity.
2.11      Conflicting Objectives.  State corporations often had unclear
or conflicting objectives, social as well as commercial: distribution
companies suffered from policies of low margins and a uniform price
throughout the territory regardless of tr-asportation costs without
compensatory subsidies (pharmaceutical, foodstuffs, petroleum). These
social objectives had unwanted outcomes, including high consumer prices
and windfall profits for private intermediaries in areas where public
enterprises could not distribute profitably, and promotion of
high-margin luxury goods rather than price-controlled basic commodities.
2.12      Inadequate Staffing.  Staffing of newly created state-owned
firms was often poor; the managers put in charge of Benin's public firms
during the period of peak enterprise creation in the mid-1970s were
generally civil  servants without business  experience.   This  caused
numerous commercial errors, sometimes leading to the bankruptcy of the
firm.  Enterprises were also required  to absorb a high number of
graduates irrespective of their specific staffing needs.



-6-
4. Institutional Framework
2.13      The content of the law governing relationships betwpen the
State and public enterprises is discussed in Annex 2-2; maJor features,
as they function in practice, are reviewed below. While each public
firm is rnder the tutelage of a technical supervising ministry
('Ministire de Tutelle"), at least five other ministries also share the
oversight function. The General Manager of an enterprise must work
within a management committee, and ministerial interference considerably
limits his autonomy (see chart below); the heavy and sometimes confusing
system of tutelage reduced management's powers and accountability
without providing the State with effective control over the operation of
its public enterprises.
116S11lutIpL FRACEM DF VsW IC EuiWRWlS
POLelit llureu 
2D                    iec       ( rty
No iora
Aiitry                                  Sp ll   rsing      ministy  e_  itrh
rcomparcne,    ry or Pd  onirdstry of Ldmr m lnim ry  of Fo14mbe r f Jueting
tvricing    --vanrisusm nt re, irteefimrpo  (PriUnioandParty  rppresel tAtitivs
d  a .  Te  ulr oBaringdeiribg   --ofmientd m
-ao  cmivest me rfr bu et  Rtfiin -Aaditing
of the accounts for the preceding year. apndm tuo
i                             _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Ibord or Direc er 
nwi Direter
_twm Comtt 
Owr_n Ckmeittee
2.14      Board  of  Directors.   The  Board  of  Directors  ("Conseil
d'Admialstration")  is  legally  respousible  for  administering  the
enterprise and for  setting overall policy.  For fully state-owned
compa-nies, the Board consists of ez maximunu of 14 members representing
the various-ministries, the employees (Union and P-arty representatives),
and various agencies. The number of Board members of mixed compaies is
determined on a case-by-case basis. The Board's8 legal. powers include
approval of operating and Investment budgets for the following year and
of the accounts for the preceding year, and their submission to the



Cabinet  (CEN-"Conseil  Executif  National")  for  final  approval.   In
practice, however, the Boards often play a minor role, and the
supervising minister retains veto power over all Board decisions. Some
Boards have never been set up, others seldom met, even at times of major
difficulties, e.g. that of the country's development bank-"Banque
Beninoise pour le D6veloppement" (BBD).
2.15      Enterprise  Management.   Management  of  public  enterprises,
according to law, is vested in a Management Committee ("Comite de
Direction") which includes the General Manager, technical directors and
employees representing the Union and the Party.   In practice,  this
Committee has often been ineffective and management is carried out by
the General Manager, appointed by decree of the cabinet (CEN). Many of
the Manager's decisions are subject to successive approvals by the
Board, the technical supervising ministry,  and often the CEN.  All
significant decisions including contracting, pricing, investments,
borrowings, budget, hiring and firing of staff have effectively been
removed from enterprise management and raised to the governmental level.
5. Management Information Systems and Control
2.16      A new National Accounting Plan was introduced in January 1983,
based  on  the  OCAM  System   ("Organisation  Commune  Africaine  et
Mauricienne")   and   oriented   towards   a   value   added   concept.
Notwithstanding an ILO financed training program, implementation has
been slow due to a lack of qualified accountants.  Lack of adequate
source information is compounded by the absence of even a simple
Management Information System  (MIS).  Lack of information on public
enterprise operations considerably reduced effective Government control.
The Finance Ministry is unable to identify operating subsidies which may
be required to sustain an enterprise's operations because it has no
current data either on the public enterprise sector or the enterprise
itself.   Budgets presented  to  the CEN are  far from accurate.   An
Interministerial Task Force created in January 1984 was to receive
quarterly reports on enterprise activity, but this requirement is not
being met.
2.17      Three auditing bodies are supposed to monitor the financial
condition of each public enterprise. The first is the State Inspection
Commission  (IGE-"Inspection  G4nerale  d'Etat"),  formed  in  1976  by
merging the former Finance Ministry Inspectorate with the Presidential
Inspectorate.   This Commission carries out ad hoc investigations as
directed  by  the  Office  of  the  President.   Second,  Accounting
Commissioners ("Commissaires aux Comptes") are appointed to each public
enterprise by the CEN.  Their responsibility includes verifying the
enterprise's cash accounts twice a year and all accounts at least once a
year. Third, the Ministry of Justice in charge of Inspection of State
Enterprises (MJSE) is expected to carry out external auditing of the
public enterprises. These numerous auditing bodies in fact have limited
capabilities, principally due to the lack of trained accountants and
auditors in the country. None of them succeeded in improving accounting
standards or in ascertaining the enterprises' financial position. Out



- 8 -
of the 57 public enterprises, only 10 have provided audited financial
statements on a regular basis; 35 have provided them irregularly, after
long delays and without auditors certificatiot,.
6. Investment Code
2.18      Benin's 1982 Investment Code, the details of which are in
Annex 2-3, defines incentives for four types of investments. The first
regime  (Regime  A)  applies  to  public  or  mixed  enterprises  with
investments above CFAF 50 million (services) or CFAF 500 million (other
enterprises).  This regime grants exemption from turnover tax, as well
as various reductions in import duties in initial years of operations;
full exemption from profit taxes in the first two years of operation,
and partial exemption in the following three years. The second regime
(Regime B) applies to private enterprises with investments ranging from
CFAF 100 million to CFAF I billion and provides comparable benefits to
those granted under Regime A. with slightly more generous relief from
import duties but less favorable taxation on profits in the early years
of   operations.    For   important   foreign   undertakings   (above
CFAF 1 billion) with long gestation periods, Regime C provides all
advantages of Regime B, in addition to guaranteed stability of fiscal
and financial legislation for 10 years.  Finally, private small and
medium size enterprises (CFAF 20 to 100 million) benefit from Regime D,
slightly more favorable than Regime B. This Investment Code provides
adequate incentives for private investments in Benin.
7. Pricing Policies
2.19      Prior to the reform undertaken in the context of this project
(para 3.22), prices or profit margins for imported and domestically
produced goods and services were subject to the following controls:
a)   Imported consumer goods of a strategic nature are subject to
price approval by the Ministry of Commerce. The price allowed
is  based  on  specified  distribution  margias  above  the
documented  import cost.  This category concerned 25 items
(including potatoes, sugar, powdered milk and rice).
b)   Other imported goods do not require prior approval of price,
but must be priced in accordance with specified margins above
import  cost  at wholesale  and  retail  levels.   Control  is
exercised by field inspectors from the Ministry of Commerce.
This second group included all non-strategic imported items.
c)   Basic domestically produced goods (e.g. cement, beer, soft
drinks, textiles) and essential services (e.g. electricity,
railways, freight forwarding) are subject to prices or tariffs
fixed by the Government.
d)   Agricultural export commodities (e.g. cotton, palm fruit, palm
kernels, groundnuts) are subject to prices set annually by
Government decree ("bareme").



- 9 -
2.20      The pricing system has not allowed many enterprises to achieve
financial viability. Excessive delays were incurred in granting needed
increases, and these were often inadequate (e.g. transit tariffs, soft
drinks, beer).
8. Financing of Public Enterprise Investments
2.21      Poor pricing, combined with inadequate investment financing
practices has led to financial distress of many enterprises. As noted
in para 2.10, initial capitalization was often minimal, as was the
subsequent  financing of expansion  investments.   In  the case of La
Beninoise (brewery), investments of over CFAF 6 billion were made
between 1977 and 1982 without any equity contribution by Government,
leading to excessive indebtedness and financial instability. In other
instances, the Governmert did not provide annual operating subsidies to
compensate for the social objectiveb it had assigned to some enterprises
(para 2.11) or for delays in granting needed price adjustments (para
2.20).
2.22      Reinvestment of an enterprise's earnings, when these existed,
was also limited as allocation of profits is specified by law, rather
than decided on the basis of the specific requirements of the individual
enterprise. Public enterprises are required to transfer 70% of their
profits to the Treasury, reducing their ability to finance necessary
maintenance expenditures, and overtime impairing their production
capabilities.
C. Performance of the Public Enterprise Sector
1. Overall Financial Results
2.23      The poor financial performance of Benin's public enterprises
reflects the major problems arising from their conditions of creation
and  of  operation  (paras  2.05-2.22).   Two-thirds  of  the  public
enterprises are encountering major financial problems, ranging from
chronic losses to negative net worth or lack of liquidity (see chart
below). Financial data available for 28 of the 57 public enterprises
show a combined after-tax loss of about CFAF 3 billion on annual sales
of CFAF 113 billion in FY1985, and many enterprises involved in
textiles, cement and distribution exhibit negative net worth.  Over half
of these enterprises have a debt-equity ratio exceeding five to one and
about 40% of them have a negative net working capital position. The
enterprises' financial situation has further deteriorated in the last
two years, with the slowdown of Nigeria's economy, a major market for
Beninese production. For example, the well-run textile printing firm
(SOBETEX), one of the most profitable public enterprises until 1982,
started to show losses in 1983 with capacity utilization falling below
15% when its Nigerian market collapsed. Financial results for selected
public enterprises are shown in Annex 2-4.



- 10 -
INDICATORS OF PUBUC ENTERPRISE FINANCIAL PERFOMACE
Percent    Firms a
0           25          50           75          00
Net Losses
Excessive Debl-
Equity Ratio b
Negative Net Worth
Negof   Nei
Working Copito
ased an raost recen fidd nol daaaobe tobr a xmple of 28 Publc entrse.
bDefid a negaClve or geot  thon 5:1.
Souroe: Bank stall olVsb .
2.  Impact on the Banking Sector
2.24     Public enterprises have relied heavily on the banking sector
to  sustain   their  deteriorating   financial   situation.    As   of
December 1984, more than CFAF 57 billion of public enterprise loans were
outstanding.  The sector absorbed half of all medium term credit to
Beninese enterprises and virtually all the long term credit.
2.25     Poor performance of Beninese public enterprises resulted in
growing arrears with the banking system, affecting today about 80Z of
public  enterprise  loans.   At  the  same  time  the  decrease  in the
Government's revenues since 1981 has in turn reduced the Government's
stable deposits with  the banking system,  critically impairing the
financial viability of the three state-owned banks. The Development
Bank (BBD-"Banque Beninoise pour le Diveloppement") and the Agricultural
Credit Bank (CNCA-"Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole") have been
particularly affected. They are both heavily illiquid, and critically
dependent on BCEAO financing (well in excess of their regulatory
rediscounting limits).  The Commercial Bank (BCB-"Banque Co merciale du
Benin") holds the largest public enterprise portfolio but is in a
slightly better situation, collecting over 70Z of the country's banking
deposits. Cumulatively, the three banks have an estimated negative net
worth exceeding CFAF 40 billion.



- 11 -
3. Impact on Public Finances
2.26      The poor performance of the sector has had so far a limited
direct impact on public finances (see Table below), as funding has been
provided mostly by the banking system. Only CFAF 32 billion had been
invested by the Government in the sector from 1979 through 1983, mostly
as equity or loans. This compared with about CFAF 25 billion received
by the Government from public enterprises, as dividends, taxes, etc.
over the same period. These inflows to the Government are declining.
Business and excise tax inflows have dropped since 1981 and most public
enterprises were exempted from part of their tax obligations (e.g.
contribution   to   a   State   Investment   Fund   (FNI-"Fond   National
d'Investissement")) in 1982. The potential impact of public enterprises
on public finances, however, through guarantees and other contingent
liabilities, is far greater than the rather limited drain indicated
above.   It is estimated that Government guarantees granted to public
enterprises exceeded CFAF 114 billion over the same 1979-1983 period (of
which CFAF 69 billion are accounted for by the Save and Onigbolo
projects), a substantial contingent liability on Benin's public
finances. The table below summarizes the flow of funds between State
and public enterprises, while further details are given in Annex 2-6.
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL FLOWS, 1979-1983
(CFAF million)
Dirwct Outfias                               Direct Inflow
Equity inestents        12,440                   Dividends               480
Net lending             13,720                   Business Taxes       13,330
Operatig subsidies        150 a/                 Payron, excise txes   7,920
Debt repayments by CAA,    5,410b/               ContrX tions to FNI   3,030
Total outflows        31.720                     Total inflws       24.760
Exes Otflcw             6,960
r        T.1iHt Liabilities    114,000
a/ Miulinm estbiate.
b/ 1981-1983 partial data.
Source: Missi  analysis of CAA and Treasury data.



- 12 -
4. Liquidity Crisis
2.27      The deterioration of Benin's public finances and the tight
position of domestic banks have exacerbated the illiquidity of most
public enterprises faced with recurring losses.  Enterprises have not
received  the  necessary  price  increases  or  operating  subsidies
(para 2.21), and their access to domestic banking credit has declined
over the last three years as the banks' own liquidity position worsened
(para 2.25). As a last resort, state-owned firms have built up arrears
towards Government and other public enterprises to maintain a minimum
liquidity position. The whole public enterprise sector now rests on an
intricate system of unpaid bills among the enterprises, the banks and
Government.   Unpaid  taxes  from  public  enterprises  have  exceeded
CFAF 19 billion over the 1979-1983 period, and ad hoc arrangements are
made between them to compensate interlocking debts. A number of public
enterprises now enforce strict procedures of payment in cash for
services   rendered   (e.g.   freight   forwarding);   others   negotiate
arrangements with the banks before depositing receipts, to prevent their
accounts  from being automatically debited  to cover arrears.   These
practices further contribute to inefficiency.
D.  Recognition of Sector Issues
2.28      The rapid deterioration of the performance of Benin's public
enterprise sector and the urgent need for remedial measures have been
recognized by  Government  since  the  late  1970's.   Some  preliminary
remedial  steps were taken during the 1979-1982 period.  A National
Commission ("Commission Nationale des Bilans") was created in 1979 to
review public enterprise finances and recommend management changes. Two
other commissions followed, and as noted previously a set of decisions
were taken in April 1982 by the Central Committee of the Party and the
CEN, as follows:
a)   Liquidations.   The liquidation of unviable enterprises was
decided and substantial layoffs have occurred. Most of the
50 provincial enterprises, insufficiently capitalized and
ill-conceived from the start, were disbanded.   Other weak
enterprises were merged.
b)   New management teams.   Management was replaced in several
enterprises.
c)   Price increases and review of monopolies.   Increases were
granted in the prices of several commodities to reflect costs
(e.g. cement, beer). Public enterprise monopolies were ended
for  importation  and  distribution  of  wheat,  rice,  and
pharmaceuticals, and a commission was formed to review other
state monopolies.
d)   Reform of the institutional framework.   The membership of
Boards of Directors was reduced; audit was strengthened both
in the enterprise and in each supervisory ministry.



- 13 -
e)   Management and production incentives.  A commission headed by
the Labor Minister was charged with studying introduction of
performance bonuses for enterprise managers and staff.  The
previous practice of paying wages for a thirteenth month
regardless of performance, was abolished.
2.29      These decisions were consolidated in the following two years.
Over 2,000 employees of public enterprises have been laid off from
dissolved enterprises since 1982. The Government stated its objective
to seek partial or total privatization in selected sectors previously
reserved as state monopolies.  Private potential investors have been
approached for possible partnership in the areas of transit and
distribution.   A February 1984 Presidential Circular reiterated the
previous decisions concerning the sector, including those listed in para
2.28 (b) to (e).
2.30      Although reflecting its commitment to a far reaching reform of
the sector, these early Government efforts were constrained by the
country's lack of financial resources and of technical and managerial
expertise. Not all the liquidations which had been decided in 1982 were
carried out. Mergers were not always accompanied by remedial measures
to ensure the viability of newly created enterprises (e.g., SOGECOB, a
freight forwarding company which combined two bankrupt companies in
1982, was not provided any additional equity). Only a limited number of
enterprises  underwent  changes  in  their  management  teams.    The
performance-based incentive system envisaged in the 1982 decisions was
not  implemented.   Changes  in  the  legal  framework  governing  public
enterprises   were   insufficient   to   substantially   improve   the
decision-making  process.   Against  this  background,  the  Government
requested IDA's assistance in its rehabilitation efforts.
III.   REFORMING THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A.   IDA's Policy Dialogue with the Government
3.01      An  IDA  economic mission visited  Benin  in  June  1982  and
focussed on the analysis of issues facing the public enterprise sector.
Its findings, summarized in a Country Economic Memorandum (Ref. A-2),
were  discussed with  the  Government  in  February  1983.   The report
concluded that crucial policy and institutional changes, combined with
external financial and technical assistance, would be required to
rehabilitate the sector.  In response to the Government's request for
IDA's assistance in dealing with these issues, several preparation
missions led to the design of a program of sector reforms.
3.02      This  program,  addressing  the  range  of problems  noted  in
Chapter II, involves (a) redirecting the role of the State towards
priority areas of public management; (b) improving the Institutional
framework     governing      the      State-Enterprise      relationships;
(c) strengthening the control and incentive systems; and (d) improving
enterprise efficiency and financial viability. The program described
below has been formulated by the Government in consultation with IDA,



- 14 -
and forms the basis of the proposed project.   It is reflected in a
Policy Statement and a related Action Program outlining specific reform
proposals with a detailed calendar for their implementation (Annexes 3-1
and 3-2). This document was reviewed and agreed upon at negotiations,
and assurances of its implementation by the Government were obtained.
In August, 1985, the Government formally adopted these two documents. A
joint review by IDA and the Government of the progress in implementation
of the Action Program will be conducted every six months, starting in
March 1987. This program and its implementation status are described in
the following paragraphs (3.03 - 3.24).
B. Delineation of the Public Enterprise Sector
1. Role of the State
3.03      The Government has decided to rationalize and reduce state
involvement  in  the  economy.   A  specific  objective  in  the  Policy
Statement is to restrict State ownership to those enterprises which:
(a) are of a vital or strategic nature; (b) are so large in scale that
Government participation is required; (c) require State involvement to
attract foreign capital; or (d) perform essential public services that
meet social needs and thus do not attract private commercial interest.
In  order  to  translate  this  policy  objective  into  practice,  the
Government is  taking specific  steps  to  reduce  State ownership and
encourage private sector initiatives through: (a) the liquidation of
selected enterprises; (b) the pursuit of privatization of others; and
(c)  restrictions  on  future  State  investments.   Specific  steps are
discussed in the following paragraphs.
2.   Liquidation of Non-Viable Enterprises
3.04      The  Government  has  undertaken  to  physically  close  down
uneconomic public ventures.  At negotiations it announced that it had
decided to end the operation of IBETEX (textiles), CIB (industrial
ceramics), and TRANSBENIN (trucking). In addition, since negotiations,
the Government has advised IDA that it now envisages to close down ten
additional public enterprises including TAB (Beninese airlines) and OBAR
(land reclamation). A short description of the three enterprises which
are being closed is presented below, and further details are in
Annex 3-3.
3.05      IBETEX  is  an  integrated  cotton  spinning,  weaving,  and
garment-making factory located in Parakou destined for local and export
market.   Since  its  inception,  this  mixed-economy  company  has  had
numerous problems with its foreign partners, its European market, and
the quality of its cotton.  Scaled-down operations aimed at the local
market still yielded heavy operating losses.   IBETEX was placed in
liquidation in 1982. In that year, it lost about CFAF 600 million on
sales of CFAF 500 million.   Options to rehabilitate the plant were
studied but were not found economical. The Government decided in 1985
to terminate IBETEX operations.  IBETEX is insolvent, with outstanding
debts of CFAF 10 billion and liquidation of its assets is now underway.



- 15 -
3.06      CIB  was a small manufacturer of ceramic tiles and bathroom
appliances,  with  80%  Government  ownership.   Inadequate  equipment,
disagreement with the foreign technical partner who supplied the
equipment, and product design flaws had caused deterioration of its
financial position. Accumulated losses (CFAF 900 million) exceeded its
equity base by more than six times. No reasonable proposals for the
rehabilitation of CIB were developed.  In 1985, the Government closed
down CIB and initiated the sale of its remaining assets.
3.07      TRANSBENTN  was a small trucking firm owned jointly by the
Government and a group of private truckers; the private shareholders
have  never  been  supportive  of  the  firm's  objectives.   Inadequate
capitalization and high costs in the face of a very competitive private
sector prevented the company from operating profitably.   TRANSBENIN
recorded annual losses varying between CFAF 100 and 200 million on
revenues slightly over CFAF 100 million, and had a negative net wo-th.
TRANSBENIN was disbanded at the end of 1985.
3. Privatization
3.08      For activities other than essential public services, strategic
or vital sectors, and which may attract private interest, the Government
will seek increased private sector participation.  This may take the
form  of  bringing  private  investors  into  state-owned  companies,
increasing the private sector's share in mixed-economy companies, or
opening up to private competition sectors previously subject to
state-monopoly.   The  Government will  seek  foreign  investors,  after
giving priority to nationals with the requisite financial and business
qualifications.
3.09      The Government has drawn up a list of sectors suitable for
privatization.    These   generally  -epresent  activities  which  are
potentially profitable and thus attractive to private investors:
freight   forwarding,   import   of   consumer   gcods   and   equipment,
construction, hotels, data processing and textiles representing together
12 public enterprises.   Of these,  the Government has selected nine
enterprises  to be  the  initial  focus  of privatization  efforts.   At
negotiations, the Government's privatization strategy for each of the
activities was reviewed and agreed upon with IDA, and the Government
agreed to exchange views annually with IDA (starting in March 1987) on
progress achieved towards implementation of this privatization strategy.
3.10      The rationale for privatizing the above mentioned sectors is
as follows:
a)   Freight forwarding.   By virtue of its geographic location,
Benin can play a key role as a transit corridor to the
landlocked countries of the interior (e.g. Burkina, Niger).
In order to compete efficiently with alternate routes via Lome
or Lagos, the Government would like to attract competent
private entrepreneurs (domestic and foreign) who would be able
to raise efficiency standards in this activity.



- 16 -
b)   Imports and distribution.  This is traditionally a private
sector activity, in which public participation has proved
inefficient. The Government has approached potential foreign
technical partners and local investors for two enterprises in
this sector.
c)   Construction.   This  activity  (roads  and  buildings)  has
traditionally been in the private sector in Benin until
SONACOTRAP was created and acquired the used equipment of a
foreign contractor.  Difficulties have been encountered in
managing the firm, and strong private competition remains.
This firm and its assets are likely to attract private
investors.
d)   Hotels.   The  state-owned  enterprise  ONATHO  competes  with
private sector hotels and it may be possible to interest
private firms in purchasing or managing its properties. The
largest ONATHO hotel is currently managed by a foreign firm
under contract.
e)   Data Processing.  The state-owned data processlng  firm is
notphly inefficient and is one of the causes of delayed
rcatistics in Benin. Technical and management assistance is
required and could be effectively provided through private
lore' or foreign partnership.
f)   Textiles.  Privatization is being sought for this activity
which belongs naturally in the private sector. The SOBETEX
operation has consistently been well managed with the help of
a foreign partner, but currently requires new marketing
initiatives and a capital injection. Private partners might
be interested in purchasing part of the Government's shares.
3.11      The  Government  has  demonstrated  over  the  past  year  its
commitment to this policy of selective privatization. As noted earlier
(para 2.29), discussions have been held with potential foreign partners
in the transit and freight forwarding, hotels and textiles sectors.
State monopoly has been ended in the areas of transit, computers and
distribution (food and pharmaceuticals) where the private sector is now
allowed to compete.
4. Future State Investments
3.12      A root problem of Benin's public enterprise sector has been
poor  investment  planning.   As  noted  in  para 2.09,  several  pub'.ic
enterprises (e.g. IBETEX, CIB) were undertaken without appropriate
economic  or  financial  analysis,  resulting  in  heav-  losses.   The
Government has decided. in the context of thIs projetL, to .ubject any
proposed new public enterprise to a full technical, ecouomic and
financial evaluation of its viability and of its impact on public
finnces. The Government has agreed that no investment in the public
enterprise sector would be undertaken unless: (i) the economic rate of



- 17 -
return is at least 1OZ; (ii) the financial ratc of return is at least
12%; (iii) the projected debt service coverage is at all times higher
than 1.3; and (iv) in the case of an investment requiring external
financing, the foreign exchange earnings or savings more than cover the
investment's debt service. The evaluation of any investment proposal
will also demonstrate that it is optimal from the technical, economic
and financial viewpoints. The Government has agreed to consult IDA on
any proposed new investment in the public sector; furthermore, that its
investments in industrial and commercial enterprises shall not exceed at
any time during the life of the project annual limits to be set in
agreement with IDA on the basis of a yearly review of the public
investment  program.    In  the  first  such  review,   a  limit  of
CFAF 2.3 billion for the 1986 program was agreed.
C. Public Enterprise Sector Management
1. Rehabilitation Programs
3.13      The Government will introduce the concept of rehabilitation
programs as a tool for setting and clarifying State-Enterprise relations
and mutual obligations. Rehabilitation programs, similar in concept to
contrats-programmes developed in France and Great Britain, would cover a
multi-year period and be updated annually. They would guide enterprise
managers and supervising ministries alike, and also form the basis for a
monitoring system and performance evaluation of the enterprise and its
managers. The Government would apply this concept on a pilot basis to
the selected enterprises to be rehabilitated under this project (see
Chapter IV). On the basis of experience to be gained, this concept
would be  extended  to  other  public  enterprises.   The  content  and
implementation of the rehabilitation programs to be prepared under this
project are discussed in more detail in paras 4.04 through 4.18.
2. Redefinition of the Institutional Framework
3.14      The Government is reviewing the legal framework governing
public enterprises and has agreed during negotiations on a detailed plan
for institutional reform.  The objective of the institutional reform
would be to clarify and rationalize the role of the various bodies
involved in the supervision and management of public enterprises (i.e.,
the Technical Supervising Ministry, the Board of Directors, the General
Manager, and the Management Committee) thereby enhancing efficiency of
their operations by (a) avoiding overlapping responsibilities and
conflicting authorities, (b) decentralizing decision-making power, and
(c) allowing enterprise mnagement greater autonomy and accountability.
These changes will require revisions of the existing laws and
regulations. A draft revised legal framework has now beeu prepared,
which the Government has agreed to enact before July 1987.
3.15      Technical  Supervising  Ministry.   The  Supervising Ministry
would be responsible for generally guiding and monitoring the activities
of the enterprise in line with Government sector policies.  It would
play a major role within the Interministerial Steering Committee



- 18 -
(para 4.23) during preparation of the enterprise rehabilitation program,
and  would  exercise  responsibility  for  enterprise  oversight.   For
enterprises without formal rehabilitation programs, the Supervising
Ministry would be given the lead role in guiding the enterprise
activities by defining its objectives and strategies, approving detailed
investment and operating budgets, and monitoring and evaluating
enterprise performance.  The Supervising Ministry would exercise its
authority through the Board of Directors.
3.16      Board of Directors.  The role of the Board of Directors would
be reinforced, to give it the responsibility for overall guidance and
oversight over the enterprise including the formulation and approval of
its strategy and policies. A specific objective of the reform will be
to clarify the Board's powers relative to those of the Supervising
Ministry.   In the case of a fully state-owned enterprise, the Board
would ensure that the enterprise operates within broad guidelines set by
the Supervising Ministry. The Board's effectiveness is expected to be
enhanced by expanding its representation beyond the enterprise
shareholders to include representatives of the private sector or
relevant entities (e.g. u:.lversities). The Board should meet at least
once every three months.
3.17      General Manager and Management Committee.  The General Manager
would be responsible for day-to-day management of the enterprise. The
reform would aim at increasing both the autonomy and accountability of
the General Manager, to whom the Board could delegate such powers as (a)
spending within approved budgets; (b) negotiating with suppliers and
banks; (c) organizing production methods and schedules; and t:l) hiring
and firing of staff. The Management Committee would be re-defined as an
advisory body assisting the General Manager, without any independent
powers.
3.18      Personnel.  Reductions in personnel are likely to be among the
most sensitive aspects of public enterprise sector reform. Nonetheless,
they will be necessary as part of the proposed project. The Government
has expressed its readiness to imnlement layoffs required to complete
the enterprise rehabilitation programs or liquidation plans. Through
financing of a training and redeployment program (para 4.22), IDA will
assist  in  financing  the  execution  of  this  crucial  reform.   The
Government has already carried out major personnel reductions in a
number of companies: in IBETEX employment has been cut from 1,600 to
about 200 over the past five years; in AGB personnel has been reduced by
about 300 employees in 1984 and 1985; layoff programs are also being
prepared for the Cotonou Port ("Port Atutonome de Cotonou"-PAC), for the
Pharmaceuticals Import and Distribution Company (ONP-'Office National de
Pharmacie")  and for transit companies  (SONATRAC and SOTRACOB).   The
Government has also decided to grant enterprise managers greater
autonomy in the hiring and firing of personnel, and new regulations to
that effect would be introduced in connection with the revision of the
existing legal framework governing public enterprise operations
(pata 3.14).



- 19 -
3. Management Information System
3.19      A MIS is needed to effectively monitor the operation of public
enterprises.   The objective would be to provide both Government and
enterprise management with timely financial and othier information.
Reports would be produced on the performance of individual public
enterprises and on the sector as a whole. A major constraint affecting
the development of a MIS will be the limited capability of enterprises
to generate the basic information. To be effective, the MIS, at least
initially, will have to be simple and be adapted to the limited
information  available.   The  Government  has  selected  consultants  to
develop such a system. These consultants are expected to begin their
assignment in March 1987,  and the new system would be implemented
starting  in  January  1988.   Terms  of  reference  are  in  Annex 3-4.
Furthermore, Tableaux de Bord (monitoring systems) for each enterprise
will be devised as part of each rehabilitation program (para 4.14), as
well as specific performance indicators.
3.20      The shortage of trained accountants is a major constraint to
improving MIS  in jublic enterprises  in Benin.   The Government has
devised with the assistance of ILO a plan for implementation over the
next few years of the recently-developed National Accounting Plan
(para 2.16). This is expected to go a long way in reducing the shortage
of trained accountants. A recently approved IDA Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 1530-BEN) also includes training of accountants.  As
accounting capabilities develop in Benin's enterprises, the initial MIS
to be developed under this project will be expanded.
4. Incentives
3.21      Experience  in other  developing  countries  (such as Kenya,
Hungary,   and   Pakistan)   underlines   the   desirability   of   a
performance-based incentive and bonus scheme in parallel with increased
enterprise  autonomy  and  accountability.   In  the  framework  of  the
proposed project, the Government would design and implement such a
scheme.   At  the  managerial  level,  performance  criteria  would  be
specifically spelled out in the rehabilitation program (para 4.14) to
serve as the basis for a managers incentive scheme.  At the employee
level, bonus schemes would be the responsibility of the enterprise
management.  The Government has undertaken in the Policy Statement to
have employee bonus schemes designed by enterprise managers in time for
implementation by fiscal year 1988 for the first time.
D. Financial Viability of Enterprises
1. Revenues of Enterprises
3.22      In parallel with the institutional improvements noted above,
changes  in  the  pricing  system  are  required.   The  Government  is
determined to move towards a policy of reliance on market forces in
setting price levels in competitive situations.   For monopolies and
public services, prices would take into account the product or service



- 20 -
cost.   In April  1986,  the  list  of  Imported  products  subject  to
Government price setting has also been reduced from 25 to 11 products of
a strategic nature.   In addition,  the  Government has  agreed  that
manufacturing enterprises benefitting from financial assistance under
this project will be allowed to determine prices of their products in
accordance with market forces. For these enterprises, removal of price
controls will be a condition of disbursement of funds (paras 4.07 and
4.17). The Government has also undertaken to implement other specific
pricing reco.mmendattons which may be contained in rehabilitation
programs to be prepared under the project (para 4.12).
3.23      Many enterprises have suffered losses in the past due to the
Government's reluctance and delays in approving price adjustments
(para 2.20).  The Government has now streamlined the procedures for
price setting or approval, reducing to 60 days the processing time. In
addition,  it has undertaken  (in the context of the review of the
institutional framework - para 3.14) to amend the regulations concerning
the allocation of public enterprises' earnings to improve their
financial autonomy and capacity for self-financing.
2. Enterprise Liquidity and Indebtedness
3.24      The problem of interlocking debts among public enterprises
themselves and vis-a-vis the banking system and the Government needs to
be addressed in the context of the sector's rehabilitation. As a first
step, consultants financed under the project (TORs in Annex 3-5) were
selected in July 1985 to undertake a study (completed in August 1986).
The purpose of this study was to estimate the debts of public
entiErprises, prepare a matrix of reciprocal debts, and propose
alternative ways to reduce excessive accumulated debts, including
cancellation of interlocking debts, transfers of debts to the
Government, rescheduling and conversion of debts to Government into
equity. The magnitude of public enterprise indebtedness far exceeds
financial resources to be made available under this project; its
resolution could best be envisaged in the broader context of a
restructuring of the Beninese banking system overall, as part of an
adjustment  program.   By  providing  term  resources  and  equity  to
beneficiary enterprises through disbursements for goods and services,
IDA would through this project contribute to a limited extent to their
financial restructuring (para 4.32).



- 21 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The  proposed  project  would  assist  Government  efforts  to
rehabilitate the public enterprise sector. At the sector level, the
project would help implement the program of policy reforms described in
Chapter III. At the enterprise level, it would assist in the design and
implementation   of  rehabilitation   programs   for   selected   public
enterprises found viable on the basis of diagnostic studies.
B. Project Description
4.02      The  project  would  comprise:  (a)  a  technical  assistance
component to help in (i) project management; (ii) the preparation and
execution of the agreed action plan for sector policy reforms; (iii) the
preparation of enterprise diagnostic studies, liquidation plans or
rehabilitation programs; and (iv) audits; (b) a credit component to help
finance the implementation of IDA-approved emergency and full
rehabilitation programs for selected enterprises; and (c) assistance in
training and redeployment of staff laid off as part of enterprise
rehabilitation programs.
C. Relationship to Sector Reforms
4.03      The Government's program of reforms is embodied in a Policy
Statement together with an Action Program for implementation (Chapter
III). Major steps have already been taken in the course of project
preparation and the conditionality attached to the release of IDA funds
will further ensure satisfactory implementation of agreed reforms:
a)   During project preparation.  In August 1985, the Government
formally adopted the Policy Statement and Action Program
agreed upon at negotiations (para 3.02), and these two
documents were updated in October 1986. The Government has
started implementation of specified key steps in areas of
liquidations (actual liquidation of three uneconomic state
enterprises), institutional arrangements (agreement on a plan
to  reform  the  legal  framework),  enterprise  monitoring
(selection of consultants for a MIS study), pricing (reform of
the price control system) and financ'al discipline (completion
of the indebtedness study).
b)   During project implementation.   Some of the agreed reforms
will require a longer time frame to be fully implemented (e.g.
implementation of the MIS, reform of the law governing public
enterprise operations); some enterprise-specific reforms will
require a detailed study of the conditions of the enterprise's
operation (e.g. determination of appropriate price levels and
subsidies).   Effectiveness and disbursement conditions will
ensure that key remedial measures for each enterprise to be
rehabilitated are actually undertaken by the Government



- 22 -
(para 4.07 and 4.17), and no further rehabilitation program
shall be approved by IDA unless progress in implementation of
the overall program of policy reform is satisfactory (para
4.17).
D. Rehabilitation of Selected Enterprisez
4.04      The project provides for the preparation and financing of
rehabilitation programs for selected enterprises, the viability of which
would have been established by consultant studies to be undertaken in
two  phases:  (a)  Phase I:   a  diagnosis  will  assess  the  viability
(technical,  economic  and  financial)  of  the  enterprise.   If  the
enterprise is deemed unviable,   a liquidation plan will be prepared.
For an enterprise found viable, an emergency program would be drawn up
containing   such   immediate   steps  as  warranted   to  arrest   its
deterioration; and (b) Phase II: for those enterprises deemed viable, a
full rehabilitation program will be designed, which would subsequently
be negotiated between the State and the enterprise. IDA will take part
in the financing of goods and services needed to implement emergency
programs and full rehabilitation programs that it will have approved.
The phasing of the rehabilitation process is described below, with
further details in Annex 4-1, and status of studies undertaken so far is
described in para 4.29.
1. Phase I: Enterprise Diagnosis
4.05       In this first phase, specialized consultants will review each
enterprise  to  determine  its  viability  (technical,  economic  and
financial). In case the diagnostic study concludes that the enterprise
cannot be made viable, the consultants would prepare a liquidation plan
containing specific proposals for winding up the operation and
liquidating the assets. If, on the other hand, the enterprise is deemed
potentially viable, the consultant will prepare an emergency program
whenever this is warranted to arrest its deterioration. The need for
such emergency programs may arise from the dramatic lack of liquidity
hampering the operation of many public enterprises, which are unable to
even meet their most pressing needs, and for which some emergency
financing  is  required  pending  the  implementation  of  the  full
rehabilitation  program.   The  emergency program will  also  list  key
remedial measures (e.g. pricing, organizational changes) identified as
necessary during the diagnostic study.
4.06      Expenditures to be included in emergency programs would meet
the following criteria: (a) they would be limited to those enterprises
whose potential viability has been clearly demonstrated in the
diagnostic study; (b) they would be essential for the enterprise to
continue its operation; (c) they would be relatively small (in the range
of 10-30%) in relation to the overall expected financial needs of the
full rehabilitation program; and (d) they would have a short economic
pay-back period.   They could include maintenance expenses,  repairs,
spares, urgently needed technical assistance, working capital.



- 23 -
4.07      Each diagnostic study, containing either a liquidation plan or
an emergency program would be submitted (in draft) by the consultants to
the enterprise management, the Government and IDA within three months of
the beginning of the study; IDA would give comments on this draft, and a
revised version, taking into account these comments, would be provided
by the Government to IDA for final review and approval within six months
of the begining of the study.  In its review, IDA will, inter alia,
satisfy itself that the enterprise to be rehabilitated has the
managerial capability required for the successful implementation of the
rehabilitation ptogram.   Funds  disbursed  to beneficiary enterprises
under emergency programs would be treated as a liability of the
enterprise towards the Government pending determination of the financial
plan under the full rehabilitation program (paras 4.12 and 4.13).
Approval by IDA (for at least four enterprises envisaged for
rehabilitation) of a list of rehabilitation measures identified in
diagnostic studies and related implementation schedule, would be a
condition  of  credit  effectiveness.    Furthermore,  conditions  of
disbursement of each emergency program would be its prior approval by
IDA, and the execution of key remedial steps listed therein including
(for manufacturing enterprises) the removal of all price controls on
their products (paras 3.22 and 4.05).
2. Phase II: Full Rehabilitation Program
4.08      In the second phase, a comprehensive rehabilitation program
will be prepared by the consultants for those enterprises diagnosed as
viable. The consultants will make recommendations on the enterprise's
corporate strategy, its organization, needs for physical rehabilitation,
expansion programs if any, financial restructuring requirements and
monitoring systems. A financing plan will be prepared, as well as a
detailed action plan which would summarize each rehabilitation program
and spell out the mutual obligations of the Government and of the
enterprise.   The  action  plan  may  also  call  for  renegotiations  of
existing  loans  with  local  banks.   Procedures  for  preparing  and
implementing  rehabilitation  programs  have  been  recorded   in  a
supplemental letter to the Development Credit Agreement. Key aspects of
the rehabilitation program are described below.
4.09      Corporate Strategy.   The consultants will review and make
recommendations as needed to redefine the enterprise's corporate
strategy,, role, policy, product lines and market, sector organization
and regulations and, as appropriate, privatization prospects.
4.10      Organization.    The   consultants   will   review  and  make
recommendations on the organization of the enterprise, the adequacy of
its management and personnel, personnel policies, technical assistance
requirements, and the institutional framework for the enterprise's
operation. When a reduction or a change in personnel is recommended,
the consultants will propose, as appropriate, a specific program for
training and redeployment of personnel, including an estimate of the
cost of such program.



- 24 -
4.11      Physical Rehabilitation.  Taking into consideration what has
already been provided for under the emergency programs, the consultants
will assess needs in spares, new equipment and other physical assets;
they will review production methods and maintenance policies. When
recommending changes in equipment or production processes, they will
provide an estimate of the cost involved and the economic rate of return
of  the proposed  investment.   They will  review  any  expansion plan
envisaged by the enterprise. The program would primarily focus on the
rehabilitation of existing facilities, although a few enterprises have
already designed or are undertaking expansion programs. In such cases,
the consultants will assess the economic and financial viability of the
proposed expansion and the implementation capability (managerial,
technical  and  financial)  of  the  enterprise,  and  will  make  a
recommendation on whether or not to proceed with it. They will estimate
the related needs for financial and technical assistance.
4.12      Financial Rehabilitation.  The rehabilitation program will aim
at restoring or achieving the enterprise's financial viability. One of
the necessary conditions for financial rehabilitation would be an
adequate pricing policy in line with the Government's stated objective
of reliance on market prices (para 3.22). The consultants will project
the enterprise's financial position and make recommendations as to the
appropriate price structure.
4.13      A second condition for financial rehabilitation will be the
restructuring of the balance sheet of the enterprise to (a) restore a
satisfactory liquidity position; and (b) reduce indebtedness to a level
cormensurate with the enterprise's capability to service its debt. The
financial restructuring proposal would take into account funds provided
as part of the emergency program, and would generally meet the following
minimum standards:  (i) the working capital should be positive, which
would often entail conversion of debt maturities from short term to
medium or long term; and (ii) the debt service coverage ratio should be
above 1.3, which may require injection of fresh equity and/or conversion
of long-term debt into equity. The indebtedness study (para 3.24 and
Annex 3-5) provided some of the basic data needed by consultants to
prepare a sound financial restructuring plan for each enterprise. This
sLudy would determine, among others, the actual debt of each enterprise
vis-a-vis Government, local banks, and other public enterprises showing
the part of these debts which can be offset by receivables of the
enterprise and proposing alternative solutions to reduce excessive
indebtedness. The participation of Beninese banks will be essential in
the financial restructuring of enterprises and will be sought, in the
form of bilateral negotiations between the banks and the enterprises.
4.14      Monitoring Devices.   Another element of the rehabilitation
program will be to strengthen the MIS of the enterprise in coordination
with the overall sector MIS study  (para 3.19 and Annex 3-4).  The
consultants will review accounting practices, compliance with the
National Accounting Plan, external and internal reporting requirements,
and auditing procedures. They will set up Tableaux de Bord (monitoring



- 25 -
systems) specific to each enterprrse, and recommend criteria for
periodic evaluation of the management's performance (para 3.21).
4.15      Financing Plan.  The consultants will provide an estimate of
the financing required for carrying out the rehabilitation program,
covering the physical, financial and organizational restructuring of the
enterprise. They will prepare a financing plan, indicating how funds
would be provided to the enterprise (loan or equity) to meet the
financial restructuring proposal.   In case of a loan, the consultants
would make a recommendation on the repayment schedule and grace periods.
Loans from the Government to beneficiary enterprises would have
maturities ranging from 3 to 12 years, inclusive of grace periods from 1
to 3 years, at an interest rate of 12Z p.a., which is in line with the
average rate applicable to industrial activities in the UMOA countries.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government.
4.16      Action Plan.   The consultants would design an action plan
specifying the mutual obligations of the Government and those of the
enterprise towards achieving the objectives of the rehabilitation
program. The action plan will also serve as a monitoring device for
implementation of the rehabilitation program and, as mentioned in
para 3.13, will be similar to the Contrat-PrograDme in concept. The
commitments of the Government will typically include the provision of
financial resources (equity, loans), authorization for lay offs to
achieve a desired staffing level, price increases, rescheduling of debts
to the State, authorization for incentive/bonus schemes, changes in
lnstitutional setup and/or in sector regulations. The obligations on
the part of the enterprise would usually comprise a definition of
enterprise objectives and performance targets, corporate strategy
including marketing policy, production programs, investment programs,
pricing policies, staffing, bonus schemes and MIS improvements. The
action plan will, as appropriate, call for renegotiation with the banks
to  achieve  financial  restructuring  objectives  specified  in  the
rehabilitation program  (para 4.13).  The action plan will cover an
appropriate multi-year period and be in a monitorable form, and will
identify key reforms which would have to be undertaken prior to the
provision of finance.
4.17      Negotiation and Processing of Rehabilitation Programs.  The
full rehabilitation program in draft form will be submitted by the
consultants to the enterprise management, the Government, the creditor
banks and IDA.  This would give IDA the opportunity to review and
comment prior to  its finalization.   Negotiations  on  the proposals
contained in the draft rehabilitation program will be held between all
Beninese parties involved.  The revised draft rehabilitation program,
including its action plan, will be submitted to the CEN (Cabinet)
through  the  Interministerial  Steering  Committee  (para  4.24)  for
decision, and a final rehabilitation program will be provided to IDA for
review and approval. This approval by IDA may require field visits by
specialists.  No full rehabilitation program shall be approved by IDA
unless progress in the implementation of the overall program of sector
reforms is satisfactory. Furthermore, as appropriate, disbursements by



- 26 -
IDA for approved full rehabilitation programs will be conditional upon
the implementation of key steps specified in such programs in addition
to those already listed in the emergency programs  (para 4.07).   In
particular for manufacturing enterprises which did not benefit from an
emergency program, the removal of price controls will be made a
condition of disbursement of funds for the full rehabilitation program.
4.18      Implementation   of  Rehabilitation   Programs.    If  deemed
necessary by the Government and IDA, the assistance of the consultants
involved in the preparation of the rehabilitation programs would be
extended to assist in the implementation of the rehabilitation programs
for an initial period. A joint review by the Government and IDA would
be conducted every six months to assess actual implementation progress,
identify additional or remedial steps, and generally update and adjust
the rehabilitation programs as appropriate.
4. Selection of Enterprises Envisaged for Rehabilitation
4.19      Eleven  enterprises  have  initially  been  selected  by  the
Government in consultation with IDA to be studied by consultants for
liquidation or rehabilitation under the project, which is considered a
manageable task. These enterprises fall into five subsectors: food and
beverages, import and distribution, shipping and transit activities,
textiles  and  cement.   Subsectors  and  firms  were  selected  on  the
following basis: (i) they illustrate problems common to many enterprises
of the public sector; (ii) none of them is so large as to absorb an
excessive share of project funds;  (iii)  they are not already being
assisted under other IDA projects; and (iv) they have a substantial
impact on the performance of the overall public enterprise sector. As a
group they account for about one-fifth of the public enterprises in
Benin by number, one-third of the sector's revenues and one-fifth of its
employment. Several enterprises in the sample operate in subsectors that
the Government has decided to open to the private sector (paras 3.08
through  3.11).   In  the  event potential  privatization partners  are
forthcoming in the course of preparation or implementation of a
rehabilitation program, the emphasis of IDA's assistance would be
directed towards helping the Government achieve privatization on optimal
terms by financing the required technical assistance. Profiles of each
enterprise to be studied under the project are provided in the table
below, and further details are available in Annex 3-3.



- 27 -
Profiles of Enterprises envisaged for  ohabilit   or Liquidatim
% of State
BaErprise              Activity                           rp           Mor problm
S(RAFEL              Productim and Processig           100%    Poor desia of plants
of fnJits and vegetables
la B&iinise          Brewery                            100%    Price controls, excessive
indeedness, il   -d
Il= Distriutionr
AGB                  Foodstuff    rt100%    Conflicting objectives; price
an dL                                           ;ols poor plang;
ovderixete&les .
CUP                  Pb         ls                      100%    Conflicting cbjectives;
-nport and distribution                      -daendw netcork
resilting in excessive
opertingcosts.
SOG3                 Househld  eletrical               100%    FinEaial difficulties
ppliance   d clothing ihport              irerited from wo
sod distriliutim                      insolvent fims wbich
were merged into it.
Sipping and Transit
EOX                  RdShipping operation               51%    Decrease in traffic.
S(NATRAC             Trasit Ccpany                     100%    Ineffective operatios.
SORACB               Transit cwvpany                    52%      Gxfzaa
forarders.
Tectil.es
SEl                  Tectile Printing                   49%    Closing of Nigerian market.
SCB                  Clinker grinding                   50Z    Pricin  policy; poor locatio.
atiQi                Climker gririg                    100%    Pricing policy.



- 28 -
4.20      About US$9.4 million of the IDA credit are set aside for
enterprise rehabilitation (para 4.31). This appears reasonable on the
basis of information available on the eleven enterprises selected,
preliminary findings of studies underway, and taking into account other
funding sources available  (para 4.33).   A reliable estimate of the
financial needs of each enterprise to be rehabilitated will only emerge
from the final diagnoses and emergency programs, which would then
provide  a basis  for adjusting  the  scope  of  the  project.   Should
financing availability be insufficient to cover all eleven enterprises,
some of these, to be chosen in agreement between IDA and the Government,
may have to be deleted from the scope of the project. Conversely, if
fund availability allows, additional public enterprises could be
selected  jointly  by  IDA  and   the  Government   for  prospective
rehabilitation following the same process of consultant study as
described  above.   An  initial  list  of  enterprises  which  could  be
rehabilitated under this project will be agreed upon on the basis of
available diagnostic studies prior to credit effectiveness.
4.21      The three largest recent investment projects in Benin, even
though they are operating as public enterprises, are not envisaged for
IDA assistance under this project. Two of these, Onigbolo (cement) and
Save (sugar) projects, have been excluded because of the unusual nature
of their problems and the magnitude of their potential financial needs.
They together represent an initial investment of nearly US$300 million
and are now operating at minimal  levels of capacity.   Their major
problem arises from their inability to find an outlet for their products
as Nigeria, co-owner of both ventures and co-guarantor of their debts,
has not lived up to its commitment to absorb the output from these
enterprises. Their difficulties are being addressed in the context of
the Bank's dialogue with Benin and Nigeria rather than under this
specific project.  A third major state project, Seme (petroleum), is
being assisted by two IDA credits (1207-BEN and 1503-BEN).
E. Assistance for Training and Redeployment of Personnel
4.22      To alleviate  the social cost of personnel reduction,  the
project includes a component to finance training and redeployment of
personnel to be laid-off in the course of enterprise restructuring and
liquidations. In September 1985, the Government set up a Commission for
Training and Redeployment (CTR) composed of union representatives, of
the tutelle ministry, and of enterprise managers. The CTR would design
enterprise specific training and redeployment programs that would
include inter alia financing of education fellowships (locally or
abroad) or of productive investments for employees seeking to start
their own business. The CTR will make use of recommendations contained
in rehabilitation studies (para 4.10). Enterprise specific training and
redeployment programs would be submitted by the Government to IDA for
approval, and their implementation would be overseen by the CTR.



- 29 -
F. Project Management
1. Summary
4.23      An    Interministerial    Steering    Committee    (ISC-"Comite
Directeur") has been set up and given the overall responsibility for
project preparation and implementation. To prepare and execute a number
of sectorwide reforms, specialized task forces have been set up,
reporting  to  the President  of the  ISC.   The  ISC  is assisted  for
day-to-day management by a Project Management Unit (PU W-"Unite du
Projet?), headed by a Project Coordinator supervising the consultants
involved in the preparation of enterprise rehabilitation programs. The
Project Coordinator is supported by a Senior Project Advisor, an
expatriate expert financed under the project. A detailed organization
chart for project management is in Annex 4-2. This project will require
intensive IDA supervision, particularly during the crucial start-up
period.
2. Interministerial Steering Committee (ISC)
4.24      The ISC was set up in January 1984 by Presidential decree to
generally oversee project implementation. It is chaired by the Minister
of Justice in Charge of State Enterprises; its Vice President is the
Minister of Plan and Statistics, its Secretary the Minister of Finance
and Economy. ISC members include representatives of all ministries or
institutions directly involved in project implementation, among which
are the Ministry of Labor, and the Ministry of Coumerce.  Supervisory
ministries would be included in the ISC on an ad hoc basis for those
enterprises under their jurisdiction. The ISC's major tasks are: (a) to
follow up on the work of specialized task forces for preparation of
sector  reforms  and  supervise  implementation  of  policy  reforms
(para 4.25); (b) to select and supervise consultants in the preparation
of enterprise rehabilitation programs; (c) to review the consultants'
proposals and make recommendations for decision by the CEN; (d) to
supervise  the  implementation  of  emergency  and   full  enterprise
rehabilitation programs; (e) to report to the CEN on progress of the
project at the sector and enterprise level; and (f) to recommend
remedial actions as needed to achieve the objectives of the project.
3. Task Forces for Sector Reform
4.25      To prepare a number of sector reforms, the Government has set
up three specialized task forces, reporting to the President of the ISC.
One of these is charged with the preparation and implementation of the
pricing reforms (paras 3.22 and 3.23). Another is responsible for the
review of the legal framework (paras 3.14 thru 3.18). Finally, a third
group is responsible for the formulation and follow up of a strategy for
privatization of enterprises or sectors intended to be op.ned to the
private sector  (paras 3.08 thru 3.11).   These task forces comprise
specialists of relevant ministries, lawyers and businessmen.



- 30 -
4. Project Management Unit
4.26      The PMU, created by the Decree of July 12, 1985 (Ref. B-4) as
the executive arm of the ISC, is responsible for day-to-day management
of  the project.   Headed  by a Project Coordinator,  the PMU is an
operational entity with a light structure.  it includes: (a) a Senior
Project  Advisor  to  generally  assist  the  Project  Coordinator  as
consultant (TORs in Annex 4-3), who also coordinates the wora of all
other consultants and of their local counterparts  (para 4.27); and
(b) Beninese   staff   with   requisite   experience   comprising   an
engineer/economist, a financial analyst, a lawyer, an accountant and a
disbursement officer.  A detailed budget for the PMU is available in the
Project File  (Ref. B-6).  After completion of this project, the PMU
would continue to monitor operation of public enterprises.
5. Technical Assistance Requirements
4.27      Technical assistance requirements would total 318 man months
over the project period for (a) preparation and execution of sector
policy  reforms  (TORs  in  Annexes  3-4  and  3-5)  (51  man-months);
(b) consultaucy services to prepare diagnostic studies, liquidation
plans, emergency and full rehabilitation programs (106 man-months);
(c) project management and PMU training (98 man-months); and (d) audits
(63 man-months) (para 4.39). The cost is estimated at US$3.8 million
based on the actual cost for those contracts already concluded and
experience in the region. Further details are available in the Project
File (Ref. B-7).
4.28      The magnitude of this technical assistance is on account of
the complex nature of this project in Benints environment, the
multiplicity of subsectors to be assisted, each requiring specialized
expertise currently unavailable in the country, and the need to have
appropriate quality control and to strengthen management skills vi.thin
the PMU. Valuable transfer of know-how is expected to be derived from
the presence of external experts, in sector management as well as in
technical aspects relating to enterprise operation.
G. Status of Project Preparation and Implementation Schedule
4.29      The Senior Project Advisor was hired in November 1984 aud  .ook
up his position in Cotonou in January 1985. Consultants for studies on
shipping and transit, distribution and agroindustrial activities started
work  in February,  1985,  on  the basis  of terms  of  reference  and
contractual arrangements agreed with IDA.  The PMU is now fully staffed.
Five  diagnostic  studies  (covering enterprises  in  two  subsectors  -
agro-industrial and shipping/freight forwarding) have been completed in
draft by external consultants and were reviewed with the Government
during a November 1985 field mission. On the basis of these studies,
the Government decided to liquidate one of the enterprises (SONAFEL -
fruit and vegetable processing), to intensify the search for private
partners for the two freight forwarding enterprises (SONATRAC and
SOTRACOB) and to rehabilitate two other enterprises (COBENH Shipping



- 31 -
and La Beninoise Brewery) through reorientation of their operations. A
diagnostIc study on a sixth enterprise (AGB - import/distribution
subsector) under preparation will be ready by December 1986. An IDA
mission scheduled in January/February 1987 will seek final agreement
with the Government on the rehabilitation prospects of each enterprise
studied so far, and implementation of the first emergency program would
start  in March  1987.   Full  rehabilitation programs  for the  first
beneficiary enterprises (in draft form) would also be available for
review in March 1987, and the implementation of IDA approved
rehabilitation programs would stretch over 3 - 5 years starting July
1987. The project is expected to be completed by December 1994. A
project implementation chart is in Annex 4-4.
H. Project Preparation Facility
4.30      PPF advances for a total amount of US$1,500,000 were approved
by IDA on June 11, 1984, August 19, 1985 and November 11, 1986
(P-287 BEN)  for  project  preparation.   These  PPF  advances  provide
financing towards (a) the cost of the Senior Project Advisor
(US$270,000);   (b) operating   costs   of   the   PMU   (US$180,000);
(c) enterprise diagnostic and rehabilitation studies (shipping/freight
forwarding, agrcindustries, import and distribution) (US$960,000); (d)
start-up of sector reform studies (US$50,000); and (e) unallocated
(US$40,000).
I. Project Cost and Financing
4.31      The estimated project cost and financing are summarized in the
table  below.   Further  details  are  available  in  the  Project  File
(Ref. B-il).
Project Cost and Financing a/
(US$ million)
Local       Foreign        Total        x
Technical Assistance
Consultant Services
IDA                           .5           2.2          2.7       71
Swiss Government              .2             .9         1.1       29
Government                    -             -            -        -
Total                         .7           3.1          3.8      100
a/ Cost net of taxes and duties; amounts shown in this table include
PPF financing and unallocated.



- 32 -
Local       Foreign       Total         Z
Operation of the PMU
IDA                          .3             .6          .9       50
Swiss Government             -              -           -        -
Government                    .9            -           .9       50
Total                       1.2             .6         1.8      100
Total Technical Assistance
IDA                                .8           2.8         3.6        64
Swiss Government                   .2            .9         1.1        20
Government                         .9            -            .9       16
Total                             1.9           3-7         5.6       100
Training and Redeployment
IDA                               2.0            -          2.0        69
Swiss Government                   .6            -           .6       21
Government                         .3            -            .3       10
Total                             2.9            -          2.9       100
Enterprise Rehabilitation
Programs
IDA                               2.6           6.8         9.4        41
Swiss Government                  1.7           5.0         6.7        29
Government                        6.9            -          6.9        30
Total                            11.2          11.8        23.0       100
Total Project Cost
IDA                              5.4            9.6        15.0       47
Swiss Government                 2.5            5.9         8.4       27
Government                        8.1            -          8.1        26
Total                            16.0          15.5        31.5       100
4.32      Total  project  cost  (net  of  taxes)   is  estimated  at
US$31.5 million, of which US$15.5 million (49%) are foreign costs. The
project cost includes US$3.8 million of consultant services (para 4.27),
US$1.8 million of operating costs of the PMU (rental expenses, salaries,
communications, equipment, travel), US$2.9 million for training and
redeployment   (para  4.22),   and  US$23.0  million  for  enterprise
rehabilitation.  The latter amount, to be adjusted on the basis of
diagnostic studies as they become available, includes equipment, civil



- 33 -
works, spares, raw materials, services, and other costs related to lay
offs, working capital, and conversion of debts into equity. Government
contribution to project financing would be limited (about 26% of project
cost) on account of the tight budgetary situation prevailing in Benin.
Government would finance 75% of the local cost of the PMU (base salaries
of staff, telephone and telex), 10% of the cost of the fund for training
and redeployment of personnel laid off as part of rehabilitation
programs, and on average 30% of total costs of enterprise rehabilitation
programs, mostly in the form of conversion of debts into equity. IDA
would finance 62% of the foreign cost of the project, and about 34% of
its local costs (US$5.4 million).   IDA funds would finance primarily
goods and services but also on a declining basis over the project
period, salary supplements above Government scales required to hire and
retain suitable  local staff of the PIMU.  This declining scale and
arrangements for adequate financing of the PMU during and beyond the
project period were agreed at negotiations. IDA would contribute to the
financial restructuring described in paras 4.12 and 4.13 only inasmuch
as some of its funds would be passed on by the Government to the
beneficiary enterprises as term loans or equity (para 4.15).
4.33      The Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation will provide
co-financing   for   an  amount   of   Sw F 15 million   (US$8.4 million
equivalent).   These  funds  would  cover  in  priority  the  cost  of
consultancy, rehabilitation, training and redeployment of staff laid off
related to the three public enterprises in the import/distribution
subsector (SOGECOB, ONP, AGB) as well as to any other enterprise that
may be subsequently agreed upon between IDA, the Swiss Government, and
the  Beninese  Government.   Swiss  funds  would  be  provided  to  the
Government as a grant and administered by IDA.
J. Procurement
4.34      Award of contracts for consultancy services would follow the
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency. Goods and civil works to be procured
will be grouped as far as possible into appropriate bidding packages and
procured according to the Guidelines for Procurement Under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits. Unless IDA shall otherwise agree, contracts for
goods costing more than US$350,000, and for civil works costing more
than US$1 million shall be awarded following International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). Goods manufactured locally would be given a preference
margin of up to 15% of the CIF bid price or the applicable custom's duty
and import taxes, whichever is less. Similarly, local contractors would
be given a preference margin of up to 7.5%. Goods costing more than
US$50,000 but less than US$350,000, and civil works costing less than
US$1 million shall be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB),
in accordance with local procedures acceptable to IDA. Goods valued at
less than US$50,000 within an aggregate limit of US$2.5 million will be
procured through prudent local shopping.  All procurement decisions,
whose estimated costs exceed US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to
IDA's prior review.  Financing of workiig capital up to an aggregate



- 34 -
amount of US$1.5 million would be made against evidence of purchase of
stocks which would be procured according to normal commercial practices.
K. Disbursements of IDA Credit
4.35      Disbursements of IDA credit would be against:  (i) 100% of
consultants expenditures (US$1.2 million); (ii) a declining share of PMU
staff salary allowances (100%, up to US$35,000; 80%, up to US$65,000;
and 40%, up to US$85,000); (iii) 100% of other eligible expenditures of
PMU (rental expense, office supplies, equipment, maintenance, travel,
vehicles,  and  training  (US$615,000));   (iv) 100%  of  a  list  of
expenditures for each emergency and full rehabilitation program as
agreed between IDA and the Government (US$8.6 million); (v) 100% of
approved expenditures for redeployment and training of staff laid off as
part of rehabilitation programs (US$2.0 million); (vi, 100% of the
withdrawn PPF amount (US$1.5 million); and (vii) unallocated (US$1.0
million).  These arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Z of Expenditures
Item                 Amount                to be financed
Goods and services for         8.6                     100%
rehabilitation programs,
including emergency
program
Operating costs of the
project management
unit with:
(a) operating costs other      .62                     100%
than salary allowances
(b) salary allowances          .08               100Z up to $35,000
80% up to $65,000
40% up to $85,000
Consultants' Services          1.2                     100%
Expenditures for training
and redeployment of staff      2.0                     100%
Refunding of Project.
Preparation Facilities         1.5                     100%
Unallocated                    1.0
4.36      IDA funds would be disbursed over a period of nine years.
Final date for submission of rehabilitation programs to IDA would be
June 30, 1992 and the closing date of the credit would be June 30, 1995.



- 35 -
The quarterly disbursement profile is shown in Annex 4-5, and is
summarized below; it reflects past experience with comparable IDA
projects in the region.
Summary Disbursement Profile
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94  FY95
Annual       1.5    2.1    2.3    2.3    2.2    1.8    1.3       .9    .6
Cumulative   1.5    3.6    5.9    8.2   10.4   12.2   13.5   14.4  15.0
4.37      Disbursement procedures would be as follows:
a)   Emergency and Rehabilitation Programs.  Disbursement requests
under emergency or rehabilitation programs would be submitted
by beneficiary enterprises with full documentation to the PMU
f or review and approval. In the course of this review, the
PMU would be responsible for ensuring that each disbursement
request is part of an agreed rehabilitation program.  Once
approved, the PNU would either (i) request payment from the
subsidiary account to be opened by the PMU in a primnary bank;
or (ii) transmit with appropriate instruction a payment
request to CAA who would disburse out of the revolving funds
to be opened at the BCEAO (para 4.38). CAA would supervise
the State's equity participation (when funds are provided as
Government equity) and would be responsible for the loan
documentation and collection (when funds are provided as
loans).   Disbursement  requests  above  US$20,000  equivalent
would be submitted by CAA with full documentation to IDA;
those below that amount would be reported to IDA on a monthly
Statement of Expenditures (SOE), with supporting documentation
to be retained by the PMU for review by IDA during supervision
missions.
b)   Project Management Unit.  Expenditures for the PMU eligible
for IDA financing would be reimbursed on the basis of a SOE
submitted monthly;
c)   Training and redeployment of staff.  Training and redeployment
financing needs duly approved by the Association (para 4.22),
will be disbursed on the basis of a SOE submitted monthly.
d)   Technical Assistance.  SOEs would be prepared by the Project
Coordinator for contracts approved by IDA.
4.38      Revolving Funds:  To accelerate disbursement, a revolving fund
of US$0.5 million would be set up under the IDA credit, and one of
US$0.4 million under Swiss financing. Both revolving funds would be
deposited in special accounts at the Central Bank for West African
Countries (BCEAO). These special accounts represent about four months



- 36 -
of expenditures to be financed under the project. Furthermore, the PMU
would set up an account in a primary bank which would be operated on an
imprest basis and replenished from time to time from the proceeds of the
special accounts to be opened at the BCEAO. This primary account would
be used for small expenditures (below US$4,000) and would be maintained
below US$150,000.   Unless otherwise agreed, all project expenditures
would be channeled through the subsidiary account opened at the primary
bank by the PMU or through the special account to be opened at the
BCEAO.
L. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirement
4.39      As part of its Action Program (Annex 3-2), the Government has
undertaken to accelerate the implementation of the recently introduced
National Accounting Plan, with financing from the IDA Technical
Assistance  credit  (para  3.20  and  Ref. B-10).   External  auditors
acceptable to IDA would annually review (a) project accounts kept by the
PMU,  (b) the special accounts at the BCEAO and the PMU subsidiary
account, (c) financial statements of each beneficiary enterprise, and
(d) SOEs. Audit reports should be submitted to IDA within six months of
the end of each fiscal year. The cost of audits would be financed under
the project  (para 4.27).  The Government will also submit quarterly
progress reports on the implementation of sector policy reforms and on
the preparation and implementation of the emergency and full enterprise
rehabilitation programs.   Finally,  the Government has undertaken to
prepare a Completion Report within six months of the credit closing
date.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01      The project is expected to help rationalize the management of
the public enterprise sector, thereby improving its overall impact on
the economy. At the enterprise level, emergency programs for selected
enterprises   would   arrest   their   deterioration,   and   the   full
rehabilitation programs would restore their economic and financial
viability. The rehabilitation programs will also benefit the sector as
a whole by setting a model for relationship between the State and the
enterprises,  clarifying mutual  obligations.   At  the country  level,
important benefits to public finances are expected to accrue from the
implementation of agreed sector reforms. The reduction and improved
screening of new state investments, and the privatization/liquidation
efforts will enable the State to redirect its scarce financial and
managerial resources towards priority areas of public management.
Policy changes emphasizing the role of the private sector should foster
the development of local enterpreneurship and help attract foreign
investors.  The technical know-how associated with the provision of
private capital should help the country enhance its competitiveness in a
number of key sectors of the economy. The reform in the institutional
framework of public enterprises, monitoring systems, personnel and
pricing policies, and increased management autonomy will provide



- 37 -
essential ingredients for enhanced efficiency of the public enterprise
sector thus improving the situation of the banking sector by reducing
public enterprise loan arrears.
B.  Risks
5.02      The first risk is that the proposed policy reforms although
supported by the Government would encounter political or social
opposition during project implementation.  This risk is substantial.
considering the significant departure of the new program from policies
followed until 1982 and the sensitive nature of some of the proposed
reforms (e.g. liquidations). However, the Government's commitment as
reflected in the Policy Statement and other public statements on the
reorientation of public sector policies, backed up by actual steps taken
since 1982, provide reasonable assurances in this regard. The expected
benefits on the public finance situation would, as they materialize,
sustain the momentum for continuation of the efforts undertaken. The
conditionality attached to the release of IDA funds would also act as
additional safeguard, ensuring satisfactory implementation of the agreed
reform program. Assistance in training and redeployment of staff being
laid off as part of rehabilitation programs will also alleviate their
social cost. Another risk would be that the private sector, especially
foreign, would not be sufficiently responsive to the privatization
efforts.   The  interest  expressed recently by private  investors  in
several sectors, alleviates this risk.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      At negotiations, the following agreements were reached with
the Government:
a)   it will carry out the Action Program (para 3.02);
b)   it will biannually jointly review with IDA progress in the
implementation of the Action Program and of individual
rehabilitation programs (paras 3.02 and 4.18);
c)   it  will  submit  annual  audits  by  independent  auditors
acceptable to IDA on (i) project accounts, (ii) financial
statements  of  beneficiary  enterprises,  (iii) the  special
accounts at BCEAO, (iv) the account to be opened by the PMU in
a primary bank, and (v) SOEs (para 4.39); and
d)   it will submit quarterly progress reports to be prepared by
the Project Coordinator (para 4.39).
6.02      At  negotiations,  understandings  were  reached  with  the
Government on procedures for preparing and implementing rehabilitation
programs (p$ra 4.08).
6.03      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit will be:



- 38 -
a)  &.2proval by IDA (for at least four enterprises envisaged for
rehabilitation)  of  a  list  of  rehabilitation  measures
identified   in   diagnostic   studies,   and   the   related
implementation schedule (para 4.07); and
b)   approval by IDA of the initial list of beneficiary enterprises
(para 4.20).
6.04      Conditions  of  disbursement  of  each  emergency  and  full
rehabilitation program will be:
a)   its prior approval by IDA (para 4.07 and 4.17); and
b)   the  execution  of  key  remedial  steps  specified  therein
(para 4.07 and 4.17); and
c)   for beneficiary manufacturing enterprises, the removal of all
price controls on their products (para 3.22).
6.05      With the above assurances and conditions,  the Project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$15 million equivalent to the People's
Republic of Benin.
WAPID
November 1986



BEI
PUILIC ENMPIRE SECIM REHABILrTICtN PRWEr
LISr OF PUBLIC WEBRSl a/
Aa=M               ACLIVLrY                                   EUIS                                __NA__
CNP                Pharncetical                               Office National de Phaiiae.e
----    hN~TItNIL D           ---
TAB                Airlines                                   Trazuports PArkis du B&nin
SMIC G             Palm oil products                          SociAt Nationals   r l'Iidustrie des Gorps Gras
IA BEINLSE         Brm%Nryati                                                              La B&dnoik
SEEE               Waterd  Pbwer                              Soclet4 B4rnloise d Electte et d'Eau
SON=               Printed Textiles                           Socit4 B6ninolse des Textiles
OBEDN              Mimse                                      Office B&nimois des Mines
9CB                Cuents                                     Socigt4 des Clmits dui B6nin
SSCKI              Cements                                    SociAtd Natimale des Ciimnts
EJME               Mines                                      Swacd  LBA ULJ.Areb
SOD                Cemnts                                     SociAit des Cfments d0rnjolo
SSS                Sugr                                       Soci6t4 Sucrilre de SavA
CZm                Rural DWepmt                               Office  nins dAnt Rural
9(!~APRA           Rural 1ve:Inqnt                            Socidt6 Natiale pour   Pration Agricole
CARD               Rural DeveLopvent                          Centre d'Action Recale pw le Dt Rral
-PUELIC  W- [ 
smaAP              Costnrtion                                 Societe de Costruction et des Travc Publics
SC2WIM             Real Estate                                SoclAte Nationale de Gestion ImxbiliAre
CNRTP              Research for Construction, Naterials       Centre National d'Essais et de Recherches des Tavawc Publics
INC                CartInraphic.                              Institut National de Crtogphie
Om=I               Nbvie Theatres                             Office B6d1is de Cinra
cm~1~              TV                                         Office de Radlodiffusim et T61hvisim du B&nin
CIEPI              Printing                                   Office National d'Edition, de Presse et d'TIwrihis
SamR               Insrance                                   Soci4t4 Nationale d'Assurances et de o  uan e
CWA                Rural Credit                               Caimse Natinnale de Credit Agricole
Wi                 Lottery                                    Loterie Nationals du B&nin                                             o  1
BEMD.velopnt Bank                                             Banque D&niilse pour le D*eloppamt
Bo}                Qrcial BaB                                                      Bbk
C31                Caputers                                   Offe                ortiqus



---I1 FAe
SAELI              Animal Food                                   Socite Agmo-Animale B6nirD-Arabe Libyenne
BELIPECHE           Fishlng                                      Societe Benino-Arabe Llbyenne de Peche
s9oAFEL             Fruit kid Vegetable Processing               Societe Nationale pour le D4veloppement des Fruits et LTgumes
COBEKAM             Navigation                                   Ccopagnie Bninoise de Havigation Mbritine
OCCN                Railways                                     Organisation Cmmu  BinNiger
PAC                 Port                                         Port Autonom  de Cotonou
TRANBEENIN          Trucking                                     SoclAte des Transports Routiers du E4nin
CHT                 Post Office                                  Office des Postes et T41ecomamnications
SLtArRAC            Freight Fornrding                            Societe Nationale de Transit et de Ccmsignation
S9IRAOOB            Freigit Forwarding                           Societe de Transit et de Coxnsignation du Bbnin
OBEMAP              StevedhorIng                                 Office BWninoia de Mknutention Portuaire
RAVINAR             Ships Stpplies                               Regie de Ravitaillement des Navires
CNATHD              Hotels                                       Office National du Tourismr et d'H8tellerie
--- W4M   AND SOCIAL AFFATR--
cmSS                Social Security                              Office Bkninois de S6kurit6 Sociale
S.IDMAS             Procurement                                  Soci6t4 de Distribution de MIteriel et FcurnitOes Adinistratifs
sac=F              nn Import and Distribution of Consuwr Goods   Soci&t  G&.nrale de Comerce du B&-dn
AGB                 Imp-ort Distributimn of Foodstuff            SociWt4 d'Allmntatimn Ghzerale du B&nin
SCNAR               Equmimnt                                     Socg4t4 Nationale d'MquiMeIent
SOGEMA             Riral )hrkets                                 Sociftd de Gestion des ?irch4s Autonomes
SCONACP             Petrolam Products                            Soci4t6 Nationale de Cazmerci-llisation  des Produits P4tmllers
SOBEMAC             Cement Distributiim                          Soci,&4 Bfninoise des MIteriazx de Construction
a/ This list does not include a limited mnber of .mall provinclal enterprises of local interest.
- Benin has in total 57 public enterprises.
Source: Ministry of Justice in Car  of Inspection of State Enterprises OMJSE).
~wm
September 1986



- 41 -                     Annex 2-2
Page 1 of 4
BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
FOR PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
Preamble
1.        The law No. 82-008 of December 30, 1982 was promulgated to
"regulate the relationship between the State, the Offices, the State
Companies, the Mixed-economy Companies and those companies in which the
State  has  an  equity participation".   It superseded  a  1974 Ordinance
(Ordounance No. 74-75 of December 16, 1974). 1/ This 1982 law constitutes
the basic legislation on wholly state-owned enterprises, and provides in
its annex a model form of statutes. It also contains some regulations on
semi-public enterprises. Article 1 states that both public and semi-public
enterprises are to carry out transactions of industrial and/or commercial
character for the State, in the public interest.
General Provisions
2.        Status, Purpose and Equity.  Public enterprises (State companies
and offices) are set up by decree as legal entities with financial
autonomy;   they  realize  economic  development  programs,   either  by
supplementing private initiatives or by assuming economic tasks of a
general interest.  Offices are in charge of public services.  Except as
provided otherwise in the 1982 law, State companies are assimilated to
private companies and as such are subject to the jurisdiction of private
courts. The statutes of public enterprises specify their initial equity.
An increase or decrease of the equity also requires a decree after proposal
of the Board of Directors of the company. 2/
3.        Board of Directors and Management.  Boards of Directors draw up
the general policy of the enterprise in accordance with its purposes and
1/   The Ordinance is an act of the President of the Republic taken with
the consensus of the Council of Ministers, while the law is adopted by
the Revolutionary National Assembly and promulgated by the President.
2/   Neither the 1982 law nor the model statutes specifically provide for
or prevent the possibility of participation by the private sector,
although this would obviously require a modification of the statutes.



- 42 -                     Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 4
monitor its application. A Management Committee, headed by the General
Manager, manages the company. 3/ 4i
4.        A President  chairs  the  Board  of  a public  enterprise.   The
President is appointed by decree upon proposal of the Supervisory Ministry
("Ministere de Tutelle").   Other members  of  the  Board  represent  the
Ministers of Planning, Finance, Labor, Industry, Commerce, and the
Supervisory Minister (one each) and also include two representatives from
the Committee for the Defense of the Revolution, three representatives from
labor unions and sometimes up to two other representatives from interested
parties.  Thus, Board members do not exceed 14 in number, appointed by
decree.   The  Accounting  Commissioners   ("Commissaires  aux  Coimptes")
(para 8), as well as the General Manager, attend the Board's meetings in an
advisory (non-voting) capacity. The Board may also consult any expert It
wishes. Length of the mandate of the Board members is undetermined in the
law.   The  Chairman  convenes  the  Board  at  least  twice  a year.   The
Supervisory Minister or the Accounting Commissioners may also convene a
Board meeting. The Board takes decisions by a majority vote of at least
two thirds of the members (present or represented). The Board has the
broadest powers to act in the name of the company. It has in particular
the right to review and approve annual forecast operating accounts and
investment budgets prepared by the General Manager, and at the end of each
fiscal year, the financial statements, inventories, balance sheet, report
of company activities and audit report from the Accounting Commissioners.
This right of approval is subject to the right of approval held by the CEN
(Cabinet). The Board has an a priori control over the main powers of the
General Manager (such as borrowing, hiring and firing of executive staff
and delegating powers) but most of this a priori control is shared with the
Supervisory Minister.
5.        Between the Board's meetings, the highest decision-making body is
the Management Committee which is responsible for the management of the
company. The members of the Committee comprise (a) the General Manager
(President), (b) the Deputy General Manager (Vice President), (c) the other
Managers, (d) two representatives from the labor union and (e) two
representatives from the Committee for the Defense of the Revolution. The
statutes do not indicate the frequency of the meetings of the Management
Committee, nor how decisions are reached.  They only specify that the
General Manager exercises his powers in the name of the Committee.
3/   The 1974 Ordinance provided for a Board of Directors (a "political
management") and for a general manager assisted by an enterprise
committee.
4J   The 1982 law provides that the State has at least two representatives
in the Board of companies in which it has an equity participation of
at least 10%. These representatives are appointed by decree.



- 43 -                    Annex 2-2
Page 3 of 4
6.        The General Manager is appointed by decree upon proposal of the
Supervisory Minister. The statutes entrust him with the power "to manage
the company and to act in its name, to execute or authorize any act or
transaction related to its purpose and to represent the company". However,
his role and powers are depleted In practice since (a) he exercises his
powers in the name of the Management Comiwttee, and (b) an a priori
approval from the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Minister is needed
before  almost  any  decision.   The  General  Manager  is responsible  for
preparing forecast operating accounts and investment budget at least one
month before the end of each fiscal year and at least five months before
the end of each fiscal year, financial statements, inventories, balance
sheet  and a  report of company activities  which  are verified  by  the
Accounting Commissioners.  The General Manager also prepares, since January
1984, quarterly reports in accordance with a format set up by decree.
These quarterly reports are also compulsory for semi-public enterprises.
7.        Tutelle.  A technical Supervisory Minister exercises an overall
control over public enterprises.  It receives minutes of the Board of
Directors' meetings and may convene a Board Meeting to re-discuss any
decision. Be may oppose decisions previously taken and refer to the CEN
for ruling. The Ministry of Justice in charge of Inspection of Public
Enterprises (NJSE) 5/ is also responsible for controlling the management
of all public and semi-public enterprises and for assisting them in their
operations  and  internal  control.   It  has  a  right  of  a priori  and
a posteriori control over all financial accounts or statements.
8.        Other Controls.   (a) The Cabinet  (CEN) controls activities of
public ent'rprises: (i) it appoints the President of the Board, its
members, the General Manager, the Deputy General Manager, the technical
managers, and the Accounting Commissioners (Articles 10 and 27 of the 1982
law), (ii) it creates (or winds up) public enterprises, (iii) it Increases
or decreases equity, and (iv) it approves annual forecast accounts and
investment budgets, financial statements, inventories, balance sheet and
report of company activities (Article 30 of the 1982 law); (b) the
Accounting Commissioners, appointed for a three year period, can be civil
servants or a private audit firm. They must check In depth cash accounts
("Comptes de Tresorerie") at least twice a year and all the accounts at
least once a year. They certify in a report that the company has kept its
accounts in a regular and accurate manner; (c) in addition to the
above-mentioned controls, the 1982 law refers to the control of public
enterprises by other State organs, by the "Chambre des Comptes", and by ad
hoc commissions which can be set up by the Supervisory Minister. As to
5/   The Ministry  in  Charge  of Inspection  of Public and Semi-public
Enterprises  (MSSE) was  instituted  in  December  1981.   Under  the
previous 1974 Ordinance, there was a council responsible for
coordinating and controlling company activities, directly referring to
the President of the Republic.



- 44 -                     Annex 2-2
Page 4 of 4
semi-public enterprises, the law only provides that they are subject to the
control of ad hoc commissions, set up by decree.
9.        Allocation  of  Profits.   For  public  as  well  as  semi-public
enterprises, the 1982 law provides for the allocation of net profits: (a)
15Z of the net profits are allocated to reserves (5% to a legal reserve,
and 10% to an extraordinary reserve fund); 6/ (b) the balance (85%) is
allocated as  follows:  for public  enterprises,  15% of the initial net
profits constitute a renewal fund for productive investments while the
remaining  70Z  are  transferred  to  the  national  budget  (42%  for  the
investment and equipment budget, 14% for the operating budget and 14% for
the National Investment Fund).  For semi-public enterprises, 60% of the
Government's  share  of  profits  are  transferred  to  the  investment  and
equipment budget and 40% to the operating budget.
10.       Penalties.   The  law  specifies  severe  imprisonment  penalties
and/or fines for the President and the members of the Board and for the
members of the Management Committee of public and semi-public enterprises
if they fail in some of their duties, e.g. if they fail to comply with
their reporting requirements (para 6), if they embezzle funds, etc.
11.       Winding up.  The Government determines the terms and manner of a
public enterprise's winding up.
LEGWA
February 1985
6/   No longer compulsory once they reach, respectively 10% of the equity
and 10% of the turnover in the best year of operation.



_ 45                                     Amex 2-3
EEN
PUBLIC EURISE SBCR   RA           N  PROJE
MuoR pISINS OF E3!IC'S INVESI-q CXDE OF MAY 2D, 1982Y/
Reghie               Eligibility                     Prnwisiscs
Genral PrOVISIons    All uew enterprises, doestic   Equitable cmpersatin in case of expropriation;
and foreign.                   freedan of transfer of capital.
RegPie A             Public or Mixed enterprises     For a mmmu of five years: exeptiu frao turnrwer
projects (inmestent above      tax; reductin in import duties (75% red&ctimn
CFAF 50 million for pubLic     for equipient andmauinery, arnd 5C% for 
services and CFAF 500 million   materials); ememptin  fran tax on irdustrial an
for other enterprises).        cmmercial profits during the first mnv years and
50R exptio during the folladng three years.
RegPme B             Private eaterprises (nveschent For a mndmn of five years: exmptim fran tumwver
ranging fron CFAF 100 million   tax; exemption from duties on imports of
to CFAF 1 bilIen).             construction materials and machinery; 50% reductio
in import duties for raw naterials; u.mdmn 75%
reducti an exPort tax; prwisiona3 e     xtim fron
tax on Indstrial and cmmarczal profits during the
first two years. These pxofits have to appear in a
"Special Reserve" accot. The capitazation of
this reserve if it is rot distriuted is also
provisiwaly exempted from tax. Oterwise it is
subject to the ronal tawtim on industrial. anxi
camrcial profits; 33% reduction in profit txe
during the following three years.
Regine C             lixrtant unraldng               For a mainun  of 10 years: guaranteed stability of
requring a long gestation      econa.c, financial and fiscal legislation; free
period (investments above     cdoice of          t, suppliers, clies; in
CFAF 1 bi.lio),                addition, Regime B advantages for a madnu duratim
of five years. Provides for an establisiment
aureement with the Goverret.
Ragime D             Small amn medium sizecd domestic For a maximn of five years: exemptim from turnover
enterprises employing at least  tax; exemption fran Import tax on raw materia1s as
15 worlis (investments ranging well as o eqidpents anrd madhinery, madmzm 75%
from CFAF 20 million to       reduction In export taxes; exemptinm fram tax on
CFAF 100 mlinm).               industrial and cmmercial profits during the first
two years provided at least 50% of profits are
reinvested.
1/ As rewisd by Decree 83-254 of July 13, 1983.
Noveuber 1984



Aa  2-4
-46-
FfCXTAL PEMMANME OF SEJTh PONLT SENPRIS
Net                    Debt/
Pbblic                                      Profit                   Equity           Net
Ardtvlty          or (Los)      Sl         Patio           Worth       Debt
--- <AF =Mw i-
S9NAQL            FTdts and Vegetal
Pm ic-tim 4-ad Prolssig   (0)              5           .        (2,629)       2,835
(BAR               Rural Dev(28)                              99           .8429                    342
9PnDlG                                           13 P m 1&t  5,363        47          309        14,465
BUIPEM.            Flsbbg                      (195)          146         .5         1,555          739
SANaE              al                           (39)         239          .2        1,042           183
SCB                Cuit                                     1,729        Neg.         (85         1,241
SOACI             C_ent                        (5           1,790        Neg.      (1.            3,456
Sao                           ceteae   lnt Plant   (3,     4,00                                  22,608
;gl                    r   exils X4                        6,209           15162422
IA EMONOUE         Beer and Soft Drinks         156         7,869         7.3       2,075        15,084
RCH9              Pailsxs                      334         11,464        2.0        4,194         8,329
PAC               Part                           5         3,025          .8       17,897        14,441
TAB               Airines                        -           599        n.a.         n.a.           210
(ODE                                           321         2,942         1.8        1 710         3,095
SONARM                                          48           924         Neg.        (947)        6,892
sJIRA(oB                                       210           673         Neg.        (745)        3,805
Camrexc
AGO               Foodsbelf                   (421)        1,205         Neg.       (4,076)       5.800
C(EE                        lelc                 -         1,613        n.a.         n.a.         3,996
9CNbDP            Petroloeum Products          967        36,137         3.3        3,397        11,231
SOGBOOB           ag .OD                       (258)       1,266                     (546)        1,920
S(amE             Fa   n                        19         1,062         5.4          413         2,237
90MIMAS                - Eivis timi. Supplies    (392)       916          44           64        2 A17
StrENIcc                                      103         9,785         4.6          463         1,118
Odher
s(Nc:RnP          Coiutrixion                 (29)          500          13          126         1,675
SEEE              W3ter and Pbier              213        10,236          .3       12 891         3,377
cm  7V                       (99)         196         Nag.         51            782
CNAIH)            Hbtels                       898         2,570          .9        8,483         8,013
SO                Ruzal Bkzkets                 16           286          .7          852           596
Smple Total                                   (2,804)      113,018
F1985 data.
S:ree: pblie  erprise  fOnnodal statemt.
S%Mer 1986



-47 -                          Annex 2-5
Page 1 of 3
BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPACT OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES ON THE BANKING SYSTEM
Summary
1.        Benin's  three  state-owned  banks  have  provided  considerable
financial support to the public enterprises since the mid-1970s. Over the
period, the quality of the banks' portfolios deteriorated as the situation
of public enterprises worsened.   Banks are now facing major liquidity
problems with growing arrears from the public enterprise sector and
declining medium term resources in the form of stable deposits of the
State. As a group, they have become a substantial contingent liability to
public finances.
Banking Credit to Public Enterprises
2.        The rapid development of the public sector in the 1970s absorbed
a substantial share of the domestic credit, thus crowding out the private
sector. The share of banking credit to enterprises directed towards public
sector activities increased from 20Z (1974) to 55% (1985), even reaching
69% in 1980 at the peak of public sector investments. Over the period,
public enterprises absorbed most of the medium and long term lending.
Performance of the Banking System
3.        Portfolio.  The banks' portfolio deteriorated quickly over the
period since the mid-70s mostly due to the poor performance of public
enterprise.   In  December 1984,  the  public  enterprise  portfolio  was
estimated at CFAF 57 billion, half of which was traceable to enterprises
which had been littuidated or dissolved.   Altogether,  three-fourths of
banking arrears belonged to the public sector.
4.        Deposits.  This situation was further aggravated by the reduction
in the Government's deposits with the banking system over the period
1975-85 (Table 1). Until 1982, the Goverment was able to consolidate its
deposits with the banking system due to strong receipts of import duties
(often on goods in transit to neighboring countries). As a result, the net
position of the Government vis-A-vis the banking system improved by
CFAF 7.5 billion in the 1978-81 period.  However, the recent weakening of
the Government's receipts resulted in a sharp reduction in its net deposits
with the banking system (a decline of CFAP 28 billion in the 1981-85
period), impairing the three banks' liquidity position.
5.        BCEAO refinancing.   Growing  public  enterprise  arrears  and
decreasing stable resources forced the three state-owned banks to rely more
and more heavily on BCEAD refinancing, which increased from about
CFAF 8 billion in 1975 to CFAF 42 billion in 1985, well in excess of the
banks'  statutory  rediscounting  facilities.   In  accordance  with  its
regulations, BCEAO is charging the banks a penalty rate (25.8%) on
overdrawn short-term advances which further aggravates the banks'
situation.



- 48 -                         Annex 2-5
Page 2 of 3
6.        Profitability and net worth.   The  low  quality  of  the  banks'
portfolio,  the  high  cost  of  resources  (aggravated  by  penalty  rate
refinancing with BCEAO), the excessive level of operating expenses reduced
the  profitability of  each bank.   While  accounting  data  continued  to
artificially exhibit modest profits each year, it is estimated that the
three banks have accumulated a negative worth in excess of CFAF 40 billion
(1983).
7.        Situation of individual banks.  The three state-owned banks were
affected  to  a  varying  extent  by  this  deterioration.   BCB  (Banque
Commerciale du Benin) is the largest lender to public enterprises, (50% of
public enterprise loans, and 57% of banking arrears to the public sector
(1984)). Despite its substantial exposure in the public sector, this bank
has managed to remain fairly liquid by attracting more than 70% of the
country's deposits with the banking system. So far BCB has not overdrawn
on its rediscounting facility with BCEAO. The poor quality of its public
enterprise portfolio is reflected in a negative net worth estimated at
about CFAF 24 billion.  BBD (Banque Beninoise pour le Developpement) holds
32Z of loans extended by banks to public enterprises; these loans to public
enterprises account for two-third of BBD's portfolio, and 60% of them are
in arrears. BBD only mobilizes 21% of deposits with the banking system
(1985), and has been relying more and more heavily on BCEAO financing.
BBD's negative net worth is estimated at about CFAF 6 billion.   CNCA
(Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole) is a smaller institution but its
activities are highly dominated by the public enterprise sector.  CNCA
holds 17Z of public enterprise credits; 71% of these loans are to
enterprises which have either been liquidated or dissolved. With minimal
deposits (7% of total banking deposits), CNCA is virtually insolvent with a
negative net worth around CFAF 10 billion, and relies extensively on BCEAO
to remain liquid. BCEAO finances over 80% of CNCA's portfolio (1985).
Rehabilitation Prospects
8.        The rehabilitation of the financial sector will be one of the
major objectives of the envisaged adjustment program. IDA is prepared (in
close coordination with IMF, BCEAO and other external donors) to assist the
Government in the preparation of a restructuring program for the banking
system. This will involve a fundamental review of the situation, role and
operating conditions of each bank, its institutional framework, staffing,
organization and operating policies. The assumption by the Government of
at least part of the accumulated debt of the banks resulting from
unprofitable or dissolved public enterprise operations may be called for.
The restructuring is likely to involve a reduction in the number of banks
through mergers or liquidations and the opening up of the ownership of the
rehabilitated banks to private shareholders (including foreign banks) who
may be entrusted with managerial responsibility.



_ 49 _                         Annex 2-5
Page 3 of 3
Table 1
Government's Net Position with Domestic Banks
December December December December December December December September
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982     1983      1984     1985
- -- --- - --- - --- CFAF million--   -------                       --
Government Credits
Central Bank            2,498    2,764    5,467    7,578    6,118    3,694    1,126    1,592
Deposit Banks          13,532   24,089   19,170   24,000   18,500   17,000    7,000   11,015
Total             16.030   26.853   24.637   31 578   24 618   20 694    8.26   12.607
Government Debts
Central Bank            2,296    5,613    6,454    7,969    9,978   13,822   15,222   13,956
Deposit Banks             250       837      640    2,700    1,000    3,400    3,000    4,787
Other                   2,461    2.419    2,360    2,333    2,594    2,894    2,980    3,348
Total              52007    8.862    9        13002   13 572   20 116   21 202   22091
Government Net
Position a/          1102_3  __17_984     e      l a l83   - 1 176  -1046  -578   13 076    9  84
a! A negative position indicates that the Government is a net creditor to the banking
system.
Source: BCEAO, Statistiques Economigues et Monetaires.
WAPID
September 1986



50 -                    Annex 2-6
Page 1 of 4
BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REHABILITATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL FLOWS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE PUBLIC SECTOR
1.        Summary.  Analysis of financial flows over the past five years
reveals that: (a) outflows from the Government to the public enterprises
have exceeded inflows, but the net direct cost has not been large as
most financing was made through the banking system; and (b) contingent
liabilities - in the form of guaranteed debt or future rehabilitation
costs - could prove to be a heavy burden on public finances.
2.        Types of Financial Flows.  The main inflows to Government
consist of dividends, business, payroll and excise taxes, import duties,
and contributions to the National Investment Fund (FNI).  Of these, the
most important are business taxes and excise taxes. Dividends consist of
70% of profits for fully state-owned corporations (reduced from 85% in
1983), and of the entire Government share of profits in mixed-economy
companies.   Import duties,  essentially borne by consumers,  are not
considered in the analysis. Also, no account has been taken of the
impact of Government's delays in payments for goods and services
provided by the public enterprises. Major categories of inflows and
outflows are described in Table 1.
3.        Outflows of funds to the public enterprises consist of initial
capital costs and recurrent items. Initial capitalization has generally
been provided via the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) either in
the form of a capital subscription or in order to compensate existing
owners.   Initial financing was also provided by FNI project funds.
Working capital has generally been provided via the state-owned banking
system, but the CAA has also provided direct operating subsidies to the
public enterprises, although this has not been a common practice.
4.        Contingent liabilities consist of Government guarantees of
foreign and domestic borrowings by enterprises, and of direct borrowing
by Government for onlending purposes.
5.        Magnitude of Flows.  Inflows to the Government from the public
enterprises have totaled about CFAF 25 billion over the 1979 - 1983
period. Taxes owed but not paid totaled CFAF 19 billion over the same
period.  Dividends remitted to the Treasury have been minimal (less than
CFAF 100 million annually since 1980), reflecting both the poor
financial performance of most enterprises and the liquidity problems
that have led firms to omit the required dividend payments even when
they were profitable. Excise taxes have generally provided yields to
the Government similar in magnitude to those obtained from business
taxes.   FNI  contributions  were  discontinued  for  fully  state-owned
companies beginning in 1982.
6.        Government's financing of the public enterprise sector has
totaled about CFAF 32 billion during the 1979 - 1983 period. At the
beginning of this period,  public outflows were mainly for initial
capitalization of new enterprises or for major expansion projects, in



- 51 -                    Annex 2-6
Page 2 of 4
the form of CAA and FNI contributions or as other Government transfers
to enterprises (direct lending). By the end of the period, Government
assumption of public enterprises' foreign debt service was growing while
new  investment  was  greatly  reduced.   On  a  net  basis,  excess  of
Government outflows over inflows therefore reached CFAF 7 billion, a
relatively modest amount when compared to government total revenues.
But this does not take into account the contingent liabilities steming
inter alia from guarantees  given.   From  1979  to  1983 alone,  about
CFAF 114 billion of guarantees were provided by the State to public
enterprises,  two thirds of which were for Save Sugar and Onigbolo
projects.   Table 2 highlights  the  significance  of  these  contingent
liabilities in relation to direct State-enterprise financial flows.



- 52 -                      Annex 2-6
Page 3 of 4
Table 1
TTP  OF F i=NCIAL R     EAT
BE1'W4 STATE AND PUBLIC iNTH'iS
Ifis frm Public aerprises                         Outflows to PUic RrpriSeS
Dividns                70% of net prof it of fully    AiLdty Cnibuti                 tions to equlty,
state-imed enterprises to                                frn the Treasury or CA.
be contributed to natioal
budget; entire Gavrernt             am                   Ehpropriati. psyaents  maie
share of zxd-ec    firm                                  by the CAA to previus fim
profits to the budget.                                   cxers.
Business Taxes         (1) BIC - Corporate Pincam           in    g             FNI financing of investent
tax levied on net                                    projects
profits of enterprises;
mininui taxable profits  lam Girantees               Goverment guarmtees of
are calulated on basis                               foreign or dostic borro-
of tumorer.                                          ing by piblic enterprises.
(2) ICA, - lTrwver tax
levied an gross receipts Infrastnural Costs         Goverrnt pays coimterpart
from sales of goods and                              costs for infrastnruture
servies.                                           ;requirets; not considered
In quantitative aalysis.
Payroll Taxes          (1) VPP - &ployer's payroll
tax levied on emplcyers  Re]emindj                   Foreign borroing by the
mn total wages and bene-                             Goverm-it, onlet  to public
fits paid.                                           ent ses.
(2) lrs - Progressive tax
on salaries and wages.   Subsidies                   Operating subsidies paid by
Individual incun tax,                                the Treasury or CAL
withheld at source.
Net Lending                 Both the Trasury and CA.
Eicise Taxes          Taxes renitted by enter-                                  make advances to public
prises on sal  of cement,                                enterprises.
beverages, textiles, petro-
leun and Interest payments.
3IWYrtn/Enor Daties   Duties paid by enterprises
on import and export of
goods; not inclded in
qtantitative analysis.
Inestzmit Eztd        FNI - Contributions to
Natial] tInvst  FRRi,
levied on sales; fully
state-owned enterprLses
were emonrated fran this
reuiremnt by .aw in 1-2.
Scwce: Missim analysis.



- 53 -                  Annex 2-6
Page 4 of 4
Table 2
OPYEREWr-HRIC ERaiss. EINiA EILJS
Total
1979      1980       1981      1982     1983    1979-1983
------------ CFAF million - -
Inflows to Government
Dividends                        373         93       -         19       -           485
Business taxes                 2,283     2,685    3,133    2,928    2,299         13,328
Payroll taxes                    748        844      812       821      858        4,083
Excise taxes                     453        397    1,276    1,125       575        3,826
FNI contributions                455        542    1,636       157      234        3,024
Total                      4          A1  4     &857    5 2                      746
Outflows from Government
CAA expropriations               263        246       45        26       169         749
CAA equity contributions       3,948        268      592        55        98       4,961
FNI project finance            2,642        842    1,516    1,097       559        6,656
Net lending a/                 4,860     5,290    1,890        370    1,310       13,720
Operating subsidies b/          n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       151     n.a.          151
"t '  ' --nayments by CAA   n.a.       n.a.       923    1,077    3,407         5,407
Total                      16713      6,646    42966    2,776    5,543         31 644
Contingent Liabilities
Government loan guarantees  49,750       2,155    3,209        329    2,500       80,000
Relending                      2,363    26,967    4,252       n.a.     n.a.       33,582
Contingent Receipts
Unpaid taxes                   2,200     3,500    1,800    1,900    9,600         19,000
a/  From public finance accounts; may not be exclusively to public enterprises.
b/ Subsidy to SONAFEL in 1982; other subsidies not known but believed to be minor.
Source: Mission analysis of CAA and Treasury data.
WAPID
January 1985



- 54 -                 Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 6
BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
POLICY STATEMENT
FOR A REHABILITATION PROGRAM
OF TEE PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR 1/
A. General
1.        The national policy of State ownership undertaken in 1974-75
reflected Benin's fundamental choice and its political, economic and
social needs.  Its purpose is to enable the State to more effectively
control the country's economic development process, to foster the
accumulation of resources necessary for financing this process, to
ensure optimum utilization of those resources, thereby enabling the
Beninese economy as a whole to benefit directly and comprehensively from
the fruits of expansion.
2.        The expected effects have not been fully achieved on account
of:
a)   the inadequacy of the public and semi-public enterprises'
financial resources;
b)   the nonpayment of the share capital of certain public and
semi-public enterprises;
c)   deficient management and the lack of experience of certain
managers;
d) the inadaptation of the institutional environment; and
e)   the protracted and far-reaching international economic crisis
that led to a steady deterioration of the terms of trade,
higher external debt burden, and higher cost of imports (in
particular energy, inputs and essential commodities).
3.        The financial situation of certain public  and semi-public
enterprises has severely been affected by these conditions and the
public sector as a whole has drained off a sizable proportion of the
State's resources, either through the national budget or the financial
system, thereby seriously eroding the financial stability of the
country's banking system.
4.        The Government, in recognition of these difficulties, has
taken certain corrective measures to ensure the harmonious development
1/  Unofficial translation.



- 55 -                 Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 6
of the public sector within the framework of the nation's economic
objectives. Some important decisions were taken in April 1982, aimed
at:
a)   liquidating or merging a number of state enterprises;
b)   closing down most of the provincial enterprises;
c)   installing new management teams in several enterprises;
d)   raising the prices of selected products;
e)   improving   enterprise   management   and   productivity   by
introducing a personnel incentive system;
d)   reforming  the  institutional  framework  of  the  public  and
semi-public enterprises, and
e)   strengthening management control.
However, it has not been possible for these decisions to be fully
implemented and the expected results have not materialized.
5.        The 1983-87 Development Plan confirmed this orientation and
emphasized, among its objectives, the necessity of improving the
economic efficiency and financial results of the public enterprise
sector, on the one hand, and of reexamining the State's participation in
the various sectors of the economy,  on the other.   The Plan also
stressed the need to mobilize domestic and foreign private capital.
6.        The following Policy Statement is in keeping with the 1974-75
nationalizations,   the  reorganizations  of  1982  and  the  1983-87
Development Plan.  It has two parts.  The first part delineates the
scope and the role of the Public and Semi-Public Enterprise Sector and
the second sets out the reforms to be undertaken to improve the
conditions under which these enterprises carry out their activities.
This Policy Statement is accompanied by an Action Program for
implementation of the proposed reforms.
B. Role and Delineation of the Public and Semi-Public
Enteprise Sector
1. Definition
7.        The purpose of State ownership in enterprises in Benin is to:
a)   control the economic development process;
b)   facilitate  the  accumulation  of  resources  necessary  for
financing this process;
c) ensure the optimum utilization of these resources; and



- 56 -                 Annex 3-1
Page 3 of 6
d)   enable  the  economy  as  a  whole  to  benefit  directly  and
comprehensively from the fruits of expansion. The objective
of the Beninese public and semi-public enterprise sector is to
implement the Government's economic and social policy when
State ownership is deemed to represent the best way of
achieving such objective. Four categories of enterprises have
been identified as belonging to the public and semi-public
sector:
(i) enterprises providing public services to meet social
needs; these are in general of limited commercial
attractiveness: postal services, water supply, power
generation and distribution, hospitals, etc.;
(ii) enterprises in sectors of strategic or vital interest to
the economy over which the Government wishes to exercise
full control (e.g. ports, airline, importation of oil
products, banks, insurance, etc.);
(iii) enterprises so large that the Government wishes to
control their activities either through full ownership or
a majority or minority shareholding (e.g. ONIGBOLO
Cement); and
(iv) enterprises engaged in activities the aims of which are
in accordance with the national economic policy and in
which State participation is necessary either because
they have not attracted private investors or because the
State's presence is essential for securing foreign
financing (e.g. Save Sugar Company).
8.        All economic or commercial activities not falling within the
above categories will be open to the domestic and foreign private
sector,  subject to prevailing regulations.   To the extent  that the
private sector is not forthcoming, the State reserves the right to step
in provided such State initiatives are justified by a thorough study
establishing the economic and financial viability of the enterprise in
question and the possibility of mobilizing the human and financial
resources necessary for acnieving the aims pursued.
9.        Liquidations.   The  Government  has  decided  to  liquidate
nonviable enterprises not falling within the framework set forth above.
The 1982 reforms set in motion the liquidation or merger of a certain
number of  public  enterprises.   This  effort will be  continued:  the
Government will reexamine the number of enterprises in the public and
semi-public sector and will draw up a list of enterprises to be
liquidated ard a timetable to implement these decisions.
10.       Opening up of Certain Activities.  The Government will take
steps to open up sectors of economic activity in which State control no
longer appears vital for pursuit of the priority goals of Benin's
economic policy. This will be achieved in various ways: by the opening



- 57 -                   Annex 3-1
Page 4 of 6
of capital to private investors, by increasing the private sector's
share in mixed ownership companies, and by bringing the private sector
into sectors heretofore subject to state monopply.  The sectors best
suited for this opening are:
a)   textiles (e.g. SOBETEX);
b)   building/construction (e.g. SONACOTRAP);
c)   transport,    freight    forwarding/consignment    (SONATRAC,
SOTRACOB); and
d)   importation and distribution (AGB, SOGECOB).
The State will give priority in opening up these sectors to Beninese
nationals with requisite competence or financial resources before
seeking out foreign investors.
11.       Investment Trogram.  The Government will draw up a specific
investment program for the public and semi-public enterprise sector for
each fiscal year.   The only projects retained for execution will be
those that (i) meet agreed technical, economic and financial viability
criteria; and (ii) have a total cost sustainable for the economy will be
retained for execution.
12.       Creation  of New  Public  and  Semi-Public  Enterprises.   The
creation of new state enterprises will be limited to the categories
defined in paragraph 7.  In addition, establishment of any new state
enterprise will be subject to an analysis demonstrating its economic and
financial viability.
C. Environment and Operation of Public and Semi-Public Enterprises
13.       In the context of its rehabilitation policy for the public and
semi-public enterprise sector, the Government will pursue its efforts to
improve the environment and operation of the enterprises, especially
with regard to their regulatory and institutional framework, the
monitoring system, incentives, and pricing policy.
1. Regulatory and Institutional Framework
14.       Supervision  and  Management  of  State  Enterprises.         The
supervision of the public and semi-public enterprises will be
rationalized and the roles of the supervisory bodies and management
(supervisory ministry, board, management committee, management, etc.)
will be clarified in order to avoid duplication of responsibilities and
confusion, and to allow the enterprises autonomy once their objectives
have been defined. The composition of the Board of Directors will be
reviewed  to  increase  its  efficiency.   The  Board will  entrust  the
management with the responsibility for handling day-to-day operations.



-58 -                   Annex 3-1
Page 5 of 6
15.       Enterprise Autonomy.  The managers of public enterprises will
have the necessary freedom of action, within the objectives set by the
Board of Directors and the supervisory authorities. This autonomy will
extend to all day-to-day mnagement acts such as dismissals/hirings,
choice of suppliars, etc.
16.       Enterprise Control and Management Information Systems.  The
internal and external control of the enterprises will be strengthened in
parallel with greater management autonomy. The Government will refine
its tools for monitoring the operations of the semi-public and public
enterprises. A management information system will accordingly be set up
to provide the Government and the enterprise managements with operating
and financial data and other essential indicators of the health of the
enterprise. This system will also be intended to help management and
the Government authorities to evaluate the results of the operations.
17.       Efficiency. of  Public  Enterprise  Management  and  Incentive
Systems.  A performance monitoring system will be set up in each public
or semi-public enterprise.  In addition, the Management of each state
enterprise will determine each year, in agreement with its supervisory
authorities, the performance criteria to be applied for comparing actual
results with forecasts.  Enterprise managers will receive incentives
based on performance and the staff will benefit from a bonus sytem.
18.       Uniform Accounting System.  The Government will ensure the
rigorous application, country-wide, of the National Accounting Plan
introduced on January 1, 1983.
2. Prices
19. Pricing Policy:
a)   the prices of public services will reflect average long-term
incremental cost of these services; and
b)   the prices of manufactured products will be set by market
forces.
In  addition,  the  Government  will  support  specific  price  reform
recommendations included in the rehabilitation plans to be prepared for
each individual enterprise.
20.       The price review mechanisms have been reexamined with a view
to reducing the time required for obtaining approval for revision. The
list of imported products whose prices are controlled by the state has
been revised and non-monopoly products that are not of a strategic
importance or do not meet essential social needs have been taken off the
list.
21.       Financial Discipline will be improved and the time taken to
settle the financial obligations of the state enterprises will be



- 59 -                  Annex 3-1
Page 6 of 6
reduced.  The process of clearing reciprocal debts in the public and
semi-public enterprise sector begun in 1983 will be continued and
extended to the whole sector.
22.       Allocation of Profits of State Enterprises.  The State will
give enterprises greater flexibility in allocating their profits and
surpluses, thereby increasing their capacity for financing necessary
investments and maintenance expenses.
3. Rehabilitation of State Enterprises
23.       The Government will initiate specific studies for a selected
list of state enterprises.
24.       For those enterprises diagnosed as potentially economically
and financially viable, these studies will lead to rehabilitation plans
that will specify the measures to be undertaken by the enterprise on the
one hand, and the State on the other, to enable the enterprise to
operate on a sound footing. Tne rehabilitation plan will also specify
the performanca indicators and evaluation criteria.
25.       The Government will submit these rehabilitation plans to IDA
for  approval  and  financing.   For  those  enterprises  diagnosed  as
non-viable, a liquidation plan will be prepared and executed.
August 1985



60 -                Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 7
BENIN
PUBLIC AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
ACTION PROGRAM 1/
A. Introduction
1.        This Action Program sets out the specific measures that will
be taken to delineate the public and semi-public entei-prise sector and
to improve the environment and operation of these enterprises.   The
Policy  Statement  for  a  Rehabilitation  Program  of  the  Public  and
semi-Public  Enterprise   Sector  provides  the  framework  for  the
implementation of these measures.
B. Delineation of Public Sector
2.        Greater Participation by Private Sector.  In accordance with
paragraph 10 of th.t Policy Statement, the Government has reviewed with
IDA its strategy fo- opening up the following enterprises to the private
sector.   Progress  towards  implementation  of this  strategy will be
reviewed with IDA at least once a year starting in airch 1987.
C.  Priority Enterprises for Full or Partial Privatization
terprise                          Sector
1. SOBETEX                          Textiles
2. OBI                              Data processing
3. ONATHO                           Hotels
4. SONAE                            Infrastructure
5. SCNACOTRAP                       Public works construction
v. 5ONATRAC/SOTRACOB                Freight forwarding
7. AGB/SOGECOB                      Distribution/importation
3.        Mergers and Liquidations.   The Government has  stopped the
activities of  IBETEX,  CIB and Transbenin.   As regards  these three
enterprises, timetables to complete the liquidation process, including
sale of assets and lay offs of personnel have been prepared by the
Government and provided to IDA.
4.        Investment Program.  The Government undertakes: (i) that its
investments in public industrial and co mercial enterprises shall meet
financial, technical, and economic viability criteria; and (ii) that
their total cost shall not exceed at any time during the life of the
project, annual limits to be set in agreement with IDA on the basis of a
1/ Unofficial translation.



- 61 -                Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 7
yearly review of the national investment program. For 1986, a limit of
CFAF 2.3 billion has been agreed upon.
5.        Creation of New Enterprises.  Any new state enterprise will
have to belong to one of the categories listed in paragraph 7 of the
Policy Statement and must be supported by an analysis establishing its
financial and economic viability. This analysis must show, among other
things, the expected impact of the enterprise on the public finances.
6.        Enterprises Established or Merged in 1982.  The Government
will study before June 1987 the financial position of the enterprises
listed below that were established and/or formed through mergers in 1982
and will determine the measures needed to safeguard the financial
viability of these enterprises. Enterprises that are shown not viable
will be closed down before June 1988.
Enterprise          Sector               Created from
OBAR                Irrigation           SONIAH, part of SOBEPALH
SODIMAS             Books                OAE, SONAPAL
SOGEMA              Marketing            SEMAC
TAB                 Airline              Air Benin
OBEAR               Arts, Culture          --
SONICOG             Vegetable Oil        SONICOG, part of SONAGRI
D. Regulatory and Institutional Framework
7.        Supervision and Management of State Enterprises.  On the basis
of the principles contained in the paragraph 14 of the Policy Statement,
the Government has undertaken a study on the institutional environment
of the state enterprises, defined in Law 82.008 of December 30, 1982, in
order to clarify the role of the bodies involved in the supervision and
management of the state enterprises (supervisory ministry, Board of
Directors, Management Committee, General Manager, etc.). The Government
will implement the recommendations of this study before June 1987.
8.        Personnel of the Public and semi-Public Enterprises.   The
Government will reform the regulations governing personnel policy in the
public and semi-public enterprises in order to strengthen the managers'
autonomy in hiring and dismissing staff. New regulations reflecting
these objectives will be introduced before June 1987. In addition, the
Government will support the personnel changes recommended by the
rehabilitation plans drawn up under this project, together with the
layoffs resulting from the closing down of the enterprises listed in
paragraph 3.
E. Operations Monitoring and Efficiency Incentive Systems
in the State Sector
9.        Monitoring  of  the  Operations  of  Public  and  Semi-Public
Enterprises.  The Government has set up an Operations Monitoring Unit
for the Public and semi-Public Enterprises. In addition, the Government



-62 -                 Annex 3-2
Page 3 of 7
will start, before March 1987, a study on the information and management
system with the aim of setting up a simple system for gathering and
using essential data on the public and semi-public enterprises, and the
establishment  of  a  monitoring  system  (tableaux  de  bord).   This
monitoring system will subsequently be supplemented by management
information systems specific to each enterprise as recommended under the
rehabilitation plans, thereby enabling the Government to monitor the
activities of the public and semi-public sector.
10.       Analysis of Results.  The Government will define each year,
and for the first time in January 1988, a set of performance indicators
for each of the public and semi-public enterprises together with a
system for evaluation of actual performance in relation to forecast.
11.       Efficiency  Incentives.   The  Government  will  set  up  an
incentive system for managers based on results measured by the procedure
set forth in paragraph 10. It will also ensure that each enterprise
prepares a bonus system for its personnel aimed at raising productivity
and will approve these specific systems for each enterprise by January
1988 at the latest. The systems thus developed will be implemented for
the first time in FY1988.
12.       National Accounting Plan.   The Government has prepared an
action program for the country-wide application of the National
Accounting Plan.
F. Pricing Policy
13.       The prices set by the Government will be based on market
forces to the extent possible. In addition, prices for services will
reflect average long-term marginal cost.
14.       The list of products for which prices are currently set by or
subject to approval by the Government has been revised in March 1986 in
order to limit it strictly to products of strategic or social imPortance
or  to monopolistic  products.   Prices  of products  of manufacturing
enterprises benefitting from a rehabilitation program shall be subject
to market forces.
15.       A new price review procedure is being implemented to reduce
the time taken for approval of requests.  Under the new procedure the
examination of requests will have to be completed within 60 days;
moreover, the Government will support specific recommendations for price
reform included In the enterprise rehabilitation plans under this
project.
G. Financial Discipline
16.       The Government has undertaken a study of the reciprocal debts
of state enterprises. Upon completion of that study, these reciprocal
debts will be cleared. In addition, the Government will set deadlines



- 63 -                Annex 3-2
Page 4 of 7
for settlement of debts owed by the state enterprise sector for each
sector of activity. These will go into effect as of March 1987.
H. Allocation of Profits
17.       The  enterprises  will  be  allowed  to  retain  a  sufficient
proportion of their earnings in order to finance their investment and
maintenance requirements. Regulations to this effect will be put into
effect before June 1987.
I. Rehabilitation Plan
18.       The  Government  will have rehabilitation plans  for public
enterprises prepared according to the following schedule:
Sector         Start of Study       Emergency       Completion
Program        Date
(1) Food
processing
(SONAFEL,
LA BENINOISE)       January 85      May 1985        June 1987
(2) Freight
forwarding/
consignment
(SONATRAC,
SOTRACOB,
COBENAM)            February 1985  July 1985        June 1987
(3) Importation/
Distribution
(AGB)               September 1986 December 1986  December 1987
(SOGECOB, ONP)      February 1987  May 1987        June 1988
(4) Textiles
(SOBETEX)           March 1987      June 1987      May 1988
(5) Others          T O   B E    D E T E R M I N E D
The emergency program will define the immediate needs of the enterprise
(equipment, parts, working capital, etc.) to enable it to operate until
the completion of the full rehabilitation program. The rehabilitation
program will specify the steps to be taken to improve the enterprise's
operating conditions and to ensure its physical and financial
rehabilitation, with an implementation schedule for each of these steps.
The Government will ensure the implementation of the measures contained
in each rehabilitation program.



- 64 -                Annex 3-2
Page 5 of 7
J. Management of the Project
19.       The  Government  has  finalized,  with  IDA's  agreement,  the
organizational set-up for the management of the project both in its
preparatory phase and in its implementation phase. In particular, the
Government has selected a Senior Project Advisor who will assist in
implementation.
K. Project Progress Review
20.       The Government will prepare quarterly progress reports on
project implementation.   The first such report was sent to IDA in
January 1985 for the first time and includes the following:
a)   Implementation  of   rehabilitation  measures:   the  report
describes the progress made in implementing the reforms in the
public and semi-public enterprise sector.
b)   Progress  in preparation  of the rehabilitation  plans:  the
report describes the status of progress in the preparation of
the rehabilitation plans.
c)   Report on implecuctation of the rehabilitation plans: during
the implementation phase, the report will give an account of
progress in implementing the subsectoral reforms contained in
each of the plans, together with progress in the execution of
the different enterprise-specific measures (prices, injection
of  capital/financial  restructuring,   etc.).   The  annual
accounts and annual reports of each enterprise will be
attached to this report.
L. Periodic Review
22.       At  intervals of six months,  IDA and the Government will
jointly evaluate 'the progress made with the reforms and discuss such
corrective measu5res as needed.
August 1985
Unofficial translation.



- 65 -                                       Annex 3-2
Page 6 of 7
Mm
PUJLIC ERTEfPPISZ SECrOR REHAXILITATION PROJECT
sMaMRY OF sCrotR REFOMS weNIrIImN  IN TlE GOVERNM      'S STATEMENI OF POLICY AND AClION PUOGRAN
Action Taken                      In the course of
Policy Area                    Objectives                   In 193W! 7JP oject rrePr atton                                 toletU     - tatiflon
Overall Sector               - Limit the size of the        - 1982 Pal icy                - Agreement on a Policy         Implementation of
Policie                        Public Enterprise              measres.                      Statement and an              specific steps concained
Sector.                                                      Action Progrs.                In the Action Progrs.
- Improve the overall                                        - Undertaking of key
management of the                                            refuse as specified
aector.                                                      below.
Reduccion in die
size of tbe Pubitc
Ene rprt c Sector
(t) Refocussing the          - Redirect State               - Dtcontinuation of the       - Agreement with MDA          - Privatization,
Role of the State          financial and                  monopoliatic situation        on a ltst of sectors          liquidations, screening of
in the Zconomy            mangerial resources             In rice, wheat and            end enterpriaes from          new public sector
towards priority              pbsrceuetical                 which the State plins          investments, limitation of
areas of PubiLc                distribution.                 to disengage itself.          Invesmentasin the public
Mansgement.                                                                                enterprise sector.
(ii) Liquidations              Limit drain on               - Closing down of             - Termination of the          - Closing down of
public finances cused          provincial                    operations of CIS,            enterprises for whicb a
by the operation of            enterprises.                  rIrFl, and Tranabt in.        diagnosis will show that
uneconomic enterprises.      - Decis ion to merge or                                       they are not ecoomicelly
liquidate a umber of                                        viable.
uneconomic ventures.                                     - Completion of the
liquidation process for
CIB, flEM1, and Trana-
b5nin.
(ii) Privattzation           - Improve sector               - Increased private             Statement that              - Negotiattin with private
efficiency tbrougb             sector competition            Import/Distribution,          sector and actual
private sector                 In a    Ier of sectore.       Textiles, Ranking,            privattzation.
participatton.               - Impremnts i    the            Preisht Forwarding,
- Augment State                  Invetment Code.               Clinker Grinding,
revenues.                                                  - Consrruction, Data
Proces ing setors
are to be opened to
private Investors.
- Agrement on a
strategy of
privati ation for
selected sectors and
enterprises.
(iv) Public Enterprise
Sector Inatent
- Ensure the viability of                                    - Agreement on                - Preparation of a detailed
new public sector                                            economic, technical,          appraisal study
investments.                                                 and financial viability       demonstrating the
- Limit the expansion of                                      criteria for state            viability of each new
the Public Enterprise                                       enterprise inestmoents,       public enterprise
Sector.                                                    - Agrement on the content    investment and of its
of the 1986 State             iact on public financea.
Inves  tent Program         - Yearly review with MDA of
in the Public                 the State lnwesctent
Enterprise Sector.            Progr_ in the Public
Enterprise Sector.



- 66 -                                    Annex 3-2
Page 7 of 7
vtuuc unnnxsz szacu csaananMou non
*aou Rmusrs cOma          IN TR    t S mUEIT'S SZAcOI   OF POLIC
Actions Taken                   In the course of                   Durt
Policy Area                  Ob(ectietves                Er                             r frojct nrrarat tin        Proactrentation
Improiment in
Public Enterprise
Sector l_aemment
(1) Refom of the            - Clarify the roles of         - lprovements In the         - Undertaking of a           - Reviseon of the legal
Legas Framework           the Supervising Ministry,      legislation governing        revew of the legl             framework for public
bord of Directors,            relationship between          frmework of public           enterprise operations.
Enterprise Naegent.           the State and public          encerprise operations.      -Implementation of
- Increase enterprise           enterprises.                - Agrenent with IDA on         specific Rahebtlitetion
managemnt sutonmy.                                          a statement of               Progrms.
objectives and on an
action plen for the
institutiona reform.
- Preporstion of
Rehablitation Progrms
to clarify the mtuol
comitmente of public
enterprises and tie State.
(ii) Personnel              - increase enterprise                                       - Staffing reduction in       - Implementation of lay
Policies                 autonomy in the area of                                      AGt, CUP, PAC, SOfEl.        oiffs and/or
per onnel managemnt,                                                                     redeployment al
personnel as
race_ended In
Rehabilitation
Program.
- Increased enterprise
*utonom in hiring/
firing decisions
(ii) Performe               - Motivate managers            - Decision to                -Comitent to                  - Analyses of actual
Incentive               and mployees to                set up a bonu                 dauign/implement an          perforsnee vs. agreed
efficient operations.         system.                       efficiency based              indicators.
incentive systm.           - Design end
iplementation of an
Incentive system
(iV) Pricinm                - Limit State control          - Selected price             - Reduction In the            - Removal of all price
over prices.                  incresses.                    list of Imported             controls for products
products for whicb           of anufacturing
prices are set by            eaterprises to be
the Covernment.              assisted under the
- Simplification of            project.
procedures for
price review.
Cv) Liquidity end           - Restore liquidity in                                      - tdertaking of a study       - Compenseaton of
Finacial                  the economy nd improve                                       on the indebtedness of       interlocking debts.
Discipline                financial discipitne,                                        the public enterprise      - Finanial
sctor.                       restructuring of
individual enterprises
as recommended In
r Obilitation
programs.
(vi) Retention of           - Improve public                                            - Coem_   t  to               - Nev regulation
E rintn                  enterprites' ability                                         iacrease flexibility         erabncing flexibility
to reinvest earning.                                        in allocation of             in the allocation of
earnings,                    net incme.
(vit) Monitoring of         - Iprove cotrol of                                          - Plan to implement           - Implementation of
public                  public enterprises,                                         the new National              an HIS.
Enterprises                                                                         Accounting Plan.            - Setting up of
- Selection of consultants     "Tableaux de Bord'
to undertake a sector-       as recomended In
wide study on KIS.           specific enterprise
rehabilitation
programs.
wapID
September 1986



- 67 -               Annex 3-3
Page 1 of 15
BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES ENVISAGED FOR REHABILITAION OR LIQUIDATION
UNDER THE PROJECT
I. AGROINDUSTRIES
A. LA BENINOISE (Brewery and Soft Drink Bottling)
1.        Origin.  In 1975, the Benin Government bought the Cotonou
brewery and soft drink plant from the French group Brasseries et
Glacieres d'Indochine (BGI). Since then, two other plants have been
built, a brewery in Parakou, and a soft drink and mineral water plant at
Possotome.   A  third  plant  is  under  construction  at  Abomey.   La
Beninoise's net worth stands at CFAF 2.1 billion; the firm is completely
state-owned and employs about 500 workers.
2.        Technical Problems.  The Cotonou brewery and soft drink plant
has been experiencing growing technical problems in the last ten years.
Long delays in spare part delivery and inadequate procedures for
equipment overhaul since the expatriate specialist's departure in 1976
have resulted in a deterioration of the company's assets. The Cotonou
plant's fermentation unit (installed in 1958) and the bottling line
(1962) need to be replaced to enable La Beninoise to meet quality
standards dictated by the market. These problems have been compounded
by frequent power supply shortages, as well as unreliable fuel and water
deliveries. Operations are running well below capacity, at about 50% of
nominal capacity (600,000 hl/year of beer, 150,000 hl/year of mineral
waters and 200,000 hl/year of soft drinks). In June 1986, an explosion
affected the operation of the Cotonou plant, substantially decreasing
La Beninoise's production.
3.        Financial  Situation.   Increasing  operating  costs  due  to
technical difficulties and higher prices for imported inputs have not
been matched by timely increases in the price of beer and soft drinks.
The last price increases authorized by the Government took place in
1983, almost two years after La Beninoise submitted its request. The
preceding increase, in 1981, allowed La Beninoise to increase prices of
its products by an average of 50% although the cost of malt, maize and
sugar had increased by 78%, 105% and 133% over the same period. This
inadequate pricing policy reduced profitability at a time when La
Beninoise was undertaking major expansion (Parakou, Possotome, Abomey)
without any Government contribution to equity. Between 1977 and 1980,
La Beninoise invested more than CFAF 6 billion in the expansion and
improvement of its productive capacity.   This program was entirely
financed through medium-term and suppliers credits and through internal
cash generation. As of June 1985, the company had a debt equity ratio
of 7 to 1 and a negative working capital of CFAF 816 million.  To
maintain a minimum liquidity, La Beninoise has systematically deferred
various payments due to the Gove rnent and other public entities (income
tax,  contribution to  FNI,  district and  county  taxes).   The total
deferred payments to the State exceed CFAF 8 billion.



- 68 -                Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 15
4.        Prospects.  The company has operated efficiently in the past
with a competent management. It suffers, like many Beninese ventures,
from a shortage of middle managers, particularly in the fields of
accounting and financial management.   According to estimates prepared
by a UNIDO/BCP (Bureau Central des Projets, Ministere du Plan, et de la
Statistique) team, the market prospects seem favorable. La Beninoise's
current production represents less than 40% of the market and the demand
remains substantially unsatisfied.
5.        Recommendation.    Appropriate   investments   and   technical
assistance designed to rehabilitate existing capacity and raise its
utilization level should make the firm considerably more profitable.
The company had prepared a preliminary program calling for about CFAF 2
billion of investments for physical restructuring of existing plants.
This program included about CFAF 700 million of emergency needs to
rapidly improve capacity utilization.   This program will need to be
reviewed in light of the recent accident  in the Cotonou plant.   A
financial restructuring effort will also be needed to remedy the
company's excessively high debt equity ratio, negative working capital
and illiquid position. The Abomey brewery project (CFAF 6.2 billion)
has been halted due to lack of funds.  The study should review the
prospects for this new capacity. The potential for attracting private
investors should be explored. Key financial data are presented below.
LA BENINOISE
Key Financial Data
FY1982     FY1983      FY1984       FY1985
-  ----CFAF million-----             --
Sales                            9,210     7,394        6,741        7,869
Net Income (loss)                  255       492          451          156
Working Capital                 (2,595)      (785)       (948)        (816)
Total Debt                      11,637    13,464       13,631       15,084
B. SONAFEL (Fruit and Vegetable Growing and Processing)
6.        Description.  The "Societe Nationale pour le Developpement des
Fruits et Legumes" (SONAFEL) was created in March 1975, to (a) increase
the overall supply of fruit and vegetables; (b) promote processing of
these agricultural products; and (c) export fresh and processed fruit
and vegetables.   For this purpose,  SONAFEL owns an irrigated citrus
plantation at Beterou for the production of fresh fruit; irrigated
perimeters for vegetable (mainly tomato) production at Okpara and in the
region of Natitingou; fruit tree nurseries at Parakou and Togba; an
agro-industrial complex at Natitingou for the manufacture of tomato
concentrate and mango juice; a factory at Parakou for processing cashew
nuts for export; and the Za-Allahe complex, for the extraction of
essential  oils,   fruit  juices  and  syrups.    SONAFEL  operates  a
distribution center with a refrigerated warehouse and distributes its
products through five sales centers.



- 69 -                Annex 3-3
Page 3 of 15
7.        Performance.   The company has been able to produce only a
limited number of products of average or low quality:   the tomato
concentrate is too light in color and too sweet and the mango nectar is
too thick, the cans used are not attractive. The company is overstaffed
(250 permanent employees) and its output is low for the size of the
operations: assets of CFAF 1.3 billion generated total sales of only
about CFAF 200 million in 1981/1982. This compares unfavorably with an
industry-wide ratio of sales to assets of 1.0 for this type of operation
in developing countries. The Natitingou tomato paste operation has been
highly uneconomical due to low yields on the tomato perimeters producing
the raw materials, the long distance from southern urban markets, and
inefficient operations. The plant is operating at less than 1O0 of its
design capacity.
8.        Financial  Position.    SONAFEL's  financial  situation  has
deteriorated over the last five years.   Its negative net worth is
estimated at CFAF 2.6 billion (June 1985).  In FY1985, SONAFEL's net
losses exceeded by over 5 times the amount of its sales.
SONAFEL
Key Financial Data
FY1980               FY1982 1,          FY1985
{~~-----FAF million-- - - --
Sales                  111                    209                 95
Net Income (loss)    (620)                    (414)             (624)
Total Debt           1,836                  2,443              2,835
Net Worth             (520)                 (1,148)           (2,629)
9.        Rehabilitation  Prospects.   Initial  findings  of  the  study
underway are that the company should withdraw from direct production
activities. The company would then concentrate its efforts on promotion
of fruit and vegetable production while progressively leaving production
and processing activities to the private sector (over a two year
transition period).   The consultants are expected to help SONAFEL's
management prepare a program for the transition period including
concrete proposals for transferring production activities to the private
sector. The program would include the estimated financial requirements
to rehabilitate activities to be sold or transferred, and the company's
fruit and vegetable development strategy for the medium term. The
1/ June 1981 - December 1982.



- 70 -               Annex 3-3
Page 4 ot 15
program   will   also   have   to   include   financial   restructuring
recommendations to deal with the unsustainable accumulated debt
exceeding CFAF 2.8 billion.
II. MARITIME TRANSPORTATION, TRANSIT AND FREIGHT FORWARDING
A. COBENAM (Maritime Freight Transportation)
10.       Creation.  Reflecting the priority attached by the Government
to the development of a national commercial fleet, the "Compagnie
Beninoise de Navigation Maritime" (COBENAM) was created in 1974 as a
joint venture between Algeria (492) and Benin (51%), with an equity base
of CFAF 500 million. Operations began in 1975 with Algerian technical
assistance.  COBENAM initially followed a strategy of moderate growth
using small chartered vessels of about 4,000 dead-weight tons (DiT), for
periods of six to twelve months. In 1978, a second-hand vessel of 4.400
DWT was purchased. This vessel and from one to three other chartered
vessels of about 5,400 DWT each have been operating since 1978. COBENAM
traffic increased from 12,000 m tons in 1975 to 40,000 m tons in 1978,
and 55,000 m tons in 1981. The line's vessels are deployed on the
Continent-West Africa trade route, carrying about 20 to 30% of Benin's
imports and 50% of its dry cargo exports on this route. COBENAM is a
member of the relevant freigbt conference (COWAC).
11.       Recent Developments.  The economic measures taken by Nigeria
and Niger in 1982 have had a substantial effect on the volume of import
cargos through Cotonou.   In this constrained market, non-conference
operators began competing with COBENAM on the basis of lower rates and
greater frequency of service. As a result, COBENAM's revenue decreased
by 20% between 1982 and 1984. The company cancelled its contract for a
third vessel which it had chartered in May 1982.
12.       Financial  Situation.   COBENAM's  financial  situation  was
positive until 1980 - 1981 reflecting an excellent management in a
rather complex and competitive field. The costly leasing of a chartered
vessel amidst the 1982 recession period and the dry docking of the
vessel owned by COBENAM in the second half of the same year affected the
company's   profitability.    This   resulted   in   heavy   losses   of
CFAF 590 million for the second semester of 1982 which exceeded capital
and retained earnings.   COBENAM registered a negative net worth of
CPAF 88 million in December 1982. The company improved its financial
position in the following years, even achieving a positive net income of
CFAF 321 million in 1985, following reduction in its unprofitable hire
chartering activities. Salient financial data are shown below:



- 71 -                Annex 3-3
Page      15
COBENAM
Salient Financial Data
FY1981              FY1983             FY1985
-------CFAF mi.lion--   -
Sales                         2,891                2,993              2,942
Operating Margin                 279                 235                420
Net Income (loss)                 55                 137                321
Debt                           1,641               2,632              3,095
13.       Recommendation.  The rehabilitation study on COBENAM underway
should recommend remedial actions to allow the firm to improve its
operational  financial  situation.   Besides  developing  a  strategy  to
augment the profitability of operations in freight market, the study
would recommend methods to enhance efficiency of operations and
especially (a) development of a timely management information system;
(b) improvement of accounting systems to allow evaluation of the results
of each voyage; and (c) modernization of technical monitoring of vessel
maintenance.  COBENM  had been considering in 1981 the purchase of a new
vessel of approximately 6,000 DWT. Technical specifications were drawn
up with Algerian assistance and bids had been received from shipyards
and evaluated. Weakness of the market and lack of financial resources
forced management to postpone any purchase decision. The study should
also review the proposal for acquisition of a vessel and make
recommendations on the leasing vs. purchasing strategies to be followed
by the Management.
B. SOTRACOB AND SONATRAC (Transit and Freight Forwarding)
14.       Origin.  The "Societe de Transit et de Consignation du Benin"
(SOTRACOB) and the 'Sociit6 Nationale de Transit et de Consignation"
(SONATRAC) were both created in 1975 to engage in the handling of cargo
in transit from and to neighboring countries.
15.       Performance.  SONATRAC is a wholly Government-owned company.
Business handled is relatively low (CFAF 924 milllon in FY 1985) in
relation to the high cost of personnel (about 600 employees). SONAIRAC
posted   losses   in   FY   1983   (CFAF 119 million)   and   FY   1984
(CFAF 150 million) and a modest profit in FY 1985; its accumulated
losses were CFAF 947 million through the end of FY 1985, i.e. more than
18 times its low capital base.  Total debts exceed CFAP 6.8 billion.
SOTRACOB is a mixed economy company, with 48X of the stock h:ld by
private  investors.   SOTRACOB  is  also  in  a  precarious  ffnancial
situation; it has 588 employees and its sales have been dropping rapidly
from  1982  (CFAF 915 million)  to  1983  (CFAF 501 million),   slowly
increasing afterwards (CFAF 673 million in 1985).



- 72 -                Annex 3-3
Page b oF 15
16.       Prospects.  The two companies have fared differently in the
same business, but both have been affected by the recent drop in transit
cargo handled by the port.   The Government has recently opened the
transit sector to private sector competition (1985). and the option of
privatization of SONATRAC and SOTRACOB is likely to be recommended by
the consultants.
SOTRACOB AND SONATRAC
Key Financial Data
FY1983               FY1984               FY1985
Sonatrac  Sotracob   Sonatrac  Sotracob   Sonatrac  Sotracob
          ------ CFAF million ------
Sales        558        501         447       224         924       673
Debt        6,197    3,984        6,287    4,268        6,892    3,805
Net Worth   (805)       174         (873)    (232)        (947)    (745)
C. TRANSBENIN (Trucking)
17.       Origin and Early Developments.  The "Societh des Transports
Routiers du Beniln" (Transbenin) was formed as a mixed economy enterprise
in 1977. Share capital was set at CFAF 300 million to be subscribed 49%
by the State and 512 by private truckers. However, only about one-third
of subscribed capital was actually paid in, reflecting a lack of
commitment by both public and private sectors.   The purpose of the
company is to haul freight by road, within Benin and to neighboring
countries.  The creation of Transbenin responded to the  considerable
increase in truck traffic to Nigeria from the port of Cotonou in the
late 1970's. This Nigerian traffic, which had formed the basis for the
initial feasibility study, dropped sharply just after the company's
creation, after the expansion of the Port of Lagos. At the same time,
the intense competition of the local private truckers, at an advantage
relative to Transbenin due to a lower cost structure and more flexible
operations, exerted further pressure on Transbenin's profitability. In
addition, maintenance of Transb6nin vehicles was poor; the company did
not have a workshop for minor repairs; and managemcnt had little
experience in the very specialized business of trucking.
18.       Financial  Difficulties.   Transbenin's  financial  situation
deteriorated quickly. The company has been unable to operate profitably
since its creation in September  1977.  Annual net  loss has ranged
between CFAF 100 and 200 million.   A fundamental imbalance between
revenues and costs resulted in negative cash flows (CFAF 48 million in
FY 1982). In December 1982, Transbenin had accumulated net losses of
more than CFAF 450 million ( i.e. more than 3.5 times paid in capital).
Its working capital was negative (CFAF 124 million) and the current
ratio stood at 0.2; The table below gives salient financial dsta for
the company (1979-1982).



- 73 -                Annex 3-3
Page 7 of 15
Transbenin
Key Financial Data
FY 1980      FY 1981       FY 1982
------CFAF million-
Sales                 67            145            102
Cash Flow             (73)            7            (48)
Debt                  299           332            365
Net Worth             (21)         (114)          (263)
19.       Recent  evolution.   The  physical  assets  of  the  company
seriously deteriorated over the 1980-83 period.   Only three out of
20 tractors, five out of 10 trucks and three out of 23 semi-trailers
were still in operation in 1983. None had been overhauled since they
were put into service in 1979 and at least three tractors, two trucks
and one semi-trailer were beyond repair. Transb4nin's business depended
largely upon reservation by the State of a minimum share of the market
for tile company, offsetting somewhat private truckers' competitive
advantage. Continuing the activities of Transbenin would be inefficient
and would have resulted in an increase i.: the average cost of
transportation towards neighboring countries, thus reducing Benin's
competitiveness  in the transit sector.   Liquidation of the company
appeared the most desirable course of action; Transbenin's activities
were stopped in May 1985, and liquidation of its assets is underway.
III. INPORT AND DISTRIBUTION
A. SOGECOB (Import and Distribution of Consumer Goods)
20.       Origin.   The  "Societe  G-n6rale  de  Commerce  du  Benin"
(SOGECOB), wholly state-owned, was created in July 1982 by merging an
electric appliance import company  (SONAMEL) and a textile and shoe
import firm (STC). The company imports, distributes and sells electric
batteries, electric household appliances, radio and television sets,
fabrics, shoes and clothing.  SOGECOB has ten stores and also makes
direct sales through other intermediaries.
21.       Early Development and Current Situation.   The new company
suffered  from poor  start-up  conditions.   The  firm  inherited debts
accumulated by SONAMEL and STC without receiving equivalent assets: a
significant part of the stocks received from SONANEL were obsolete or
slow moving. Secondly, SOGECOB was not provided with any additional
equity. While data on SOGECOB remains sketchy, sales and cost figures
indicate that operations of the previous SONAMEL lines are almost
balanced on a cashflow Lasis but that sales of the ex-STC lines cannot
even cover the cost of the materials and merchandise sold. Overall,
losses for FY 1985 are CFAF 258 million, i.e. about 20Z of sales for
that period.



- 74 -               Annex 3-3
rage 8 or 15
22.       Prospects.  The continuation of SOGECOB as a public enterprise
engaging in trading of textiles and household appliances - many of which
c-ni be considered luxury items - is not justified in the face of the
scarce financial and human resources of Benin's public sector. This is
an activity suitable for the private sector; public revenues from
taxation of a private venture would probably largely exceed the negative
contribution by SOGECOB since its inception.  The study of SOGECOB
should focus on its market and privatization prospects.
B. AGB (Foodstuff Import and Distribution)
23.       Background.  The "Societe de l'Alimentation Generale du Benin"
(AGB), a wholly Government-owned enterprise, was created in 1978 to
irport and distribute food products and other consumer goods and to
manage several supermarkets.  These functions had been performed by an
earlier state enterprise  (SONIB).  Operating under the Ministry of
Commerce, AGB had until recently a monopoly over the importation of
whect, rice, sugar and powdered milk and charged a commission on imports
of certain tobacco products and alcoholic beverages. AGB also imports,
in compitition with other trading firms, a number of other products and
supermarket  articles.   It has  warehouses  in  Cotonou,  Bohicon  and
Parakou, ten wholesale outlets and seventeen retail stores. It operates
a fleet of twelve 10 to 25-ton trucks and a dozen vans.
24.       Current Financial Position.   AGB's profitability has been
severely affected by Government pricing policies. Up to end 1981, AGB
was made to sell wheat, rice, sugar and powdered milk below import
costs. The resulting implicit consumer subsidy (and loss to AGB) is
estimated  to  have  exceeded  CFAF  1 billion  in  total.   Also,  the
Government did not allow AGB to pass on transportation costs to final
consumers in rural areas. These constraints on AGB operations led the
firm into a disastrous financial position with debts to banks exceeding
CFAE 3.2 billion in FY 1981 and a negative net worth. To avoid further
deterioration, AGB stopped importing wheat in 1982 and sales dropped
substantially. While the operating position improved somewhat in the
following years, high financial charges (more than 20X of sales
revenues) continued to contribute to a negative net income (CFAF 715
million in FY 1983, CFAF 830 million in FY 1984 and CFAF 421 million in
FY 1985). As of December 1985, AGB had a negative net worth exceeding
CFAF 4 billion, a debt close to CFAF 6 billion and a negative working
capital. In 1985, AGB reduced the level of its personnel from 514 to
212, and negotiated a moratorium on its short term debt.  The table
below shows the enterprise's key financial data.



- 75 -                Annex 3-3
Page 9 of 15
AGB
Key Financial data
FY1981            FY1983            FY1985
--- - -C tCFAF million))-
Sales                           5,659              3,566             1,205
Financial Charges                 571                836               230
Net Income (loss)                (909)              (715)             (421)
Net Worth                      (1,035)            (2,685)           (4,076)
25.       Prospects.  The conflict of objectives facing AGB is a major
factor underlying its weak financial situation.  A precondition for
AGB's rehabilitation will be the definition of its role, means to carry
it out and involvement of the private sector in the company.
Rehabilitation of AGB will depend on its ability to reduce operating
costs and improve its financial situation. AGB has been in contact with
Swiss and French cooperatives which are considering providing technical
assistance to reorganize AGB into a cooperative system.  Under this
arrangement, AGB would progressively be oriented towards wholesale for
consumer cooperatives in remote areas. On a temporary basis, AGB would
continue to operate the retail outlets prior to their conversion to
cooperatives. Financial restructuring will also be needed to restore a
satisfactory level of working capital.
C. ONP (Pharmaceuticals)
26.       Origin and objective.  The Office Nationale de Pharmacie (ONP)
was established in 1975 to ensure the supply of medicines, vaccines and
other pharmaceutical products at low prices throughout Benin. Beside a
small repackaging operation, ONP has no manufacturing activity. It has
had the monopoly for importing and distributing medical products through
eighty dispensaries and hospitals. Recently, the Government has opened
the importation and distribution of medication to private pharmacies,
which in turn pay a license fee to ONP.
27.       Current Situation.  ONP's financial situation has been fragile
since its creation due to the high number of outlets (some of which have
sales below US$30,000) and overstaffing - 665 employees for sales of
about US$4 million.  The 152 margin over import cost granted by the
Government is not sufficient for the enterprise to cover its cost. ONP
posted modest profits until 1981, and losses of CFAF 118 million in FY
1982. Indebtedness is high (about CFAF 4 billion in 1985) compared to
the low initial equity base of CFAF 300 million.  ONP suffers from
illiqul^dity and owes more than CFAF 2 billion to local banks in short
term debts.   It is now unable to pay its suppliers and is facing
difficulties in obtaining medicines. A project to install facilities



- 76 -               Annex 3-3
Page 10 of 15
for the preparation of aspirin and chloroquine tablets has been
discarded due to lack of funds.
28.       Prospects.  Increased involvement of the private sector in
Import/distribution of pharmaceuticals is likely to enhance sector
efficiency while improving availability of medecines in the country. As
part   of   their   study   of   ONP,   consultants   will   review
privatization/liquidation options.
IV. TEXTILES
A.  SOBETEX (Textile'Printing)
29.       Origin.   The  "Soeie't  Beninoise  des  Textiles"  (SOBETEX),
created in April 1968, is owned 49% by the Government and 511 by private
firms (CFAO, CNF, SCOA, ICODI, Schaefer); it is operated under the
technical expertise of the Schaefer Grcup (France). The company imports
cotton textiles from Taiwan, bleaches them and prepares rolls of printed
cloth for the African market.
30.       Development of the corporation.  Until recently SOBETEX was
considered an example of success in the Beninese public sector. There
had been no difficulty in selling the company's full output (20 million
meters) through trading firms operating in Cotonou, with most of the
production being then exported unofficially to Nigeria. The company's
-management, totally Beninese except for one expatriate, demonstrated a
high level of competence; quality of the products was high and well
controlled, and maintenance standards were excellent. The company was
registering high after tax profits reaching about 4% of the value of
sales in 1982.  However, the ban imposed by Nigeria in mid-1982 on
imports  of  printed  fabrics  severely  affected  SOBETEX.   From  an
over-capacity utilization (22 million meters in FY 1982), production
declined in 1983 and 1984, to regain slightly in 1985 (13 million
meters).
31.       Financial Situation.   The evolution of SOBETEX's financial
position reflects this downturn in economic activity: from a net profit
of  CFAF  244 million  In  FY  1981,  it  has  experienced  a  loss  of
CFAF 700 million in 1983 and 246 million in 1985.  SOBETEX's debt is
close to CFAF 2.5 billion, while its net worth stays at CFAF 156 million
(1985). Salient financial data are shown below.



-    -                Annex 3-3
Page 11 of 15
SOBETEX
Key Financial Data
FY1980         FY1982          FY1985
(CFAF million)
Sales (a of Meters)                 16.0            22.0             13.1
Sales (value)                      4,635           7,227            6,209
Operating Margin                     347              331            n.a.
Net Income (loss)                     65               43            (246)
Debt                                n.a.            1,783           2,422
32.       Prospects.  The company's prospects will depend on its ability
to identify new outlets for its production, either in Africa or in
Europe. This will require market research, promotion, and possibly some
modifications of its production methods and equipment. Both financial
and physical restructuring of the firm could be considered under this
project after review of the rehabilitation study.
B. IBETEX (Integrated Textile and Garment Factory)
33.       Origin and Project Design.  IBETEX (Industrie Beninoise des
Textiles) is an integrated textile and garment operation located in
Parakou.  It was created in 1971 as a joint venture owned 481 by the
Government and 52% by private firms.  One of the main shareholders, the
Voyer Group  of Tours  (France), also  supplied  the equipment.   The
original concept was to manufacture knitwear,  fabrics, garments and
towelling with local cotton for export to Europe.
34.       Development.  IBETEX faced major problems from the outset
stemming from problems with  the equipment provided by the foreign
partner,  poor quality of cotton, and loss of contracts in Europe due
partly  to  the poor  standards  of  its products.   Actual production
remained low and cost far exceeded initial estimates. As a result, the
company sustained continued losses which have now aggregated over
CFAF 10 billion.   In  December  1982, total  indebtedne.s  was  about
CFAF 11 billion. On an operating basis, IBETEX registered losses of
CFAF 522 million in FY 1980 and 545 in 1981. IBETEX's Board decided to
liquidate the enterprise at the end of 1981. The number of workers was
gradually reduced from 2,600 (1978) to about 200 (1985).



- 78 -               Annex 3-3
Page 12 of 15
IBETEX
Key Financial Data
July/Dec
FY1980       FY1981            1982
-- ---- CFAF million--          -
Sales                           974            838             265
Debt                         10,695         10,288          10,869
Capital                       2,400          2,400           2,400
Net Worth                    (5,731)        (6.983)         (7,509)
35.       Prospects.  With the cost of labor and cotton alone exceeding
the value of sales on a per unit basis, IBETEX appeared beyond
salvation. Options to rehabilitate IBETEX (at an approximate cost of
CFAF2 billion) were studied but were not found economically viable. The
Government has now decided to close down this unprofitable venture and
liquidate its assets.
V. CEMENT
36.       Sector Background.  In parallel with GDP, cement consumption
in  Benin  rapidly  increased  from  about  100,000 tons  (1970)  to
276,000 tons (1982), before declining in the following three years
(200,000 tons   in   1985).    The   current   production   capacity
(830,000 tpy 1/) includes two clinker grinding operations (SCB -
"Societe des Ciments du Benin", and SONACI - -SociftA Nationale des
Ciments"), and an integrated cement plant SCO ("Societ6 des CimeCst
dtOnigbolo"), capable of producing 500,000 tpy of cement from quarry
material. SCO is jointly owned by Nigeria and Benin; it uses Danish
technology and equipment and was financed by Belgian and Danish
supplier's credits.  This plant was designed as an export oriented
project to serve Nigeria's consumption, but firm marketing agreements
were not made with that country before building the plant. As a result
of its failure to export to Nigeria, SCO is currently operating well
below capacity and is unable to cover operating cost and to service the
project related debt.  All domestic sales of cemeiit of these three
companies are carried out by another Government-owned company, the
Socifti B&ninoise des Materiaux de Construction (SOBEHAC).
if   tons per year



- 79 -                Annex 3-3
Page 13 of 15
Benin - Cement Production and Consumption
Production                    Destination
FY            SCB      SONACI       SCO     Total   Exports  Consumption
--  ----    -- (       ('00  tons)
1975           170         -         -        170        45        125
1980           153        104        -        257        33        224
1984 a/         69         45       106       219        -         219
a/ Estimates.
37.       Major problems facing the cement sector include:  (i) the poorly
pianned location of the two clinker grinding plants, both in Cotonou, but
on different sites resulting in an unnecessary duplication of many
facilities; (ii) the smallness of the cement market, which stems from the
failure to develop the Nigerian export potential (see above); (iii)
deficient transportation and power supply infrastructures; and (iv)
inadequate pricing policies:  the clinker grinding plants sell most of
their production to SOBEMAC at a controlled transfer price well below
production cost, resulting in substantial financial losses by these two
enterprises.
38.       SCB.  The Societe des Ciments du Benin (SCB) was formed in 1967
as a joint venture between the Government (51%) and the French "Compagnie
Fonciere et Commerciale de Distribution" (49%) to produce cement by
grinding imported clinker and gypsum. A 155,000 tpy plant was built in
Cotonou on a site located near the port area. SCB has a permanent staff of
87. Capacity utilization was high until 1982 (above 72%), but dropped to
60% (1983) and 45% in the following two years on account of the reduction
in domestic demand and numerous technical problems:   The equipment and
buildings, over 15 years old, are poorly maintained; landing of clinker
from self-unloading ships is slow and transportation from the port area to
the plant with small trucks inefficient; there are problems with the
operations of the cement silos and of the mill's transmission system; and
the plant's pollution level is high.  These difficulties, aggravated by
inadequate pricing policies, resulted in a rapid deterioration of the
company's financial situation.  SCB's negative net worth worsened in the
last five years from CFAF 434 million (1981) to CFAF 857 million (1985).
39.       SONACI.  The Societe Nationale des Ciments (SONACI) was set up in
1976 as a fully Government-owned enterprise, for the purpose of grinding
clinker.   The plant started in  1974,  about 8 km from Cotonou with a
capacity of about 175,000 tpy. Like SCB, it operated at relatively high
levels of capacity utilization (about 60%) through 1982, but production
dropped to 26% of capacity in 1984 and 38% in 1985 as demand fell. The
company has a permanent staff of 88. Although relatively recent (about
eight years old), the equipment has a rather low operating efficiency,



- 80 -               Annex 3-3
Page 14 of 15
resulting from inadequate preventive maintenance: losses of bags and of
cement, water leaks, and uneconomic transportation system characterize
SONACI's operations and contribute to increased unit cost. These technical
problems, aggravated by poor pricing policies, led to accumulated losses
(CFAF 1.7 billion in 1985) exceeding more than three times the company's
initial capital.
40.       Salient financial data for SONACI and SCE are shown below:
SCB - SONACI
Salient Financial Data
(in million of CFAF)
1981              1983                1985
SCB    SONACI     SCB    SONACI     SCB      SONACI
--       -CFAF million-
Sales                  2,377    1,743    1,785    1,496   1,729    1,790
Net Income (Loss)        (309)    (585)      36     (237)    (45)    (288)
Debt                     893    3,119    1,058    2,968   1,241    3,456
Net Worth                (434)    (817)    (737)  (1,001)   (857)  (1,715)
41.       Recommendations.  Rehabilitation studies on SNC and SONACI will
aim at increasing the operating conditions and promote economies of scale
in these two companies. The option of merging the two entities will be
considered as a way to eliminate dual administrative services in
procurement, personnel management, warehousing, and accounting. Under this
option, restructuring of existing facilities will take into account SCB's
rather favorable location (closeness to the port facilities) and SONACI's
superior equipment  (more recent than SCB' s).  Increased private sector
participation will be sought with a view to increase efficiency.
VI. OTHER MANUFACTURING
CIB (Ceramic Tl' 2 s)
42.       Origin.  The "CUramique Industrielle du Benin" (CIB) was created
in 1974, as a successor to the "Societe Nationale de Ceramique" founded in
1969. Its objective was to produce sanitary fixtures (sinks and toilets),
floor and wall tiles, as well as small ceramic items. The company is a
joint venture owned 80Z by the Government and 20Z by AGROB Anlagenbau GNBH
(Federal Republic of Germany). The foreign partner contributed its equity
in the form of technical assistance.
43.       Technical problems.  The company experienced major technical
problems from the onset: the kiln delivered by the supplier is inadequate;
it heats unevenly, often requiring a second firing. The electrical kiln is
alsc much more expensive to operate than an oil fired one, which was to be



- 81 -               Annex 3-3
Page 15 of 15
provided initially. Furthermore, the original tile press did not develop
enough pressure to produce floor tiles, and a new press had to be
inscalled. The sanitary items, built to a German design did not always fit
the plumbing hardware available on the local market. The production line
moves very slowly due to deficient equipment at various stages of
production. Deficiencies in plant facilities were ct nounded by lack of
trained  staff  and  inadequacy  of  production  and  planning  systems.
Recruitment among artisans proved ineffective for the industrial work
required.
44.       Financial Situation and Prospects.  As a consequence of these
problems, CIB had accumulated about CFAF 750 million as of December 1982;
about 6 times its low initial equity base. As of December 1982, debts
incurred exceeded CFAF one billion, and the company had a negative working
capital and negative net worth.   Revenues did not even meet operating
costs. No improvement could be expected in view of the total inadequacy of
the equipment; the operating margin would have remained highly negative
even after a substantial reduction in the number of employees.  In 1984,
the Government decided to stop CIB's operations and to liquidate ite
assets.   The  tile market  in Benin has been estimated at  200,000 m
annually. However, it is doubtful that any of CIB's equipment could be
profitably used in a new project with a similar concept. Liquidation of
the existing company will therefore probably involve the scrapping of all
existing equipment  except  possibly  for  the building  itself.   Salient
financial data are shown below.
CIB
Key Financial Data
FY 1980            FY 1982
----CFAF million---
Sales                             29                 46
Net Income                      (167)               (194)
Debt                             805                912
Net Worth                       (324)               (497)
Source: Enterprise financial statements, and visits.
VAPID
September 1986



- 82 -                       Annex 3-4
Page 1 of 4
BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF A MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. Introduction
1.        The Government of Benin proposes to carry out a rehabilitation
program of the public enterprise sector, with financial support from the
International Development Association (IDA). As part of this project,
the Government has decided to initiate the design and implementation of
a Management Information System (MIS) for the Public Enterprises. Terms
of reference below cover the development of such MIS.
B. Objectives
2.        The  objectives  of  the  study  are  to  assess  the  data
requirements,  design a pri&'atic MIS suited to the environment and
assist in the pilot implementation of the system. The system developed
should provide simple performance analysis in a timely manner,
applicable to as many of the public enterprises as possible.   This
system will be implemented immediately in a pilot group of enterprises
to be rehabilitated, but the system would later be expanded to meet the
needs of enterprise management and Government, as capabilities to
develop basic data in the enterprises develop.  The MIS would cover
areas of production, personnel, sales and maintenance, and would also
provide periodic financial statements.
C. Current Status of Performance Monitoring
3.        At present, limited data are available on the performance of
public enterprises, much of it is out-of-date, and data are h-t collated
and aggregated by any one Government agency. Each enterprise prepares
an annual set of accounts (balance sheet and income statement) for the
fiscal year. These are often not available until a full year after the
close of the period. Many enterprises (15 out of 57) never provided
audited accounts since their creation. While a few public enterprises
produce annual reports that provide statistics on output, staffing and
other areas, many limit their data to the minimum accounting results.
The quality of both accounting and auditing varies by enterprise. The
challenge of developing a sound MIS will be to incorporate as many
readily-available items of data as feasible into a structured system
that allows valid monitoring of enterprise and sector performance.
D. Tasks
4.        This study will be composed of three tasks:



- 83 -                        Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 4
a)   Definition of Data Requirements;
b)   Design of an MIS; and
c)   Assistance in Pilot Implementation.
E. Definition of Data Requirements
5.        The first step in developing the MIS will be to thoroughly
define  the  users  requirements  for  the  system.   This  will  entail
interv!ews with potential users in the enterprises and in the
Government, and with  Lhe suppliers  of the data.   Consultants will
specifically consider (a) the range of data (on the enterprises or
sector) currently generated in a sample of enterprises.  This sample
should include industrial and agricultural processing enterprises (e.g.
clinker grinding, sugar refining, vegetable oil processing), import and
distribution firms (e.g. foodstuffs, pharmaceuticals), transportation
operations (e.g. shipping, railroad, transit port), and other services
(e.g. hotels, banking). The sample will be agreed upon with the Project
Management Unit (1'U), and will include (but will not be restricted to)
all enterprises to benefit from an IDA financed rehabilitation program;
(b) the enterprise management needs for information; (c) Government
requirements; (d) required periodicity; and (e) longer term needs.
F. Design of the MIS
6.        The consultants shall design an MIS that responds  to the
various users requirements identified in the first task. Practicality
and usefulness will be the guiding principles, in ordcr to ensture that
the system can he made operational quickly and provide early information
for monitoring. Consultants will address especially: (a) data sources
and frequency; (b) procedure for collectioa of data; (c) report
generation fonmat, frequency and distribution; (d) feedback of data to
enterprises, and verification of data and analysis; and (e) centralized
maintenance of enterprise information and system-generated reports.
7.        Consultants will present the results of the first two phases
by means of a written report submitted to the Government and IDA.
Approval of the conceptual approach will be obtained prior to proceding
to the next task.
G. Assistance in Pilot Implementation
8.        The consultants shall provide guidance and assistance during
the pilot implementation phase of the MIS.   They will specifically
furnish:   (a) direct assistance to the pilot public enterprises in
generating the data necessary for the system; (b) support to the MIS
cell within the PMU in aggregating the enterprise data, and to ensure
that the reports are correctly generated; and (c) recommendation of any
changes needed in the system, based upon a brief review of the system
operations six months after implementation begins.



- 84 -                        Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 4
H. Possible Continued Implementation Assistance
9.        Depending     upon     perceived      requirements     following
implementation, consultants may be requested to provide further
operational assistance. Precise tasks would be specified at that time.
I. Qualifications
10.       The study shall be conducted by a team of experienced MIS
specialists. The team should contain individuals with expertise in the
analysis of data user requirements, in the design of MIS systems for
medium-sized businesses, in training, and in system installation.
Knowledge of business performance, accounting and financial analysis is
required.   Experience  in working  in  developing  countries  will  be
particularly valuable, and fluent knowledge of French will be essential.
J. Schedule
11.       Consultants will mobilize staff and begin work within one
month of  contract  award.   The  project  schedule  starting  from  the
mobilization date will be as follows:
Months          0    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9
Task/event
Contract award    +
Mobilization            +
R
Task 1                  +........+
R
Task 2                  .........+
Government Review                 ......+
R
Task 3                                                     ..+
R - Report
K. Selection Criteria
12.       The selection criteria to be used in choosing the successful
proposal wvi.l be as follows:



- 85 -                        Annex 3-4
Page 4 of 4
Weight
General experience of firm                                 10
Developing country experience of firm                      10
Quality of personnel assigned                              40
Quality of technical proposal                              30
The commercial proposal will be considered for all technical proposals
judged to be technically competitive. A weight of lOZ will be assigned
to the cost factor, obtained by dividing the least-cost proposal's cost
by the cost quoted by each proposal under consideration.
L. Submission of Proposals (Standard)
VAPID
November 1984



- 86 -                   Annex 3-5
Page 1 of 3
BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
STUDY ON THE INDEBTEDNESS OF THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. Objectives
1.        The  Government  of  Benin  proposes  to  carry  out  the
rehabilitation of its public enterprise sector, with financial support
from the International Development Association  (IDA).  Objectives of
this study w '1 be to (a) establish the matrix of interlocking debts of
public entei* rises, (b) assess the net debt position of the public
enterprise sector, (c) propose, wherever possible, compensation of
interlocking debts, and (d) recommend improved enterprise financial
management standards to avoid a build up of a similar situation in the
future.   This  study  will  provide  essential  background  data  for
establishing financial restructuring plans of individual enterprises,
for which a full rehabilitation program is to be prepared in the context
of this project.
B. Description of the Study
2.        The study will focus upon the following elements:
a)   Debts between public enterprises;
b)   Debts between  public enterprises and banks; and
c) Debts between Government and public enterprises.
3.        For each category of debts, the study will (a) define the
amount of debts, by enterprise, by type, and by age, stating any
contentious amounts, and the reason debts have not been repaid, (b)
propose alternative methods of compensating or cancelling past
interlocking debts, (c) define the volume of debts which would remain
after such cross-cancellation, and (d) propose various approaches to
working out, converting, or forgiving the remaining debts, and improving
standards of financial management to avoid a repeat of the current
situation.
C. Study Tasks
4.        The study will be performed in several tasks:
1. Debt Data Collection
5.        Collect the debt date detailed in the preceding section, for
each public enterprise. The situation v'iould be established at the most
recent practicable date. Information surrounding the circumstances of



- 87 -                     Annex 3-5
Page 2 of 3
incurring the debt and reasons for any delay in repayment should be
obtained, and areas of disagreement between creditors and debtors should
be noted and quantified.
2. Analysis of Interlocking Debts
6.        Debt Data collected should be thoroughly analyzed in order to
distill the cross-debts among enterprises, banks, and Government which
could be mutually cancelled. A sunmary matrix of all debts should be
prepared. Recommendations should be made as to the various efficient
means of cancelling all offsetting debts to arrive at a net situation.
Procedures should be suggested for resolving contentious amounts.
3. Definition of Net Debt Situation
7.        The analysis in para 2 above will allow a net debt situation
to be defined. The net situation should be derived for each enterprise,
for the group of non-bank public enterprises as a whole, for the banks,
and for the  Government.   These  data  should be  clearly presented.
together with the necessary back-up support.
4. LEcommendations for Debt Restructuring
8.        Based upon  discussions vith bankers,  enterprise managers,
Government  officials,  and  extetnal  financial  organizations,  the
consultants should develop s,veral alternative means of equitably
reducing the debt burden over time. The study should develop the various
possible approaches, and quantify the financial implications of each.
These options may include, among others, conversion of short-term credit
to longer-term loans, addition of new equity, offsetting of certain
loans by the banks or transfer of debits to the State. These flndings
will be provided to subsectoral consultants in charge of designing full
rehabilitation programs covering inter alia the financial restructuring
of the enterprises.
5. Recommendations for Enterprise Financial Management
9.        The study should propose improved standards of Enterprise
Financial Management to be utilized by public enterprises, banks, and
the Government. The objective should be to introduce, wherever it is
not present, a commercial "arm's-length" relationship in the financial
and business transactions. The recommendations should be practical in
nature, based upon the experience gained during the course of the study.
The consultants should provide support during the implementation stage
of the debt settlement package.
D. Responsibilities and Qualifications
10.       The  consultants  undertaking  the  study  shall  have  full
responsibility for its successful completion.  The consultants will
report to the coordinator of the Project Management Unit (PMU)
established  to  supervise  the  public  enterprise  project.   Frequent



- 88 -                     Annex 3-5
Page 3 of 3
meetings should be held with the PMU to ensure that adequate guidance is
received and that information is passed on as it is developed.
11.       Consultants  shall  be  qualified  in  the  areas  of  public
accounting, banking, and enterprise financial analysis.  They shall be
capable of performing t-he work in the agreed time period.
E. Schedule
12.       The consulting firm should structure its team to be able to
complete the task within eight months starting in January 1985. A draft
report covering all aspects should be provided to IDA and the
Government, and should be finalized after incorporation of comments
received within 10 months after the beginning of the study.
F. Proposal Presentation (standard)
G. Selection Criteria (standard)
VAPID
November 1984



- D7 -                   Annex 4-1
Page 1 of 5
BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOP REHABILITATION PROJECT
REHABILITATION STUDY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. Background
1.        The Government of Benin proposes to rehabilitate a number of
firms of its public enterprise sector, with assistance from IDA. Such
rehabilitation will have  two phases.   The  first phase will be  a
diagnostic study of the sector and of each individual enterprise.
Diagnoses will reco end either the preparation of a detailed
rehabilitation program for viable enterprises or liquidation of unviable
enterprises. For enterprises found viable, an emergency program will be
designed to halt further deterioration of the enterprise pending
comple:ion of the full rehabilitation program. In a second phase, a
full rehabilitation program will be carried out for economically viable
enterprises. These full rehabilitation programs will specify all
conditions necessary to make the enterprise operate economically and to
achieve financial viability.  Rehabilitation programs will define the
mutual obligations of the Government and of the enterprises.
B. Phase A - Diagnostic Study, Liquidation Plans and Emergency Programs
2.        The  consultant  will  review  the  organization  of  each
enterprise, the sectoral context within which it operates, and should
provide a diagnosis on its potential economic viability.
3.        In case this diagnostic study concludes that the enterprise
does not have, the potential to become viable, the consultant will
prepare a liquidation program, stating all actions which need to be
taken to actually stop operations and liquidate the assets. In case the
consultant's diagnosis, on the other hand, concludes that the enterprise
can be made viable, it will prepare, if needed, an emergency program for
that enterprise. Objective of emergency programs will be to provide
viable enterprises with needed resources to avoid their further
deterioration, pending completion of the full rehabilitation program.
The criteria for preparing emergency program should be:
a)   expenditures would be essential for the enterprise
to continue its operations;
b)   expenditures would have to be made, regardless of the detailed
content of the full rehabilitation program to be prepared in
the second phase;
c)   they would be relatively small compared to the overall
expected needs of the full rehabilitation program; and



- 90 -                   Annex 4-1
Page 2 of 5
d)   economic rate of return would be high.
4.        The consultants will provide a detailed list of emergency
expenditures, and should demonstrate their eligibility under the
criteria defined above.  The emergency program should also identify
those key remedial measures (e.g. pricing, staffing) which can already
be identified as essential for the full rehabilitation of the
enterprise. The diagnostic study and draft emergency program should be
prepared within 3 months after beginning of phase A; the draft should be
provided to IDA and to the Government, and finalized after incorporation
of proposed changes within 5 months after beginning of the first phase.
C. Stage B - Full Rehabilitation Program
5.        The second stage of the study will be the design of a full
rehabilitation program for viable enterprises.  The consultants will
prepare a program setting all necessary conditions to restore the
enterprise's economic and financial viability. Investments proposed for
rehabilitation should have an Economic Rate of Return above 12Z,
estimated opportunity cost of capital in Benin.  Specifically, the
consultant should review and make recommendations on the following
points.
1. The Enterprises's Economic Role:
a) function;
b) organization of the sector;
c) regulations;
d) markets;
e) pricing procedures; and
f) potential for privatization.
2. Enterprise Organization:
a)   staffing (number, qualification);
b)   personnel policies;
c)    management structure and competence;
d)   institutional framework; and
e)   relation with Government.
6.        When the study recommends changes in staffing, the consultant
will propose a plan for implementation, investigate ways to reduce the



- 91 -                  Annex 4-1
Page 3 of 5
negative impact of the proposed reform, including redeployment of the
appropriate training and make an estimate of cost involved (indemnities
etc.).
3. Physical Rehabilitation:
7.        The consultant will review and make recommendations on the
following items with a view to reducing cost of operation:
a)   equipment used:  when consultants propose investments in new
equipment, they will provide an estimate of the economic rate
of return of the proposed investment;
b)   inputs;
c)   production methods and productivity;
d)  maintenance policies; and
e)   corporate strategy.
8.        When enterprises are involved in an expansion program, the
consultant will review the financial and economic viability of the
proposed project and adequacy of the development policy followed by the
enterprise.
4.  Financial Rehabilitation
9.        The consultants  should make recommendations for financial
rehabilitation of enterprises taking into consideration gains in
productivity  expected  from  rehabilitation  efforts.   The  consultant
should emphasize the following:
a)   Financial viability: the consultant will make a recommendation
for a price level reflecting the market value of the service
rendered. When price is not sufficient to ensure financial
viability of the enterprise, the consultant will recommend a
level of subsidies. He will project the financial situation of
the enterprise.
b)   Financial  restructuring:  the  consultant  will  review  each
enterprise's balance sheets and will propose the financial
restructuring needed. The objective would be (i) to restore a
satisfactory liquidity position; working capital should be
brought back to a positive level and (ii) level of
indebtedness should allow the enterprise to have at all times
a 1.3 debt service coverage.  Data base for this will be
provided by the study on overall indebtedness of the Public
Enterprise sector undertaken by external consultants.



- 92 -                   Annex 4-1
Page 4 of 5
5. Monitoring Devices
10.       The consultant should consider:
a)   compliance with the National Accounting plan;
b)   accounting practices;
c)   compliance with external reporting requirements;
d)   internal and external control;
e)   MIS: a proposal for an adequate MIS taking into account the
sector-wide  study undertaken.   The consultant will further
propose a system of Tableaux de Bord specific to each
enterprise.
6. Financing Plan
_1.        Financing plan  for the rehabilitation program should be
prepared taking into account all expenditures under the proposed
program. Funds should be passed as loan or equity according to the
specific financial restructuring needs of each enterprise.
7. Action Plan
12.       The  consultant  will  design an  action  plan  spelling  out
commitments of the Government, and those of the enterprise to achieve
the rehabilitation program. The Action Plan should also be the basis
for negotiations with local banks. The action plan will be accompanied
by a monitorable timetable summarizing all actions to be undertaken.
13.       A draft rehabilitation program should be prepared within 10
months after beginning of phase A, and will be submitted to IDA, the
Government,  the  Bank  and  the  enterprise.   The  consultant  will
participate as advisor in negotiation of the program with all parties
involved and will help prepare the final rehabilitation program.
Negotiations could last 6 months during which consultant's services
could be needed for a total duration of 2 months. The consultant may be
requested to assist in the execution of the rehabilitation program.



- 93 -                    Annex 4-1
Page 5 of 5
Schedule of a Rehabilitation Study
O   1    2    3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10  11  12  13  14  15  16
----months
Diagnostic study
and emergency program
(draft)
0             3*
Review                       (final)
IDA/Government   3        5*
Full rehabilitation program                     (draft)
5                     10*
IDA/Government review                                               (final)
and Negotiations                                10                     16*
* Report.
WAPID
November 1984



- 94 -                                 Annex 4-2
BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Project Management Organization Chait
C!be (CEN)             1
I                I                               PRESIDENT: Mnie Of
Lonem in Chwg  of
Talc Faie 10r                           InteirnrinWeril                          safe Evrd
Sector Rdan                          fSteering Convnlt  (ISC)
-MCE PRESIDENrJ Pruter
d Plan and Stotistics
*  Istitutom
* PrIcng
*     -                                                                              SECRETARY: Miner ot
Finance and Economy
MEMERS:
* L=or MblIsy
* CommerceMiridshy
Pro lcot Manogerent                           Consnts
Unit (PMol)
* Project Caor'atwr                          S Senaor Projec Advior (SPA)
* Financiol Analy"                           * Sub.ecto Consultants
EconomlstEngneer                              (reioht ForwoFding.
* Disement Officer                             AGonidt. Import
* Accountont                                   and Distnbutan)
* Othsr Comunts
WAPID
Janury 1985                                                                                 Waor    * Bank - 20910



- 95 -                       Annex 4-3
Page 1 of 2
BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUMMARY TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
A SENIOR PROJECT ADVISOR
I. Objective
Generally assist the project coordinator in the supervision
preparation and implementation of the Public Enterprise Sector
Rehabilitation Project.
II. Tasks
A. Organization of Enterprise Studies
a)   Assist in the drafting of terms of reference for consultants
to be hired in the course of preparation and implementation of
the project.
b)  Help  Government  compare  consultants'  bids  and  negotiate
contracts.
B. Execution of Enterprise Studies
a)   Ensure that consultants carry out their work according to
agreed terms of reference.
b)   Ensure consistency between enterprise studies undertaken.
c) Review consultants' reports and make recommendations to the
project coordinator.
c)   Help  negotiate  rehabilitation  programs  with  enterprises,
Government, banks and other institutions and assist in the
finalization of emergency and full rehabilitation programs.
d)   Review sector reforms proposed by the consultants and make
recomuendations to the Project Coordinator.
C. Implementation of Rehabilitation Programs
a)   Follow-up   on   implementation   of   emergency   and   full
rehabilitation programs.
b)   Provide assistance in assessing performance of enterprises
against criteria set in the rehabilitation plan.



- 96 -                     Annex 4-3
Page 2 of 2
c)   Assist in the review and, if necessary, in the renegotiation
of rehabilitation programs.
d)   Assess needs for further technical assistance.
D. Preparation and Implementation of Sector Reform
a)   Follow-up on implementation of sector policy reform programs.
b)   Recommend steps to achieve the objectives of the Government's
Policy Statement and Action Program.
c)   Assess needs in Technical Assistance  to help prepare and
implement sector reforms, and assist in the selection and
supervision of consultants.
III. Reporting
Periodic reporting to IDA and Government.  This reporting would
cover:
a)   preparation and execution of rehabilitation programs;
b)   design and implementation of sector reforms;
c)   project management; and
d)   project   accounts,   audits   of   financial   statements   of
enterprises rehabilitated.
IV. Duration
The project duration is estimated at five years.   The initial
contract will be for two years and will be renewable.
V. Staffing
The consultant will provide at least one French-speaking expert in
Benin and will also provide all assistance deemed necessary throughout
project execution. Specifically, the expert will demonstrate:
a)   his experience in project management;
b)   a  long-standing  experience  in  rehabilitation  of  public
enterprises; and
c)   his experience in the region.
WAPID
November 1984



BENIN
PUULIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REAIlLITATION PROJECT
Prt*cI IMPl.latlon Schedule
t r   |    "4    1    4  1     F       r    *",    X    *        ,    ,       ,    *"    |    ,        ,    11t 4         "      | M9
IWA  I I I                  I I I         I I           IViLL1J1LLW..LL1ILLRim
^~Ym        YW          UY9h         Pb19      n    lq                                    FvI    "r n-r" h199      P19 aW  t   91199         9114   rt1,9
'kmft  I                            2    3                          4 2    32 3 4    1    2 13 14  1     1 4 1  12 1 3 1  14    2  13 4 3    1 3  1    2    3
Mml m&NALM1?
I mPxmAov=( SA)4.                                                                                                                       --
MARvM
I Fpa F-iu
(SQ4ZAC. OMCl CD Nt)
~~T.                                      .......P
(_ 4ML to P
*__    joWa~   * AG6                                           I    -4                                   -
.a.C ot SW  =                                               .2.   I.I                                           
&CIUSe (CS SOtkAcI)--L-------------
DNA d Lftgc Iam I
lrt -cm wd Inwut ~
z.  1~Cpfo
SA*        p"
*...NQUxtc
-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~WnW4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~ ~ ~



- 98 -                            Annex 4-5
Page    of 2
PLUC         15E RR  SEl    BN PJ1Jfl
P:wBr   qaAERLY DOF MA CREDIr
Profles (Z)
Q rarter Birg            Quatrly           OAuiatve             West             All
_______  D1E1XIlUUtsA Dfrica A fe,u
FM1987
Septrber 30, 1986        .375                .375
Dec iber 31, 1986        .375                .750              5                10
Murdi 31, 1987           .375               1.125
June 30, 1987            .375               1.500              10               19
Ff 1988
Sepqtler 30, 1987        .450               1.950
Decabr 31, 1987          .450               2.400              16               30
Madi 31, 1988            .600               3.000
Jime 30, 1988            .600               3.600              24               42
FY 1989
SCy pcber 30, 1988       .550               4.150
DecTwr 31, 1988          .550               4.700              31               54
It rd 31, 1989           .600               5.300
Jte 30, 1989             .600               5.900              39               65
FT 1990
PEptiber 30, 1989        .600               6.500
Daer31, 1989             .600               7.100              47               75
Mard 31. 1990            .550               7.650
June 30, 1990            .550               8.200             55                82
F! 1991
Septeiirer 30, 1990      .550               8.750
Decarher 31. 1990        .550               9.300              62               88
Hmadi 31, 1991           .550               9.850
June 30, 1991            .550              10.400             69                93
FY 1992
SeptIubr 30, 1991        .500              10.900
Decaiber 31, 1991        .500              11.400              76               96
M rch 31, 1992           .400              11.800
Jima 30, 1992            .400              12.200             81                99
n! 1993
Septlyer 30, 1992        .350              12.550
Decei)er 31, 1992        .350              12.900              86              100
Mli h  31, 1993          .300              13.200
Jz  30, 1993             .300              13.500              90
FY 1994
SqI or 30, 1993          .250              13.750
De~er 31, 1993           .250              14.000              93
Mr  31, 1994          .200              14.200
Jm  30, 1994             .M00              14.400             96
ElT 1995
Septmber 30, 1994        .150              14.550
lhrez 31, 1994           .150              14.700              98
M1 r  31, 1995           .150              14.E50
Jie 30, 1995             .150              15.000              1o0



- 99 -                           Annex 4-5
Page 2 of 2
I.I  \
LU~~~~~U
z~~~~~~
X   I   US_ 
us ' t   li!          R     53    Sl   5      .3    R     "    ' 
u~~~~~~~~
R~~~~~~~



MAP SECTION



[     |     ~~~M- A l I                                                                                          3'                                                4   r|z     
MAURItANI\  ./  \R   t      ~~~N I G E k      '*                                    8v   I'\i     G      E    R                                                  rrw re"rrrrr
! / t * l ~~~~~~~~~c i1 A D    04 1S 1J s..rb 7r
r. ,.    -.- nJFlKINA FASO 07 1`1 li m"<                                                                                                                                         Mt< 'j .Xsee r     P.-
GUIPA        >t        iSrA         N I G E R I A     y\                              ;t                                                                                      $wVr rx
QY~~~~                ~    ~ OIOErHNlii )/          >>  ,_v\                     \Krmm                                                                                 S^ 
,., r 1; /COTERoh ARCt ';   P 58V.0)1'
!;s~~CMROt                    reRCN                                                             P      N.   \' 4Dtoo'  \NIGEi'IA
t8\~~~~~Nv                                    REUSI                                                                         N iuoi     nif oLougu,                              ;:'
/   Koyov  C<otiooou               4u,l~GABNi ('ONO  /Y/                                                 g                    "n;
Boultom   t   g            P *hon                    l  B~~~~~~~~~~ounougo                       /  
rO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ,eIo                             O    
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~io<t                                                                               It  G      E          I   A-



Pnenssoulou
T O G O                                 j        Tcha~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ouro hBEuJIN
T O   G O               l           as .ila                    |                                                  B_     E N I Ns 
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
i ;                   t                  | it  REHABILITATION   PROJECT
K,_b,                                   sava  Cities menrioned in the report
,         \BanBi             u'        T '1                                     -     Paved roads
Ii                             - j  - Gravel roads
i   1   i                                              Eor- Earth roads
Railroads
A    Simi Petroleum Field
-    l|   Inrernational airport
,;:   j  Savalou     GItoz4JA  P *'}                                       Regitnal airports
-  i    _>~tco~6ioi;^  >S/Gome  .\ ', ;>a                           ~       : -:~ Rive;
g   v  iIchalt,                                                                     N @  w   ;^;  t    8  @  hlLNii nol capitals
i     Prov ice capilals
\  *                                                 iii e  ,}Poaurozl z;)   !  f Distrizt capitals
Province boundaries
h   i  \   f   i   \                -.-I       International boundaries
;::--<            XbrfI  tt"u  ZoK  in         f   Kinh
chi
|   i.s  N I G E R I A~~~i. L
%                           ~ ~~~~         ~~~~0 20  40  60  80    100
-roic          1.6                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOM rE SS
N  Colon   ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~ ~           I G       E                
,                     , ^;    idoh                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Scmre Flrwid 
G  H A N  A  '..  LOME                               Goudw po                           m                                                                                     C
cs ~        4 __      r _                                                                                          ___    __                                    _ __ s



