Damsof(
The World Bank
FOR oFFIcIAL USE ONLY
CRZ iéyr-c5aG
Report No. P-4044-BEN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 12.8 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 25, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0            =    CFAF 345   1/
CFAF 1 million   =    US$2899
Sw F 1.0          =    US$.56
SDR 1.0          =    US$1.1776
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)       2  =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) =   0.38 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (mton)       =   2,205 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
Januarv I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO       -   Central Bank for West African Countries ("Banque
Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest")
BBD         -   Development Bank ("Banque Beninoise pour le
DNveloppement")
BCB         -   Commercial Bank ("Banque Commerciale du B6nin")
CAA         -   Debt Management Agency ("Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement")
CIB         -   Ceramics Manufacture Company ("C6ramique Industrielle du
BMnin")
CNCA        -   Agricultural Credit Bank ("Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole")
IBETEX      -   Textile Manufacturing Companv ("Industrie Beninoise des
Textiles")
PMU         -   Project Management Unit
TRANSBENIN  -   Trucking Company ("Socift6 des Transports Routiers du
B6nin")
1/   The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio
of FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



- i -                   FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               People's Republic of Benin.
Beneficiaries:          - Selected Public Enterprises
- Ministry of Justice in charge of State
Enterprises.
IDA Credit:             SDR 12.8 million (US$15 million equivalent).
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms.
Co-financing:           Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation
Sw F 15 million (US$8.4 million equivalent).
On-lending Terms:       Funds would be passed on by the GoverDment to
beneficiary enterprises as loan or equity, or a
combination of both according to the financing
plan of each enterprise rehabilitation program.
Loans would have maturities ranging from 3 to
12 years including 1 to 3 years of grace, at an
interest rate of 12% per annum. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:   This  project  aims  at  assisting  Benin  in
rehabilitating its public enterprise sector. At
the sector level, the project will support the
Government in implementing an agreed program of
reforms aiming at (a) improving the management
and operation of the public enterprise sector and
(b) curtailing State involvement in the economy,
encouraging private sector participation and more
careful screening of new public undertakings to
ensure their economic and financial viability.
At the enterprise level, (a) diagnostic studies
will  be  conducted  for  selected  state-owned
enterprises to assess their potential viability,
and liquidation plans will be prepared for those
enterprises found uneconomic, and (b) rehabilit-
ation will be undertaken in two stages for those
enterprises diagnosed as viable; in a first
stage, an emergency program will be implemented to
arrest their further deterioration; in a second
stage, a full rehabilitation program setting
specific conditions for efficient and profitable
operation,  will be  carried out.   The project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
comprises   technical   assistance,   a   credit
component for enterprise rehabilitation, and
financing of training and redeployment of staff
laid off.
Project Benefits:       The project would rationalize the management of
the public enterprise sector and improve its
impact  on  the  economy.   Improvements  in  the
institutional   framework,   pricing   policies,
monitoring systems, and increased enterprise
autonomy should enhance enterprise efficiency and
profitability. Liquidations and better screening
of new projects will reduce budgetary drains
caused   by   uneconomic   public   undertakings.
Rehabilitation  programs  for  selected  public
enterprises should reverse their negative impact
on the budget and on the banking system and set a
new model for the relationship between the State
and public enterprises.
Project Risks:          A first risk attached to this project is that the
proposed reforms, which represent a significant
departure from policies pursued in the past,
would encounter political or social opposition
during their implementation, in particular the
more   sensitive   changes    (e.g.   enterprise
liquidations and personnel reductions). However,
the commitment of the Government as reflected in
a Policy Statement and actual steps taken since
1982 provide reasonable assurances in this
regard, with the conditionality attached to the
release  of  IDA  funds  providing  additional
safeguards towards ensuring implementation of the
agreed  reforms.   Assistance  in  training  and
redeployment of staff being laid off would also
alleviate  the social cost of the program.   A
second risk is the uncertainty of private sector
response to the Government's privatization policy
underway.   This  risk  is  alleviated  by  the
increasingly positive response shown recently by
both foreign and local potential investors.



- iii -
Estimated Costs: a/
Z of Base
Foreign   Local   Total      Cost
-----US$ million----
Technical Assistance                  3.7      1.9       5.6         18
Enterprise Rehabilitation            11.8     11.2      23.0        73
Training and Redeployment
Assistance                            -       2.9       2.9          9
Total                                15.5     16.0      31.5       100
Financing Plan:
IDA                                 9.6      5.4      15.0        47
Swiss Government                    5.9      2.5       8.4        27
Government                           -       8.1       8.1        26
Total                              15.5     16.0      31.5       100
a/ Net of taxes and duties.
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year  FY87   FY88   FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Ö------ -US$ million -    ----
Annual             1.5*   2.1    2.3   2.3   2.2   1.8   1.3    .9    .6
Cumulative         1.5    3.6    5.9   8.2  10.4  12.2  13.5  14.4  15.0
* Including the repayment of PPF advances.
Estimated Completion Date: December 1994
Economic Rate of Return:    N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5467-BEN, dated November 18, 1986.
Map: IBRD 18443R.
November 1986.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 12.8 MILLION
FOR A PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the People's Republic of Benin for an amount in
various currencies equivalent to SDR 12.8 million (US$15 million) on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Public Enterprise Sector
Rehabilitation Project. The Swiss Development Corporation is co-financing
the credit in the amount of Sw F 15 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4686-BEN) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in March 1984. The report
identified the areas of Benin's comparative advantage, the constraints
limiting the development of the potential offered by these various areas
and policy issues that need to be resolved in order to improve the
country's medium-to-long term growth prospects. The paragraphs below are
based on that report and other information that has since become available,
including that collected by missions that reviewed Benin's investment
program and overall public expenditures in June 1985 and October 1986.
Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.        After independence in 1960, a period of instability characterized
by frequent changes in Government prevailed in Benin until the revolution
in 1972 which brought to power the military Government of Colonel Ker6kou.
The country has since then enjoyed a comparativelv long period of political
stability. President Kerekou was confirmed in 1980 as Head of State, as
well as of a government including many civilians.
4.        Benin is a small, poor nation with a population of 3.8 million
and an estimated 1985 per capita GNP of US$267. Agriculture, t-he most
important sector of the economy, employs three-fourths of the active
population and accounts for 40% of GDP and around half the foreign exchange
earnings. There is a smali industrial sector consisting of a few import
substitution and agricultural processing plants, which contributed an
estimated 15% to GDP in 1985. The tertiary sector is dominated by trade
and transit activities that link economic activities in Benin to those in
neighboring economies. Oil extraction, of which proven deposits are
estimated to last onlv through 1992, limestone mining, the basis of an
integrated cement complex, and the production of sugar are the most
recently developed economic activities.
5.        The economy's traditional growth sources are thus agriculture and
entrepoft/transit trade. The economy probably enjoys overall food self-
sufficiency, particularly in years of adequate rainfall, with a fair amount



- 2 -
of the output (perhaps as much as 20%) being traded informally to Nigeria.
Among the cash crops, oil palm products have stagnated owing to
increasingly unfavorable climatic conditions, but cotton, until the recent
downturn in world market prices, has performed well, showing good response
to improvements in producer pricing policy and regular, prompt supply of
modern inputs. The performance of the overland corridor and seaport which
carries part of the overseas trade of neighboring countries, is not only
subject to the pace of activity in those economies, but is also influenced
by the high quality of the services offered by the Togo route, a competitor
to which much high-value traffic has been lost in recent years. The
relatively new secondary sector produces mainly light consumer
manufactures. Of various presently known growth sources, the potential is
strongest for food crops for which the agronomic conditions exist and the
demand in neighboring countries holds up even during periods of austerity.
6.        Economic policy during much of the 1970s emphasized national
control and self-reliance in the economy. It was felt that the best way to
ensure this was to put much of the economy under State ownership.
Accordingly, most foreign-owned businesses were nationalized and many new
enterprises were created, giving the State control over a significant
portion of the modern sector of the economy. In agriculture, artisanal
activities and retail trade, however, private interests still dominate.
7.        The first medium-term development plan (1977-80) was used to
further advance the goal of an expanded government-owned modern economy.
Three large projects were included in the plan: S&me petroleum, Save sugar
and Onigbolo cement, the last two jointly sponsored with Nigeria. The
first three years of the execution of the plan were years of oil- and
uranium-related prosperity in Nigeria and Niger, respectively. The
spillover effects of the oil and uranium booms, combined with the benefits
of the domestic investment activity, enabled the Beninese economy to grow
at an average rate of 4% per annum during 1977-80. The strong re-export
trade linked with the favorable conditions in the neighboring countries
strengthened revenues and the trade balance respectively, during those
early years of the four-year plan. The onset of economic difficulties at
the end of this period led the authorities to reassess parts of the general
policy orientation (para 14).
Recent Economic and Financial Developments
8.        The investment and trade activities responsible for the earlier
strong growth had run their course by end-1982. Investment expenditures
fell to more modest levels in 1983 (about 14% of GDP compared with 35% a
year earlier) following the completion of the large projects. Falling
world demand for oil and uranium curtailed activity in Nigeria and Niger,
respectively, reducing demand for Benints manufactures and transit
services. Nigeria closed its borders with Benin for much of 1984, greatly
limiting overland trade which benefits Benin's commerce sector and provides
revenues to the Government. As a result, although petroleum production
began in 1983 and cotton output rose each year since the 1982/83 crop year,
GDP growth in real terms over the 1981-84 period fell to about 2.6% per



- 3 -
annum. A modest upturn in 1985 (3.8% GDP growth) reflected an exceptional
performance of foodcrops.
9.        The public finances have also deteriorated since 1982.  The
expanding public sector increased personnel and operating expenditures,
raising current expenditure from 10% of GDP in 1980 to an average of 13%
during 1981-84. Although capital expenditures fell in 1983 and again in
1984, the overall deficit still averaged about 6% of GDP during 1981-84,
compared with 2% over the preceding four-year period. This is because the
drop in transit trade activity reduced revenue intake during 1983-84, while
a general increase in the minimum wage raised the wage bill. The
Government drew down all its deposits in the banking system to finance the
deficit, and became a net debtor to the banking system by 1984. An
estimated CFAF 37 billion in domestic arrears was accumulated by the end of
1985, and occasional delays in meeting the monthly payroll began in 1986.
10.       The balance of payments has reflected these shifts in the
macro-economy. During 1981-82 the current account deficit reached 25% of
GDP when the investment/GDP ratio attained 30%. With the completion of the
large projects, capital imports declined in 1983 and 1984, stabilizing the
following year. Together with higher export earnings arising from the
start of petroleum production and improved performance of cotton, this led
to an improvement in the current account balance, bringing the current
account deficit/GDP ratio during 1983-84 under 10%. This improvement may
prove to be short-lived if the recent downturn in the prices for cotton and
crude oil is not reversed.
11.       With the implementation of the petroleum, sugar and cement
projects, external debt outstanding grew rapidly, rising from an estimated
US$400 million in 1981 to about US$670 million in 1985. Since much of the
debt was contracted from commercial sources there was a relative hardening
of the average terms of the debt portfolio. The debt service/exports ratio
rose from about 5% in 1981 to an estimated 30% in 1985, bringing on debt
service difficulties.
12.       The poor initial performance of the major new projects,
particularly the meager output of the sugar complex of Save and the cement
works of Onigbolo, as a result of the failure of the expected Nigerian
markets to materialize, make them unable to service their debt. In order
to deal with an early cash flow squeeze on the Sema oil project, the
Government requested and obtained from the lenders for that project in
1983, a 12-month moratorium on the first two principal payments. No such
arrangements were made for Save and Onigbolo, whose obligations currently
constitute a little over half the scheduled debt service but whose cases
are complicated by joint ownership with Nigeria, which also (jointly and
severally with Benin) guaranteed the related debts. The first payments on
these two projects fell due in 1982 and went into arrears. By end-1985,
overall external debt arrears reached US$140 million, of which about US$120
million was owed by Save and Onigbolo.



- 4 -
13.       The deterioration of the economic situation also affected the
domestic banking system. The growing parastatal sector relied on the
banking system for domestic financing. At end-1983, an estimated 69% of
the medium to long-term exposure of the domestic banking system was to
public enterprises. As an increasing number of the enterprises turned
insolvent, the banks' portfolios deteriorated. As of December 1985, more
than CFAF 57 billion of public enterprise loans from the banking system
were outstanding, 802 of which were in full or partial arrears.
Policy Changes
14.       In recognition of these many problems the Government began in
1982 to introduce measures aimed at reducing distortions and improving the
performance of the economy. Starting with cotton in the 1981/82 crop year,
agricultural producer prices have been raised progressively while input
subsidies are phased out. At the same time, major reforms have been
decided in the pricing, personnel and management policies affecting public
enterprises, and some uneconomic enterprises have been closed. As part of
the policy framework of the second medium-term plan (1983-87), the
Government announced that its direct involvement in productive activities
would be curtailed and that private capital would be accorded a greater
role in the development process. Financing for technical assistance has
been sought from IDA and other donors to strengthen economic management.
In order to deal with the problem of financial disequilibria and the need
to rekindle growth, the Government set up a Special Adjustment Committee in
May 1986 to discuss with the IMF and the Bank possible programs of
stabilization and adjustment. As a first step towards its assigned goals,
the Committee revised the 1986 current budget and investment program, both
of which had received unfavorable reviews from the Fund and the Bank, with
a view to making them more realistic. The Committee's recommendations have
so far dealt mainly with the investment program, but the dialogue with the
IMF and the Bank on stabilization and adjustment is continuing. The
introduction of the stabilization and adjustment programs envisaged,
including banking system reform and public enterprise sector
rehabilitation, should improve Benin's prospects for more vigorous growth
in the longer term.
Medium-Term Prospects
15.       Over the near to medium-term Benin's growth performance is likely
still to be sluggish. The key constraint is the lower-than-expected demand
for Benin's goods and services in neighboring countries, one of whose
consequences is the poor initia] performance of the industrial investments
made during the 1978-83 period. The cement and sugar projects, in
particular, have large unmet infrastructure and working capital needs aside
from unresolved questions of market outlets for their products and poor
price prospects. Future output of petroleum is uncertain following changes
in the operator of the field and the recent decline in world petroleum
prices. Weakened market prices for cotton are likely to limit the
contribution of that subsector to growth. These factors make it unlikely



- 5 -
that GDP will grow by more than an average of 3% during the period through
1990, about equal to expected population growth.
16.       The public finance situation is also likely to remain difficult
in the years ahead. On the one hand, the decline in re-export trade has
weakened a major revenue source. Further. under present circumstances,
little revenue can be expected from the petroleum sector. On the other, in
addition to the increased personnel and operating cost needs of the civil
service there are the additional recurrent cost requirements of recent
major investments, the need to recapitalize a number of public enterprises
and the interest costs of the external debt. The recent decline in the
world market price for cotton has created the potential for large deficits
(as much as CFAF 7 billion in 1986/87 crop year) in the cotton subsector,
worsening the already gloomy public finance prospects.
17.       Benin's balance of payments is difficult to forecast because of
the large volume of unrecorded exports. It is estimated, however, that the
current account deficit in relation to GDP will decrease during the rest of
the 1980s. This could result from higher exports of food grains and from
the decline in capital imports from the high levels of 1981-82. As a
result of a more modest level of public investment, a lower level of
external borrowing will be required in the near-term. Therefore debt
service/exports ratios should begin to stabilize through 1990, although
still at a higher level than in the past, at about 30% through 1990.
18.       Benin remains a very poor country with large needs for directly
productive investment and supporting infrastructure. The Government has
sought to mobilize increased concessionary financing from bilateral and
multilateral sources, as reflected in the UNDP-sponsored Donors' Round
Table Conference held in Cotonou in March 1983. In view of Benin's poverty
and its current weak financial situation, the financing of future public
investment programs will require foreign assistance on concessionary terms.
Foreign donors should finance a large share of total project costs,
including local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
19.       Since 1969, Benin has received twenty-four IDA credits, two
supplementary IDA credits, and two Special Fund credits, totalling US$229.0
million. Five of the credits were for agriculture, eight for road
construction and maintenance, two for education, four for energy, and one
each for port expansion, urban -zater supply, development of small- and
medium-scale enterprises, forestry, and technical assistance for economic
management. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank group operations
in Benin as of March 31, 1986.
20.       In the past, the Bank Group's dialogue with Benin was limited,
and conducted in the context of individual lending operations. More
recently, however, the policy dialogue has both broadened and intensified
and Government has displayed interest in and responsiveness to Bank advice
and policy assistance. The Country Economic Memorandum (Report 4686-BEN),



-6-
discussed with the Government in December 1983, and distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1984, served as a vehicle in broadening this
dialogue. The report emphasizes the importance of comparative advantage
considerations in the choice of development activities and identifies
policy issues at the aggregate and sector levels which need to be resolved
to stimulate growth. More recently, the dialogue has focussed on public
sector management. The findings of a mission that studied public sector
investment programming in FY 1986 led the authorities to adopt improred
investment programming procedures. A mission to review overall public
expenditures visited Benin in October 1986 and its report is under
preparation.
21.       A relatively large proportion of IDA assistance to Benin's
development so far has been in the agricultural sector. IDA's earlier
operations in this sector met with mixed success and, in fact, during the
execution of an IDA-FAC Zou-Borgou credit for cotton development made in
1972, cotton production actually fell. In 1977, a technical assistance
credit was approved to help the Government better prepare rural development
projects. The assistance provided by this Credit proved invaluable during
the preparation of the Borgou, Zou and Atacora provincial rural development
projects. Under the Borgou project, for which a US$17 million IDA credit
was approved in April 1981, cotton production in the Borgou province
doubled in the 1982-83 season and sharply increased again in the two
subsequent crop years. The effort to increase cotton production has been
so successful (output has more than quadrupled within four years) that
Benin needs to greatly increase its cotton ginning capacity. To help
finance that increase, IDA made a Supplementary Credit of US$1.9 million
equivalent in April 1986. The Zou Project (FY83 IDA US$20 million) is
noteworthy for the fact that it includes financing of fertilizer imports on
a declining scale as a response to the government decision to phase out
fertilizer subsidies and reduce pesticide subsidies. A rural development
project in Atacora province, appraised by the IDA, was financed by a US$6
million credit from the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) and a US$4 million loan from the OPEC Fund for International
Development.
22.       In the transport sector, IDA involvement began with a Land
Transport Study which led to the financing of a four-year Highway
Mainrenance Project, approved in FY70. Since then, IDA has financed three
highway projects, three feeder road projects and a port extension project.
In general, these projects were satisfactorily completed with the actual
economic rates of return comparing favorably with appraisal estimates. In
the case of the Third Highway Project, however, the Project Completion
Report notes that institutional development objectives were only partially
met. The Third Feeder Road Project, approved on May 29, 1984, puts
emphasis on strengthening the planning and monitoring capability of the
then Ministry of Public Works through the provision of technical assistance
experts, the establishment of a road maintenance section, and training for
Beninese staff.



23.       In the energy sector, IDA operations have been focussed on
petroleum and hydroelectricity. Following upon technical assistance
credits which helped the Government prepare larger projects, IDA approved
two credits in June 1984 for the Sm&e Oilfield Phase II Development Project
and the Nangbeto Hydroelectric Project, a joint project with Togo,
physically located in Togo.
24.       Benin's performance with respect to project implementation and
disbursement has been generally satisfactory, and the Government is quite
familiar with the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures. However,
in September 1985, the Government decided to change the operator of the
S&m& petroleum field, whose development is being financed in part by IDA
(Credit 1503-BEN of July 26, 1984 for US$18.0 million equivalent). IDA
requested but did not receive information to indicate that the new operator
was financially and technically qualified to perform its tasks
satisfactorily.  Pending the resolution of this issue, disbursements under
Credit 1503-BEN were suspended. In May 1986, the Government informed IDA
of the withdrawal of the new operator, and has since started, in
consultation with IDA, to prepare a program to resume project operation.
Limited disbursements will be made from the credit to aid in that process.
In some other sectors, delays in project execution have occurred on account
of government inability to make timely contributions of counterpart funds,
a problem caused by the difficult budgetary situation.
PART III - THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
Expansion of the Public Enterprise Sector
25.       In 1974 the Government of Benin adopted policies aimed at
shifting key sectors of the economy from foreign to State ownership. Until
then it had ownership interest in less than half a dozen firms, largely in
traditional areas of public involvement (e.g., railways, utilities). The
57 public enterprises in existence, most of which were nationalized or
created in the 1974-75 period, dominate the country's modern sector and
operate in agricultural processing, manufacturing, minerals production,
banking, transportation, utilities, imports and distribution. They employ
approximately 28,000 persons and absorb about 55% of the domestic credit
outstanding to enterprises (June 1985). They account for three-fourths of
industrial production, two-thirds of gross fixed investment, and 75% of
Benin' s external debt service.
Sector Issues
26.       Initial Prospects for Viability.  A variety of factors hindered
the operation of public enterprises from the outset. Inadequate market
studies or poor technical designs (e.g., textiles, ceramics) and promotion
by foreign suppliers of their equipment without regard to project economics
led to unviable investments. Indeed, some of the enterprises as conceived
in terms of technology and scale would probably never have been viable
under any conditions. Many public enterprises were not provided with
sufficient equity to enable them to achieve financial autonomy (e.g., in



trucking, agro-processing). The pursuit of social objectives without
compensating subsidies jeopardized the enterprises' profitability (e.g., in
imports/distribution). Excess perso.nel and poor management also plagued
public enterprises' operations: new managers were often drawn from civil
service ranks with no previous business experience.
27.       Institutional Framework.  Confusing institutional arrangements
and frequent interferences in the management of the enterprises reduced
their autonomy and accountability without providing the State with the
required degree of control. Besides the technical supervising ministry, at
least five ministries maintain oversight functions over the enterprises.
The Board of Directors typically consists of 14 members representing the
various ministries, employee unions and the Party. This Board only plays a
minor role, because the supervising ministry retains a veto power over all
its decisions. Within the enterprise, a Management Committee further
constrains the General Manager's authority. All significant decisions,
including contracting, pricing, investments, borrowing, budgeting, hiring
and firing of staff, are effectively removed from the enterprise manager
and raised to governmental level.
28.       Information and Control.  Effective control and monitoring of
public enterprises by managers and Government is hindered by the inadequacy
of accounting information, the absence of managemer-t information systems
(MIS), and the inefficiency of external audits. Implementation of the new
National Accounting Plan, introduced in January 1983, has been slow.
Information systems are underdeveloped, as enterprises are unable to
fulfill even the minimum reporting requirements set by the Government. The
various auditing bodies (the State Inspection Commission, the
Cabinet-appointed accounting commissioners, and the Ministry of Justice in
Charge of State Enterprises) have been unable to improve the quality of
information generated by public enterprises.
29.       Enterprise Finances.  Pricing procedures, rigid regulations
governing allocation of profits and poor financing practices further
contributed to financial deterioration. Inefficient pricing procedures
resulted in abnormal delays in the granting of price increases. Often,
these increases did not reflect actual costs of inputs (e.g., insurance,
transit, soft drinks and beer). Reinvestment of an enterprise's earnings,
where these existed, was also constrained rigidly by law, rather than being
decided on the basis of the requirements of the enterprise, reducing its
ability to finance necessary maintenance expenditures. Moreover, excessive
borrowing by many enterprises impaired their debt servicing capacity (e.g.,
imports/distribution, transit).
Financial Performance
30.       Enterprise Financial Viability.  These persistent problems have
led to the financial distress of many public sector enterprises, two-thirds
of which have become unprofitable or illiquid. Enterprises involved in
textiles, cement and distribution have seen their equity base eroded or
wiped out by chronic losses. Most public enterprises have a debt-equity



- 9 -
ratio exceeding five to one or a negative net working capital. The
financial situation of some of these enterprises (e.g., textiles) has
further deteriorated in the last two years with the weakening of Nigeria's
economy, the major market for their production. Low profitability and
reduced access to domestic credit as the banking situation worsened
(para 32), exacerbated the illiquidity of enterprises. As a last resort,
public enterprises have built up arrears amongst themselves and towards the
Government and the banking system. The sector now operates on an intricate
system of unpaid bills between the enterprises, the local banks and the
Government.
31.       Impact on Public Finances.  This poor performance of the public
enterprise sector so far has had a limited direct impact on public
finances, as the bulk of funding has been provided by the banking system.
From 1979 through 1983 a total of CFAF 32 billion were invested by the
Government in public enterprises as equity, loans, or subsidies. In
return, the Government received about CFAF 25 billion as dividends, taxes
and other remittances. Guarantees given by the State, however, exceeded
CFAF 114 billion durirg the same period (of which CFAF 69 billion are
accounted for by the Save and Onigbolo projects, undertaker. jointly with
Nigeria), representing a major contingent liability on public finances.
32.       Impact on the Banking System.  Public enterprises have relied
heavily on the banking sector. As of December 1984, more than
CFAF 57 billion of public enterprise loans were outstanding. The sector
absorbed half of all medium term credit to Beninese enterprises and
virtually all the long term credit. Poor performance of Beninese public
enterprises resulted in growing arrears with the banking system, affecting
today about 80% of public enterprise loans. At the same time, the decrease
in the Government's revenues since 1981 has in turn reduced the
Government's stable deposits with the banking system, critically impairing
the financial viability of the three state-owned banks. The Development
Bank (BBD - "Banque Bninoise pour le Developpement") and the Agricultural
Credit Bank (CNCA - "Caisse National de Credit Agricole") have been
particularly affected. They are both heavily illiquid, and critically
dependent on BCEAO financing (well in excess of their regulatory
rediscounting limits). The Commercial Bank (BCB - "Banque Commerciale du
Benin") holds the largest public enterprise portfolio but is in a slightly
better situation, collecting over 70% of the country's banking deposits.
Cumulatively, the three banks have an estimated negative net worth
exceeding CFAF 40 billion.
Government Response to Sector Difficulties
33.       In recognition of the severe problems outlined above, the
Government in 1979 set up a National Commission to review public enterprise
finance and to recommend management changes. Two other commissions
followed, and in April 1982 the Central Committee of the Party and the
Cabinet decided upon: (i) the liquidation of several unviable public
enterprises; most of the 50 provincial enterprises, insufficiently
capitalized and ill-conceived from the start were dissolved; (ii) the



- 10 -
merger of several weak public enterprises; (iii) substantial lay-offs; (iv)
the appointment of new management teams; (v) selected price increases
(e.g., cereals, beer); (vi) the curtailment of monopolies (e.g., imports
and distribution of wheat, rice, pharmaceuticals); (vii) the reform of the
institutional framework, notably the streamlining of the Boards and
improvement in auditing practices; and (viii) the study of a system of
performance based incentives. In the following two years, the Government
started seeking partial or total privatization in selected sub-sectors of
the economy previously dominated by public enterprises.
34.        The 1982 decision reflected the determination of the Government
to reform in-depth the public enterprise sector. However, achievements
have been slow, constrained by the country's lack of financial resources
and technical and managerial expertise. Some of the liquidations which had
been decided in 1982 were not fully carried out. Mergers were not always
accompanied by remedial measures to ensure the viability of the newly
created enterprises. Managerial changes were limited and price increases
were approved for only a few enterprises. The performance based incentive
system envisaged at the time was not implemented. Changes in the legal
framework governing public enterprises were insufficient and did not result
in any substantial improvement in sector malagement.
Dialogue with IDA
35.       In June 1982, an IDA economic mission analyzed issues facing the
public enterprise sector, and the ensuing Country Economic Memorandum was
discussed with the Government in February 1983. This document outlined the
policy and institutional changes, and the external financial and technical
assistance needed to rehabilitate the sector. Subsequently, the Government
requested IDA's financial and technical assistance to design and implement
a comprehensive program of sector reforms aimed at completing and
reinforcing the rehabilitation efforts underway. Several other preparation
missions led to the formulation of a Policy Statement and Action Program
for sector reforms. These two documents, described in the following
paragraphs, were reviewed and agreed upon at negotiations, and assurances
of their implementation by the Government were obtained. In August 1985,
the Government formally adopted these documents, which form the basis of
the proposed project. A joint review by IDA and the Government of the
progress in implementation of the reforms will be conducted every six
months starting in March 1987. The conditionality attached to the release
of credit proceeds (paras 53, 55) provides further assurances of the Action
Program's satisfactory implementation.
Sector Reform Program
36.       The Action Program formulated by the Government in consultation
with IDA addresses the full range of problems noted in paras 26-29. It
involv-, (a) curtailing the role of the State and redirecting it towards
priority areas of public management; (b) improving the institutional
framework governing the relationships between the State and public
enterprises; and (c) enhancing the sector's financial viability and



- 11 -
efficiency. This program and its implementation status are described in
the following paras 37 - 47.
Role of the State in the Econocy-
37.       To optimize the use -if its scarce budgetary and managerial
resources, the State is to e;rtail its involvement in the economy and
refocus it on essential aieas of public management. To that end, the
Government will -crry oi'. the liquidation of unviable public enterprises,
pursue the privatization of others, and restrict new State investments in
the public enterprise sector.
38.       Liquidations.  The Government has undertaken to physically close
down uneconomic public ventures. In July 1985, it initiated action plans
to terminate the operations of Ibetex (textiles), CIB (industrial ceramics)
and Transbenin (trucking), which had run major operating losses and were
not considered economically salvageable. Since then, operations of
Transbenin and CIB have been discontinued and their assets sold. Most
employees of Ibetex have also been laid off, and liquidation of remaining
assets is underway. Since negotiations, the Government has decided to
liquidate additional state enterprises, including TAB (Beninese airlines)
and OBAR (land reclamation).
39.       Privatization.  The Government will seek increased private sector
participation in those sectors which are not deemed to be of a vital or
strategic nature, and those which are potentially profitable and thus able
to attract private sector interest. This is to be achieved by (a) bringing
private investors into existing public enterprises; (b) increasing the
private sector's share in existing mixed-economy enterprises; or (c)
opening up sectors previously subject to state-monopolies to private sector
competition. In so doing, the Government proposes to give priority to
nationals with the requisite financial and business qualifications. It has
selected a list of enterprises on which to focus its initial privatization
efforts, including those operating in the following sub-sectors and which
appear prima facie to have reasonable potential for profitable operation:
freight forwarding, import of consumer goods and equipment, construction,
hotels, data processing and textiles. The activities thus selected are
those which have traditionally been operated by the private sector with a
degree of commercial success but whose recent operation by the public
sector has been inefficient. The Government's privatization strategy for
each of these activities was reviewed and agreed, and the Government will
exchange views annually with IDA on progress achieved. It is difficult to
assess how the private sector, especially foreign, will respond to these
attempts. In the last two years, however, discussions have been held with
potential foreign partners in the transit and freight forwarding, hotel and
textile sub-sectors (para 33) and the Government has also progressively
allowed the local private sector to compete in areas of data processing and
imports and distribution of food and pharmaceuticals.
40.       Future State Investments.  To rationalize State involvement in
the economy, the Government has decided to subject any future investment in



- 12 -
a public enterprise to a full technical, economic and financial appraisal
demonstrating its viability, and evaluating its impact on public finances.
In particular, the Government has agreed that no investment in the public
enterprise sector will be undertaken unless: (i) the economic rate of
return is at least 10%; (ii) the financial rate of return is at least 12%;
(iii) the projected debt service coverage is at all times higher than 1.3;
and (iv) in the case of an investment requiring external financing, the
foreign exchange earnings or savings more than cover the investment's debt
service. The Government has also undertaken that during the project period
its annual investment in public enterprise sector commercial and industrial
ventures will not exceed levels to be agreed with IDA, in the course of
annual joint Government/IDA reviews of Benin's public investment program.
In the first such review, a limit of CFAF 2.3 billion on the 1986 program
was agreed.
41.       Rehabilitation Programs.  The Government has adopted the approach
of designing enterprise-specific rehabilitation programs as a means of
setting clear relations between the State and public enterprises, spelling
out objectives of the enterprises and mutual commitments of the management
and of the Government. These multi-year programs, similar in concept to
contrats-programmes developed in France and Great Britain, would form the
basis for the enterprise monitoring system and evaluation of the managers'
performance. This concept is to be applied first to the enterprises
selected for rehabilitation under the project (para 56) and on the basis of
experience gained would gradually be extended to other enterprises of the
public sector.
Institutional Framework
42.       Legal Reform.  The Government has initiated the review of the
legal and regulatory framework governing the operation of public
enterprises in accordance with principles and a timetable agreed upon at
negotiations. A revised legal framework is expected to be finalized and
adopted prior to June 1987, which will have as major objectives to (a)
clearly define responsibilities of the various bodies involved in the
supervision and management of public enterprises; (b) grant a sufficient
degree of managerial and financial autonomy to public enterprises; and (c)
increase management accountability. The Supervising Ministry would have
the authority for broad guidance and oversight over the activities of the
enterprise to ensure its adherence to government sector policies.  The role
of the Board of Directors would be reinforced to give it the responsibility
for overall administration of the enterprise including the formulation and
approval of its strategy and policies, and its powers would be clarified
relative to those of the Supervising Ministry. The Board's composition
would include representation of the private sector and/or professional
associations, thus enhancing its effectiveness. The General Manager would
be responsible for day-to-day management of the enterprise and his
authority, autonomy and accountability would be increased. The Management
Committee would be redefined as an advisory body assisting the General
Manager, without independent powers.



- 13 -
43.       Information Systems.   In order to provide both the Government
and the enterprise management with timely sectoral, financial and
operational information on the public enterprises' activities, a MIS study
will design and help implement over the coming two years a simple system
adapted to the limited information available. Consultants for this study
have been selected and are expected to start work in March 1987.
Furthermore, each rehabilitation program will recommend Tableaux de Bord
(monitoring charts) for each enterprise as well as performance indicators
(para 54). To improve the quality of basic accounting information, the
Government has devised a satisfactory plan for implementation of the new
National Accounting Plan (para 28) over the next five years, with
assistance from ILO. IDA, under a Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1530-BEN), also helps finance the training of accountants. As the
availability of accountants and their capabilities improve, the MIS will be
expanded in its scope.
Financial Viability and Efficiency
44.       Pricing.  The Government has stated its determination to reform
the pricing system in the direction of a greater reliance on market forces
in setting price levels in competitive situations. It has reduced the
number of imported products subject to price setting by the Government and
has also streamlined the procedures for price setting and revisions. In
addition, the Government has agreed to remove price controls on products
manufactured by enterprises benefiting from IDA financial assistance for
rehabilitation. Such removal of price controls will be a condition of
disbursement of funds to individual enterprises (paras 53, 55). Each
rehabilitation program will also contain specific pricing recommendations
(para 54) which the Government has undertaken to implement. These
provisions should substantially improve the financial situation of public
enterprises.
45.       Allocation of Earnings.  To increase the self-financing capacity
of enterprises, the Government has also decided on greater flexibility in
the allocation of their earnings and to accordingly revise the relevant
regulation, in the context of the reform of the existing legal framework
governing public enterprises' operations (para 42).
46.       Indebtedness of Public Enterprises.  As a first step towards the
resolution of the problem of enterprise over-indebtedness, the Government,
with the assistance of consultants, completed in mid-1986 a study that
estimated the debts of public enterprises, prepared a matrix of reciprocal
debts to be offset, and proposed alternative ways to reduce remaining
debts, including, as appropriate (i) transfers of such debts to the
Government, (ii) their rescheduling, and (iii) the conversion of debts to
Government into equity. The overall magnitude of public enterprise
indebtedness far exceeds resources to be made available under this project;
it will call for a comprehensive restructuring of the financial system,
which could best be undertaken in the context of an adjustment program. By
providing term resources and equity to beneficiary enterprises through
disbursements for goods and services procured under the project (para 64),



- 14 -
IDA would through this project contribute to a limited extent to their
financial restructuring.
47.       Personnel.  To improve sector efficiency, the Government has
undertaken to support such lay-offs of redundant personnel in public
enterprises as may be recommended in rehabilitation programs or as part of
liquidation plans. The Government has already carried out major personnel
reduction: at Ibetex, employment has been reduced from 1,600 to about 200
over the past 5 years; at AGB (import-distribution), personnel has been
reduced by about 300 employees in 1984 and 1985. Lay off programs are also
being prepared for the Cotonou Port (PAC), the Pharmaceutical Import and
Distribution Company (ONP), and the transit companies (SONATRAC and
SOTRACOB). Furthermore, the Government will grant enterprise managers
increased autonomy in the hiring and firing of personnel, through issuance
of new regulations in the context of the revision of the ex'sting legal
framework (para 42). In parallel with increased enterprise autonomy and
accountability, performance based incentives systems are to be implemented
for managers and employees. For managers, rehabilitation programs would
provide for specific performance criteria (para 54). For employees,
enterprise management would develop bonus schemes in time for
implementation in FY 1988 for the first time.
48.       IDA Strategy in the Sector.  IDA's financial and technical
assistance to Benin is in support of the Government's efforts to improve
the country's overall economic performance. A Technical Assistance project
approved in December 1984 (Credit 1530-BEN) aims at strengthening Benin's
planning and public finance management capabilities. This technical
assistance project will introduce improved procedures for budgeting and
monitoring of public sector investments, preparing and analyzing investment
projects, as well as rationalizing public finance programming. In the
course of the Country Economic Memorandum cycle and during preparation of
this operation, IDA has helped analyze the situation of the public
enterprise sector, diagnose its ills, and design remedial measures. Given
the paucity of its own financial and technical resources, the Government
asked for IDA's continued assistance into the operational phase of public
enterprise reform. IDA is also providing assistance to a number of public
enterprises through individual projects in the transport, agriculture,
energy and water supply sectors, as well as through the ongoing Industrial
Development Project (Credit 997-BEN). The proposed project, through
rehabilitation of selected viable public enterprises and sectoral reforms,
would be an important step towards structural adjustment of the economy.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.       The proposed project was identified in August 1983, and appraised
in April 1984. Preparation activities were financed through a Project
Preparation Facility of US$500,000, approved in June, 1984 subsequently
raised to US$ 1,000,000 in August 1985 and to US$ 1,500,000 in November
1986. A Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 5467-BEN dated November 18,
1986) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. in July 1985 and concluded in



- 15 -
October 1986. The Beninese delegation was led by Mr. Didier Dassi,
Minister of Justice in charge of State enterprises. Supplementary data are
in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
50.       This project aims at assisting the Government's efforts to
rehabilitate the public enterprise sector. At the sector level, the
project will help the country implement the policy reforms described
earlier in paras 36-47. At the enterprise level, (a) diagnostic studies
will be conducted for selected state-owned enterprises to assess their
potential viability, and those enterprises found uneconomic will be
liquidated and (b) rehabilitation will be carried out for those enterprises
diagnosed as viable. The project will comprise (a) a technical assistance
component to help in (i) project management; (ii) the design and
implementation of the agreed program of sector reforms; (iii) the
preparation of diagnostic studies, liquidation plans or rehabilitation
programs for selected enterprises; and (iv) audits of beneficiary
enterprises; (b) a credit component to finance goods and services needed to
implement IDA-approved emergency and full rehabilitation programs; and (c)
assistance in training and redeployment of employees laid off as part of
rehabilitation programs.
Enterprise Rehabilitation
51.       The project provides for the preparation and implementation of
rehabilitation programs for selected enterprises, in two phases. In
Phase I, a diagnostic study will be carried out to lead either to
liquidation, or to an emergency program. In the ensuing Phase II, for
those enterprises diagnosed as viable, a full rehabilitation program based
on the contrat-programme concept will be designed, reviewed and
implemented. Initially, eleven enterprises were selected to be diagnosed
(para 56), and the procedures to prepare .nd implement rehabilitation
programs were agreed upon. Status of studies undertaken so far is
described in para 61.
Phase I
52.       Specialized consultants are to assess the viability (economic,
technical, financial) of the selected enterprises. For those found
unviable, the consultants will prepare a liquidation plan for winding up
their operations and liquidating their assets. For those found viable, on
the other hand, the consultants will prepare an emergency program, whenever
this is warranted, to arrest their deterioration. Expenditures to be
includel in the emergency program will be limited to those essential to the
continuation of the enterprise's operation. Therefore they are expected to
represent a relatively small fraction of the full rehabilitation program,
and will have a short economic payback period (e.g., maintenance expenses,
repairs, spares, urgently needed technical assistance, raw materials and
services). The emergency program will also list key remedial measures



- 16 -
(e.g., pricing, organizational changes) identified by the consultants
during the diagnosis as essential to the rehabilitation of the enterprise.
53.       The consultants' diagnostic studies, containing either a
liquidation plan or an emergency program will be submitted (in draft) to
the enterprise management, to the Government and to IDA; IDA will give
comments on this draft and a revised version, taking into account these
comments, will be provided by the Government to IDA for final review and
approval. In its review, IDA will inter alia satisfy itself that the
enterprise has the managerial capability required to carry out successfully
the rehabilitation program. Approval by IDA (for at least four enterprises
envisaged for rehabilitation) of a list of rehabilitation measures
identified in diagnostic studies and related implementation schedule will
be a condition of credit effectiveness. Furthermore, conditions of
disbursement for each emergency program will be its prior approval by IDA,
and the execution of key remedial steps listed therein (para 52). The
removal of all price controls on products manufactured by a beneficiary
enterprise will be an additional disbursement condition of the emergency
program (para 44). Funds disbursed to a beneficiary enterprise under an
emergency program will be treated as a liability of the enterprise towards
the Government pending determination of a financial restructuring plan in
the second phase (para 54).
Phase II
54.       In the second phase of the study the consultants are to prepare a
comprehensive rehabilitation program for those enterprises previously
diagnosed as viable. In the rehabilitation program, the consultants will
make recommendations on the enterprise's corporate strategy (economic role,
market, product lines, privatization potential), organization (management,
staffing), physical rehabilitation requirements (equipment, spares,
maintenance), expansion programs if they exist (to be evaluated inter alia
on the basis of their financial and economic rates of return), pricing,
financial restructuring requirements (e.g., balance sheet restructuring
through rescheduling or conversion of debt into equity to achieve a sound
liquidity position and ensure sustainable debt service ratios), monitoring
systems and criteria for performance evaluation. Investments for
rehabilitation would have to be justified on the basis of an economic rate
of return of not less than the opportunity cost of capital, estimated at
10% in Benin. When a reduction or a change in personnel is recommended,
the consultants, as appropriate, will propose a specific program for
training and redeployment of personnel, including an estimate of its cost
(para 59). The consultants will then prepare a financing plan indicating
the amount of additional funds needed by the enterprise as loan or equity,
or a combination of both, taking into account both the need to achieve a
sound financial structure for the enterprise and the objective of keeping
the state's financial contribution within reasonable limits. In case of a
loan, the consultants will make a recommendation on the repayment schedule
and grace periods. Loans from the Government to beneficiary enterprises
will have maturities ranging from 3 to 12 years, inclusive of grace periods
from 1 to 3 years, at an interest rate of 12% p.a., which is in line with



- 17 -
the average rate applicable to industrial credits in the countries of the
West Africa Monetary Union. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the
Government. In addition, the consultants will provide a detailed action
plan summarizing the rehabilitation program and specifying the mutual
obligations of the Government and of the enterprise, and the agreements to
be sought with the local banks.
55.       Negotiation, Clearance and Implementation of Rehabilitation
Programs. The consultants will submit each draft rehabilitation program to
the enterprise management, the Government (through the Interministerial
Steering Committee - para 60) and IDA. The latter will provide the
Government with comments on this draft, as appropriate. The rehabilitation
program incorporating IDA's inputs will then be negotiated amongst all
Beninese parties involved before its presentation to the Cabinet for
decision and to IDA for final approval. IDA's approval of each new
rehabilitation program will be conditional upon satisfactory progress in
the implementation of the sector-wide Action Program referred to in
para 35, and disbursement of IDA funds for each rehabilitation program will
be conditional upon the undertaking by the enterprise and the Government of
such key reforms as specified in this rehabilitation program. For a
manufacturing enterprise which did not benefit from an emergency program,
the removal of price controls on its products will be made a condition of
disbursement of the full rehabilitation program (para 44). If deemed
necessary by IDA and the Government, the assistance of consultants involved
in the preparation of each rehabilitation program might be extended to help
in its initial implementation. The Government and IDA will, every six
months, conduct a joint review of progress in the implementation of
rehabilitation programs.
Scope of Rehabilitation Programs
56.       The Government, in consultation with IDA, selected eleven
enterprises for diagnostic study and possible rehabilitation or liquidation
under the project in the following subsectors: food and beverages, import
and distribution, shipping and transit activities, textiles and cement.
This is considered a manageable task in relation to the country's
implementation capacity. Their selection was made on the grounds that (i)
they illustrate problems common to many enterprises of the public sector;
(ii) none of them is so large as to absorb an excessive share of the
project funds; (iii) they are not already being assisted under other IDA
projects; and (iv) they have a substantial impact on the performance of the
overall public enterprise sector. The group accounts for one-fifth of
Beninese public enterprises by number, one-third of the sector's revenues
and about one-fifth of its employment. Several enterprises in the sample
operate in sub-sectors that the Government has decided to open to the
private sector (para 39). In the event potential privatization partners
are forthcoming in the course of preparation or implementation of a
rehabilitation program, emphasis of IDA's assistance would be directed
towards helping the Government achieve privatization on optimal terms, by
financing the required technical assistance.



- 18 -
57.       About US$9.4 million of the IDA credit are set aside for
enterprise rehabilitation. This amount appears reasonable on the basis of
information available on the eleven enterprises selected, preliminary
findings of studies underway, and taking into account other financing
sources available. However, a reliable estimate of the financial needs of
each enterprise to be rehabilitated will only emerge from the final
diagnostic and emergency programs. The scope of the project may have to be
adjusted on the basis of these studies. Should financing availability be
insufficient to cover all eleven enterprises, some of these enterprises, to
be chosen in agreement between IDA and the Government, may have to be
deleted from the scope of the project. Conversely, additional public
enterprises could be selected jointly by IDA and the Government for
prospective rehabilitation following the same process of consultant study
as described above. A first list of enterprises which could be
rehabilitated under this project will be agreed on the basis of available
diagnostic studies prior to credit effectiveness.
58.       The three largest investments in Benin, even though they are
operated as public enterprises, are not envisaged for IDA assistance under
this project. Two of them, Onigbolo (cement) and Save (sugar) have been
excluded because of the unusual nature of their problems and the magnitude
of their potential financial needs. Together, they represent an initial
investment of about US$300 million. As noted earlier (para 12), their
major problem arises from their inability to find an outlet for their
products, as Nigeria, co-owner of both ventures and co-guarantor of their
debts, has not so far imported a major share of their output as initially
expected. Difficulties of these two enterprises are being addressed in the
context of the Bank's dialogue with Benin rather than under this specific
project.  A third State project, Seme (petroleum), is already assisted by
two IDA credits (1207-BEN and 1503-BEN).
Assistance for Training and Redeployment of Personnel
59.       To alleviate the social cost of personnel reduction, the project
includes a component to finance training and redeployment of personnel to
be laid off in the course of enterprise restructuring and liquidations. In
September 1985, the Government set up a Commission for Training and
Redeployment (CTR) composed of union representatives, of the tutelle
ministries, and of enterprise managers. The CTR would design enterprise
specific training and redeployment programs that would include inter alia
financing of education fellowships (locally or abroad) or of productive
investments for employees seeking to start their own business. The CTR
will make use of recommendations contained in rehabilitation studies
(para 54). Enterprise specific training and redeployment programs would be
submitted by the Government to IDA for approval, and their implementation
would be overseen by the CTR.
Project Management
60.       The Government has set up an Interministerial Steering Committee
to assume overall responsibility for project preparation and



- 19 -
implementation. Chaired by the Minister of Justice in Charge of State
Enterprises, this Committee comprises all Cabinet ministers responsible for
economics, finance, and public sector operations. Under the Committeets
authority, specialized task forces have been set up to prepare and execute
a number of sector reforms (pricing, privatization, institutional reforms).
A Project Management Unit (PMU) headed by a Project Coordinator, has been
established as the executive arm of the Committee. The Project Coordinator
is supported by a consultant acting as Senior Project Advisor, whose
services are financed under the project. Supervision of this project is
expected to be staff intensive especially during the crucial start-up
period.
Status of Project Preparation and Implementation Schedule
61.       The Government recruited a Senior Project Advisor in November
1984. Five diagnostic studies in the agro-industrial and shipping and
transit subsectors were submitted by external consultants and were subject
to a preliminary review jointly undertaken between IDA and the Government
in late 1985. On the basis of these studies, the Government decided: (i)
to liquidate one of the enterprises (SONAFEL - fruit and vegetable
processing); (ii) to intensify the search for private partners for two
enterprises in the transit subsector (SONATRAC and SOTRACOB); and (iii) to
rehabilitate the two other enterprises (COBENAM Shipping Company, and La
B6ninoise Brewery) through an appropriate reorientation of their
activities. A sixth diagnostic study in the import/distribution sector is
expected to be ready by December 1986. An IDA mission scheduled in
January/February 1987 will seek final agreement with the Government on the
rehabilitation prospects of each enterprise studied so far, and
implementation of the first emergency program would start in March 1987.
Full rehabilitation programs for the first beneficiary enterprises (in
draft form) would also be available for review in March 1987, and
implementation of each IDA approved rehabilitation program would stretch
over 3 - 5 years beginning in July 1987.
Technical Assistance
62.       Technical assistance requirements over the project period would
total 318 man months at a cost of US$3.8 million for (a) preparation and
execution of sector policy reforms (51 man months); (b) consultancy
services to prepare diagnostic studies, liquidation plans, emergency and
full rehabilitation programs (106 man months); (c) project management and
PHU training (98 man months); and (d) audits (63 man months). The
magnitude of technical assistance is on account of (i) the relatively
complex nature of this project in Benin's environment, and (ii) the
multiplicity of sub-sectors to be assisted, requiring diverse technical
expertise currently unavailable in the country. Valuable transfer of
know-how is expected to be derived from the services of external experts
particularly in areas of general project management and in the technical
operation of beneficiary enterprises.



- 20 -
Project Cost and Financing
63.       Total project cost (net of taxes) is estimated at
US$31.5 million, of which US$15.5 million (49%) are foreign exchange
expenditures. This project cost includes US$3.8 million of consultant
services (para 62), US$1.8 million of operating costs of the PMU (rental
expenses, salaries, comuunications, equipment, and travel), US$2.9 million
for training and redeployment of personnel laid off as part of
rehabilitation programs (para 59), and US$23.0 million for enterprise
rehabilitation. The latter amount, to be adjusted on the basis of
diagnostic studies as they become available, includes equipment, civil
works, spares, raw materials, services, indemnities and other cost related
to lay-offs, and conversion of debts into equity.
64.       The Government's contribution to project financing would be
limited (about 26X of project cost) on account of the tight budgetary
situation prevailing in Benin. The Government would finance 75Z of the
local cost of the PMH (including base salaries of staff), 10Z of the fund
for training and redeployment of personnel laid off, and on average 30% of
the cost of enterprise rehabilitation programs, mostly through conversion
of some debts into equity. IDA funds, to be passed on to beneficiaries
through CAA (para 69), would finance 62% of the foreign cost of the project
and 34% of its local cost (US$5.4 million). IDA funds would finance
primarily goods and services but also on a declining basis over the project
period, salary supplements above Government scales required to hire and
retain suitable local staff of the PMU. This declining scale, and
arrangements for adequate financing of the PMU during and beyond the
project period, were agreed at negotiations. IDA would contribute to
financial restructuring only inasmuch as some of its funds would be passed
on by the Government to beneficiary enterprises as term loans or equity.
65.       The Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation would provide
cofinancing towards this project for an amount of Sw F 15 million (US$8.4
million equivalent). These funds would cover in priority the cost of
consultancy, rehabilitation, training and redeployment related to the needs
of the three public enterprises in the import/distribution subsector as
well as rehabilitation expenditures related to any other enterprises as may
be agreed between IDA, the Swiss Agency, and the Government in the course
of the project. Swiss funds would be provided to the Government as a grant
and administered by IDA.
Procurement
66.       The Senior Project Advisor and subsectoral consultants have been
financed under the PPF following IDA Guidelines. Other contracts for
consultancy services will be awarded according to these Guidelines. Goods
and civil works to be procured will be grouped as far as possible into
appropriate bidding packages and procured according to the relevant IDA
Guidelines. Unless otherwise agreed, contracts for goods costing more than
US$350,000, and for civil works costing more than US$1 million will be
awarded following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.



- 21 -
Goods manufactured locally would be given a preference margin of up to 15%
of the CIF bid price or the applicable customs duty and import taxes
whichever is lower. Similarly, local contractors would be given a 7.5%
preference margin in bid evaluation. Goods costing more than US$50,000 but
less than US$350,000, and civil works costing less than US$1 million will
be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), in accordance with
local procedures acceptable to IDA. Goods valued at less than US$50,000
within an aggregate limit of US$2.5 million will be procured through
prudent local shopping. Financing of working capital up to an aggregate
amount of US$1.5 million would be made against evidence of purchase of
stocks, which would be procured according to normal commercial practices.
All procurement decisions with estimated costs in excess of US$100,000 will
be subject to IDA's prior review.
Disbursements
67.       The IDA credit will be disbursed over a period of nine years, in
accordance with experience with comparable projects in the region. The
project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994. The final date
for submission of rehabilitation programs to IDA would be June 30, 1992,
and the closing date June 30, 1995. Disbursement of IDA funds would be
against: (i) 100% of consultants' expenditures (US$1.2 million); (ii) a
declining share of PMU staff salary allowances (100%, up to US$35,000; 80%,
up to US$65,000; and 40%, up to US$85,000); (iii) 100% of other eligible
expenditures of the PMU - rental expense, office supplies and equipment,
maintenance, travel, and vehicles (US$615,000); (iv) 100% of a list of
expenditures as agreed between IDA and the Government for each emergency
and full rehabilitation program (US$8.6 million); (v) 100% of approved
expenditures for redeployment and training of staff laid off as part of
rehabilitation programs (US$2.0 million); (vi) amount due of the withdrawn
PPF amount (US$1.5 million); and (vii) unallocated (US$1.0 million).
68.       To accelerate timely disbursement under this project, a revolving
fund of US$0.5 million would be set up under IDA financing, and one of
US$0.4 million under Swiss financing. Both revolving funds would be
deposited in a special account at the Central Bank for West African
Countries (BCEAO). They represent an average of 4 months of expenditures
to be financed under the project. Furthermore, the PMU would set up a
subsidiary account in a primary bank which would be operated on an imprest
basis, and be replenished from time to time out of the proceeds of the
special accounts to be opened at the BCEAO. This subsidiary account would
be used for small expenditures (below US$4,000) and would be maintained
below US$150,000. Unless otherwise agreed, all project expenditures would
be channeled through the special account to be opened at the BCEAO.
69.       Disbursement procedures would be as follows:
(a)  Project Management Unit.  Eligible expenditures for the PMU would
be reimbursed on the basis of a Statement of Expenditures (SOE)
to be submitted monthly;



- 22 -
(b) Technical Assistance. SOEs would be prepared by the Project
Coordinator for technical assistance contracts approved by IDA;
(c) Emergency and Rehabilitation Programs. Disbursement requests for
goods and services financed under emergency or rehabilitation
programs would be submitted by beneficiary enterprises, with full
documentation, to the PMU for review and approval. This review
would ensure that each disbursement request is part of an agreed
rehabilitation program. Once approved, the PMU would either (i)
request payment from the subsidiary account at a primary bank; or
(ii) transmit it to CAA who would disburse out of the revolving
funds at the BCEAO. CAA would supervise the State's equity
participations (when funds are provided as Government equity) and
would be responsible for the loan documentation and collection
(when funds are provided as loans). Disbursement requests above
US$20,000 equivalent would be submitted by CAM with full
documentation to IDA; those below that amount would be reported
to IDA on a monthly SOE, with supporting documentation to be
retained by the PMU for review by IDA during supervision
missions; and
(d) Training and redeployment of staff. Training and redeployment
financing needs approved by the Association (para 59), will be
disbursed on the basis of a SOE submitted monthly.
Accounting, Audit and Reporting Requirements
70.       External auditors acceptable to IDA will review on an annual
basis (a) the project accounts, (b) the special accounts at the BCEAO and
the PMU subsidiary account, (c) f'nancial statements of beneficiary
enterprises, and (d) SOEs. Audit reports should be transmitted to IDA
within six months after the end of each fiscal year, and their cost has
been included in the technical assistance component for IDA financing
(para 62). The Government would also submit quarterly progress reports on
the implementation of the project.
Benefits and Risks
71.       The project is expected to help rationalize the operation of the
public enterprise sector, thereby improving its overall impact on the
economy. At the enterpcise level, emergency programs for selected
enterprises would arrest their deterioration, and the full rehabilitation
p--rams would restore their economic and financIal viability.  The
rc-- oilitation programs will also benefit the sector as a whole by setting
a model for relationship between the State and the enterprises, clarifying
their mutual obligations. At the country level, benefits to public
finances are expected from the implementation of agreed sector reforms.
The reduction and improved screening of new state investments, and the
privatization/liquidation efforts will enable the State to redirect its
scarce financial and managerial resources towards priority areas of public
management. Policy changes emphasizing the role of the private sector



- 23 -
should foster the development of local entrepreneurship and help attract
foreign investors. The technical know-how associated with the
participation of private capital should help the country enhance its
competitiveness in a number of key sectors of the economy. The reform in
the institutional framework of public enterprises, monitoring systems,
personnel and pricing policies, and increased management autonomy will
provide essential ingredients for enhanced efficiency of the public
enterprise sector thus improving the situation of the banking sector by
reducing public enterprise loan arrears.
72.       The first risk is that the proposed policy reforms although
supported by the Government might encounter political or social opposition
during project implementation. This risk is substantial, considering the
significant departure of the new program from policies followed until 1982
and the sensitive nature of some of the proposed reforms (e.g.,
liquications). However, the Government's formal commitment as reflected in
the Policy Statement and other public statements on the reorientation of
public sector policies, backed up by actual steps taken since 1982, provide
reasonable assurances in this regard. The expected benefits on the public
finance situation would, as they materialize, sustain the momentum for
continuation of the efforts undertaken. The conditionality attached to the
release of IDA funds would also act as an additional safeguard, ensuring
satisfactory implementation of the agreed reform program. Assistance in
training and redeployment of staff being laid off will also lessen the
social cost of the program. Another risk would be that the private sector,
especially foreign, would not be sufficiently responsive to the
privatization attempts. The interest expressed recently by private
investors in several sectors, alleviates this risk.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and I recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barier B. Conable
President
Attachments
November 1986.
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
COUNTRY DATA - SENIN
AREA                               POPULATION                                  DENSITY
112,322 nq km                      3.9 mil-lon (1984) 1/                       33.7 per sq km (1984)
Rate of growth: 2.71 (1961-34)
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS C1934)                           HEALTH
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,636)              47.5              Population per physician           26.734
Crudo Doeth Rate (per 1,666)               1836             Population per hospital bed           966
Infant Mortality (per 1,f666              4S.0
Li7f  Expectancy at Birth (years)          46.9
EDUCATION (1966)                                            ACCESS TO SAFE WATER
Adult literacy rots:                      11.3              X of population - urban:              s6
Primary *chool enrollment:                47.1%                             - rurol:               26
CNP PER CAPITA IN 1984 21:  USS268
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1984 !/                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (1978 prices)
US  MUln.      X                   1976-79                 1980-84
CGP at Market Prices                  9S068     106.0                      3.6                     4.4
Cro..  Dommatic Investment             706.       7.4                      6.7                   -13.8
Grown National Savings                -46.0       5.6                     19.1                    -3.4
Exports of Goods, nft                 234.S      24.7                     13.5                     1.0
Imports of Goods, nft                365.0       37.3                      9.5                    -B.6
Current Account Balance               -99.6     -10.6                     -2.0                    20.4
OUTPUT. EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1984:
Value Added
Value Added               Labor Force                  per Workor
US$ Min.                   '06O     X                  USS      X
Primary Production                  464.3   4S.3             1,238.0   72.0               326.6   63.0
Secondary Production                138 6   16.3               106.6    6.2             1,281.7  247.2
Sorvices                            360.8   39.3               37.60   21.8               93656  180.4
Total I/ Average                  891.6  100.0             1,719.6  166.0              61896  100.0
COVERNMENT FINANCE
------------------ CENTRAL GOVERNUENT -----------------
(CFAF billion)              --------- % of CDP --------
1984                   1984                 1979-83
Current revenues                                   74.5                   17.9                    20.2
Current oxpenditure-                               71.0                   17.1                    13.6
Not lending and transfers                           1.6                    0.2                     1.1
Current surplus                                     3.6                    0.8                     6.6
Capital expenditur-s                               43.6                   106.                    1068
Overall balance                                   -40-0                   -9.6                    -4.3
Extornal borrowing and grants                      12.7                    3.1                     2.4
gJ Population Census.
?J At current exchange rates.
I/ Conversions to dollars in this tablo aro at the average oxchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
CD GDP at factor costs.



- 25 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1978     1979      1939     1991     1982      1983     1984
(in millions CFAF outatanding *nd year)
Money Supply (money and quasi-money)   39,017   46,774   61,458   71,292   98,440   97,066  110,600
Cimino on Central Government            -12,917  -11,776  -17,643  -20,863  -16,206       -6OO   13,676
Claims on the Private Sector 3           47,151   69,459   31,666   87,666  113,300  122,100  116,366
(percentage or 1ndex numbers)
Money an X of GOP                          23.2     23.9      2836     27.6      29.3     25.3      24.1
General Price Index                       16.6    113.0    124.5    132.7    148.2    166.2    181.7
Annual Growth Rates
CGneral Price Index                      12.3     13.0      10.2      6.6      11.7     12.1       9.3
Net Claino on Government                -37.1      3.8    -49.0    -18.9       51.1     41.2  2,079.3
Clalms on the Private Sector J           22.0     26.1      43.1      2.4      36.2      7.8     -4.3
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (in USS millions)                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1981-84)
1980  1991  1982  1983  1984                             USS Mil.      %
Exports of goodo. nfo          323   299   287   225   235       Palm products            2.4        1.6
Imports of goode, nfn          763   653   636   822   365       Cotton                   8.3        4.3
Resource gap (deficit-)       -380  -369  -248   -97  -120       Cocoa                    5.3        3.6
Workers remittances             44    a8    28    31    19       Other agricultural       1.0        0.7
Not transfers and other                                          Principal exports       69.6       47.1
fector payAmnts               -2    -7    -2   -26      2      All other
Balance current occount       -330  -323  -222   -92   -99         commodities VI        63.1      42.9
Direct private investment       46    34      8     6      0     Total                  147.6      100.0
Official flow
Grants                        61    8S   56    58    G5
Borrowing (net)              277   180   170    65   -12       EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 1984
Short term capital              21    12    -3      7    -6                                     usS Uil.
Other items, errors and
ommisiona                    -48    71    14    12    14       Public debt inl. guaranteed    583.9
Increaso in reserves (')         S    64   -49   -39       a     Non-guaranteed private debt
Net reservee (end year)        -10    44    -7   -42   -39       Total outstanding A disbursed   6B3.9
Gross reservoe  (end year)       8    61      4     4      2
Equivalent monthsn  Imports      0.2   1.2   0.8   0.8   0.1
NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984 t/
RATE OF EXCHANCE (Period Average)                                                                     X
Year         USS1=CFAF                                     Public debt inel. guarant ed       36.3
Non-guaranteed private debt
1975           214.32                                      Total outstanding A disbursed
1976           238.98
1977           245.67
1978           226.89                                      IBRD/IDA LENDING (December 31. 1984)
1979           212.72
1980           211.30                                                                  - USS Mii.-
1981           271.73                                                                  IBRO   IDA
1982           328.62                                      Outstanding and disburmod  --  111.99
1983           381. 6                                      Undisbursed                  --   47.61
1984 on        436.96                                      Outstanding inel. undicb.  --  19.56
11 Includes public enterprises.
?/   Include, unrecorded *xports.
#/ Debt service as a percentage of exports of goods and non-factor services.
Non-available



-26 -                                       ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1986)
(USS Million)
Amount (less concellations)
Credit
Number        Year    Borrower   Purpose                                Bank    IDA I/  Undisbursed 3/
Thirteen Credits fully disbursed                                                 86.83
997-BEN      1980       BENIN    Industrial Development                        10.00       6.38
1127-BEN      1981       BENIN    Borgou Province Rural Development             20.90       8.49
1142-BEN      1981       BENIN    Fourth Highway                                 11.39      1.61
1171-BEN      1981       BENIN    Cotonou Water Sanitation                        S.00      0.44
1207-BEN      1982       BENIN    TA in Petroleum Sector                          8.00      0.13
1248-BEN      1982       BENIN    Second Education                               14.00      5.50
1314-BEN      1983       BENIN    Zou Rural Development                         20.00      11.32
F023-BEN      1984       BENIN    Third Feeder Roads                             8.00       2.60
F024-BEN      1984       BENIN    Forestry                                        2.80      2.41
1486-BEN      1984       BENIN    Third Feeder Roads                             6.00       3.57
1603-BEN      1984       BENIN    S&ma  Oilfield Development II                 18.00      17.06
1606-BEN      1984       BENIN    Forestry                                       2.60       2.28
1607-BEN      1984       BENIN    Nangbeto Hydroelectric                        16.00      11.98
1630-BEN      1986       BENIN    TA for Planning and Economic Mgmt.             6.00       6.32
1127-1-BEN    1988       BENIN    Borgou Province RDP Supplemental               1.90       2.18
1721-BEN      1986       BENIN    Second Water Supply                            15.0      10.44
Totel                                        241.43     88.57
of which has been repaid                      11.76
Total now outstanding                                                          229.67
Total now held by IDA                                                          229.67
Total undisbursed                                                                          889.7
B. Statement of Regional Bank Loans and Credits to Benin, Cite d'Ivoire, Niger, Senegal, Togo,
Burkina Faso
USS million
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan or                                                                                    Un-
Credit No.    Year    Borrower           Purpose                        Bank       IDA disbursed
969-WAF      1980       BOAD     Project Preparation                             3.0       1.61
2242-WAF      1983       BOAD     Regional Development                   6.1       -        56.5
1331-WAF      1983       BOAD     Regional Development                           14.0      12.60
1/    Beginning with Credit 1090-BEN, Credits have been denominated in
Special Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent
the dollar equivalents using exchange rate at the time of credit
negotiations for the IDA amounts and the dollar equivalents as of
September 30, 1986, for the undisbursed amounts.



- 27 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  3 years
(b)  Project Prepared by:                  Government with IDA
assistance
(c)  Identification:                       August 1983
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                    April 1984
(e)  Negotiations:                         July 1985/Oct. 1986
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:        March 1987
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
PPF advances for a total amount of US$1,500,000 were
approved in June 1984, August 1985 and November 1986 to
finance preparatory activities. The project will require
intensive supervision to achieve its full objectives. The
first supervision mission is scheduled for April 1987.
Section III:   Special Conditions
1. The Government will:
(a) carry out the agreed Action Program (para 35); and
(b) every six months review progress in the
implementation of the Action Program (para 35) and
of each rehabilitation program (para 55) with IDA.
2. Conditions of effectiveness of the credit will be:
(a) the approval by IDA (for at least four enterprises
envisaged for rehabilitation) of a list of
rehabilitation measures contained in the
diagnostic studies and related implementation
schedule (para 53); and
(b) the approval by IDA of an initial list of
beneficiary enterprises (para 57).
3. Conditions of disbursement of each emergency and full
rehabilitation program will be:
(a) its prior approval by IDA (paras 53 and 55); and



- 28 -                          ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) the execution by the Government and the enterprise
of key remedial steps contained therein, including
(for manufacturing enterprises) the removal of all
price controls (paras 53, 55).



^0 i9rtA~~I   vl  ,   , ! e        /            Ii         \\                     N        ~ ~I    G  E      R                                                        ' -         .' 
tS   uRKINA FASCO',   \N.   rst   
\^rslE (  - 4ENIN?                                                   l\                r\</w8^x@z- 
N'   R         KI NA  F,                   A SO/./'ß
tW ...//O ro :  
c                                                               tii          d    d/4SW                                                 
c6\                                                                               WoroE   
'Y  D _        >Ol                                                                    IKa \mo"
jtS            .)u%sar                                                    _&eou Po0                               t                          bto
'  {            ofig'ettX                                                      iB                      Of          R         G                     U 
/  %>VsoUrltOEO                                                              ∞JMaiCro¢ > (
s~~~~~~~~?TRI  1n  KoAne \/  Sndu  L2s: 
[asso ~     ~       UNE                              : ;F  sto>'re1 R                                                                   ac 
>~~~~~~~~~~~H   ItubuPhna -loe.jomooo
oou omi^s_ '      \                                                    S~~~~~A 
6.              \         \,q9,,-               ,           {                              +                 O'        i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
B   ~ U R K I N                                                                                                                          s,
porg0Ptt                           s8leorso                                Fo        -{                     ea 
>                                        79                 _        g                   ,            jJ                    ]~~F110
' \   }Peltlna           >       I        ;7                   -  //  



l                       'dr.ssoUlOu-s          )          t            0         b              BJssoulo
9.                                          T~~~~~~ 
T0                                   | GO t 1 0¢                                                                    B\  E    r-   1   f
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
iREHABILITATION  PROJECT
(                                     KItbo                     *,_ 7Savi  Cities mentioned in the report
!Boiaanie         ,-Ouesse        ff                                    Paved roads
S           >                              \ß  (                                     Grovel roads
!  t-    -  Earth roads
ON                         ~~~~~~~~Railroads
CAZ       0          Uvf                                       h *   iServe Petroleum Field
.^.  ->i  me                       a                                           * jr internotonal airpotr
t    Reg-onal airports
I _                                                                    -JtsA I  eRivers
\Tieii                 Oume   Ok                                                N Noational capitals
j--- AM                                         Province capitals
. District capitals
!    - 9,X_ Province boundaries
International boundaries
Zo,Kp t       hanond
|      A..jQ~4E                               Onig\doo
j dgbo AfflQMEtZ A
C   >  Seqr  -o m  '.    0,  ,,ItaAh..........-O.....  oydo,i,:
All      OOS         Ald reho         f                                               N    I    GcE  RiI           A
N   ~~'~~po~~iiaue   Colovi  ?~~-1  TO-il
A                           Hpi   .      lad.w   I-,            Bc 
k! oh (oTOUSme                                                             2i.   t 4
cs  0  i   H   A    N   A  t  L F   _    _  _  _    < ;;- G  lT il  W II J
_____________r________________________r___________ ___ A
S~mj Field






