Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18026
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1748-BEN)
June 18, 1998
Private Sector Finance Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Central African Franc
US$ 1 = CFAF 345 (Exchange rate of 1986)
US$ 1 = CFAF 560.00 (Exchange rate of December 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
Vice President                Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director      :       Theodore 0. Ahlers, AFC13
Technical Manager      :      Thomas W. Allen, AFTP1
Task Team Leader       :      Marie-Francoise Marie-Nelley, AFTP1



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          African Development Bank
AGB          Foodstuff Imports and Distribution ("Societt d'Alimentation Generale du Benin ")
BIBE         International Bank of Benin ("Banque Internationale du Benin ")
BOA          Bank of Africa
CAA          Debt Management Agency ("Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement")
CAR          Rural Cooperatives ("Cooperatives d'Amenagement Rural')
CNCB         National Council of Shippers ("Conseil National des Chargeurs du Binin ")
CNE          National Savings Bank ("Caisse Nationale d'Epargne ")
CNERTP       Research Center for Public Workers ("Centre National d 'Essais et de Recherches de
Travaux Publics
COBENAM    Shipping Company ("Compagnie Beninoise de Navigation Maritime')
COTEB        Textile Company ("Complexe Textile du Benin")
ISC          Interministerial Steering Committee
LNB          National Lottery of Benin ("Loterie Nationale du Binin')
OBEMAP       Stevedore Agency ("Office Bininois des Manutentions Portuaires")
OBSS         Office of Social Security ("Office Beninois de Securiti Sociale")
OCBN         Benin-Niger Transport Organization ("Organisation Commune Benin Niger')
ONAB         National Timber Agency ("Office National des Bois')
ONASA        National Food Security Agency ("Office National pour la Securite Alimentaire')
OPT          Post and Telecommunications Agency ("Office des Postes et Telecommunications')
ORTB         Radio and Television Agency ("Office de Radiodifusion et Television du Benin')
PADME        Micro Finance Project ("Projet d'Appui des Microentreprises')
PAPME        SME Project ("Projet d'Appui PME/PMI')
PAC          Cotonou Port ("Port Autonome de Cotonou')
PAR          Performance Audit Report
PESAP        Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
SBBE         Electric and Water Company ("Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau')
SCO          Cement Production Company ("Sociktt des Ciments d 'Oningbolo')
SITEX        Benin Textile Company ("Societt des IndustriesTextiles du Benin')
SOBEMAC    Building Material's Company ("Societt Beninoise des Materiaux de Construction')
SOBEMAP    Stevedore Company ("Societt Beininoise de la Manutention Portuaire ")
SOGECOB    Consumer Goods Improts ("Societe Generale de Commerce du Benin')
SOGEMA       Procurement Company ("Societe de Gestion des Marches Autonomes')
SONAFEL      Fruits and Vegetables Company ("Societe Nationale pour le Developpement des
Fruits et Legumes')
SONICOG      Oil and Fats Company ("Societt Nationale pour l 'Industrie des Corps Gras')
SONACOP    Oil Product's Company ("Societt Nationale de Commercialisation des Produits
Petroliers')
SONAPRA      Agricultural Promotion Agency ("Societt Nationale pour la Promotion Agricole')
SONAR        State Insurance Company ("Societe Nationale d'Assurance et de Reassurance')
SSS          Sugar Company ("Societe Sucriere de Save')
UEMOA        West African Economic and Monetary Union Union Economique et Monetaire
Ouest Africaine
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1748-BEN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
i
Preface .............................................
ii
Evaluation Summary .....................................
PART I -- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............
A. Background  ..................................                                   I
B. Project Objectives ......................                                       I
C. Achievement of Project Objectives .......................                       3
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .......           6
E. Project Sustainability  .............................                           7
F. Bank Performance  ...............................                               8
G. Borrower Performance ............................                               8
H. Assessment of Outcome ..... ..............                                      9
I. Future Operation ..............                                                 9
J. Key Lessons Learned .............................                              10
PART II -- STATISTICAL TABLES ...........................                                   12
Table I     Summary of Assessments ......................                         12
Table 2     Related Bank Loans/Credits ....................                       13
Table 3     Project Timetable   .........................                         14
Table 4     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ......          14
Table 5   : Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation ......        14
Table 6     Studies Included in Project.  ....................                    15
Table 7-A    Project Costs ............................                           17
Table 7-B    Project Financing ..........................                         17
Table 8     Economic Analysis .........................                           17
Table 9    : Status of Legal Covenants ......................                     18
Tablel1    : Bank Resources :Staff Inputs ....................                    23
Table 1    : Bank Resources :Staff Missions ..................                    23
APPENDICES  .2.6.............. .
A. ICR Mission's Aide-Mmoire.                                                     27
B. Summary of the Government's Completion Report ..............                   39
C. Data on the Public Enterprise Sector ......................                    41
MAP



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1748-BEN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Enterprise
Sector Rehabilitation Project in Benin, for which Credit 1748-BEN in the amount of SDR
12.8 million was approved on December 16, 1986 and made effective on May 14, 1987.
The Credit closed on December 31, 1997 following two extensions of the closing date.
The last disbursement was made on May 20, 1998. A balance of SDR 325,604.49 will be
canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Eleftheria C. Williams, AFTP1. It was reviewed by Mr.
lain T. Christie, Technical Specialist, AFTP1 and Jerome Chevallier, Sector Manager,
AFTS3. A summary of the Borrower's completion report is included as Appendix A; the
full report can be found in the AFTP1 project files.
Preparation of this ICR started during the Bank's mission of November 1997. It
was based on materials in the Project file, including the Memorandum of the President
(MOP), the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), supervision reports, progress reviews
and monitoring reports by the Borrower. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of
the ICR by supplying information reflected in the final ICR.



ii
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1748-BEN)
IPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.     Before 1974, Benin's public enterprise (PE) sector consisted of less than half a
dozen firms, mostly in the traditional areas, such as railways and power.  The
Government's political orientation and policies in the mid-1970s, which aimed at shifting
key sectors of the economy from foreign domination to state ownership, resulted in an
expanded PE sector encompassing most of Benin's productive and service sectors. Since
their creation, public enterprises were plagued by problems, incurring chronic losses and
crippling Benin's banking system. The 1982 closure of the Nigerian border, the recession
and lack of liquidity of both the Government and the PEs contributed to the further
decline of PE profitability. By 1985, the GOB had investments in about 64 public
enterprises, most of which had a negative net worth. The Public Enterprise Sector
Rehabilitation Project was prepared in response to a 1983 request from the Government
of Benin for assistance in the rehabilitation of the PE sector.
Project Objectives
2.    The overall objective of the Project was to assist the Government in its efforts to
rehabilitate the public enterprise sector. At the sector level, the Project was to help
implement a program of policy reforms, aimed at: (a) redirecting the role of the State
towards priority areas of public management; (b) improving the institutional framework
governing state-owned enterprises; (c) strengthening the control and incentive systems;
and (d) improving enterprise efficiency and financial viability. At the enterprise level,
the Project was to support the preparation and financing of rehabilitation programs for
selected viable enterprises, identified by studies to be undertaken in two phases. During
Phase I, a diagnosis would be carried out to assess the technical, economic and financial
viability of the enterprise. Liquidation plans would be prepared for enterprises deemed
nonviable and emergency plans would be drawn for viable enterprises. In Phase II, full
rehabilitation programs would be designed for enterprises that were found viable. IDA
was also to finance goods and services needed for the implementation of the emergency
and rehabilitation programs.
3.   In addition to IDA financing the Government received grants from the Swiss
Agency for Development Corporation and the Canadian International Development



iii
Agency equivalent to US 8.4 million and CAD$ 500,000 to primarily assist in the
Government's redeployment efforts.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Early project implementation was slow.  The country's serious economic
difficulties, political instability and widespread strikes were partly to blame. The
Beninese financial sector, which was dominated by the Government, was near collapse
and a program of financial reforms was being negotiated with the Bank. A Government
announcement that it planned to take legislative measures to enable the Treasury to seize
private banking accounts prompted substantial flight of capital towards Togo and France
and generated a liquidity crisis in the banking system. The impact of this crisis on the
divestiture program was severe. In the addition to the difficult environment, existing legal
complexities relating to PEs, the government's inability to cover severance pay from
liquidations and the poor accounting system maintained by most PEs, blocked the closure
of many liquidations. Although throughout that period the government maintained its
commitment to the divestiture program, the political instability had its toll on the Project
Unit which was unable to meet its established privatization targets.
5.   Implementation progress improved in the early 1990s.   The Borrower
demonstrated strong commitment to the reform program and actively participated in
advancing the project agenda which clearly contributed to the impressive project results.
The launching of the structural adjustment program in 1990 supported by a SAC with
conditions on key public enterprises, expanded the agenda of the Project beyond the list
of enterprises which had been identified for rehabilitation during appraisal. The Project
became the main instrument supporting the Government's Divestiture Program.
6.    However, during the latter years of project implementation, Government
commitment seemed to be weakening. The 1996 presidential elections stalled the
divestiture process and the appointment of a new project coordinator, so close to project
completion, resulted in serious delays in many of the on-going activities, including the
adoption of an appropriate regulatory framework for the Post and Telecommunications
sector, a sector policy for liberalizing telecommunications and the preparation of a
strategy for the textile sector.
Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
7.    Overall, the achievements of the Project have been exemplary and unparalleled in
the region. Despite the many difficulties and delays during project implementation,
project objectives to downsize and rationalize the public enterprise sector were met. At
the sector level, all reforms agreed at appraisal have been completed and are currently
effective. At the enterprise level, the results of the divestiture program have been
impressive. The public enterprise sector has been reduced from 64 enterprises to 22. So
far, 24 enterprises have been liquidated, 18 have been privatized and 9 have been placed
under lease/management contracts. Based on limited available information, privatized
enterprises seem to be performing well and management of some public enterprises is



iv
improving. The companies which currently remain in the state portfolio represent mostly
public utilities, where the Government has not yet taken a decision on how they should be
addressed.
8.    Furthermore, the Government has established a Management Information System
which maintains data on the performance of PEs and has taken measures to improve the
performance of selected PEs. Such measures include: (a) the administrative and financial
restructuring of the Port of Cotonou; (b) liberalization of the telecommunications sector
and the completion of new performance contracts between the Government and the
telecommunications parastatal (OPT) as well as with the water and electricity parastatal;
(c) implementation of financial restructuring measures for the social security agency
(OBSS); (d) liberalization of the insurance sector, the liquidation of SONAR, the state
insurance company, and the creation of a new company with small government
participation (10 percent); (e) studies to define the strategies for the textile sector and the
two hotels (studies are in progress); and (e) stopping the commercial activities of the
maritime transport company COBENAM.
9.    Significant progress has been achieved in the rehabilitation of the palm oil sector.
All the mills have been sold to private operators and oil palm production has increased by
about 250 percent. There has been some progress in the petroleum sector. Imports and
distribution of petroleum have been liberalized and the Sociejte' Nationale de
Commercialisation des Produits Petroliers (SONACOP) has opened the market to 13 new
operators.
10.   There has also been major progress in addressing the financial and technical needs
of micro as well as small and medium enterprises through the creation of two institutions:
the Projet d'Appui PME/PMI (PAPME) to finance small and medium enterprises and
the Projet d'Appui au Developpement de la Microentreprise (PADME) to finance micro-
enterprises. The two institutions have so far had an outstanding performance. With a
repayment rate of 97 percent, PADME is now covering its operating expenses and has
gone a long way in achieving sustainability. The SME pilot institution, PAPME, has also
had a consistent and satisfactory performance. It provides medium and short-term credit
as well as technical assistance to small entrepreneurs, who otherwise would not have
access to financing. PAPME currently covers 85 percent of its operational expenses and
has opened a branch in Parakou to reach rural entrepreneurs. PAPME's repayment rate is
92 percent. The Government has recently taken a decision on the legal structures for
PADME and PAPME, which assures the autonomy of management of both entities. The
objective is to transform the institutions into private finance companies within five years.
11.   However, a lot still remains to be done to finalize the tasks which could not be
completed before the closing date of the Credit, including: (a) the SONACOP transaction;
(b) the privatization of Hotels La Plage and Croix du Sud; (c) a strategy for the textile
sector; and (d) the Post and Telecommunications reform. There is particularly a need to
establish a comprehensive reform program for the telecommunications sector, which
should include: (a) a clear definition of the approach to liberalize the sector; (b) an



v
adequate legal and regulatory framework; (c) a clear strategy for the incumbent operator;
and (d) a separation of telecommunications and postal activities.
12.   There were four major lessons that emerged from the Project:
* Strong Government Commitment. Government commitment and participation in the
design and implementation of a PE Reform Program is a sine qua non condition to
the success of reforms. The Project benefited from such commitment during most of
the implementation period, thus contributing to the achievements of project
objectives.
* Rehabilitation vs. Privatization. In 1985-1986, when the Project was being prepared,
the approach to PE reform centered around restructuring and strengthening PE
management and financial performance, while maintaining them in the State
portfolio. In retrospect, the Bank should have included privatization and private sector
participation in the project objectives, instead of focusing solely on rehabilitating
viable PEs and liquidating non-viable ones.
- Efficient Project Implementation Agency. The Project Management Unit (PMU)
played a key role in the design and implementation of the Divestiture Program.
Throughout most of the project implementation period PMU performance has been
satisfactory. the Unit enjoyed a high level of credibility not only with PEs but also
with the Administration. Furthermore, the close working relationship between the
PMU and the Commission Nationale de la Denationalisation, which was responsible
for the monitoring of the privatization process, contributed to the satisfactory project
results.
* Social Costs of Divestiture. The inability of project funds to cover the severance pay
resulting from the liquidation of PEs was one of the major causes of delays in closing
liquidations. How these costs will be covered is an area which should be resolved
during appraisal, to assure that there are no obstacles blocking the process during
project implementation.
* Consensus Building among Stakeholders. The Government should have been more
rigorous in seeking the support of stakeholders and civil society before launching its
reform program. Consensus building and public information campaigns should have
been an integral part of the Project.



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1748-BEN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I -- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Before 1974, Benin's public enterprise (PE) sector consisted of less than half a
dozen firms, mostly in the traditional areas, such as railways and power. The
Government's new political orientation and policies in the mid-1970s aimed at shifting
key sectors of the economy from foreign domination to state ownership and resulted in an
expanded PE sector which encompassed most of Benin's productive and service sectors.
Since their creation, public enterprises have been plagued by a variety of problems,
including start-up difficulties, such as inappropriate technical design, inadequate
capitalization and inexperienced management. Their deteriorating performance crippled
Benin's banking system, as recurring losses had to be met either through budgetary
allocations or, more often, through extensive use of bank credit. By the early 1980s, the
progressively deteriorating financial position of PEs was having a negative impact on
Benin's economic growth and was becoming a severe burden on public finances. In
1982, the closure of the Nigerian border, the recession and lack of liquidity of both the
Government and the PEs contributed to the further decline of PE profitability. By the
mid- 1980s, the majority of public enterprises had a negative net worth and were incurring
chronic losses.
2.    The precarious financial position of PEs forced the Government to adopt, in the
early 1980s, a series of measures to redress the sector. However, policy changes,
particularly as they affected the institutional and regulatory framework and personnel
management incentives, were never implemented. As of 1985, the GOB had investments
in about 58 public enterprises, most of which were in financial difficulty. These
enterprises employed 28,000 people, representing about 40 percent of the formal sector
labor force and accounted for 75 percent of industrial production. The Public Enterprise
Sector Rehabilitation Project (the Project) was prepared in response to a 1983 request
from the Government of Benin for assistance in the rehabilitation of the PE sector.
B.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The overall objective of the Project was to assist the Government in its efforts to
rehabilitate the public enterprise sector. At the sector level, the Project was to help
implement a program of policy reforms, aimed at: (a) redirecting the role of the State



2
towards priority areas of public management; (b) improving the institutional framework
governing state-owned enterprises; (c) strengthening the control and incentive systems;
and (d) improving enterprise efficiency and financial viability. At the enterprise level,
the Project was to support the preparation and financing of rehabilitation programs for
selected viable enterprises, identified by studies to be undertaken in two phases. During
Phase I, a diagnosis would be carried out to assess the technical, economic and financial
viability of the enterprise. Liquidation plans would be prepared for enterprises deemed
nonviable and emergency plans would be drawn for viable enterprises. In Phase II, full
rehabilitation programs would be designed for enterprises that were found viable. IDA
was also to finance goods and services needed for the implementation of the emergency
and rehabilitation programs. As with a traditional Bank Industrial Development Finance
(IDF) line of credit, each rehabilitation program would be submitted to IDA for review
and approval.
4.    The Project included the following components: (a) a technical assistance
component to help in: (i) project management; (ii) preparation and execution of the
agreed action plan for sector policy reforms; (iii) preparation of enterprise diagnostic
studies, liquidation plans or rehabilitation programs; and (iv) audits; (b) a credit
component to help finance the implementation of IDA-approved emergency and full
rehabilitation programs for selected enterprises; and (c) assistance in training and
redeployment of staff laid off as part of enterprise rehabilitation programs. Fourteen
enterprises were identified for rehabilitation or liquidation: SONAFEL, La Beninoise,
AGB, ONP, SOGECOB, COBENAM, SONATRAC, SOTRACOB, TRANSBENIN,
SOBETEX, IBETEX, SCB, SONACI and CIB. Three enterprises would not benefit from
IDA assistance: (a) SCO (cement) and SSS (sugar) were excluded because of the unusual
nature of their problems (Nigeria was co-owner of both ventures and co-guarantor of their
debts); and (b) Seme oil was already receiving IDA assistance under a separate credit.
5.    An Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee (ISC) was set up to prepare and
implement the Project. Specialized task forces, reporting to the President of the ISC,
were formed to prepare and execute selected sector-wide reforms. The ISC was assisted
for day-to-day management by a Project Management Unit (PMU), headed by a Project
Coordinator. The Project Coordinator was assisted, until 1995, by a Senior Project
Advisor in managing the work of the PMU and in preparing terms of reference for the PE
rehabilitation programs.
6.    During project appraisal the Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation agreed
to support the Project by providing a grant equivalent to US$8.4 million, primarily to
finance technical assistance, rehabilitation, training and redeployment of staff laid off
related to three import/distribution enterprises, Societe Generale de Commerce du Benin
(SOGECOB), Office National de Pharmacie (ONP) and Societe d'Alimentation Gin6rale du
Benin (AGB) and other enterprises identified jointly by IDA and the Swiss and Beninese
governments. Although not originally included in the Project, the Canadian International
Development Agency extended a $500,000 grant to assist in the government's
redeployment efforts. Both grants were administered by the Bank.



3
7.    Two risks had been identified during appraisal. The first risk was that the
proposed reforms represented such a departure from Benin's past policies that the
program would encounter serious political and social resistance during project
implementation. Government commitment and concrete measures taken since 1982
provided adequate assurances in this regard. A second risk was the uncertainty of private
sector response to the Government's privatization policy. Private sector response, both
local and foreign has, so far, been positive.
C.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    The Project was appraised in 1984 and approved by the Board in 1986. No
specific performance indicators for implementation or operation were included in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). In preparing the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR), therefore, achievement of project objectives had to be evaluated in the broader
context of PE sector reforms, taking into account that the reform program was also
supported through three IDA-funded Structural Adjustment Operations. As early as
October 1993, an overview of the results carried out in connection with a mid-term
review, clearly demonstrated that, despite the many difficulties and delays during project
implementation, project objectives to downsize and rationalize the public enterprise
sector had been met and that the overall achievements of the Project were exemplary and
unparalleled in the region. A 1996 Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review of a sample
Public Enterprise Reform Operations, which included the Project, also rated its outcome
as satisfactory.
Reforms at the Sector Level
9.    At the sector level, all reforms agreed at appraisal have been completed and are
currently effective. These reforms include: (a) updating the PE institutional and legal
framework through the adoption of two laws: (i) Loi sur la Gestion sur les Entreprises
Publiques (Law on the Management of Public Enterprises); and (ii) Loi sur la
Denationalisation (Denationalization Law); (b) reduction of price controls; and (c)
clarification and reduction of PE cross-debts.
Divestiture at the Enterprise Level
10.   The results of the divestiture program have been impressive.  The public
enterprise sector has been reduced from 58 enterprises to 23. So far, 23 enterprises have
been liquidated, 12 have been privatized (with sale of assets, raising a total of CFAF 16
billion - equivalent to US $26.7 million) and 9 have been placed under lease/management
contracts. Based on limited available information, the performance of privatized
enterprises as well as of public enterprises seems to be improving. The companies which
remain in the state portfolio represent mostly public utilities, where the Government has
not yet taken a decision on how they should be addressed. (Appendix C, Tables 2 and 3).



4
11.   Significant progress has been achieved in the rehabilitation of the palm oil sector.
All the mills have been sold to private operators and, as of January 1998, 15,111 ha. had
been rehabilitated, out of the planned 15,470 ha., creating employment equivalent to
about 600,000 man-days. In addition to the rehabilitation program, 223 ha. have been
replanted in 1997 and nurseries established for the replanting of 658 ha. in 1998.
Following the rehabilitation program, oil palm production has increased by about 250
percent. Production in 1997 was over 42,755 tons of bunches compared with 31,678 tons
in 1996 and 23,574 before the rehabilitation program.
12.     Progress has also been achieved in the petroleum sector.  Imports and
distribution of petroleum have been liberalized and the Socie'tt Nationale de
Commercialisation des Produits Petroliers (SONACOP) has opened the market to 13
new operators. However, the first attempt to privatize SONACOP, was not successful
(only one response was received) and the process will be re-launched.
13.   The Government has also taken a number of actions aimed at improving the
management performance of the enterprises remaining in its portfolio, including: (a) the
administrative and financial restructuring of the Port of Cotonou (improvements in the
Port are currently being addressed by an IDA-supported Transport Sector Project); (b)
liberalization of the telecommunications sector and the completion of new performance
contracts between the Government and the telecommunications parastatal (OPT) as well
as with the water and electricity parastatal; (c) implementation of financial restructuring
measures for the social security agency (OBSS); (d) liberalization of the insurance sector,
the liquidation of SONAR, the state insurance company, and the creation of a new
company with small government participation (10 percent); (e) studies to define the
strategies for the textile sector and the two hotels (studies are in progress); and (e)
stopping the commercial activities of the maritime transport company COBENAM and
privatizing its travel agency.
Pilot Projects for Financing Micro and Small Enterprises
14.  In order to minimize the negative social impact of the Divestiture Program, the
Project originally included a re-deployment component, which aimed at providing
training to those who lost their jobs during the PE restructuring process. However,
during project implementation, the Government and IDA agreed that instead of focusing
on training and redeployment of laid-off PE staff only, the component should focus on
sustainable employment creation by providing assistance to micro and small and medium
scale enterprises, as a whole. Two pilot institutions were thus created: the Projet d'Appui
au Developpement de la Microentreprise (PADME) to finance micro-enterprises and
Projet d'Appui PME/PMI (PAPME) to finance small and medium enterprises. They
started operations during the first half of 1993 with the support of two international
NGOs: Volunteers in Technical Assistance (VITA) and Soci&t6 de D6veloppement
International Desjardins (SDID). SDID and VITA managed PAPME and PADME, until
1995 and 1996, respectively, at which time management was transferred to Beninese
nationals. The two institutions were instrumental in facilitating access to credit. While a



5
number of redundant workers benefited from the credit facilities, data is insufficient to
determine the sustainability of these new business ventures.
15.   The micro-finance operation, PADME, which is now covering its operating
expenses, has gone a long way in achieving sustainability. As of December 1997, the
cumulative number of borrowers was 5,975 and the total number of credits disbursed
amounted to over CFAF 1.7 billion (US$ 2.8 million). The repayment rate is 97 percent.
The proportion of women among the clients was 80 percent. PADME works closely with
two commercial banks, Financial Bank in Cotonou and Bank of Africa in Porto Novo,
where a new branch opened in 1996. However, the institution continues to have
operational difficulties. Despite its efforts to improve its Management Information
System (MIS), the data are still unreliable causing serious delays in the preparation of its
business plan and budget as well as in supervision. Finally, the right institutional
framework needs to be adopted to transform PADME into an independent micro-finance
institution capable of attracting private capital. It will most likely need further technical
assistance to make it a self sustainable financial institution over time.
16.   The SME pilot institution, PAPME, has also had a consistent and satisfactory
performance. It provides medium and short-term credit as well as technical assistance to
small entrepreneurs, who otherwise would not have access to financing. Long-term loans
are made in conjunction with the commercial banks Bank of Africa (BOA) and BIBE,
which are also closely involved in the processing and follow-up of files. As of June
1997, 76 projects have been approved for a total amount of over CFAF 383 million (US$
766,000), of which CFAF 322 million (US$ 644,000) have been disbursed by PAPME
itself and CFAF 61 million by the two commercial banks. PAPME's current active
portfolio represents CFAF 269 million (US$ 538,000). The repayment rate is 92 percent
and the portfolio risk remains stable at 8.4 percent. The average loan is CFAF 9.0
million. PAPME is currently covering 85 percent of its operational expenses and has
opened a branch in Parakou to reach out to rural entrepreneurs. However, PAPME still
needs to improve its supervision and follow-up capacity and to decentralize its decision-
making process. Similar to PADME, the main challenge now is its future as an
institution and how it can become self-sustainable.
17.   The Government has recently taken a decision on the legal structures for PADME
and PAPME, which assures the autonomy of management of both entities. A transitory
institutional structure has been chosen for both (non profit association), boards have been
elected and texts have been adopted, although they still need to be refined. If the
institutional framework proposed is satisfactory and if liabilities and assets are
transferred, as planned, from the Government to the two institutions, further assistance
will be included in the Private Sector Project, which is currently under preparation for
IDA financing. The objective is to transform the institutions into private finance
companies within five years.



6
D.   IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT
18.   Early project implementation was slow. When the Credit became effective in
May 1987, Benin was going through serious economic difficulties. The Beninese
financial sector, which was dominated by the Government, was near collapse and a
program of financial reforms was being negotiated with the Bank. A Government
announcement that it planned to take legislative measures to enable the Treasury to seize
private banking accounts prompted substantial flight of capital towards Togo and France
and generated a liquidity crisis in the banking system. Furthermore, existing legal
complexities relating to PEs, the government's inability to cover severance pay from
liquidations and the poor accounting system maintained by most PEs on their financial
position, blocked the closure of many liquidations. To diffuse the impending economic
crisis, the Government decided to accelerate the preparation of a reform program with the
IMF and an adjustment operation with the Bank, which would include a restructuring of
the financial sector.
19.  In 1989, project implementation progressed moderately well, despite the
extremely difficult economic environment. Between December 1989 and March 1990,
political instability and widespread strikes led to a change in Government. Although the
new government maintained a commitment to the divestiture program, the political
instability that ensued had its toll on the Project Unit which was unable to meet its
targets.
20.   The launching of the structural adjustment program in 1990 supported by a SAC,
including conditions on key public enterprises, expanded the agenda of the Project
beyond the list of enterprises which had been identified for rehabilitation during
appraisal.  The Project became the main instrument supporting the Government's
Divestiture Program, which included, inter alia, SONICOG, SCO (cement), SSS (sugar),
OBSS (social security), SONAR (Insurance), Hotel de la Plage and Croix du Sud and
SONACOP (petroleum).
21.  In October 1993, the mid-term review concluded that, while the project had
succeeded in downsizing the PE sector, it required further work in three components,
namely: (a) PE restructuring and rehabilitation; (b) training and re-deployment; and (c)
establishing a monitoring system, the Systeme d'Information de Gestion des Entreprises
Publiques (SIGEP) to monitor the performance of enterprises, which remained in the
Government portfolio. In order to finance the two pilot components to support micro-
enterprises and SMEs, a reallocation of the project funds and amendments to the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were necessary to replenish the categories which
required more financing. Slow disbursements during the early years of implementation
reflected primarily changes in country circumstances, particularly in Government's
approach to divestiture, which reduced demand for rehabilitation and emphasized
liquidation and privatization of PEs. The devaluation of the CFA Franc in January 1994
contributed significantly to the positive results of the privatization process.



7
22.   The closing date of the Credit was extended three times to provide the additional
time required to complete a number of on-going transactions. The third and final
extension was requested to enable Government to: (a) complete the rehabilitation
program of the palm oil plantations; (b) finalize several privatizations identified under
SAC III (SONAR, SONACOP and hotels La Plage and Croix du Sud); and (c) ensure the
institutionalization of the two pilot operations supporting and financing micro-enterprises
and SMEs. By the end of December 31, 1997, Hotel Croix du Sud and SONACOP were
put up for sale; the rehabilitation of the rural roads and palm-oil plantations was
completed; the decision was taken to set up an inter-ministerial committee to prepare a
strategy for the development of the textile sector; a new legal status of PAPME and
PADME was in the process of being adopted; SONAR was liquidated and replaced by a
private entity and the insurance sector was liberalized.
2.3.   However, some actions have not been completed, including an appropriate
regulatory framnework for the Post and Telecommunications sector and adoption of a
sector policy for liberalizing telecommunications and the preparation of a Government
strategy for the textile sector. These activities will be supported by the proposed PSD
operation.
24.   Project implementation lasted a total of ten years (credit effectiveness was in 1987
and final closing date on December 31, 1997), two and a half years more than initially
expected. Although this is a long period compared to current Bank standards, it can be
explained by a number of factors, including: (a) the momentous changes in the political
sphere during the life of the Project, including the 1996 presidential elections in Benin,
which stalled the divestiture program for almost one whole year; and (b) the role that the
Project was playing in helping the Government satisfy the conditions of SAC III, which
was approved in 1995.
E.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.   Overall, the results achieved under the Project can be considered sustainable. The
Project together with the three parallel Structural Adjustment Credits have had a
significant impact on the size of the Public Enterprise Sector as well as on the
institutional capacity of the Government. The state PE portfolio has been reduced to 23
enterprises; 23 other enterprises were liquidated and 12 were privatized. Government
capacity to implement public enterprise reforms is now stronger than before the Project
and, with the assistance of SIGEP, it should be able to monitor its PE portfolio more
effectively than in the past. However, the Government still has to clarify how the PMU,
which is currently monitoring the portfolio, will be incorporated into the Administration
and what will be its role and responsibilities.
26.   As far as PAPME and PADME are concerned, some concrete measures have also
been taken under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for the proposed PSD project to
ensure that the two pilot institutions continue their business after the Credit closing.



8
These include studies to evaluate their financial viability and to identify a suitable and
sustainable institutional framework.
F.  BANK PERFORMANCE
27.   Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank carried 16 supervision missions,
including three separate missions by consultants who reviewed specific components of
the Project, such as the integrated Palm Oil and the micro-enterprise and SME
components. Supervision missions regularly included representatives from the agencies
which were co-financing the Project, and simultaneously carried out reviews on the
progress of SAC conditions related to the Government's Divestiture Program. A project
mid-term review was carried out in Benin in 1993, following which a re-allocation of
funds was made to transfer funds to other critical activities which were under-funded.
The Bank displayed, overall, adequate flexibility and readiness to modify the Project
when adjustment was necessary.
28.   However, the Project did not emphasize enough the importance and need for
consensus-building with all stakeholders, as well as with the civil society, not only before
launching the reform program but also during its implementation. In retrospect, the Bank
should have been more rigorous in encouraging the Borrower to launch intensive public
information campaigns to inform the civil society of its reform program and of the social
implications that accompany the divestiture program. The Project should have allocated
some funds for that purpose.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.   The performance of the Borrower was, overall, satisfactory. Starting with project
preparation, the Borrower demonstrated a strong commitment to PE reform, which
clearly contributed to the impressive results achieved in down-sizing the PE sector.
Through the ISC and the Project Management Unit, the Government actively participated
in the preparation of the Project and, despite the country's political and economic
difficulties during early project implementation, it succeeded in making significant
advances in its divestiture program.
30.   However, while early on there were great efforts to advance the Divestiture
Program, during the latter years of project implementation, this commitment seemed to
be weakening. The 1996 Presidential elections stalled the process and the appointment of
a new project coordinator, so close to project completion, resulted in serious delays in
many on-going activities. There were often delays in making critical decisions which
slowed down the reform program. For example, delays in the implementation of the
privatization strategy for two hotels meant that the transactions could not be completed
before the closing date of the Credit.
31.  In its Project Completion Report the Borrower concluded that project results were
disappointing, mainly because the Project did not rehabilitate and restructure PEs, as



9
originally planned. This assessment, which compares project results with project
objectives at appraisal time, more than ten years earlier, is understandable. However, it
does not take into consideration the welcome changes in approaches to PE reform across
Africa during the Project life. In 1990 the Government decided to launch a structural
adjustment program, including privatization of major PEs to address a serious economic
crisis.
H.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
32.   The overall outcome of the Project is satisfactory. This assessment is based on a
comparison between the initial objectives of the Project and the actual results at project
completion. As mentioned in section C above, at the sector level, all reforms agreed at
appraisal, namely, updating the PE sector institutional and legal framework, reduction of
price controls and reduction of cross debts, have been completed and are effective. At the
enterprise level, the achievements of the Project are quite impressive, going beyond the
original goals of the Project, with a final number of public enterprises privatized or
liquidated exceeding by far the original fourteen enterprises identified in the SAR.
33.   However, a lot remains to be done to complete tasks which could not be
completed, before the closing date of the Credit, including: (a) the SONACOP
transaction; (b) the privatization of Hotels La Plage and Croix du Sud; (c) a strategy for
the textile sector; and (d) the Post and Telecommunications reform. There is particularly
a need to establish a comprehensive reform program for the telecommunications sector,
which should include: (a) a clear definition of the approach to liberalize the sector; (b) an
adequate legal and regulatory framework; (c) a clear strategy for the incumbent operator;
and (d) a separation of telecommunications and postal activities.
34.   Cofinancing. The Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation approved a grant
SwF 16.9 million to finance technical assistance, rehabilitation and training and
redeployment of staff laid off related to the import/distribution sub-sector (SOGECOB,
ONP, AGB). In 1990, because of delays in disbursements supported under the grant, an
amount equivalent of SwF 11.2 million was transferred to an IDA-supported health
project (Cr. 2031-BEN), which was under implementation. In addition to the Swiss
Cooperation, the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) contributed
$500,000 to cover the administrative expenses of a Canadian firm to set up the PAPME
pilot agency. This co-financing was not envisaged during appraisal and is thus not
included in the financing plan of the SAR.
I.    FUTURE OPERATION
35.   The Structural Adjustment program, including the devaluation of the CFA franc
in January 1994, has considerably improved the business environment in Benin. Strong
economic growth was reestablished, and overall, the performance of enterprises, which
have been privatized under the project, have considerably improved. The two financial
institutions established under the project have had a major impact on expanded the access



10
to credit for small and micro enterprises. They need further strengthening, however,
which will be undertaken with support from the Private Sector Development Project
(PSD) under preparation for IDA financing. The Interministerial Steering Committee and
Project Management Unit have demonstrated their capacity to implement a far-reaching
public enterprise reform  program.  Tools have been developed to monitor the
performance of the public enterprises remaining in the Government's portfolio.
36.   The objectives of the PSD operation are to help: (a) establish a business-friendly
environment in Benin by: (i) improving the legal and judicial system; (ii) fostering
public/private sector consultation; (iii) removing obstacles and other administrative
barriers to exports; and (b) boost supply response by providing financing and support to
SMEs and micro-enterprises and by facilitating export development and diversification.
The PSD operation, which is expected to go to the Board in FY '99, will help consolidate
some of the activities carried out under the Project, including: (a) the implementation of
SIGEP; and (b) the institutionalization of PADME and PAPME.
J.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
37.   There were four major lessons that emerged from the Project:
* Strong Government Commitment. Government commitment and participation in the
design and implementation of a PE Reform Program is a sine qua non condition to the
success of reforms. The Project benefited from such commitment during most of the
implementation period, thus contributing to the achievements of project objectives.
* Rehabilitation vs. Privatization. In 1985-1986, when the Project was being prepared,
the approach to PE reform centered around restructuring and strengthening PE
management and financial performance, while maintaining them in the State
portfolio. In retrospect, the Bank should have included privatization and private sector
participation in the project objectives instead of focusing solely on rehabilitating
viable PEs and liquidating non-viable ones. This would have avoided the perception
of the Government, raised in its completion report, that the Project did not focus
enough on rehabilitating PEs.
*  Efficient Project Implementation Agency. The Project Management Unit (PMU)
played a key role in the design and implementation of the Divestiture Program.
Throughout most of the project implementation period PMU performance has been
satisfactory, enjoying a high level of credibility, not only with PEs, but also with the
Administration. Furthermore, the close working relationship between the PMU and
the Commission Nationale de la Denationalisation, which was responsible for the
monitoring of the privatization process contributed to the satisfactory project results.
*  Social Costs of Divestiture. The inability of project funds to cover the severance pay
resulting from the liquidation of PEs was one of the major causes of delays in closing
liquidations. How these costs are to be covered is an area which should be resolved



11
during appraisal to assure that there are no obstacles blocking the process during
project implementation.
* Consensus Building among Stakeholders. The Government should have been more
rigorous in seeking the support of stakeholders and civil society before launching its
reform program. Consensus building and public information campaigns should have
been an integral part of the Project.



12
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1748-BEN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1 : Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   .  Substantial     Partial      Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomics policies                                            o              0
Sector policies                     0              0              0               O
Financial objectives                0              O               O              O
Institutional development           0                                             o O  O
Physical objectives          .                     E                              0
Poverty reduction            .                     El      0                      O
Gender concems                                     0 El
Other social objectives                                                nZ
Environmental objectives     .                                     n              0
Public sector management            0                              0               0
Private sector development          E 0                            O               O
B. Project Sustainability           Likely              Unlikely            Uncertain
*_       0                   3                    O
C. Bank Performance            Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                        0                   0                    03
Preparation assistance                0                   0                    0
Appraisal                             0                   0                     03
Supervision                           0                   0                    03
D. Borrower Performance        Hi     S               StsaoriDeficient
Preparation                           01                  0                     0D
Implementation                        0                   0                     0
Covenant compliance          .        0                   0                     0
Operation                             o                   E                    D
E. Assessment of Outcome          Highly        Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Hilhly
Satisfactory                                 Unsatisfactory
0              0              0               03



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                   Purpose                    Year of     Status
[ Approval
Preceding Operations
Industrial Development    To strengthen the financial structure of BBD    1980  Closed on
Project (Cr. 997)       (Banque Beninoise de Developpement) through            06/30/89
provision of term foreign exchange resources to
finance SMEs and to improve Benin's capacity to
identify, promote and assist SMEs.
(PCR No. 8837 dated 6/90)
First Structural Adjustment To support the improvement of PE legal and    1989  Closed on
(Cr. 2023)              institutional framework, revision of incentive         12/31/90
policies, rehabilitation of individual enterprises,
and introduction of other measures to rationalize
and improve the efficiency of the PE sector.
(PCR No. 10844 dated 6/30/92 and PPAR No.
12105 dated 6/29/93)
Second Structural       To  complement IMF-supported  stabilization    1991   Closed on
Adjustment (Cr. 2283)   measures, with structural reforms in: (a) public       12/31/94
sector management; (b) banking sector reforms;
(c) public enterprise reforms; (d) energy; (e)
agriculture and rural development; and (f) private
sector promotion.
(PCR No. 15061 dated 11/21/95)
Third Structural        To strengthen the supply response to the    1995    Closing Date
Adjustment (Cr. 2727)   devaluation of the CFAF and consolidate reforms        6/30/98
initiated under SAL I and II. In addition to
improving management of public resources,
expenditures and investment, SAC III aimed at
supporting  incentives  for  private  sector
development, including continuation of the PE
divestiture Program.
Future Operations       A Technical Assistance Project, this operation   Under   Expected to
Private Sector          will focus on the following three areas: (a) preparation be presented
Development Project     strengthening the judiciary; (b) export promotion;   to the Board
(BJ-PA-39882)           and (c) strengthening the SME and Micro-               in FY99
enterprise agencies, PADME and PAPME.



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned             Date actual
Identification                                                  June 1982
Appraisal                                                       August 1983
Post-Appraisal                                                  April 1984
Negotiations                               February 1985        July 1985
Policy Statement                                                August 1985
Board presentation                          March 1985          December 16, 1986
Signing                                                         January 9, 1987
Effectiveness                               April 9, 1987       May 14, 1987
Project completion                       December 31, 1994      December 31, 1997
Credit closing                            6/30/95-6/30/96-  .   December 31,1997
6/30/97
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual *
US$ million   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
Appraisal      1.5    3.6    5.9    8.2   10.4   12.2   13.5   14.4   15.0
estimate
Actual        0.77   1.40   2.17   2.45   2.70   2.95   3.74   5.34   6.50   8.41   10.88  11.60
Actual as %    51%    39%    37%    30%    26%    24%    28%    37%    43%
of estimate
Date of final disbursement: February 26, 1998
* The amounts differ from the original amounts of the Credit in terms of US$ due to changes
in the SDR/US$ exchange rates.
Tables 5 : Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
The Project did not include specific performance indicators for implementation and operation.



15
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Study                 Purpose           Status           Impact
1. Development and      To establish a          Ongoing    provides up-to-date
implementation of an    monitoring system on    (updated   data;
Management Information  the performance of the   every      allows for better
System (MIS) for Public   PE portfolio           year)    management of the
Enterprises                                                portfolio
2. Feasibility study of  To prepare a diagnosis   Completed  The liquidation of
sub-regional services for   of the financial position      SONATRAC and
the maritime transport;    of these enterprises            SOTRACOB
Sub-sector studies on:
SONATRAC, SOTRA-
COB and COBENAM
3. Operational and     I To review the insurance  Completed I The liberalization of the
financial audit of SONAR   sector and set up a             insurance sector and the
(insurance company)     regulatory framework               l liquidation of SONAR
for private insurance
companies
4. Technical evaluation    To prepare a        Completed I The rehabilitation of
of CRCAM/CLCAM          rehabilitation strategy            CRCAM/CLCAM and
for CRCAM/CLCAM                   creation of FECECAM
as a private institution
5. Audit of the brewery    To prepare a        Completed  The privatization of La
La Beninoise            privatization strategy             Beninoise
6. Diagnostic study of the  To review the     I Completed  Recommendations were
cement sector           enterprises in the                 implemented
cement sector
7. Fruits & vegetable   To review the viability  . Completed  Liquidation of
processing - SONAFEL    of the Company                     SONAFEL
8. Economic and        ITo prepare a          ICompleted  No operational decision
Financial evaluation of   . privatization strategy         has been taken because
SSS                                                        of the bi-national
character of the
enterprise
9. Study/evaluation of    To prepare a         Completed  A rehabilitation
OBSS                    rehabilitation program             program has been
carried out



16
Study                 Purpose            Status           Impact
11. Audit and           To prepare a           Completed  Better management and
restructuring program of   restructuring plan              reduction of operating
PPS                                          .           . costs
12. Study to analyze the   To (a) prepare a matrix   Completed  Availability of data on
indebtedness of public  of cross debts of PE s;            the debt of PEs
enterprises.            (b) make
recommendation for
compensation of cross-
debts; (c) make
recommendation for
new credit/payment
procedures to improve
financial discipline of
the sector
13. Study of the        To assess the              In      Will help prepare the
macroeconomic impact of  importance of the PE   . progress  I second generation of
the PE sector reforms.  sector in the economy,            I PE reforms
, and its efficacy
14. Study of the Textile    To identify a strategy  Completed  Will help the
Sector                  for the textile sector             Government in the
preparation of a
strategy for the sector
15. Study on Import and   To study the         Completed  Liquidation of the three
Distribution - AGB, ONP   distribution sector              enterprises
and SOGECOB
16. Study on SONICOG    To prepare a           Completed  Became basis for the
rehabilitation program            rehabilitation of the
company



17
Table 7-A : Project Costs
(US$ million)
Category                       Planned                       Actual
1. Goods and Services                        8.6                          6.0
2. Operating Costs
a) other than salary allowances            .6                           1.0
b) salary allowances                       .1                            .1
3. Consultants' Services                     1.2                           4.3
4. Expenditures                              2.0                           4.7
5. Refunding PPFs                            1.5                           1.0
6. Unallocated                               1.0                           0.0
7. Special Account                                                          .4
Total Project cost                  15.0                          17.5
Table 7-B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Financing Plan                     Appraisal estimate                 Actual
Local      Foreign        Total             Total
IDA                                 5.40        9.60          15.00             17.5
Government                          8.10                       8.10             - 1/
Swiss                               2.50         5.90          8.40              3.2
CIDA 2/                                                                          .4
Total                  16.00       15 50         31.50             21.1
1/ Information not provided by the Government
2/ Not planned at the time of appraisal
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic analysis was carried out during project prepaation



18
Table 9 : Status of Legal Covenants
Credit    Covenant  Present 1
Agreement    Type    Status*             Description of Covenant               Comments
Section  1
3.0.1 (a)   Project     C      The Borrower declares its commitment to      No comments
execu-             the objectives of the Project as set forth in
tion               Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial,
planning and managerial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services  and  other resources
required for the Project.
3.01. (b)               C      The Borrower shall maintain its PMU with     No comments
responsibilities for overall coordination and
management of the  Project and  with
qualified and experienced staff, including
inter alios a Project coordinator at its head,
assisted by specialized consultants, one of
them acting as senior adviser, and the
following     Beninese     staff:    an
engineer/economist, a financial analyst, a
lawyer, an accountant and a disbursement
officer.
3.02. (a)    Procure-    CD    The  Borrower  undertakes,  unless  the      No comments
ment             Association  shall otherwise  agree, any
Rehabilitation Financing will be made on
terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by
written contract with the Beneficiary
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Borrower, the Association
and Switzerland including, inter alia in
respect of a Rehabilitation Financing, the
right to:
(i) require the Beneficiary Enterprise to
carry out the Rehabilitation Program
with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance   with  sound  technical,
financial and managerial standards and
to maintain adequate records;



19
Credit    Covenant  Present
Agreement    Type       Status*           Description of Covenant              Comments
Section
3.02. (a)    Procure-    CD     (ii) require that: (A) procurement of the   No comments
(Cont.)     ment                  goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement; and (B) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Rehabilitation
Program;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly  with   No comments
representatives of the Association and
Switzerland, if the Association and
Switzerland so request, such goods and
the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Rehabilitation Program,
the execution thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
(iv) require that: (A) the  Beneficiary
Enterprise shall take out and maintain
with   responsible  insurers   such
insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with
sound business practice; and (B) without
any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover hazards incident to
the  acquisition,  transportation  and
delivery of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to
be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Beneficiary Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the
Borrower  or  the  Association  or
Switzerland  shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial
condition of the Beneficiary Enterprise
and to the benefits to be derived from
the Rehabilitation Program; and
(vi) suspend or terninate the right of the
Beneficiary Enterprise to the use of the
proceeds of the Credit or the Swiss
Contribution upon failure by such
Beneficiary Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with the
Borrower.



20
Credit    Covenant  Present
Agreement    Type    Status*           Description of Covenant             Comments
Section
3.02. (b)              CD    The Borrower shall exercise its rights in   No comments
relation to each Rehabilitation Program in
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Association and
Switzerland; (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
3.03     Project     CD    Except as the Association and Switzerland   No comments
execu-             shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
tion.            goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
Swiss Contribution shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
3.04. (a)    Moni-     CD    The Borrower shall:                         No comments
toring
beginning March 31, 1987 or such other
date as the Association may agree, and
thereafter at six months' intervals, in
consultation with the Association, evaluate
the progress made with the reforms of the
Borrower's  public  and   parapublic
enterprise sector, the Action Program and
the   Rehabilitation   Programs   under
execution as well as those under
preparation; and
3.04. (b)                     on the basis of the said evaluation,       No conmments
promptly thereafter, take all necessary
measures satisfactory to the Association.
4.01. (a)    Acc. &    CD    The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be  No comments
Audit.            maintained separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.                          l
4.01. (b)    Acc. &    CD    The Borrower shall:                         No comments
Audit.            (i) have the accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including
the Special Account A , the Special
Account B and the Subsidiary Account,
for each  fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;



21
Credit    Covenant  Present
Agreement    Type       Status*          Description of Covenant               Comments
Section
4.01. (b)    Acc. &     CD      (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as  No comments
(cont.)     Audit.                available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such
scope  and  in  such  detail as the
Association  shall  have  reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other
information conceming said accounts
and the audit thereof and said records
as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
4.01. (c)   Acc. &       C      For all expenditures with respect to which   No comments
Audit.             withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account and the Swiss Contribution
Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account
and the Swiss Contribution Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents)      evidencing     such
expenditures;
(iii)  enable  the  Association's  repre-
sentatives to examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
the report thereof contains, in respect of
such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit and
the Swiss Contribution withdrawn in
respect of such expenditures have been
used for the purpose for which they
were provided.



22
Credit    Covenant  Present
Agreement    Type       Status*          Description of Covenant               Comments
Section
4.02. (a)    Acc. &     CD      The Borrower shall cause each of the         No comments
Audit.             Beneficiary Enterprises to maintain records
and  accounts  adequate  to  reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
4.02. (b)   Acc. &      CD    The Borrower shall cause each of the           No comments
Audit.             Beneficiary Enterprises to:
(i)   have  its accounts and  financial
statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles  consistently  applied,  by
independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such
year: (A)  certified  copies  of the
financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the reports of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning its accounts,
financial statements and the  audit
thereof and  said  records  as  the
Association shall from  time to time
reasonably request.
*  Present status:     C  =   complied with
CD =   complied with after delay
CP =   complied with partially
NC =   not complied with



23
Table 10  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual                               Actual
Staff Weeks                          US $ (000)
Through appraisal                                        172                                 340
Appraisal 4  Board                                      109                                  244
Supervision through completion                          262                                 837
Total                                                  543                                1,241
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Missions
Performance  Rating
Stage of     Month I   Number   Days    Specialized Staff                                      Types of Problems
Project Cycle    Year        of       in    Skills Represented  Implementati   Development
Persons   Field                        on Status       Impact
Appraisal to     1114        1       16       Financ. Econ.         na             na        Mission objectives were
Board                                                                                         basically to review
(Benin 1748)                                                                                  progress in project
06/85        2        9       Financ. Econ,                                  preparation and
Lawyer                                     implementation of sector
reforms.
11/85       5        17       Financ. Econ.
Lawyer
Economist
Consultant
Board to       02/1987       3        12    Operations Officer,      na             na        Review status of
Effectiveness                                Lawyer,                                          effectiveness conditions
Consultant
na - not applicable
Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590: ratings are S (satisfactory) or from I (highest) to 4
(lowest).



24
Table 11  Bank Resources: Staff Missions (contd.)
l  _    _    _    Performance  Rating2                             l
|Stage of    Month l Nurnber  Days   Speciaized Staff         .Types of Problems l
Project Cycle    Year     of      in   Skills Represented  Implementati  Development
Stage of    Mo         m r      ay      peiaiedSf__Persons   Field  on Status  Impacteo         m
P                             Supervision                  o
I       04/1988       1       5    Financial spec.       2             1        Overall
implementation review
II      10/1988       1             Financial spec.       I            I        Implementation
review
III      11/1989      1             Financial Spec.       2             1       Implementation
review
IV      07/1990       1       12   Public Sector          2             1       Implementation
Specialist                                  review
V       11/1990       1       7    Public Sector          2            1        Implementation
Specialist                                  review
VI       10/1991      3        7    Public Sector         2             2       Implementation
Specialist,                                review
Financial Spec.
VIl      06/1992       2      21    Public Sector          2            1        Implementation
Specialist                                  review
Vill     08/1992       1       10   Consultant            na            na       Provide assistance in
the design of the
training/redeployment
program
IX       11/1992      1       1 6    Public Sector        1             I       Implementation
Specialist                                  review
X       02/1994       2       15    Public Sector         2             I
Specialist,                                Implementation
Consultant                                  review
Xi      05/1995       5       11   Public Sector          S             S       Implementation
Specialist,                                review
Telecom. Spec.,
Private Sector
Spec.,
Consultant
2  Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590: ratings are S (satisfactory) or from I (highest) to 4
(lowest).



25
Table 11 : Bank Resources: Staff Missions (contd.)
3
Performance  Rating
Month /   Number  Days   Specialized Staff                                Types of Problems
Stage of     Year       of       in    Skills Represented  Implementati  Developmentl
Project Cycle           Persons   Field                     on Status     Impact
XII      02/1996       1       9    Consultant             na           na        Implementation
review of the Project's
SME and
microenterprise
components
XIII     06/1996       4       12    Public Sector          S            S        Implementation
Specialist,                                 review
Consultant,
Tree Crop
Specialist,
Petroleum
Specialist
XIV       10/1996      2        8    Public Sector          S            S        Participate in a
Specialist,                                 Telecom. seminar and
Telecom. Spec.                              review status of
selected components
XV       04/1997       1       10   Tree Crop              S             S        Review
Specialist                                  implementation of the
Rural Cooperatives oil
palm plantation rehab.
program
3       15   Economist, Fin.        S             S       Implementation
XVI       10/1997                    Analyst, Tree                                review
Crop Specialist                                                   l
Completion    11/1997      1       6      Financial Spec.      S             S        ICR preparation
3   Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590: ratings are S (satisfactory) or from I (highest) to 4
(lowest).



26
APPENDICES



27
Appendix A
ICR Mission's Aide-M6moire
PROJET D'ASSISTANCE AUX ENTREPRISES PUBLIQUES
MISSION DE SUPERVISION DE L'IDA
Cotonou, du 3 au 18 octobre 1997
38.   Une mission de la Banque mondiale composee de Madame Marie-Francoise
Marie-Nelly (specialiste en matiere d'entreprises publiques et de privatisation), Laurence
Rouget-le Clech (specialiste du developpement du secteur prive), Claude Carlier
(specialiste des cultures perennes) et de Monsieur Christian Loupeda (charge
d'operations) a effectue la supervision du projet d'assistance aux entreprises publiques
(PAE) du 3 au 18 octobre 1997. La mission a beneficie tout au long de son sejour du
soutien de Monsieur Michael Azefor, Representant Resident.
39.   La mission avait pour objectifs de: (a) evaluer les progres realises dans la conduite
du programme de restructuration et de desengagement de l'Etat de certaines entreprises
publiques, (b) faire le point sur l'Ftat des travaux sur la transformation des deux
operations pilotes PAPME/PADME et (c) preparer les travaux de cl6ture du projet.
40.   La mission a e revue par Leurs Excellences, Messieurs Moise Mensah, Ministre
des Finances, Albert Tevoedjre, Ministre du Plan, de la Restructuration Economique et de
la Promotion de l'Emploi, Felix Adimi, Ministre de l'Industrie et des Petites et Moyennes
Entreprises et Thimothee Zannou, Ministre de la Culture et des Communications. La
mission a ete recue egalement par le Representant de la Cooperation Suisse au Benin et le
Directeur de la Caisse Francaise de Developpement. La mission a eu des seances de
travail avec les responsables du PAE, de la Direction de l'OBSS, le Comite de Pilotage
du programme de rehabilitation de la filiere palmier a huile ainsi que le Comite de suivi
de l'etude sur la filiere textile. La mission remercie les autorites beninoises pour la qualite
de l'accueil qui lui a et reserve et pour leur disponibilite.
I.    CONCLUSIONS
41.   Evaluation globale. Le PAE arrive a son terme le 31 decembre 1997. Un certain
nombre d'actions programmees ne pourront arriver a leur terme comme prevu,
notamment la mise en oeuvre d'une strategie de relance de la filiere textile et de la
reforme des postes et telecommunications. A fin septembre 1997, le total des
decaissements s'eleve a 11,3 millions de DTS (cf. annexe 1). Le reliquat, soit 1,5 million
de DTS devrait pouvoir etre decaisse dans les delais compte tenu de l'etat d'avancement
des actions en cours.



28
42.   Suivi du portefeuille residuel de I'Etat. Le portefeuille residuel comprend
environ 24 entreprises intervenant principalement dans les secteurs des services publics
marchands et des transports. Il est important que l'Etat decide: (a) de la fa,on dont se
fera le suivi du portefeuille apres la cl6ture du PAE, (b) du devenir de la structure de
gestion du projet et (c) de l'evolution dudit portefeuille.
6.    Preparation du rapport d'achevement. Un rapport d'achevement devra etre
finalise dans les trois mois suivant la cl8ture du projet. Le Gouvemement doit preparer
une evaluation des performances et de l'impact du projet et un plan d'actions permettant
d'assurer la perennite des refornes et actions entreprises dans le cadre du projet. La
mission remettra au PAE un modele de plan d'actions pour un projet similaire. La
mission a constate avec satisfaction que le PAE avait dejA prepare un rapport d'execution
du projet. Toutefois, ce rapport est plutot un resume des actions entreprises qu'une
veritable evaluation du proj et.
7.    La Banque procedera egalement A une evaluation de l'impact du projet. A cet
egard, Madame Eleftheria Williams qui sera chargee de la preparation de cette evaluation
se rendra A Cotonou pour une semaine aux alentours du 16 novembre 1997, pour un
premier contact avec les autorites A ce sujet. La mission du rapport de fin de projet aura
lieu au debut de l'annee 1998.
I.   ETAT D'AVANCEMENT DES ACTIONS EN COURS A FINALISER D'ICI LE 31
DECEMBRE 1997
2.1    Restructuration des Entreprises Publiques
8.    SONICOG.  La mission a note avec satisfaction que la restructuration de la
filiere corps gras s'est deroulee de fa,on satisfaisante avec la privatisation integrale des
unites industrielles au profit de trois entreprises privees et la poursuite du programme de
r6habilitation des plantations qui devrait s'achever d'ici la fin de l'annee 1997. Cette
reforme permettra de relancer F'activite dans les regions concernees tant au niveau
agricole qu'industriel. L'etat d'execution de cette reforme est detaill6 a l'annexe 2.
Toutefois, un certain nombre de points en suspens sont A souligner:
(a) Paiement des arrieres aux CAR. I1 reste A payer aux CAR environ un milliard
de FCFA, au titre des livraisons de regimes faites A la SONICOG au titre des
deux dernires campagnes ainsi que du manque A gagner provenant des
interruptions prolongees des usines d'Agonvy et de Hinvi pendant la periode de
pointe (300 millions de FCFA).
(b) Plan social. Les employ6s de la SONICOG qui ont tous ete repris par les
nouvelles structures reclament le paiement de droits de licenciement comme
s'ils avaient perdu leur emploi. La mission comprend le souci du gouvernement
de preserver la paix sociale mais s'interroge sur la justification du paiement
d'une telle somme. En revanche, il est important d'apurer les dettes de la



29
SONICOG envers l'OBSS. La mission a ete informee que le liquidateur est en
cours de nomination et sera en mesure de traiter cette question rapidement.
(c) Transfert des batiments occupes par les CAR. Lors de visites sur les sites,
la mission a 6te informee que les batiments oui se trouvent les bureaux
administratifs des CAR auraient e  cedes aux usiniers et les CAR revendiquent
la propriete de ces structures. La mission recommande que la Commission
technique de Denationalisaiton soit saisie pour examiner de pres cette question.
9.    Par ailleurs, la mission recommande que le Comite de Pilotage soit maintenu pour
une periode d'une annee et que sa composition soit legerement revue pour y ajouter les
representants des usiniers. Le Comite aurait pour mandat de suivre la mise en place
effective de l'exploitation dans un environnement entierement prive.
10.   OBSS. La mission a ete informee que les applications Gestion des carrieres,
Gestion du Recouvrement, Paye, Gestion immobiliere et Comptabilite generale sont
maintenant operationnelles. Les autres applications ne peuvent pas encore etre rendues
operationnelles du fait du retard observe dans la saisie des donnees de l'entreprise.
L'OBSS espere rattraper ce retard d'ici la fin du mois de novembre 1997. La reception
definitive des logiciels a demarre et devrait se poursuivrejusqu'au 26 octobre 1997.
11.   Afin que l'informatisation de l'Office se traduise par une veritable arnelioration
de la gestion de l'Office, la Banque avait recommande l'annee derniere qu'une etude soit
faite pour evaluer l'incidence de l'informatisation sur la gestion et pour que l'organisation
soit revue en consequence. La mission constate que ce chantier accuse beaucoup de
retard. L'OBSS a voulu adopter une demarche interne qui ne semble pas avoir donne des
resultats satisfaisants. Le rapport inteme n'est toujours pas acheve alors que l'on
s'achemine vers une mise en exploitation en temps reel de l'ensemble du systeme.
L'OBSS a exprime le besoin de beneficier d'une assistance technique exterieure dans ce
domaine, la mission recommande donc de faire appel a un consultant specialise pour
aider l'Office dans cette demarche. Toutefois, compte tenu de la date proche de la cl6ture
du projet, il ne sera pas possible de financer cette intervention dans le cadre du PAE.
12.   Reforme des Postes et Telecommunications. La mission constate que la reforme
des Postes et Telecommunications a toujours du mal a se mettre en place. Lors de son
passage a Cotonou le 9 septembre 1997, la Banque avait e  infornmee que le Comite de
pilotage etait sur le point d'&re cree et que le decret avait ete signe. Malheureusement,
ceci n'est toujours pas le cas et la mission a ete informee qu'il ne restait que la signature
du Chef de 1'Etat. Par ailleurs, la mission a e  informee que le Gouvernement a adopte
un d6cret pour ouvrir le secteur de la telephonie cellulaire a la concurrence. La mission
voudrait souligner ici la necessite d'adopter plut6t une approche globale coherente
permettant de: (a) definir une vision strategique du secteur ainsi que son evolution sur la
base d'une reflexion sectorielle, (b) mettre en place le cadre legal et reglementaire en vue
de la necessaire ouverture du secteur a la concurrence, (c) definir une strategie specifique
pour l'operateur OPT (separation des postes et telecommunications, plan de



30
developpement a moyen terme, etc..) et (d) proceder a l'ouverture du secteur a la
concurrence. Le Gouvernement a demande une assistance technique pour l'aider a
elaborer une Note de Strategie Sectorielle consignant les elements ci-dessus mentionnes.
13.   La Banque enverra une mission exploratoire a partir du 11 novembre 1997 pour
apprecier la pertinence de l'elargissement du projet d'appui au secteur prive pour y
inserer une composante destinee a soutenir la reforme des postes et telecommunications.
2.2    Actions de disengagement de l'Etat
14.   Hotels de la Plage et Croix du Sud. La Banque avait recommande de proceder
au lancement de l'appel d'offres en passant par une phase de pre-qualification afin
d'identifier les candidats susceptibles d'etre interesses a la reprise et de mieux definir le
contenu de l'appel d'offres. La mission constate que cette demarche n'est toujours pas
lancee et s'interroge sur la capacite du PAE a lancer cette activite avant la fin de l'annee.
15.   S'agissant de l'h6tel de la Plage, selon certaines autorites, l'Etat serait bien
proprietaire du batiment et aucun obstacle ne s'oppose donc a la vente. La mission
recommande que la situation soit definitivement clarifiee avant tout lancement d'appel
d'offres.
16.   SONACOP. La mission a eu une seance de travail avec le consultant charge de
preparer la vente du bloc d'actions representant 55% du capital a un operateur
strategique. Selon le planning revis6, ces actions pourraient etre mises sur le march6, dans
le meilleur des cas, d'ici la fin du mois de novembre 1997. En consequence, la transaction
ne pourra etre cl6turee avant la fin du Ier trimestre 1998.
17.   Filiere textile. La mission a eu une session de travail avec le groupe de suivi de
l'etude sur la relance de la filiere. Les conclusions des reflexions a ce stade sont les
suivantes:
(a) II existe un marche regional reel pour les produits offerts par SITEX et
COTEB (la demande non satisfaite est importante, environ 30 millions de
metres de cretonne par an);
(b) Ces deux entreprises qui constituent deux outils industriels avec un potentiel
reel peuvent faire l'objet d'une amelioration sensible de productivite (matiere,
main d'oeuvre et energie);
(c) II existe un certain nombre de contraintes portant notamment sur la fiscalite et
les cofits des facteurs (cout de l'energie);
(d) Le Benin pourrait devenir un p6le de production dans la sous-region.
18.   En consequence, il est recommande qu'a l'instar de la filiere corps gras, il soit mis
en place un comite de pilotage qui aurait pour mandat de proposer une strategie de



31
relance de cette industrie avec des modalites operationnelles de mise en oeuvre. Cette
strategie pourrait etre articulee autour de deux axes: (a) le developpement des
opportunites pour l'investissement dans le secteur en tenant compte notamment de
l'ouverture du marche regional et (b) la strategie de relance des unites industrielles de
l'Etat par une ouverture du capital A des partenaires techniques. Le comite pourrait
comprendre des representants de ministeres de l'industrie, du plan, des representants de la
SONAPRA, des unites de transformation et des operateurs prives en voie d'installation
dans ce secteur.
19.   SONAR. La mission du 9 septembre 1997 avait dejaA et informee des diligences
accomplies dans ce secteur. Compte tenu des engagements pris par le Gouvemement dans
le cadre du PASIII, il nous parait essentiel que les operateurs prives soient officiellement
informes que le secteur est bien liberalise au Benin.
20.   SSS et SCO. La mission a ete informee que des repreneurs auraient manifeste un
interet pour la reprise de ces unites dans le cadre du nouveau schema accepte par le
Gouvemement nigerian A savoir la gerance libre. La mission a suggere que le
Gouvemement se fasse assister par un consultant pour organiser la consultation et d6finir
les criteres de choix des repreneurs. La Banque serait disposee A financer cette assistance
dans le cadre du projet si elle peut etre mise en oeuvre avant la fin de l'annee 1997.
2.3   Evolution des deux operations pilotes PAPME-PADME
21.   PAPME. Le projet pilote poursuit sa croissance conformement aux previsions et a
depasse les objectifs qui lui etaient assignes pour le premier semestre 1997. Avec 139
entreprises financ6es pour un encours de 484 millions de FCFA, il couvre 75% de ses
charges d'exploitation hors assistance technique et charges financieres. Le taux de risque
du portefeuille est stabilise A 8% de l'encours et le taux de remboursement A l'echeance
varie selon les mois de 92% A 95%. Pour le deuxieme trimestre 1997, l'objectif est
d'atteindre un encours de 603 millions de FCFA et de compter 42 nouvelles entreprises
en portefeuille. Il est prevu que les charges d' exploitation soient couvertes A hauteur de
79,5 %. Le taux de remboursement moyen devrait se maintenir A 92%. Le rythme de
production devrait se situer aux environs de 40 millions de FCFA par mois pour 7
dossiers en moyenne. Le plan d'actions pour le demier trimestre 1997 figure A l'annexe 3.
22.    Le recent cours-concours entreprenariat a connu un grand succes puisque pres de
500 jeunes entrepreneurs ont pu beneficier de formation. La moitie des participants a
depose un plan d'affaires pour la creation d'activite et 50 dossiers ont ete selectionnes
pour b6n6ficier de prix dont le montant cumulI est de 200 millions de FCFA. Les besoins
complementaires de financement attendu par les laureats pour la mise en place de leur
activite sont evalues A 600 millions de FCFA.
23.   Le plan de developpement du PAPME prevoyait l'installation de deux antennes A
Porto Novo et A Calavi. Ces antennes seront mises en place tres prochainement. Elles
seront anim6es par des assistants de suivi, nouvellement recrut6s qui travailleront sous la



32
supervision des deux charges de projets. Par ailleurs, l'experience se poursuit de maniere
satisfaisante avec l'assistant en gestion recrute il y six mois afin de fournir un service
comptable adapte aux souhaits des entrepreneurs. Actuellement le service, qui est propose
aux clients entrepreneurs sur une base payante, permet de couvrir 75% des charges
occasionnees.
24.   Le PAPME a realise une etude de faisabilite pour l'implantation d'une agence A
Parakou. La mission recommande que cette etude soit affinee. En effet, en s'implantant A
l'interieur du pays, le PAPME souhaite financer plus particulierement les industries agro-
alimentaires. Ceci necessitera le renforcement des competences intemes au projet en
matiere d'analyse technique dans le domaine agricole. Une analyse des differents
partenaires techniques evoluant dans la region de Parakou est indispensable pour d6finir
le mode de collaboration ainsi que le profil des postes A pourvoir. Par ailleurs, un
important effort d'information et de sensibilisation est necessaire aupres des
entrepreneurs locaux avant le demarrage des financements.
25.   Deux elements sp6cifiques sont A mentionner:
(a) Le PAPME devra se doter prochainement d'un manuel de procedures adapt6
et complet. La mission recommande que des termes de reference soient
6labor6s de maniere A permettre le lancement des travaux necessaires avant le
31 decembre 1997.
(b) Le travail confie au cabinet FICADEX pour l'installation de la comptabilite
en partie double s'est acheve dans de bonnes conditions. Toutefois, les etats
financiers de 1995 et 1996 devront etre retraites en fonction de l'activite
financiere specifique du PAPME, lequel s'apparente plus A un etablissement
financier. Ce travail devra etre mene avant la fin du mois de decembre 1997.
Les comptes devront dorenavant etre presentes selon le plan comptable
bancaire.
26.   PADME. Le projet pilote poursuit sa croissance conformement aux previsions.
S'il a d6passe les objectifs qui lui etaient assignes pour le premier semestre 1997 en terme
de nombre de clients (3775 dont 941 a Porto Novo), le montant des prets octroyes est
inferieur aux previsions. En effet le montant unitaire moyen des premiers prets accordes
aux clients est de 360 000 FCFA A Cotonou et 250 000 FCFA A Porto Novo (contre
respectivement 475 000 FCFA et 350 000 FCFA prevus). De la meme maniere, le
montant unitaire moyen des deuxiemes ou troisiemes prets est de 600 000 FCFA pour
Cotonou et 400 000 FCFA pour Porto-Novo (contre respectivement 700 000 FCFA et
600 000 FCFA prevus). Avec un encours de pres d'un milliard de FCFA (dont 167
millions pour Porto-Novo), il couvre ses couts d'exploitation (hors charges financieres et
assistance technique) A Porto-Novo comme A Cotonou. Le taux de risque du portefeuille
demeure stable alors que le taux de remboursement A l'echeance est estime A 94 %; il est
en baisse et doit etre maitris6. Ces taux ne sont toujours pas connus avec precision
compte tenu des difficultes informatiques persistantes.



33
27.   Pour le deuxieme semestre 1997, l'objectif est d'atteindre un encours de 1,1
milliard de FCFA (dont 289 millions de FCFA pour Porto Novo) et de compter 4500
clients en portefeuille (dont 1346 pour Porto Novo). Il est prevu que les charges
d'exploitation (hors charges financieres et assistance technique) soient couvertes A
hauteur de 100%. Le taux de remboursement attendu est de 96 %, ce qui suppose un
effort suppl6mentaire de la part des agents pour contr6ler le portefeuille. Le rythme de
production devrait se situer aux environs de 150 millions de FCFA par mois (dont 60
millions A Porto Novo) pour 350 dossiers (dont 130 A Porto Novo). Le plan d'actions
pour le dernier trimestre 1997 figure en annexe 4.
28.    Les difficultes informatiques rencontrees par le PADME pour la gestion de son
portefeuille sont en voie de resolution. Les retards dans la saisie des donnees
informatiques sont desormais totalement resorbes. Des difficultes demeurent dues A la
mauvaise conception du logiciel. L'informaticien recrute au PADME depuis 8 mois a
dejA realise certaines ameliorations. Au cours du dernier trimestre 1997, il est prevu de
faire intervenir un cabinet international qui sera charge, d'une part, de dresser la liste des
am6nagements A apporter de maniere urgente (avant fin decembre 1997) au logiciel actuel
et d'autre part, de rediger, en fonction des etats de sortie utilisateur prepares par le
personnel du PADME, le cahier des charges d'un nouveau logiciel. Apres cette premiere
phase, le cabinet devrait apporter une assistance A la maitrise d'ouvrage au PADME pour
l'aider A choisir la solution la plus adaptee A ces besoins.
29.   Le projet devrait demenager dans les deux prochains mois compte tenu du
developpement regulier de sa clientele et de son activite. Par ailleurs, suite A
l'implantation test d'un bureau de quartier, le processus devrait se generaliser avec
l'implantation de bureaux dans 5 autres zones de Cotonou. Enfin, le PADME pourrait
etre amene A accelerer le processsus d'extension geographique en s'installant A Parakou
au cours du deuxieme semestre 1998. Une etude de faisabilite detaillee sera conduite dans
les prochains mois. Elle aura pour objectif de definir clairement les produits et les
modalites de services a offrir dans cette ville, par ailleurs une attention particuliere sera
apportee au systeme d'information A mettre en place pour assurer une bonne transmission
des donnees.
30.   La deuxieme mission de Directeur de I'ACEP-Senegal visant A ameliorer le
manuel de procedures apres 6 mois d'utilisation aura lieu dans le courant du mois de
novembre 1997. Parallelement les echanges se poursuivent avec cette institution qui a
accueilli au cours du mois de juillet 1997, deux cadres du PADME (le responsable du
credit et l'auditeur interne) pendant une semaine afin de leur permettre de decouvrir le
fonctionnement interne d'ACEP A Dakar. Sur ce point, la mission recommande que les
rapports de mission soient rendus plus operationnels, notamment en ce qui conceme
I'analyse de la cellule juridique qui pourrait etre prochainement implantee au PADME.
31.   Institutionalisation. Le processus d'institutionnalisation se poursuit. Le rapport
de la consultante juridique a integre les remarques que la Banque mondiale avait fait



34
parvenir sur le rapport provisoire au mois de juillet 1997. Le projet de convention-cadre
sera remis par la consultante avant le 22 octobre 1997. La mission fera parvenir ses
commentaires sur l'ensemble des documents avant le 27 octobre 1997.
32.   Les deux banques commerciales qui ont jusqu'A present travaille en collaboration
etroite avec les projets, la BOA et la Financial Bank, ont manifeste un interet certain a
participer aux Assemblees Generales et A s'impliquer dans le processus
d'institutionnalisation. Cet element positif pernettra d'assurer la presence de partenaires
techniques et financiers au sein meme des organes de gestion des deux associations et
sera un gage de serieux et de professionnalisme pour chacune des structures, leur
permettant d'envisager une evolution rapide vers un statut plus adapte A leur type
d'activite.
33.   Enfin, les negociations sont en cours avec la BOAD pour l'obtention de deux
lignes de credit de 300 millions de FCFA pour chacun des deux projets dans le cadre du
fonds PUFFS. Les rapports positifs des deux consultants locaux de la BOAD permettent
d'envisager un d6blocage de ces lignes des la realisation de la transformation
institutionnelle. Par ailleurs la BOAD envisagerait une participation active A l'Assembl6e
Generale des deux Associations. La mission recommande que le PAE ainsi que la CAT
saisissent officiellement la BOAD dans les plus brefs delais et lui communiquent
l'ensemble des decisions prises par le Conseil des Ministres sur l'institutionnalisation.
III.  PROCHAINE ETAPES
34.   Comme indique prec6demment, le Gouvemement devra:
(a) prendre un decision sur l'evolution du portefeuille de l'Etat et son suivi
apres la cloture du PAE;
(a) mettre en place une equipe chargee de mettre en oeuvre les travaux de
preparation du rapport d'achevement du projet;
(a) mettre en place le comite de pilotage de la reforme des postes et
telecommunications.
35.    Les prochaines etapes de l'institutionnalisation des deux structures PAPME et
PADME sont les suivantes:
*  La constitution d'une association des clients du PADME et du PAPME se fera
avant le 27 octobre 1997. Ces associations dont la mission est de representer
les clients du PAPME, seront membre de l'Assemblee Generale de chaque
institution.
* Une lettre sera envoyee prochainement aux differents membres identifies pour
participer A une reunion preparatoire A l'Assemblee Constitutive. Cette



35
reunion se tiendra le 30 octobre 1997. Au cours de cette reunion les differents
membres seront amends a presenter leurs commentaires sur les textes
juridiques proposes pour chaque association.
* La tenue des deux assemblees constitutives devra se faire avant le 15
decembre 1997. Dans le meme temps et conformement A la decision prise en
Conseil des Ministres interviendra la signature de la convention de transfert
d'actifs entre le Ministere des Finances et chacune des deux associations.
36.   Entre le 30 octobre 1997 et le 15 decembre 1997 trois actions devront atre
menees:
-  les textes juridiques feront l'objet de dernieres corrections,
-  un cabinet comptable realisera un inventaire de 1'actif et du passif de chacune
des deux projets pour finaliser la convention de transfert;
-  un cabinet regional specialise dans les ressources humaines interviendra pour
doter les deux associations d'outils de gestion du personnel coherent. En effet
les deux associations emploient desormais au total plus de 50 personnes. La
mission du cabinet consistera A:
(a) analyser les differentes fonctions existantes au sein de chacune des
institutions et rediger une description detaillee des postes A inserer
dans les manuel de procedures;
(b) proposer une grille salariale, (c) mettre en place un systeme de
remuneration incitatif base sur le respect d'indicateurs de performance
precis et quantifiables A definir pour chaque fonction; et
(c) degager les grands axes d'un plan de formation pour le personnel. II
est prevu de rediger des termes de reference dans les prochains jours
pour pouvoir lancer la mission au plus tard le 15 novembre 1997.
Cotonou, le 18 octobre 1997
Pour la Banque Mondiale
Marie-Frantoise Marie-Nelly
Chef de Mission



36
AIDE-vIMEMOIRE
PROJET D'ASSISTANCE AUX ENTREPRISES PUBLIQUES
MISSION BANQUE MONDIALE SUR LA
PREPARATION DU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET
Cotonou, du 16 au 21 novembre 1997
1.    Une mission de la Banque Mondiale composee de Mme Eleftheria C. Williams
(Chargee d'operations) a sejourne au Benin du 16 au 21 novembre 1997, pour discuter
avec les Autorites beninoises de la pr6paration du Rapport d'Achevement du Projet
d'Assistance aux Entreprises Publiques (Cr. 1748-BJ), dont la date de cl6ture est le
31 decembre 1997.
2.    La mission a eu des entretiens avec des responsables de l'Administation associes a
1'execution du projet, y compris les responsables de l'unite du projet (PAE), du PAPME
et du PADME. La mission a et recue egalement par l'Attache de la Cooperation Suisse
au Benin et le Directeur de I'ACDI. La mission remercie les Autorites beninoises pour la
qualit6 de l'accueil qui lui a ete r6serve. Cet Aide-Memoire presente en detail, le plan du
Rapport d'Achevement du Projet (RAP) ainsi que le calendrier envisag6.
3.    Selon les Conditions generales et les clauses specifiques contenues dans tous les
Accords de pret et de credit, Les Emprunteurs sont tenus d'exercer un suivi attentif, et de
reunir des donnees precises au cours de I'execution du projet, ainsi que de preparer des
rapports periodiques et un rapport d'achevement detaille. Ces obligations ont un double
objectif, qui est: (i) d'aider la Banque A s'acquitter de ses obligations envers ses
actionnaires, et en particulier de rendre compte de la gestion de ses ressources financieres
et autres ; et (ii) de permettre A la Banque et A ses Emprunteurs de tirer des lecons de
l'experience par le biais d'une evaluation retrospective de la prestation des institutions et
du personnel charges de l'administration du projet, ainsi que de la qualite des activites de
supervision menees par la Banque.
I.    Le plan du RAP
4.    Le plan du RAP applicable A tous les types d'operations de pret de la BIRD et de
l'IDA prendra la forme d'un document distinguant le point de vue de la Banque et celui de
l'Emprunteur sur le deroulement du projet. II comprendra les trois parties suivantes:
5.    Premibre partie (A preparer par la Banque). Cette partie recapitulera les principaux
faits survenus durant l'execution et analysera les questions essentielles qui interessent
particulierement la Banque. Elle mentionnera les cas dans lesquels les resultats effectifs du
projet different sensiblement des objectifs initiaux. Elle rendra compte de la prestation de
la Banque et de l'emprunteur sur 1'ensemble du cycle du projet, en mettant en evidence les
initiatives decisives prises (ou non) par l'une ou l'autre partie, et en soulignant les



37
enseignements qui peuvent en etre tires. Cette partie comprendra egalement une premiere
evaluation de la mesure dans laquelle les objectifs immediats, etablis d'un commun accord
entre la Banque et l'Emprunteur sont atteints ainsi que son impact sur les orientations du
gouvernement et sur le portefeuille des entreprises publiques (sans oublier qu'il ne sera
peut etre pas possible d'effectuer d'evaluation complete de l'impact du projet que bien
apres la fin de sa p6riode d'execution). La Premiere partie sera etablie par les services de
la Banque, dans les trois mois suivant la date de cloture du credit.
6.    Deuxieme partie (A preparer par l'Emprunteur). Cette partie, qui ne devrait pas
etre de plus de dix pages, presentera l'analyse des principaux problemes relatifs au projet,
ainsi qu'une evaluation retrospective de son execution, du point de vue de 1' Emprunteur,
son impact sur le developpement du Benin et les le,ons qu'on peut en tirer. Comme la
Premiere Partie, cette partie du RAP devra s'efforcer d'etre analytique et s6lective plutot
que de suivre une demarche descriptive et exhaustive. En prevoyant une Deuxieme partie
distincte, on a voulu faire en sorte que l'Emprunteur procede a une analyse independante,
des enseignements de l'op6ration et reflechisse sur la prestation de la Banque, de
l'organisme charge de la gestion du projet, ainsi que de tout autre organisme, institution,
ou personne ayant pris part A la preparation et a l'execution du projet. La Deuxieme partie
sera preparee par l'Emprunteur en meme temps que la Banque r6digera les Parties I et III
(voir ci-dessous) et sera envoyee A la Banque dans les deux mois suivant la date de cloture
du cr6dit et sera inser6e dans le RAP final. L'Emprunteur devrait aussi preparer un plan
d'actions permettant d'assurer la perennite des reformes et actions entreprises dans le
cadre du projet.
7.    Troisieme pareie  (A preparer par la Banque). Cette partie consistera en un
ensemble de donnees statistiques couvrant les principaux aspects de l'operation et de son
execution, notamment les couts et decaissements estimatifs et effectifs, ainsi que les
indicateurs relatifs aux avantages estimatifs et effectifs du projet et A son impact
*conomique et financier. Cette partie suivra autant que possible une presentation standard
et (comme la Premiere partie) sera etablie par la Banque dans les trois mois suivant la date
de clOture du credit.
H.    Methode et calendrier d'61aboration du RAP
8.    Les services de la Banque Mondiale responsables de l'operation acheveront les
Premiere et Troisieme parties du RAP dans les trois mois suivant la date de cloture du
credit. La premiere partie sera transmise au Representant de l'Emprunteur tel que stipul6
dans l'Accord de credit et aux organismes de cofinancement, afin qu'ils prennent
connaissance et presentent ses observations si necessaire.
9.    L'Emprunteur commencerait A elaborer la Deuxieme partie en meme temps que la
Banque redige les Premiere et Troisieme parties. L'Emprunteur transmettra a la Banque la
Deuxieme partie pour commentaires deux mois apres la date de cloture du credit soit au
plus tard fin fevrier 1998.



38
10.   Apres avoir recu la Deuxieme partie de l'Emprunteur, le d6partement technique
competeht examinera les observations et commentaires qu'elle contient et harmonisera les
aspects factuels avec les Premiere et Troisieme parties. La Deuxieme partie redig6e par
l'Emprunteur sera egalement envoyee pour information aux organismes de cofinancement.
11.   La Banque ne modifiera pas la Deuxieme partie, si ce n'est pour y ajouter des
notes explicatives et des objections, le cas echeant. Dans la presentation finale du RAP, on
signalera expressement que la Deuxieme partie figure telle que redigee par l'Emprunteur
et que son contenu ne saurait etre attribue a la Banque.
12.   Une fois termine, le RAP sera transmis par le Departement Secteur Prive Finance
au Conseil d'Administation de la Banque Mondiale. Au cas ou l'Emprunteur n'aurait pas
termine et envoye a la Banque la Deuxieme partie du RAP dans les delais indiques
ci-dessus, les Premiere et Troisieme parties seront transmises au Conseil d'Administration
de la Banque, sans etre accompagnees de la partie redig6e par l'Emprunteur.
13.   La mission tient a encourager les Autorites beninoises a saisir l'occasion pour
presenter un point de vue independant sur la mesure dans laquelle les operations terminees
ont rempli leurs objectifs et pour evaluer l'efficacite des organismes et des services locaux
de gestion des projets, ainsi que la qualite de I'action de supervision de la Banque et des
organismes de cofinancement.
1H.   Prochaines Etanes
14.   Comme stipule dans l'Aide-Memoire de la mission de Supervision du Projet
d'Assistance aux Entreprises Publiques du 18 octobre 1997, le Gouvernement devra
mettre en place une equipe chargee de mettre en oeuvre les travaux de preparation de la
Deuxieme partie du RAP. II conviendrait que cette partie soit redigee par les structures et
cadres superieurs qui ont et etroitement associes a l'administration du projet et qui sont
les mieux places pour presenter le point de vue de l'Emprunteur. Cette 6quipe devrait 8tre
choisie de commun accord entre l'Emprunteur et la Banque. La mission suggere que la
liste des membres de cette equipe soit communique a la Banque, au plus tard le
5 decembre afin que celle ci puisse commencer l'elaboration du RAP.
Cotonou, le 21 novembre 1997
Eleftheria C. Williams
Banque Mondiale



39
Appendix B
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1748-BEN)
Summary of the Government's Completion Report
The following is a summary of the conclusions of the Government's Project
Completion Report. The complete French version, including annexes, is in the AFTPI
files.
The results of the Public Enterprise Sector Rehabilitation Project have been
disappointing. As far as reducing the size of the government portfolio, the objectives of
the Project were achieved. However, Benin's objective to rehabilitate and restructure
public enterprises was not achieved and the Project was used as a tool to execute the SAC
reform programs at extremely high costs, particularly as they relate to studies of PEs.
The Project Implementation Unit staff was utilized purely for administrative tasks and
was unable to benefit from the experience relating to privatization and supervision of
PEs.
The residual activities of the Project, particularly the SIGEP and the Secretariat of
the Denationalization Commission will be handled by the Direction de I'Assistance aux
Entreprises Publiques of the Ministry of Plan, where appropriate structures have already
been set up.
Project Implementation Difficulties
There were weaknesses in project execution which can be attributed to both the
Government of Benin and the World Bank.
Weaknesses of the Government of Benin:
- the process of ratification of credits is too long and time consuming to the point
that reimbursement starts before the credit is signed;
- because the Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee (ISC) did not fumction, as
planned, there was no follow-up of the Project by the Government of Benin;
and
- the absence of an annual evaluation of the Project to identify weaknesses
and propose corrective actions is partly responsible for project results.
Weaknesses of the World Bank:
- high turnover of project task managers, whose mission is not well-defined
resulted in changes of project vision;
- the nomination of a general project consultant was groundless;



40
- the marginalization of local consulting firms and the priority given to foreign
firms, often doubtful, in the execution of the project resulted in mediocre quality
and high costs; and
- the numerous studies carried out for the same enterprise (rehabilitation,
privatization/liquidation) at prohibitive costs.
Recommendations:
*     the objectives of the Government should be clearly defined in projects;
*     he studies should be carried out more efficiently;
*     a monitoring system of projects should be set up by the Government;
*     the personnel in charge of the projects should be utilized in their management;
*     the objectives of the projects conform with the original objectives; and
*     the bulk of tasks should be carried out by local experts.



41
Appendix C
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REHIABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1748-BEN)
Data on Public Enterprise Sector
Table 1. Enterprises identified during Appraisal for Rehabilitation of Liquidation
% of State      Current Status
Enterprise             Activity           Ownership
Agro-industries
1. SONAFEL           Production and               100%            Liquidated
processing of fruits and
vegetables
2. La Beninoise       Brewery                     100%             Privatized
Import Distribution
3. AGB
Foodstuff                   100%            Liquidated
4. ONP                Pharmaceuticals             100%            Liquidated
5. SOGECOB            Household electrical        100%            Liquidated
appliances and clothing
Shipping and Transit
6. COBENAM            Shipping                     51%
7. SONATRAC           Transit Company             100%            Liquidated
8. SOTRACOB           Transit Company              52%            Liquidated
9. TRANSBENIN         Trucking Company             49%            Liquidated
Textiles
10. SOBETEX          Textile Printing             49%             Privatized
11. IBETEX           Textile and Garment          48%             Privatized
Cement
12. SCB              Clinker grinding              50%            Privatized
13. SONACI           Clinker grinding             100%            Privatized
14. CIB              Ceramic Tiles                 80%            Liquidated



42
Appendix C (cont.)
Data on Public Enterprise Sector
Table 2. Other Enterprises Privatized/Liquidated during Project Implementation*
Enterprise                               Activity
Privatizations
1. ABATTOIRS DE COTONOU/PNOVO              Agro-Industry
2. CIMBENIN (SONACI)                       Cement
3. CINEMAS (Concorde et Le Benin)          Services
4. COBENAM                                 Transport
5. ENTREPOT FRIGO                          Agro-Industry
6. LA BENINOISE                            Brewery
7. MAISERIE DE BOHICON                     Agro-Industry
8. MANUCIA                                 Ind./Mining/Energy
9. PLATE-FORME FORAGE PPS                  Agriculture
10. RELAIS DE L'AEROPORT                   Transport Services
11. SCB                                    Cement
12. SOBETEX                                Textile
13. SONICOG                                Palm Oil
14. SOTRAZ                                 Transport
15. UBA-VIE (SONAR)                        Insurance
16. UNITE PISTES CARDER ATL.               Agriculture
17. USINE CONC. DE TOMATE                  Agro-Industry
18. USINE NOIX DE CAJOU                    Agro-Industry



43
Appendix C (coat.)
Data on Public Enterprise Sector
Table 2. Other Enterprises Privatized/Liquidated during Project Implementation*
Enterprise                             Activity
Liquidations
1. BBD                     Banking
2. BCB                      Banking
3. BELIMINES                Industry/Mining
4. BELIPECHE                Agro-Industry
5. CNBF                     Transport
6. CNCA                     Banking
7. OBAR                     Agriculture
8. OBEAR                    Arts & Culture
9. OBECI                    Information
10. OBEPEP                 Agro-Industry
11. OBI                    Banking
12. SABLI                  Agro-Industry
13. SOBEMAC                Commerce
14. SOCOGIM                Public Works
15. SODIMAS                 Commerce
16. SONACOTRAP             Public Works
17. SONAE                  Commerce
18. SONAGIM                 Public Works
19. SOTRAMO                Transport
20. SOTRAZ                  Transport
21. STB                     Transport
22. STPA                    Transport
23. TAB                     Transport
24. TRANS-OUEME             Transport
Rehabilitations
1. OBSS                     Social Services
2. OPT                      Post & Telecommunications
3. PAC                      Port Authority
*Information provided by the Borrower



44
Appendix C (cont.)
Data on Public Enterprise Sector
Table 3. Enterprises Maintained in the Government Portfolio
% of State           Current Status
Enterprise        Activity     Ownership                                    l
1. CAA          Finances             100
3. CNCB          Service             100
4. CNERTP        BTP                 100
5. COBENAM       Consignation         51
6. COTEB         Textile              54      Privatization in process
(restructuring of the textile sector
7. LNB           Jeux de Hasard      100
8. OBSS          Social Security     100      Internal Restructuring in process
9. OCBN         'Transport            50
10. ONAB         Agriculture          100      Study in progress for full
privatization
11. ONASA        Food Security        100
12. ONS          Rural                100
Development
13. OPT          Post & telecom.      100      Separation of post and
telecommunications in progress;
Partial privatization of tele-
communications under preparation
14. ORTB         Radio/Television     100
15. PAC          Port Authority       100
16. SCO           Cement               51      Location/gerance, negotiations in
progress
17. SBEE          Electricity/Water   100
18. SITEX         Textile             100      Study in progress/restructuring of
the textile sector
19. SOBEMAP      Maintenance          100
20. SOGEMA        Gestion de          100      Internal restructuring in progress
marches
21. SONACOP       Energy               35      Privatization 65%; 2nd privatization
process will be launched;
22. SONAPRA       Agro-industry       100      Study in progress to open the capital
for 45%



MAP SECTION



MAURITANIA                   I                               N                                    G E L
N IE             CA NAI   G    E                                         Rj
OJOtEUKINA FASC   Ny t . j>,|K@ 
-\~ ?    AGERIA
OUIVOIRE R I   NAil                                                 \     \K.
- H    NFlw2        / CAMEROONA
GABON  CONGO                                                     G      w 
B U R K I N A  F  A S                                                                                              0K-
tj )                                       \   y             >                  Xnsoro                       X   N  I G  E  R  I A
Are\ t oumorl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sonsolerdiroo\_
Mont  I                                                                                                S.n .-
Koei,U                         KOiOOntCOO
AwS V 7 2BeabreW                                                         Kle  I
_                           I=ort                            REAIITTO    PROJECT~
{ o S       o       |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  Ciie mentione interpr
\tnessouNw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,_te Petoloe Fll
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-' ,3OSIn .teratona airport                                                                  Vt
T~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~                                                  ~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Reioo GaOlrporte 14   
S  rm N       8                 t~~                                  *  NaAILT TIONa aPROJa CT
jK...o.e.   r( 1
,    ~~  X gozv^oxso-Zw^-  03P trst  \                            R10    Dstrit caital
) \ ;/P=oulgn=n | - - ~~~~~~~~~Province boundaries
| \dEn (F l ? -| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~International boundaries
B---.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
<  ()D60bV7=1=  ,f't<t   ouki                                      r L~~~~~~~~KOMETERS
?~~~~~~~~CAld                                                                  It9 AERhnOo                         N    I   G    E   R   I   A
,6      i  odeRo   COTONdU    Seme~ Fi.21dr
on GH       NAF Gr-v                                                
V9   r  t'-7                                f                         >



