OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1748 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Enterprise Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                  9, 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1748 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 9'          , 1987, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BEIN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower has obtained from the Government of the
Swiss Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable contribution
in an amount of fifteen million Swiss Francs (SwF 15,000,000)
(the Swiss Contribution) to assist in financing the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swiss
Contribution Agreement) dated February 10, 1986 between the
Borrower and Switzerland; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(b) the words "and the Swiss Contribution" are added after
the words "out of the proceeds of the Credit" in Sections 9.03,
9.04 and 9.06 (a) (iii);
(c)  the words "and Switzerland" are added after the words
"Except as the Association" in Section 9.04; and
(d)  the words "the Association's representatives" are sub-
stituted by the words "the representatives of the Association and
Switzerland" in Section 9.06 (a) (ii).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "Special Account A" and "Special Account B" mean the
Special Account A and the Special Account B referred to in
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement;
(b)  "Project Preparation Advances" means collectively the
project preparation advance granted by the Association to the
Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 11, 1984
and November 6, 1984 between the Borrower and the Association.
the project preparation advance granted by the Association to the
Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 25, 1985
and August 21, 1985 between the Borrower and the Association and
the project preparation advance granted by the Association to
the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 17,
1986 and December 2, 1986 between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion;
(c)  "PMU" means the Project Management Unit established by
the Borrower's Decree No. 85-271 dated July 12, 1985 and referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)  "CFA Franc" and the letters "CFAF" mean the Franc de
la Communaut6 Financibre Africaine, the common currency of the
Borrower and the other members of the West African Monetary
Union;
(e) "Rehabilitation Financing" means financing made or
proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Swiss Contribution to a Beneficiary Enterprise for
a Rehabilitation Program;
(f) "Beneficiary Enterprise" means a public and parapublic
sector enterprise, established and operating in the Borrower's
territory, which is to carry out a Rehabilitation Program under
Part C of the Project;
(g) "Rehabilitation Program" means a specific rehabilita-
tion program including a specific emergency program, utilizing
the proceeds of a Rehabilitation Financing, to be carried out by
a Beneficiary Enterprise with the Borrower's assistance under
Part C of the Project;


﻿- 3 -
(h) "Action Program" means the action program to be carried
out by the Borrower under Part A of the Project, as outlined in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association;
(i)   "Swiss Contribution Account" means the account opened
by Switzerland in the books of Swiss National Bank in the name of
the Borrower to which the amount of the Swiss Contribution is
credited; and
(j)   "Subsidiary Account" means the account to be opeaed
by the PMU in its name in a primary bank in Cotonou and to be
replenished from time to time out of the proceeds of the Special
Account A or the Special Account B.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to twelve million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and of the Swiss
Contribution may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Swiss Contribution Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Associa-
tion and Switzerland, for amounts paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower: (i) on
account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary Enterprise under a
Rehabilitation Financing to meet the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for a Rehabilitation Program in respect of
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contri-
bution Account is requested; and (ii) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for Parts B, D and E of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Swiss Contribution.
(b)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, the amount of the Swiss Contribution shall be used for
expenditures related to Parts B, C and D of the Project in


﻿connection with specific public or parapublic sector enterprises
as shall be agreed from time to time between the Borrower, the
Association and Switzerland.
(c)  Except as the Association and Switzerland shall other-
wise agree, the allocation and withdrawal of the Swiss Contribu-
tion shall be governed, mutatis mutandis, by the General Condi-
tions.
(d)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a Special Account A and a Special
Account B in the Cotonou branch of Central Bank for West African
Countries on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account A
and the Special Account B shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 and Schedule 6 to this Agreement,
respectively.
(e)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from Lhe Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Rehabilitation Financing
to the Association for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association an application, in a form satisfactory to the
Association, together with: (i) a description of the Beneficiary
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Rehabilitation Program,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Swiss Contri-
bution; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Rehabili-
tation Financing; and (iii) such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall other-
wise agree, applications made pursuant to the provisions of para-
graph (a) of this Section shall be presented to the Association
on or before June 30, 1992.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall he June 30, 1995 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Associatioa   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1997, and ending November 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate


﻿- 6 -
administrative, financial, planning and managerial practices,
and shall provide, promptly a3 needed, tae funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)  The Borrower shall maintain its PMU with responsibili-
ties for overall coordination and management of the Project and
with qualified and experienced staff, including inter alios a
Project  coordinator   at  its 'head,   assisted  by  specialized
consultants, one of them acting as senior adviser, and the
following Beninese staff: an engineer/economist, a financial
analyst, a lawyer, an accountant and a disbursement officer.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, any Rehabilitation Financing
will be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by
written contract with the Beneficiary Enterprise or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Association and Switzerland including, inter
alia, in respect of a Rehabilitation Financing, the right to:
(i) require the Beneficiary Enterprise to carry out
the Rehabilitation Program with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records;
(ii) require that: (A) procurement of the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Swiss Contribution shall be gov-
erned by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement; and (B) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Rehabilitation Program;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representa-
tives of the Association and Switzerland, if the
Association and Switzerland shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construc-
tion included in the Rehabilitation Program, the
execution thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;
(iv) require that: (A) the Beneficiary Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such


﻿-7 -
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound busi-
ness practice; and (B) without any limitation upon
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Swiss Contribution to the place
of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder
to be made payable in a currency freely usable by
the Beneficiary Enterprise to replace or repair
such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Borrower or
the Association or Switzerland shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition
of the Beneficiary Enterprise and to the benefits
to be derived from the Rehabilitation Program; and
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Swiss Contribution upon failure by
such Beneficiary Enterprise to perform its obliga-
tions under its contract with the Borrower.
(b)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Rehabilitation Program in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Borrower, the Association and Switzerland;
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and Switzerland
shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and con-
sultants' services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) beginning March 31, 1987 or such other date as the
Association may agree, and thereafter at six-months' intervals,
in consultation with the Association, evaluate the progress made
with the reforms of the Borrower's public and parapublic enter-
prise sector, the Action Program and the Rehabilitation Programs
under execution as well as those under preparation; and


﻿- 8 -
(b)  on the basis of said evaluation, promptly thereafter,
take all necessary measures satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resorces and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account A,
the Special Account B and the Subsidiary Account,
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof and
said records as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿- 9 -
(ii) retain,   until  at   least  one  year  after   the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution Account
was   made,   all  records   (contracts,   orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution
withdrawn in respect of such expenditures have
been used for the purpose for which they were
provided.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause each of the
Beneficiary Enterprises to maintain records anc accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound account:ng practices its
operations and financial condition.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause each of the Beneficiary
Enterprises to:
(i) have   its   accounts  and   financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿- 10 -
(iii) furnish to the Association such other iriformation
concerning its accounts, financial statements and
the audit thereof and said records as the Associa-
tion shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely
that:
(a)   Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Swiss Contribution or of any grant o loan
made to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shali have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated, in whole or in part, putc'.ant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely that the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿- 11 -
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a)  the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association a
preliminary list, satisfactory to the Association, of enterprises
which could be rehabilitated under Part C of the Project;
(b)  the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association
its recommendations for main measures, as identified in the
diagnosis studies under Part B of the .roject, to be undertaken
by the Borrower and by four enterprises at least selected amongst
those specified in the list referred to in paragraph (a) above,
together with an estimated time-schedule therefor, all acceptable
to the Association; and
(c)  all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Swiss Contribution Agreement (other than, if applicable, the
effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Arti-
cle IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Economy
P.O. Box 302
Cotonou
People's Republic of Benin


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCES                        MIFIN 5009 or
Cotonou                             5289 or
MININDART 5252
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHFkEOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized rF,presentatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /4/
Aut7rized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /4J
A  ~      Regional 1 ce President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and the Swiss Contribution
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contri-
bution, the allocation of the amounts of such proceeds to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of
the Swiss
Amount of     Contribu-
the Credit    tion Allo-
Allocated     cated (Ex-    % of
(Expressed    pressed in   Expendi-
in SDR        Swiss Francs tures to be
Category        Equivalent)   Equivalent)   Financed
(1) Goods and         7,310,000     12,000,000   100%
services
for Rehabi-
litation
Programs
including
emergency
programs
(2) Operating
costs of
PMU
(a) operat-        530,000                  100%
ing costs
other than
salary
allowances
(b) salary          80,000                  100% of local
allowances                             expenditures up
to SDR 30,000,
80% of loczl
expenditures up
to SDR 60,000
and 40% of local
expenditures
thereafter


﻿- 14 -
Amount of
the Swiss
Amount of     Contribu-
the Credit    tion Allo-
Allo-ated     cated (Ex-    % of
(Expressed    pressed in    Expendi-
in SDR        Swiss Francs  tures to be
Category        Equivalent)   Equivalent)   Financed
(3) Consultants'      1,020,000      2,000,000   100%
services
(4) Expenditures      1,700,000      1,000,000   100%
under Part D
of the Project
(5) Refunding of      1,290,000                  Amount due
Project Pre-                                pursuant to
paration                                    Section 2.02 (e)
Advances                                    of this Agree-
ment
(6) Unallocated         870,000
TOTAL      12,800,000     15,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures"; and
(b) the term "operating costs other than salary allowances"
set forth in Category (2) (a) means costs for supplies, equip-
ment, vehicles, maintenance, documentation, missions and travel,
and rent.


﻿- 15 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a)  in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals from the Swiss
Contribution, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SwF 2,350,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (3)
and (4) on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after the date of the Swiss Contribution Agreement;
(b) in respect of a Rehabilitation Financing for an emer-
gency program unless said emergency program and its financing
have been approved by the Association (and Switzerland for a
Rehabilitation Financing out of the proceeds of the Swiss Contri-
bution) and remedial measures under said emergency program shall
have been taken in a manner satisfactory to the Association (and
Switzerland where concerned);
(c) in respect of a Rehabilitation Financing for a Rehabil-
itation Program unless said Rehabilitation Program and its
financing have been approved by the Association (and Switzerland
for a Rehabilitation Financing out of the proceeds of the Swiss
Contribution) and key remedial measures under any such Rehabili-
tation Program shall have been taken in a manner satisfactory to
the Association (and Switzerland where concerned); and
(d) in respect of a Rehabilitation Financing for an emer-
gency program or a Rehabilitation Program of a manufacturing
enterprise unless all price controls on products locally manu-
factured by said enterprise have been removed.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower
in the rehabilitation of its public and parapublic enterprise
sector through: (a) the execution of sector reforms, as expressed
in the Borrower's letter of October 22, 1985 and telex of
November 10, 1986; and (b) the design and implementation of
specific rehabilitation programs for economically viable public
and parapublic enterprises.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Carrying out of an Action Program, as outlined in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, for putting into effect
reforms at the sector level and at the public and
parapublic enterprise level.
Part B:   Carrying out of diagnosis studies to assess the techni-
cal, economic and financial viability of public and
parapublic sector enterprises and to prepare Rehabi-
litation Programs or liquidation plans for said enter-
prises.
Part C:   Carrying out of Rehabilitation Programs, including, if
required, emergency programs in a first phase.
Part D:   Carrying out of a program concerning requirements for
training and redeployment of staff within the framework
of liquidation plans referred to in Parts A and B of
the Project and under Rehabilitation Programs.
Part E:   PMU operation.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1994.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Biddir
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Benin may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin
of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent but
less than $350,000 equivalent per contract (exclusive of goods
referred to in paragraph 3 hereunder) and works estimated to cost
less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.   Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per con-
tract, up to an aggregate not to exceed the equivalent of
$2,500,000 (exclusive of goods referred to in paragraph 3
hereunder), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis


﻿- 18 -
of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least  three   suppliers  eligible   under  the  Guidelines,   in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Retail goods for Part C of the Project, up to an aggregate
not to exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000, shall be purchased at
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and, in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of the parties rendering them.
Part E.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account A or the Special Account B, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior
to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account A
or the Special Account B in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account A or
the Special Account B, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract, together
with the other information required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to
the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 and Schedule 6 (the Special Account
Schedule) to this Agreement.
(c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account and the
Swiss Contribution Account on the basis of statements of expen-
diture. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
2,     The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Action Program
For the purposes of the rehabilitation of its public and
parapublic enterprise sector, the Borrower will carry out an
Action Program consisting of measures outlined as follows:
1.   Liquidation of Uneconomically Viable Enterprises
(a)   On the basis of liquidation plans and in accordance
with a time-schedule acceptable to the Association, the Borrower
will take all necessary steps to realize the assets and close the
accounts of Ceramigue Industrielle du Benin (CIB), Industrie
Beninoise des Textiles (IBETEX) and     Societe des Transports
Routiers du B&nin (TRANSBENIN).
(b) For those enterprises for which a liquidation plan will
have been prepared under the diagnosis studies included in Part B
of the Project, the Borrower will take all necessary steps to
liquidate said enterprises in accordance with the liquidation
plans.
2.   Privatization
Beginning March 31, 1987 and thereafter at least once each
year, the Borrower will exchange views on progress achieved and
measures to be taken for privatization in the following sectors
of activities: freight forwarding, imports and distribution,
construction, hotels, data processing and textiles.
3.   Investments in the Public Enterprise Sector
(a) Before undertaking any new investment in the public and
parapublic enterprise sector, the Borrower will ensure that a
full technical, economic and financial appraisal has determined
that such investment will be viable and the impact thereof on
public finances is sustainablie
(b) The Borrower will prepare an annual investment program
for its public and parapublic enterprise sector in accordance
with criteria and subject to an aggregate expenditure level
acceptable to the Association, and will exchange views with the
Association: (i) from time to time on any proposed new investment
in said sector; and (ii) not later than December 1 of each year,


﻿- 21 -
on the contents of said annual investment program. Until the
completion of the Project, in carrying out said annual investment
program, the Borrower will not exceed the expenditure level
deemed acceptable by the Association for said program.
4.   Institutional Framework
(a) The Borrower will review in consultation with the Asso-
ciation the legislative   and regulatory framework of its public
and parapublic enterprise sector with the objective of improving
the efficiency of the operations of enterprises in which the Bor-
rower has a participation, through: (i) a clear definition and
separation of responsibilities to be attributed to bodies and
individuals involved in the supervision and management of enter-
prises; (ii) a sufficient degree of management and financial
autonomy and decision-making power to be given to enterprises;
and (iii) an increased accountability to be borne by enter-
prises. In accordance with an action plan satisfactory to the
Association, the Borrower will take all measures required to
accomplish said objective, including but not limited to a revi-
sion of the regulations concerning the allocation of enterp-ises'
earnings.
(b)   The Borrower will develop a management information
system for public and parapublic enterprises under terms of
reference acceptable to the Association and, beginning January
1988, apply said system.
5.   Incentives
The Borrower will design an incentive and bonus scheme
based on performance criteria at the managerial level and at
the employee level. Rehabilitation Programs will define the
performance criteria applicable at the managerial level. The
Borrower will ensure that enterprises will define performance
criteria applicable at the employee level and implement a bonus
scheme for employees beginning with the year 1988.
6.   Enterprise Liquidity and Indebtedness
The Borrower will carry out a study on the indebtedness
of its public and parapublic enterprise sector under terms of
reference acceptable to the Association. Upon completion of said
study, the Borrower will exchange views with the Association on


﻿- 22 -
the recommendations included therein and, on the basis of said
recommendations, will promptly take measures satisfactory to the
Association.
7.   Pricing
The Borrower will ensure that prices applicable to the
public and parapublic enterprise sector, rely on market forces
and, for public utilities, reflect long-term marginal costs.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account A
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2), (3)
and (4) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c) the   term  "Authorized  Allocation" means   an  amount
of CFAF 180,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account A shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account A has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdra-
wals to replenish the Special Account A may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account A such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account A at such intervals as
the Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account A such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account A with amounts not exceeding the


﻿- 24 -
amount of payments made out of the Special Account A for eligible
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective Categories
(1), (2), (3) and (4), and in the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account A for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.    (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account A shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) for
the Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Asso-
ciation and of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Sec-
tion 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gories (1), (2), (3) and (4) for the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account A as


﻿- 25 -
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in mak-
ing payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account A: (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
deposit into the Special Account A (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account A shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit
or refund.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account A will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account B
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term    "Category" means a category of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Swiss Contribution as
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Swiss
Contribution allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (3)
and (4) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c) the   term  "Authorized  Allocation" means   an  amount
of CFAF 150,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Swiss Contribution
Account and deposited in the Special Account B pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account B shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account B has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdra-
wals to replenish the Special Account B may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Swiss Contribution Account and
deposit in the Special Account B such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account B at such intervals as
the Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Swiss Contribution Account
and deposit into the Special Account B such amounts as shall be


﻿- 27 -
required to replenish the Special Account B with amounts not ex-
ceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account B
for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn
by the Association from the Swiss Contribution Account under the
respective Categories (1), (3) and (4), and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account B for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account B shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Swiss Contribution Account in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Swiss
Contribution allocated to Categories (1), (3) and
(4) for the Project, minus the amount of any
outstanding qualified agreement to reimburse made
by the Association and of any oucstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pur-
suant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Swiss Contribution
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Swiss Contri-
bution allocated to Categories (1), (3) and (4) for the Project
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made


﻿- 28 -
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account B as of the date of such notice have been or will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account B: (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
deposit into the Special Account B (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account B shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit
or refund.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account B will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Swiss Contribution Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


