Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3724 
Project Name 
Integrated Early Childhood Development Project II 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Pre-primary education (35%);Other social services (35%);Health 
(30%) 
Project ID 
P107254 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF ERITREA (GoE) 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Education (MoE) 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
March 10, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 28, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 17, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The proposed operation follows up on the Integrated Early Childhood Education (IECD) Project 
that closed on March 31, 2007.  Of the three self-standing ECD operations of this kind completed 
in Sub-Saharan Africa recently, the Eritrea IECD was implemented satisfactorily and largely 
achieved its objectives.  As an important output, in the course of the implementation of IECD the 
GoE approved a National Integrated Early Childhood Development Policy (2006).  In 
recognition of this program, Eritrea is one of the 10 countries selected world wide for an 
evaluation of the impact of integrated ECD on cognitive development and school readiness 
funded by the Bank-Netherland Partnership Program (BNPP). 
IECD II is conceived as a repeater project in support of the national program detailed in the 
Policy, and will be processed in a streamlined fashion.   
 
The Bank is the only development partner in Eritrea with the ability to make a substantial 
financial investment for the project - the main rationale for its involvement in funding the 
continuation of the IECD program.  In this leading role, the Bank will actively seek financial and 
technical support from development partners with an interest in the program (e.g. the Italian 
Cooperation, UNICEF). 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed operation is designed as a repeater
1
to (i) help consolidate and strengthen the 
components and activities already initiated in the IECD project, taking into account the lessons 
1
The PDO for IECD was: (i) to promote healthy growth and development of children under six 
years of age; (ii) to expand access to, and improve the quality of, services that address the basic 
needs of young children; (iii) to support orphans and children facing especially difficult 
circumstances; and (iv) to improve health and nutrition of children in primary schools.  
Page  2
learnt from that operation (as documented in the ICR), and 
also based on the GoE’s learning and 
experiences from the implementation of the preceding project; and (ii) sustain the policy 
dialogue aimed at developing a long-term plan for the implementation of the IECD Policy nation 
wide.    
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed project would have the same components as its predecessor, excluding food 
security
2
,
with the understanding that coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture will continue 
taking place in the interest of the integration of services and inputs at the village level.  Also, 
although the components continue to be defined along sectoral lines (Education, Health and 
Nutrition, Social Protection), their implementation will take into account one of the most 
important lessons learnt from IECD, namely that activities should be organized and planned 
according to their administrative level of implementation.  First and foremost, implementation 
will follow the principle of integration at the village level, starting with the 116 pilot integrated 
villages inherited from the previous operation.   
 
A
significant by-product of the proposed operation would be a rigorous evaluation of the impact 
of integrated ECD on school readiness and cognitive development - a remarkable achievement 
considering that it would be the first time this kind of knowledge is generated in Sub-Saharan 
Africa. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
[Guideline:  Refer to section 5 of the PCN.  Which safeguard policies might apply to the project 
and in what ways?  What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess 
safeguard issues and prepare to mitigate them?]
 
IECD II is rated “C” like its predecessor. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 3 
IDA Grant 
12 
 Total 
15 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Carla Bertoncino 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-7182 
2
We are told that the rural development program of the MoA receives adequate financing from 
the European Commission. 
Page  3
Fax: (202) 473-8299 
Email: Cbertoncino@worldbank.org
 
