Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  04/24/2008 
Report No.:  AC3615
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Eritrea 
Project ID:  P107254 
Project Name:  Integrated Early Childhood Development Project II 
Task Team Leader:  Carla Bertoncino 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 25, 2008 
Estimated Board Date: June 17, 2008 
Managing Unit:  AFTH1 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Health (60%);Pre-primary education (40%) 
Theme:  Nutrition and food security (P);Child health (P);Education for all (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
12.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [X] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
To promote the healthy growth and development of Eritrean children aged 6 and under.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project will consolidate and strengthen the existing IECD interventions to address 
young children's needs in the areas of Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition, and Early 
Childhood Care and Education (ECCE).  
 
Project Components:  
 
1) Maternal & Child Health and Nutrition: The objective of this component is to: (i) 
improve case management and skills of health workers, community health workers (c-
IMCI, covering children aged 5 and under); (ii) empower communities and caregivers to 
improve family/child health care practices; and (iii) improve the nutritional status of 
children 2 years and under, and pregnant and nursing mothers.  This component, 
implemented by the MoH, will aim to sustain and expand c-IMCI implementation and to 
empower communities and families for improved health and nutrition practices. The 
expansion of c-IMCI will be in areas where Growth Monitoring and Promotion (GMP) 
activities have been established in Phase I.  
Page  2
2) Early Childhood Care and Education: This component, implemented by the MoE, 
will aim at consolidating ‘quality’ in ECEC services already established in Phase I (446 
preschool centers), mainly through refresher training for the existing KG teachers and 
CCGs, and provision of enhanced learning materials and teaching aids for all the 
preschool centers.  The component is designed to ensure sustainability of interventions in 
target communities after the completion of IECD.  A share of its allocation, in fact, will 
be used as small grants to the preschool centers for them to acquire and build assets that 
would help raise resources to meet recurrent costs.  
 
3) Program Management, Monitoring, Evaluation and Strategic Communication: This 
component will provide overall coordination and manage cross cutting issues of M&E 
and Advocacy & Strategic Communications.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
IECD will be implemented mainly in rural communities.  No civil works is planned under 
this project.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Warren Waters (AFTQK) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
None   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
None   
 
Page  3
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
N/A   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
N/A   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Page  4
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
N/A 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
N/A 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
N/A 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
N/A 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Carla Bertoncino 
04/23/2008 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Stefanie U.S. Brackmann 
 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Roxanne Hakim 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
 
Comments:  There is no need to be approved by RSC. 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Christopher J. Thomas 
04/23/2008 
Comments:   
