Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC3501 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/21/2008 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Eritrea 
Project ID: P107254 
Project Name: Integrated Early Childhood Development Project II 
Task Team Leader: Carla Bertoncino 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 15, 2008 
Estimated Board Date: June 17, 2008 
Managing Unit: AFTH1 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector: Pre-primary education (35%);Other social services (35%);Health (30%) 
Theme: Nutrition and food security (P);Child health (P);Education for all (S);Social 
safety nets (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
12.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
3.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
8.00
11.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The proposed operation is designed as a repeater  to (i) help consolidate and strengthen the 
components and activities already initiated in the IECD project, taking into account the lessons 
learnt from that operation (as documented in the ICR), and also based on the GoE’s learning and 
experiences from the implementation of the preceding project; and (ii) sustain the policy 
dialogue aimed at developing a long-term plan for the implementation of the IECD Policy nation 
wide.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The proposed project would have the same components as its predecessor, excluding food 
security , with the understanding that coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture will continue 
taking place in the interest of the integration of services and inputs at the village level.  Also, 
although the components continue to be defined along sectoral lines (Education, Health and 
Nutrition, Social Protection), their implementation will take into account one of the most 
important lessons learnt from IECD, namely that activities should be organized and planned 
according to their administrative level of implementation.  First and foremost, implementation 
Page  2
will follow the principle of integration at the village level, starting with the 116 pilot integrated 
villages inherited from the previous operation. No civil works will be undertaken. 
 
A
significant by-product of the proposed operation would be a rigorous evaluation of the impact 
of integrated ECD on school readiness and cognitive development - a remarkable achievement 
considering that it would be the first time this kind of knowledge is generated in Sub-Saharan 
Africa.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
IECD will be implemented mainly in rural areas with the exception of a subcomponent - support 
to the School Health and HIV/AIDS program - which covers both rural and urban locations   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
This aspect is dealt with in the context of HAMSET II (the Health project), rated B.  The 
proposed IECD II is rated C.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Warren Waters (AFTQK) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X  
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  04/07/2008 
 
Page  3
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
Classified as Category C - No safeguard-related studies needed if the project content remains 
as defined in the PCN and ISDS.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Carla Bertoncino 
02/14/2008 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Christopher D. Walker 
 
Comments:  Chris is Acting SM.  The new SM will start on 03/17 
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  4
