                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                           Report No: NCO00001074



                 NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
                             (IDA-H4120)




                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.4 MILLION
                        (US$12 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                               STATE OF ERITREA

                                      FOR AN

       INTEGRATED EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II

                                   June 23, 2010




Human Development Unit AFTED
Country Department AFCE2
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective April 1, 2010)

                  Currency Unit = Eritrean Nakfa
                      ERN 1.00 = US$ 0.067
                     US$ 1.00 = 14.10 ERN

                         FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 ­ December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

C-GMP       Community-Growth Monitoring Program
HH/C-IMCI   Household and Community Integrated Management of Childhood
            Illness
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CCG         Community Caregiver
CDD         Community Driven Development
CFR         Case Fatality Rate
CHW         Community Health Worker
CRC         Convention on the Right of the Child
DP          Development Partner
ECD         Early Childhood Development
ECE         Early Childhood Education
ECEC        Early Childhood Education & Care
EDHS        Eritrea Demographic and Health Survey
EPDF        Education Program Development Fund
ESIP        Education Sector Investment Program
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GoE         Government of Eritrea
GMP         Growth Monitoring and Promotion
HAMSET      HIV/AIDS; Malaria; Sexually Transmitted Diseases; Tuberculosis
HIV/AIDS    Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency
            Syndrome
HIPC        Heavily Indebted Poor Country Initiative
HH          Household
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IEC         Information, Education, Communication
IECDP       Integrated Early Childhood Development Project
IEG         Internal Evaluation Group
IMCI        Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses
ISN         Interim Strategy Note
KG          Kindergarten
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MoE            Ministry of Education
MoH            Ministry of Health
MoLHW          Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare
MDG            Millennium Development Goal
MMR            Maternal Mortality Rate
NSS            Nutrition Surveillance System
NUEW           National Union of Eritrean Women
NUEY           National Union of Eritrean Youth
OVC            Orphan and Vulnerable Children
PDO            Project Development Objective
PMT            Project Management Team
PPA            Participatory Poverty Assessment
PSC            Policy Steering Committee
RRC            Regional Resource Center
SSA            Sub Saharan Africa
TSC            Technical Steering Committee
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
WHO            World Health Organization



         Vice President:             Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
         Country Director:           Johannes C.M. Zutt
         Sector Manager:             Christopher J. Thomas
         Project Team Leader:        Carla Bertoncino
         NCO Team Leader :           Carla Bertoncino
                                       STATE OF ERITREA
                          Integrated Early Childhood Development Project II




                                                    CONTENTS



Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs



  1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 1
  2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation......................................... 16
  3. Assessment of Bank Performance............................................................................. 16
  4. Assessment of Borrower Performance...................................................................... 16
  5. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 17
  Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 18
  Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 19
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Integrated Early
Country:                Eritrea                 Project Name:               Childhood
                                                                            Development Project II
Project ID:             P107254                 L/C/TF Number(s):           IDA-H4120
NCO Date:               06/28/2010
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                            ERITREA
Original Total
                        XDR 7.4M                Disbursed Amount:           XDR 0.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 7.4M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:         03/05/2008   Effectiveness:
Appraisal:              05/07/2008   Closing:                   08/17/2012          08/17/2012
Approval:               06/26/2008

C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                       Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  14
Health                                                             34
Other social services                                              17
Pre-primary education                                              35




                                                i
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                      29
Education for all                                                 29
Nutrition and food security                                       28
Social safety nets                                                14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At NCO                        At Approval
Vice President:          Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili          Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:        Johannes C.M. Zutt                  Colin M. F. Bruce
Sector Manager:           Christopher J. Thomas              Christopher J. Thomas
Project Team Leader:     Carla Bertoncino                    Carla Bertoncino
NCO Team Leader:         Carla Bertoncino
NCO Primary Author:      Carla Bertoncino



F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                                DO                      IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     09/17/2009            Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                   0.00
  2     04/03/2010            Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                   0.00




                                               ii
1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design

A.     Country and Sector Issues at the Time of Appraisal

1.        The last Interim Strategy Note (ISN 2005-07 Report No. 31665-ER), which was
discussed at the Board in March 2005, focused on support for economic and fiscal
reforms. GoE also considered participation in the Heavily Indebted Poor Country
Initiative (HIPC) for which it remained potentially eligible to receive debt relief.
However, client commitment to the necessary reforms was uneven over the course of the
ISN and as a consequence the Bank shifted focus to maximize improved service delivery
through the existing portfolio, largely centered on human development, and select
analytical work.

2.       Domestic policies had not been conducive to growth. While effective in
addressing macroeconomic imbalances, they acted as a constraint on economic growth
resulting in a decline in annual gross domestic product (GDP) growth per capita since
2005. In recognition of this, the GoE had started to adopt a strategy intended to revitalize
the economy by: (i) improving broad-based growth through rural development; (ii)
exploiting valuable mineral deposits; (iii) developing tourism and commercial fishing;
and (v) encouraging investment in newly-established economic tax-free zones. Despite
the weak overall economic performance, the government support for the social sectors
had remained strong and World Bank assistance had achieved positive results in the
health and early childhood and education sectors.

3.      In general, reliable data was difficult to obtain then as it is now. The last
household survey and Participatory Poverty Assessment (PPA), undertaken in 2003, had
estimated around two thirds of the population as living below the poverty line. Women
remained among the most disadvantaged: forty-seven percent of households were headed
by women, half of these widows as a result of Eritrea's turbulent history, and they were
overwhelmingly poor ­ as high as 85 percent according to the PPA. There had been
limited progress toward achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), but
gains had been made in health indicators and to some extent education outcomes where
development partners had continued to provide support.

Sector Issues ­ Health, Nutrition and Food Security, Education and Early Childhood
Development




                                             1
Health

4.       At the time this project was prepared, Eritrea had made admirable progress in
improving the health of its people since independence, especially in malaria, HIV/AIDS
and child survival. Malaria morbidity and mortality had been reduced more than 80
percent since 1999 owing to good control efforts, making Eritrea one of few SSA
countries to have met the Abuja Roll Back Malaria targets. HIV prevalence in Eritrea was
relatively low at 2.4 percent of the adult population, compared to the Sub-Saharan Africa
(SSA) average of 7 percent. According to the latest demographic and health surveys
(DHS), between 1995 and 2002, infant mortality had fallen dramatically from 72 to 48
deaths per 1,000 live births, and under-five mortality from 136 to 93 deaths per 1,000 live
births. Around 76 percent of children aged 12-23 months were fully immunized

5.       Despite such achievements, several health challenges remained. Child health
improvement was still an unfinished agenda. While there had been dramatic reductions in
infant and under-five mortality as discussed above, the neonatal mortality rate remained
around 25 per 1,000 live births. Poor access to safe water and sanitation contributed to
diarrhea, which was the leading cause of illness in children. Maternal health was another
challenge, with the most recent estimate for maternal mortality ratio (MMR) at 450 per
100,000. Disparity in reproductive health outcomes was large, with MMR many times
higher in remote areas such as the Southern Red Sea region than in the capital city of
Asmara. The rate of health facility deliveries was much higher in urban areas (62 percent)
than in rural areas (8.6 percent). The GoE had a strategy under implementation to
address these issues, supported in large part by the HIV/AIDS, Malaria, Sexually
Transmitted Diseases, and Tuberculosis Project (HAMSET) I and II.

Nutrition and Food Security

6.        Malnutrition was a major concern in Eritrea. Data collected at the end of 2006
for the final evaluation for the previous Integrated Early Childhood Development (IECD)
project had estimated that 42 percent of children less than 3 years old were malnourished,
of which 13 percent were severely underweight.

7.       Causes of malnutrition in young children included both its `immediate'
determinants such as child health and nutrition practices as well as the broader context of
food security/food availability. The IECD Project implemented earlier showed that food
security problems could dampen the overall impact of health/nutrition interventions, and
that any reversal would require both additional efforts at the local level through programs
such as Growth Monitoring and Promotion (GMP)1 and addressing food security issues.

8.     Some 40 percent of the Eritrean population was estimated to be chronically food
insecure due to the cumulative effects of repeated droughts, deforestation, and soil
erosion and degradation. Despite relatively good harvests in the two years preceding this

1
  A community-based approach that helps prevent and treat malnutrition in young children through both
education/training and therapeutic feeding interventions.



                                                   2
appraisal, the prices of essential food items and cereals had been increasing - possibly the
impact of higher global food prices. Global food prices had risen by 26 percent in the
previous three years, and along with other resource-poor, small SSA countries, Eritrea
had suffered significantly in terms of trade shocks as a result of increased commodity
prices. Eritrea's food security strategy attempted to mitigate the impact on household
consumption through centrally managed food supplies and rationed availability of basic
commodities at fixed prices. Wheat, sorghum, and barley could be sold only to the GoE,
and were therefore subject to price controls. Fair price shops sold sorghum, sugar, beans,
oil, tea, and pasta, which were rationed for eligible residents based on family size. It is
important to emphasize that there was no independent assessment of the success of this
strategy. The GoE and European Union (EC) had agreed to a new program of support
focused on food security/rural development, road infrastructure and regional connections,
and capacity building. Overall, food security remained a major risk in Eritrea, and was a
specific concern for this operation.

9.    In line with international best practice, the government had adopted a two-
pronged strategy to deal with malnutrition issues:

       (a) A strong program with the support of the World Health Organization (WHO)
           and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) to address issues of
           community nutrition, including GMP. The program was aimed at engaging
           families and communities to help prevent severe malnutrition (for children
           who are moderately malnourished) through educational programs/behavioral
           change as well as referral of severely malnourished children to health units for
           community-based therapeutic and supplemental feeding.

       (b) Prioritization of food security. The Food Security Strategy, 2003, aimed to
           make "food of sufficient quantity and acceptable quality readily accessible to
           all at an affordable price at any time and place within the country." To lower
           aid-dependence, a food-for-work policy had been introduced in 2006 to
           replace free distribution of food aid. A grain board and a crop early warning
           system had been established to manage food supplies. The Board had
           intervened in the market for food in times of scarcity, to stem price increases
           and was expected to hold sufficient stocks so that in times of drought, food
           could be supplied immediately from domestic sources. A food security fund
           had also been set up to ensure that the government could purchase an
           additional three months worth of food on the world market to supplement the
           stocks kept by the grain board.

Education

10.     In the education sector, primary school attendance had increased rapidly
following independence, but at the time of appraisal only 50 percent of children were
completing primary school, compared to a SSA average of 57 percent. On the supply
side there were insufficient numbers of primary schools, textbooks, and trained teachers
to provide quality education. On the demand side, a large nomadic population posed
particular challenges for getting all children into school. The GoE recognized that the


                                             3
development of human capital would be critical for future economic prospects. The
IECD program was intended to help address both supply and demand side challenges by
promoting young children's healthy growth, better development of language abilities and
social skills thus improving their school readiness.

Early Childhood Education and Development

11.     Enrolment in preschools (4 and 5 year olds) was limited but had increased
substantially - by about 6 times over the period 2000-2006 - and net enrolment had risen
from about 4.5 percent to 19 percent, owing largely to a strong community-based
approach supported by the IECD project. In addition, due in part to the government
program the IECD project contributed to, there had been a substantial decrease in
repetition and dropout rates in grade 1. In spite of this achievement, there was a vast
majority of rural children who still did not have access to pre-school and early childcare.
Some development partners such as UNICEF had been providing assistance to the
government in the area of Early Childhood Education (ECE) policy, including support on
capacity building for ECE policy making and program development.

12.    As part of its broad-based growth strategy, the GoE regarded Early Childhood
Development (ECD), and the psychosocial protection of vulnerable children as a
fundamental condition to achieving its long-term development goals. There was a keen
awareness of the importance of investing in young children and the long-term economic
and social returns it could generate. In line with this principle, the GoE had ratified the
Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) in 1994. The government had formulated
policy guidelines for Early Childhood Education and Care (ECEC) in 1995 and for
primary health care, food security and HIV/AIDS in 1998. Several articles in the 1997
national constitution also affirm the ECD imperative. These sectoral policies had
culminated in the finalization of the draft Integrated ECD Policy in 2005. With funding
from the Education Program Development Fund (EPDF) the Bank gave the GoE
technical assistance to cost the implementation of the program endorsed by the Policy.
This preliminary costing exercise provided the development partners (DPs) with
information of the financing gap, and the Bank task team was engaged in a dialogue with
the GoE to explore further fiscal space issues and financing options.

13.    The IECD policy also provided a framework for government, regional,
administration, institution, communities, families and international and national
development partners to invest in and implement integrated ECD programs that
contributed towards realizing the well-being of young children.

14.       Different ministries were implementing sector-specific policies and programs
related to ECD:

          ·   The Ministry of Education (MoE) implemented the ECEC policy,
              supporting equal access to and improved quality of ECEC interventions,
              and the promotion of cost-effective community-based interventions that




                                            4
              promoted and strengthen community responsibility with the intent to
              achieve sustainability of interventions.
          ·   The Ministry of Health (MOH) had prepared policy guidelines on food
              security and nutrition that focused on children and mothers because of their
              observed vulnerability to malnutrition.
          ·   The Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare (MOLHW) had programs in
              place to strengthen the traditional safety nets with a focus on supporting
              children in need of special protection, especially orphans.
          ·   On the civil society side, the National Union of Eritrean Women (NUEW)
              and the National Union of Eritrean Youth (NUEY) were actively engaged
              in advocacy efforts that promoted the rights and well-being of women and
              children.

15.     The GoE recognized that ECD interventions yielded strong and sustainable results
when they are integrated at the community level with support from all administrative
levels in the government. This recognition, as well as the GoE's firm commitment to
ECD, is reflectedin the National Decentralization Policy (Proclamation No. 86/96 for the
Establishment of Regional Administration) whose framework played a critical role in
enhancing effective ECD implementation as demonstrated by the performance of the
IECD project (see paragraph 17). This policy aimed to devolve program management
responsibility to regions (zobas), sub-regions (sub-zobas), and communities as a means of
improving performance, financial transparency and accountability, effectiveness and
sustainability.

B.     Rationale for Bank Involvement

16.     The international evidence on the link between nutrition and pre-schooling and
school readiness is strong: weight-for-age (underweight) at age 2 is a strong predictor of
stunting; malnutrition in early years is linked to 0.7 grades loss of schooling and 7 month
delay in starting school. Malnourished children are more likely to drop out and/or repeat
grades, iodine-deficiency robs children of 13 IQ points on average, and anemia reduces
performance on cognitive tests (IQ) by 8 points. For these reasons, early childhood
development continued to be a priority within government's social sector policies for
humanitarian as well as economic development.

17.     The IECD project, launched in September 2000, with support from the World
Bank, the Italian Cooperation and counterpart funding from the Government of Eritrea
closed on March 31, 2007. The implementation had been satisfactory and project
objectives largely achieved. Of the three self-standing ECD operations of this kind in
Sub-Saharan Africa since the mid `90s, the Eritrea IECD project stood out for the
commitment shown by the Government and other development partners in achieving
satisfactory results. Moreover, the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) had
confirmed the relevance of the IECD Project Development Objective (PDO) ­ an
assessment shared by the Internal Evaluation Group (IEG) and crucial in the decision to
process this operation as a repeater. The proposed operation would have helped
consolidate the achievements made in the IECD project through a targeted, integrated


                                            5
program of support that mitigated the risks identified in the prior operation and built on
its successes. It would have taken advantage of the implementation arrangements that
were already in place and still operational in the project areas.

18.     IECD also remained an area of focus for the development partners ­ mainly WHO
for Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI), and UNICEF for GMP and
household and community based IMCI. The Bank's involvement in the proposed
repeater project provided an opportunity to build on the lessons from the IECD project
and support the Government in enhancing the quality and deepening the integration of
relevant ECD interventions in targeted areas. The Bank's comparative advantage in
reviewing public sector financing and sustainability issues was expected to help the
Government scale up successfully effective ECD interventions, without losing sight of
fiscal constraints. IECD II would also have provided a learning foundation for future
ECD options elsewhere in the region, as well as an opportunity to show the achievements
of integrated ECD to other international partners.

19.     The proposed operation met the criteria for Bank's new financing in Eritrea listed
in the Interim Strategy Note (ISN):
        · The Bank had a comparative advantage and a history of positive engagement
            and results (which the IECD project demonstrated).
        · There was an appropriate sector policy framework in place, agreement with
            the GoE on the remaining policy issues, and a plan for their implementation
            (including a strong IECD Policy).
        · There was demonstrated willingness by the GoE to take on board Bank
            technical and policy advice in the sector (the GoE had requested such
            support).
        · The results were estimated to be sustainable under realistic macroeconomic
            projections, with risk mitigation through the planned experiment with the
            community grant scheme program embedded in the project design and a plan
            for longer term Bank-government engagement on financing strategies.
        · The project-level risks were considered moderate following mitigation
            measures.
        · The development impact was expected to be considerable in terms of either
            direct improvements in well-being or in terms of galvanizing economic
            growth (based on the positive experience with similar interventions in the
            previous Eritrea IECD project and generally accepted research on the benefits
            of ECD).

C.     Higher Level Objectives to which the Project Contributed

20.    The design and implementation of the second phase of the IECD program was
consistent with and supported the government's IECD policy and the Bank's ISN focus
on human development. Through the longer term impact IECD activities were expected
to have on health and education, IECD II would contribute to a number of MDGs relating
to maternal and child health, nutrition, and primary education as well as poverty
reduction. The impact of this project would have been especially high because it focused


                                            6
on the well-being of young children, especially those who were disadvantaged by poverty
and post-conflict conditions.

21.     Building on the success of the IECD project, this operation set the ground work
for a long term scaling up of ECD throughout Eritrea. By consolidating the integrated
program in targeted villages and helping ensure its sustainability through optimal public
funding and community participation, this project would pave the way for a large scale
replication and scaling up of the programs across the country in the following 7-10 years.
This operation, therefore, provided the extra technical assistance and financial `push' so
as to ensure that the achievements of the previous operation were sustained and given
momentum for the longer term.

D.     Lending Instrument

22.     This project was a follow-on operation, processed as a fast-tracked Specific
Investment Loan (SIL), and financed through an IDA Grant. The proposed duration of
the project was four years.

E.     Project Development Objective and Key Indicators

23.     As a repeater and more focused operation, the PDO for IECD II was to improve
the health, nutrition, and access to pre-school education of Eritrean children aged 6
and under in the project villages. A particular effort was to be made across
components/activities to ensure that all Orphans and Vulnerable Children (OVC) in the
target villages would benefit equally from the project.

24.     A crucial lesson had been learned from the previous project in terms of the
indicators for nutrition and early education. Reducing malnutrition is a higher level
outcome and, as such, one that the Country Strategy itself is responsible for ­ as opposed
to an operation or even a subset of HD interventions. In light of this it was suggested that
the PDO achievement of IECD II be measured by simpler, more reliable, and more easily
measurable indicators than used in the first project. Similarly, ECEC can impact
repetition and dropout rates in lower primary school only after 5-7 years of uninterrupted
implementation and, therefore, would not be monitored in this project. A set of
intermediate outcomes and indicators had been agreed upon.

25.    These were the proposed PDO indicators:
       (i) Combined case fatality rate (CFR) from the five main childhood illnesses in
           the project villages; and

       (ii) percent of children enrolled at the correct age (4 and 5 year olds) in
           kindergartens (KGs) and community caregivers (CCGs) in the project
           villages.

26.    Although not as part of its results framework, IECD II would continue tracking
malnutrition rates in the project villages, while the MoH would continue monitoring it
nationwide through its Nutrition Surveillance System (NSS). Likewise, the MoE would


                                             7
keep monitoring the primary education indicators, including repetition and dropout rates.
In terms of the longer term impact that ECD has on children's health, growth, education
outcomes and quality of adult life, an evaluation was being planned in the context of the
Africa Impact Evaluation in Education Program in the World Bank.

27.     During the previous project the capacity to collect and integrate information from
the implementing line ministries had been developed significantly. At the village level,
capacity needed strengthening in order to mainstream the use of the monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) feedback loop. IECD II would address this need by implementing the
village level M&E feedback loop in the target villages at the onset of the project through
proper training and support for the village administrators.

F.       Project Components and Implementation Arrangements

28.     The proposed IECD II would have consolidated and strengthened the existing
IECD interventions to address young children's needs in the areas of maternal and child
health and nutrition, and ECEC through three main components, namely: (i) maternal and
child health and nutrition; (ii) ECEC; and (iii) project management, monitoring and
evaluation, advocacy and strategic communication.

29.     The project would have provided services and support for maternal and young
children's needs: health care, nutrition, cognitive stimulation, and early education. It
would have continued equipping parents, mothers, caregivers and the community with
knowledge and services to support child growth and development, targeted at various
stages of the young child's development. Mothers and caregivers would have been
provided with knowledge on how to deal with childhood illnesses, improve existing
nutrition behaviors, and the value of cognitive stimulation in the early years. Health
clinics and communities would be equipped to address the major childhood illnesses.
Access to early childhood education through preschool centers would have also been
improved.

30.     Interventions were to target 3502villages, where the project would finance
integrated services over the life of the project. Of these, 185 villages were in `ready to
implement' status given that most of them already had implementation structures, and
also had the CCG/KG centers and ongoing GMP interventions. The remaining 165
villages were those with ongoing CCG/KG centers, and they would have become fully
integrated within the first two years of the proposed operation, as health and nutrition
interventions were rolled in. Among other inputs, the proposed operation would have
supported the recurrent costs of the interventions while the communities prepared and

2
  Villages in rural areas in Eritrea are uniformly disadvantaged in access to basic social services. The
target 350 villages for IECD II were chosen on the basis of: (i) prior IECD coverage; and (ii) readiness to
implement an integrated package of ECD services based on availability of pre-school centers, and planned
health and nutrition activities (per MoH's program).




                                                     8
implemented an experimental grant program, the objective of which was to generate a
stream of income to help defray recurrent costs of running CCGs/KGs and Community
Health Workers (CHW)/GMP interventions over the long term.

31.     The proposed operation would have utilized the implementation arrangements
that were already in place at all administrative levels, including at the central, zoba, and
sub-zoba levels. At the central level, the model of a project management team (PMT)
with the responsibility of coordinating all project activities - with guidance from the
policy steering committee (PSC) and the technical support committee (TSC) - would
continue as in the previous project. These teams and committees were operational at the
time of appraisal. At the village level, the proposed operation would have utilized
existing village administrators, mainstreaming the task of coordinating the integrated
interventions at the community/village level.

Maternal & Child Health and Nutrition (US$4.3 million)

32.      This component aimed to: (i) improve case management and skills of health
workers, community health workers (Household/Community - HH/C-IMCI, covering
children aged 5 and under) through training in prevention and treatment of childhood
illnesses with the highest morbidity and mortality, and prevention of malnutrition in
children under five years of age; (ii) improve the nutritional status of children 2 years
and under, and pregnant and nursing mothers through improving health and nutrition
practices in communities, with particular emphasis on exclusive breastfeeding during the
first six months from birth; improving household and community response to childhood
illnesses, nutrition issues, and quality of care provided to pregnant mothers and young
children at home; and (iii) empower communities and caregivers to improve
family/child health care practices through promotion of a supportive and enabling
environment at the household and community level for children's survival, growth and
development; improving appropriate and timely health care seeking behavior when
children need assistance outside home; and increasing compliance to recommended
treatment and advice from health professionals. The unallocated amount of US$1 million
was to be used to meet any unforeseen needs, e.g. to procure therapeutic feeding should
an episode of food insecurity arise in the project areas during implementation. The GoE
Policy Steering Committee, in consultation with the Bank, would determine how to use
this amount as the project was implemented, according to demand and effectiveness of
interventions.

33.    This component would have addressed two essential requisites for HH/C-IMCI
and GMP to be effective: (i) provision of essential IMCI drugs3 as close to the
communities as possible with appropriate training of persons responsible for dispensing
them; and (ii) implementing protocols for treatment and management of severe and
moderate malnutrition, including provision of therapeutic feeding. For these two
interventions, the government was expected to work closely with other partners providing

3
    These are basic drugs, e.g. paracetamol, co-trimoxasol, Oral Rehydration Salts.




                                                       9
support to GoE, especially UNICEF which has expertise in the area of HH/C-IMCI and
GMP implementation. The project would finance: relevant training for Health Workers,
CHWs and GMP promoters; HH/C-IMCI medicine kits, including drugs to equip CHWs;
eventual therapeutic feeding to prevent and cure severe malnutrition cases.

Early Childhood Education and Care (US$6.6 million)

34.      This component aimed to: (i) consolidate quality in ECEC services in the 350
target villages through refresher training for service care providers, provision of enhanced
learning materials and teaching aids for the KGs and CCGs, professional capacity
building for all new ECEC service providers, parenting enrichment training (through
training 2500 adult education facilitators), and introduction of pre-school based delivery
of preventive health services; (ii) enhance inclusion of OVCs (mainly orphans) through
the community based program that aimed to integrate orphans into families. It was
estimated that 4400 orphans would have been re-united with families through provision
of OVC grants to support income generating schemes for the benefit of the families; and
(iii) pilot grant scheme program of ECD services at the community level through
establishing a mechanism of providing small community grants that the communities
could have used to acquire and build assets. Approximately 50 to 100 villages would
have been selected to implement the pilot of the community grants scheme. The approach
would have been scaled up in all project villages based on evidence of success4 and
would have taken into account the lessons learned from the pilot villages. There would
have been process established of continuous assessment and feedback of experiences in
the implementation of community grants. In order to maximize learning from the pilot,
villages would have been selected to represent the microclimatic/agricultural variety in
the country (e.g. lowlands vs. highlands), as well as low and high capacity levels. A
detailed implementation plan would guide the roll-out of the pilot community grants
scheme as well as the subsequent scaling-up. If successful, such an approach would have
both empowered communities and helped improve the quality and sustainability of ECE
programs. An independent evaluation of the approach was planned by the third year of
the project.

35.      Furthermore, the ongoing Regional Resource Centers (RRC) built in Phase I
would have been further strengthened and supported to become centers of excellence for
ECD in each zoba, including ensuring its use in training programs and illustrating model
teaching, monitoring and evaluation. UNICEF would have provided support to the MOE
in assessing the needs and requirements of these RRCs and in helping to strengthen their
services. The Project would have financed: relevant technical assistance and training for
ECEC supervisors and adult education facilitators; in-service training for KG teachers,
CCGs, as well as sensitization of lower primary school teachers and directors on ECD
issues; learning materials and teaching aids for KGs and CCGs; and community grants to
develop community level sustainability of ECD interventions.

Project Management, Monitoring, Evaluation, Advocacy and Strategic
Communication (US$1.8 million)

4
    Based on the capacity of the pilot community to contribute to the recurrent costs of the ECD program.


                                                      10
36.     This component aimed to: (i) strengthen project management and
implementation through an efficient system of coordinating project activities across the
Ministries of Health and Education and at various administrative levels; timely
monitoring, supervision and evaluation, including collecting relevant data and
information, analyses, and reporting on results; and ensuring reliable and timely
procurement functions and financial management and reporting; and (ii) implement
effective Advocacy and Strategic Communications, through various communication
mechanisms and exchanges of information/ knowledge for increasing awareness of
parents and caregivers with regard to their children's health, nutrition, education and
psychosocial development.     The Project would have financed: operating costs;
consultancies (including auditing costs); training; printing of advocacy and
communication materials.

G.      Risk Analysis

Risk Identification and Mitigation Strategies Matrix
Risk factors                Description of risk          Risk    Mitigation measures             Rating
                                                        rating                                     of
                                                                                                residual
                                                                                                  risk
I. Country-Level Risks
Capacity constraints   Weak capacity to manage            S      · Improve counterpart             S
                       projects could lead to waste                capacity through the
                       and reduce the effectiveness                design of Bank projects.
                       of available resources.                   · Coordinate closely with
                                                                   partners who are also
                                                                   providing assistance to
                                                                   build government
                                                                   capacity (EC and UN
                                                                   agencies).
Fiduciary Risks         Analytic work on public           H      · Maintain offer of support       H
                        financial management                       for design or financing of
                        (PFM) in Eritrea not                       capacity building for
                        available. Limited available               public financial
                        information indicates PFM                  management and
                        weaknesses (e.g., weak                     procurement to upgrade
                        budget-policy link, low                    practices.
                        level of fiscal transparency,            · Ensure satisfactory
                        non-availability of budget                  fiduciary practices
                        plan or budget execution                    (procurement and
                        information outside of                      financial management)
                        government). Findings of a                  in Bank-financed
                        World Bank review in 2002,                  projects through project-
                        which were still valid,                     specific measures.
                        include: i) the country did              · Monitor assessments of
                        not have a sound                           corruption from other
                        procurement system in                      development partners for
                        place; ii) the procurement                 signs of problems.
                        practices were less than
                        fully transparent; iii)
                        institutional capacity was



                                                  11
                         weak, and vi) open
                         competitive bidding was
                         infrequently used, etc.
II. Sector-Level Risks
Sector Governance,       In the case of the Human         L   · Government                    L
Policies and             Development sectors                    commitment in the HD
Institutions             (Education, Health and                 sectors in general and
                         Social Protection), the                early childhood sector in
                         GoE's commitment was                   particular was expected
                         very high, especially                  to remain strong.
                         towards the healthy
                         development of young
                         children. The GoE policies
                         and institutions, as well as
                         the demonstrated results,
                         clearly reflected this high
                         level of commitment.
III. Operation-specific Risks
Gap in Implementation    At the central level, there      M   · The zoba level PMT staff      L
                         was no gap. The                        would be reassigned to
                         implementation structure               the implementation team
                         under the previous project             before effectiveness.
                         that had closed a year prior
                         remained and participated in
                         the preparation of the
                         proposed project. However,
                         at the zoba level PMT staff
                         had been reassigned to other
                         tasks.

                         At the village level, capacity       · The village level M&E
M&E                                                       M                                   L
                         needed strengthening in                feedback loop in the
                         order to mainstream the use of         target villages would be
                         the M&E feedback loop.
                                                                implemented at the onset
                                                                of the project through
                                                                training and support for
                                                                the Village
                                                                Administrators.

Sustainability           One objective the previous       H   · First, the Government         S
                         operation had not achieved              and the Bank were
                         was the sustainability of the           expected to review
                         ECD interventions at the                public expenditure and
                         community level.                        fiscal space issues in the
                                                                 overall education sector
                                                                 with a focus on the lower
                                                                 levels. Second, the
                                                                 Government would pilot
                                                                 a grant scheme program
                                                                 to communities so they
                                                                 could build assets that
                                                                 would then help defray
                                                                 local level recurrent
                                                                 costs, such as caregivers'
                                                                 salary and incentives to


                                                    12
                                                                  CHW and GMP
                                                                  promoters, or other small
                                                                  O&M costs. This
                                                                  approach of engaging
                                                                  communities built on
                                                                  other successful models
                                                                  of community-based
                                                                  interventions around the
                                                                  world as well as locally.
Food Security           Food insecurity may have          S   · A portion of the grant
                        occurred during the life of             would be allocated as           M
                        the project and negatively              contingency fund to
                        affected the nutritional                overcome food insecurity
                        status of the < 3 yrs. olds.            should such event have
                                                                occurred.
Financial management    Lack of familiarity with the      S   · Format of IFR agreed            M
(FM)                    establishment of Interim                between Bank and
                        Financial Reporting.                    implementing entity at
                                                                Negotiations. Finance
                                                                staff number increase
                                                                agreed between Bank
                                                                and implementing entity
                                                                at Negotiations.

                        Absence of audit committee            · Interim internal control
                        and lack of internal audit                reviews to be carried out
                        function.                                 by independent external
                                                                  auditors every 6 months

                                                              ·    Residual Risk is currently
                                                                  Substantial, and is
                                                                  expected to reduce to
                                                                  Moderate when agreed
                                                                  measures are implemented
                                                                  ­ as in para 78]...
Procurement             Lack of SBD in compliance         H   SBD in compliance to the          S
                        with the New Guidelines;              new guidelines would be
                        weak capacity for selection           prepared by effectiveness.
                        of consultants; and Lack of           The Procurement Officer
                        adequate records                      would take refresher
                                                              training course in Selection
                                                              and Employment of
                                                              consultants (current
                                                              edition); improvements in
                                                              procurement records
                                                              management would be
                                                              introduced.
Social and                          None
environmental
safeguards
Other (for example         See country level risks
project specific                  above
corruption risks,
country ownership of
project/program, cost



                                                     13
escalation, prevalence
of failures in similar
projects, adverse
external developments
affecting costs/benefits
of the project )
IV. The Overall Residual Risk: Substantial
H = High; S = Substantial; M = Moderate; L = Low

Quality at Entry

Quality at Entry was not assessed, but the preparation team strove to assure it by basing
the design of the operation on the successful features of its predecessor as summarized in
the following section.

H.       Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design

37.   The following lessons learned, most of them described in detail in the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of IECD, were reflected in the project design.

         a) Integration of Nutrition and HH/C-IMCI, and contingency plans. IECD
            demonstrated that nutrition interventions are successful when integrated with
            health interventions. Furthermore, in environments that can experience food
            insecurity episodes, it is essential to have a contingency plan that can be
            activated fast if needed, which the proposed project includes in its design.

         b) National ownership and buy-in is important in achieving development
            outcomes. Clearly, the achievements realized in IECD result from the GoE not
            viewing its role as purely that of a beneficiary or facilitator. The commitment
            and responsiveness shown by the GoE was that of a majority shareholder
            whose development interests were the paramount considerations in all
            deliberations made and decisions taken. Such support and interest was
            forthcoming during the preparation of this repeater operation.

         c) Role of Project Units. Different from the traditional PIUs which carry out
            implementation for and report to the line ministries, the PMT in IECD
            coordinated the line ministries' implementation of decentralized, multi-
            sectoral operations. It also facilitated the communication across levels of
            administration, and performed the FM and procurement functions on behalf of
            the line ministries, with their technical inputs. This model worked well, with
            the PMT reporting to the Policy Steering Committee, chaired by the Ministry
            of Education, and receiving guidance from the Technical Support Committee,
            chaired by the Director General of General Education. The same structure
            would continue in IECD II, with a greater focus on mainstreaming the
            program at the village level (at the zoba and subzoba levels, the IECD
            program is already almost fully mainstreamed).




                                             14
d) Monitoring and Evaluation. It is very common to underestimate the risk of
   insufficient M&E capacity, especially in multi-sectoral, decentralized
   operations as these require both horizontal and vertical links, in turn calling
   for a complex/integrated M&E framework. A thorough assessment of the
   capacity to operationalize such a framework, including the relative readiness
   of the participating line ministries, and a corresponding risk mitigation
   strategy should clarified in projects of this type. The preparation of IECD II
   has taken this lesson into account by simplifying the M&E framework and
   clearly defining the roles and responsibilities for M&E, including M&E at the
   village level.

e) Component Design and Relevant Policies. Considering the intent of
   delivering an integrated package of services, it would be advisable to design
   project components around the level of implementation (e.g. community,
   regional, national) as opposed to the lines of the interventions, as was the case
   initially under IECD. This project is designed to fully integrate its services at
   the village level.

f) Development Partners Engagement and Coordination. Of the three self-
   standing ECD projects in Sub-Saharan Africa implemented recently (Kenya,
   Uganda and Eritrea), IECD was the only one that largely achieved its
   objectives. A major lesson to be learnt from the evaluation of the three
   operations is that a formal, well coordinated partnership among all the
   involved development partners, local and international, is necessary for a
   successful outcome. This was not the case in any of these projects. In Eritrea,
   an informal partnership worked because of: (i) the project almost exclusively
   built on existing interventions supported by the GoE and other development
   agencies; (ii) the small number of development partners; and (iii) the GoE's
   unwavering commitment and consistent guidance. IECD II builds on these
   experiences by continuing to work closely with WHO and UNICEF.

g) Limited community ownership and capacity. One strong lesson from the
   relative low impact area of IECD is that communities need time to understand
   the benefits of interventions, and need to be supported to develop their own
   plans for sustainability. IECD II proposes to set right this aspect through the
   grant scheme program embedded in its design, continuous technical support,
   and intensive sensitization campaigns.




                                    15
2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation.
(main events leading to cancellation, steps taken to resolve problems, exogenous factors,
identification of causes and responsibility if project failed, implications of failure):

38.      It may help to state upfront that the reason for the cancellation was nothing to do
with project content or design, and was entirely extraneous to the IECD project itself.
The Financing Agreement (FA) for this operation was signed on August 28, 2008.
When, ten days later, the GoE received the Supplemental Letter (SL) to the FA for
signature, an immediate reply was sent informing the Bank that the GoE saw no
justification in signing the SL since it had already subscribed to the standard General FA,
and therefore to IDA's General Conditions. The Bank's numerous attempts to persuade
the GOE to sign the SL proved unfruitful and eventually the Grant was withdrawn with a
letter to the GoE dated December 18, 2008. After the Grant withdrawal, several high
level exchanges took place between the GoE and the Bank to remedy the situation and
avoid a severe loss for Eritrea (a total of USD 29.5 million for IECD II and the additional
financing for a power sector operation combined) but the impasse could not be overcome.

3. Assessment of Bank Performance
(lending process/ensuring Quality at Entry, supervision and implementation assistance
role, compliance with Bank policies, justification for rating):

In terms of lending process and quality at entry, the Bank performance is rated
Satisfactory. Mindful of the importance to make a seamless transition from the first to
the second phase of the IECD program, as well as to avoid losing the uncommitted
balance under the IDA 14 allocation for the country5, the Bank proactively engaged the
GoE to start preparing IECD II early on, during the completion and closing process of its
predecessor. However, it was not until March 2008 that the GoE officially decided how
it wished to use its residual IDA allocation, and the Bank team prepared the operation for
Board approval in three months without being able to avail itself of the simplified
procedure for repeater operations due to the country level high risk rating that ultimately
required a Regional Operations Committee review. As regards the signing process, the
Bank performance was less than satisfactory as it failed to send the SL together with the
FA as an integral part of the negotiated package. There is no basis for rating the
supervision and implementation assistance role as this operation was never declared
effective.

4. Assessment of Borrower Performance
(government and implementing agency performance, compliance with covenants,
justification for rating):




5
    The IDA 14 cycle was due to close June 30, 2008.




                                                       16
The Borrower performance during the lending process is rated Satisfactory as the GoE
fully kept up with the extremely tight schedule the task team had to follow. By the time
the FA was signed, the GoE had already met all the conditions for effectiveness. Credit
should be given to the GoE for including the ECD caregivers hired under the IECD
project in the teacher payroll even in the absence of a second phase. There is no basis for
rating the Borrower implementation performance as this operation never became
effective.

5. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Not applicable




                                            17
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                            Responsibility/
          Names                            Title                 Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Carla Bertoncino                           Economist            AFTED            TTL
Harold H. Alderman                          Adviser             AFTHD
Henry Amena Amuguni            Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
Efrem Fitwi                          Procurement Analyst        AFTPC
Arun R. Joshi                         Sr. Education Spec.       AFTED
Yi-Kyoung Lee                          Health Specialist        AFTHE
Son Nam Nguyen                         Sr. Health Spec.         ECSHD
Dung-Kim Pham                         Operations Officer        AFTED
Nightingale Rukuba-Ngaiza                 Sr. Counsel           LEGAF
Luis M. Schwarz                     Senior Finance Officer      LOAFC
Helen Giorghis Taddese                Program Assistant        Consultant
Saba Solomon Tekle                   Executive Assistant        AFMER
Christopher D. Walker                   Lead Specialist         AFTHE
Samuel Iyasu Zerom              Resource Management Analyst     AFTRM
Supervision/NCO
                                                                             NCO Team
Carla Bertoncino                         Economist             AFTED
                                                                              Leader




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY08                                                                       190.96
                            Total:                                           190.96
Supervision/NCO
                            Total:                                             0.00




                                            18
Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents

Implementation Completion Report for IECD
Project Appraisal Document for IECD II
Implementation Status Reports for IECD II




                                            19
MAP




      45
