Document of            FILE COpy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2843-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
THIRD LIVESTOCK AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
June 24, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit -  Philippine Peso (FP)
P. 1    5  US$0.135
P. 7.40 = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 ha     -  2.47 acres
1 km     =  0.62 miles
1 sq km  -  0.386 sq mi
1 mi     -  3.28 ft
1 sq m   -  10.76 sq ft
1 cu m   -  35.31 cu ft
1 M cu m -  810.7 ac ft
I mm     =  0.039 in
1 kg     -  2.2 lb
ABBREVIATIONS
ACA    -  Agricultural Credit Administration
APD    - Agricultural Projects Department
BAAD   -  Branches and Agencies Department
BAI    -  Bureau of Animal Industry
BFAR   - Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
DBP    -  Development Bank of the Philippines
FAO    -  Food and Agriculture Organization
FIDC   -  Fisheries Industry Development Council
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidd4ng
LBP    -  Land Bank of the Philippines
NEDA   -  National Economic and Development Authority
PCR    -  Project Completion Report
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
THIRD LIVESTOCK AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:         The Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:      The Development Bank of the Philippines
Amount:            $45 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 8.25% p.a.
Relending terms:  $41.3 million would be onlent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP) on the same terms as those of the
Bank loan, of which $40.0 million would be onlent by DBP to
subborrowers for investment projects in the livestock and
fisheries subsectors. The remaining $1.3 million would
fund technical assistance to DBP by way of consultancies.
Prolect
Description:    The project objectives are to increase production of
animal protein and to strengthen the institutional
capability for implementing this and future projects.
Its subcomponents will be broadly determined by an
annual lending program prepared by DBP in consultation
with concerned agencies of the Government and the Bank.
The project's credit components are envisaged to include
financing of small livestock and cattle, fishponds and
marine vessels and other items to support the two sub-
sectors, including slaughter-houses, iceplants, etc.
Although production is its principal objective, the
project aims to support small- and medium-scale
entrepreneurs in order to redress some of the regional
development imbalances. Noncredit components include
consultant services and support to sectoral agencies.
The main risks include the possibility of inadequate
interagency coordination, possible lack of regional focus
and narrowing profit margins if output prices continue to
be held down by Government. The loan agreement contains a
number of provisions concerned with interagency
coordination and the strengthening of the regional focus.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Kof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -  
Foreign
Estimated Cost:                       Local      Exchange     Total
------   $ million---------
A. Credit /1
Small livestock                  36.7       2.2          38.9
Cattle                            2.5       0.1           2.6
Fishponds                        27.7       3.1          30.8
Marine (vessels)                  6.7       10.0         16.7
Base Cost of Credit                73.6       15.4         89.0
Price Contingency                  29.2        4.2         33.4
Total - Credit                    102.8       19.6        122.4
B. Noncredit /2
Base Cost of Noncredit           10.3        1.7         12.0
Contingency:  Physical            1.2       0.2           1.4
Price              4.5       0.4           4.9
Total - Noncredit                  16.0        2.3         18.3
C.  Total Project
Base Cost                        83.9      17.1         101.0
Contingencies                    34.9       4.8          39.7-
Total Project Cost              118.8      21.9         140.7
Financing Plan:              Borrowers' equity  DBP/Gov't /3 IBRD        Total
------------------ $ million -----------------
A.   Credit                          15.12           67.32      39.95   122.39
B.   Noncredit                          -            13.22       5.05    18.27
Total                15.12           80.54     45.00   140.66
/1  The final mix of subprojects is unknown as funds for this component are
provided to DBP on a flexible basis. The above breakdown represents
a possible combination of subprojects, based on past subloan demand and
DBP's loan processing capacity.
/2  Support and consultancies to the Bureau of Animal Industry, Fisheries
Industry Development Council, Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
and DBP.
/3  Includes $15 from the proceeds of the Yen Bond (No. 1 Series Issue) of
1978.



- iii -
Estimated                                      $ million
Disbursements:  Bank FY               1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual                4      15      16      10
Cumulative           4       19      35     45
Rate of Return:  Composite economic rate of return is about 28%.  The rate
will vary substantially depending on the final mix of subprojects.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 2828-PH, dated June 13, 1980






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
THIRD LIVESTOCK AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $45.0 million
to help finance the Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP). The loan would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum. $41.3
million of the proceeds of the loan would be relent to the Development Bank
of the Philippines on the same terms as those of the Bank loan. The
Government would also relend to DBP the equivalent of $15 million from the
proceeds of the Yen Bond (No. 1 Series Issue) 1978 to finance part of the
credit component of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977
and its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
PHL-77-2, dated October 27, 1977. An updating economic mission visited the
Philippines in May/June 1979, and its report, entitled "The Philippines:
Domestic and External Resources for Development"' (No. 2674-PH), was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors under SecM79-822, dated November 16, 1979.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at an
annual rate of about 5-1/2%, but with more effective economic management the
rate of growth could have been higher. The pattern of growth was also
structurally unsatisfactory in a number of respects. The benefits of devel-
opment were distributed relatively unevenly, with respect to both regions
and income classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably
satisfactory, repeated foodgrain deficits were experienced. The growth of
productive employment opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion
of the labor force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services. Finally, poor
export performance combined with heavy import-dependence of domestic
industry led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        During the 1970s there were significant improvements in economic
management. Public revenues have been increased substantially, public
sector implementation capacity has been strengthened, and the ratio of
public investment to GNP raised from 2% in the early 1970s to 5.5% in
1976-78. Private investment also increased, and the ratio of total fixed
investment to GNP rose from 16% in the early 1970s to 25% in 1976-78. As a
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that of the
President's Report for the Watershed Management and Erosion Control
Project, scheduled for Board presentation on July 1, 1980.



- 2 -
consequence of higher levels of investment, the construction industry boomed.
Agriculture has performed well in response to the spread of irrigation and
higher yielding rice varieties, more favorable price policies, and some
improvements in supporting services. Selective steps were taken to promote
nontraditional manufactured exports, which have grown rapidly. On the other
hand, the performance of that part of the manufacturing sector oriented to
the domestic market has remained only "fair" in a comparative sense and has
been inadequate in relation to the Philippines' need to generate productive
employment opportunities. The net effect of the above developments has been
acceleration in the trend GNP growth rate by one percentage point to 6-1/2%.
5.        An important constraint has been placed on Philippine development
options by the sharp deterioration of the country's terms of trade since
1975, stemming from the increase in oil prices, acceleration of international
inflation and depressed prices for some major Philippine commodity exports.
As a result, real national income has been growing more slowly than real
national product, and, with the higher level of investment, the dependence of
the economy on foreign savings has increased. Although the terms of trade
have recently stabilized, the current account deficit is still about 6% of
GNP.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call for
further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance
of payments and increased development of rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes growth strategies for each of the country's thirteen regions. In
general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the
Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's
assessment of priorities, although Plan projections for overall growth,
investment, manufacturing output, and exports are somewhat higher than Bank
staff estimates.
Agriculture and Rural Development
7.        In recent years the trend growth rate of the agricultural sector
has been about 5%, which by international standards is quite good. However,
variations among subsectors have been considerable. Due to the spread of
irrigation and high yielding varieties, irrigated rice production has
increased rapidly. The Philippines, once a chronic importer of rice, has
exported over 300,000 tons of rice since 1977. With the completion of large
irrigation projects now under implementation, continued rice self-sufficiency
appears assured for the 1980s (see para. 32). On the other hand, locally
adapted technologies for improving yields of rainfed grains, particularly
corn, are still under development, and rainfed agricultural areas have a
high incidence of poverty. Productivity in the coconut sector is relatively
low because of a large number of overaged trees, but a major replanting
program is scheduled to begin in 1980 when a sufficient number of high
yielding variety seedlings will become available. Increasing pressure of



- 3 -
population on the land and inadequately controlled logging have led to soil
erosion and deterioration of some forest areas. The Plan calls for a major
reforestation effort, but this will require substantial upgrading of
Government administrative capabilities in this area, development of new hill
cropping technologies, and resolution of difficult land tenure problems.
8.        As well as providing greater support for agricultural production,
the Government has substantially expanded programs such as water supply,
electrification, and health in rural areas. An agrarian reform was also
instituted in 1972 which provides for transfer of tenanted holdings of rice
and corn land in excess of seven hectares and enforcement of leasehold
instead of sharecropping on remaining tenanted holdings. As of July 1979,
about 75% of land transfer beneficiaries had received Certificates of Land
Transfer (the initial step in the process of establishing their claim to the
land), and about 18% had completed all steps necessary to begin amorti-
zation payments. About 67% of leasehold beneficiaries cultivating rice and
corn land had established written contracts with their landlords.
Industry
9.        Manufacturing has grown at an average rate of about 6-1/2% during
the 1970s. The greater part of the sector, oriented to the domestic market,
has been promoted by high tariff protection and an incentive system which has
favored the use of relatively capital-intensive production techniques.
Relatively little employment has been generated in relation to Philippine
factor endowments. Macro statistics such as the incremental capital-output
ratio suggest that the efficiency of investment has been low, and most manu-
facturing plants have located in the Greater Manila area. Reforms of tariffs
and other industrial incentives to bring these into line with development
objectives are presently being considered by the Government.
10.       Beginning in 1970, selective measures have been introduced to
promote nontraditional manufactured exports, including various arrangements
to permit firms in selected export industries to import needed goods free of
duty. Entrepreneurs have responded to these opportunities, and receipts
from nontraditional manufactured exports increased from just over $100 mil-
lion in 1972 to an estimated $1.3 billion in 1979.
Population Growth, Employment and Income Distribution
11.       The 1979 population is estimated at 46.7 million.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active family planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced
the increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated
proportion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning
increased from 15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978. However, by East Asian
standards, this index is still relatively low.



- 4 -
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% anually during 1973-78, a con-
siderable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and in
recent years has kept pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. With
the exhaustion of most new land resources suitable for cultivation and the
exploitation of the most easily irrigable areas, industry will have to
provide employment for about one half of the new entrants to the labor force
in the next decade. Employment in manufacturing essentially stagnated
during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually during 1975-77, resulting in part
from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However, because
manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and services
still continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the increase in total employment.
13.       For historical reasons, income distribution has been highly skewed
in the Philippines, and there is a small elite which is conspicuously
wealthy. Due to a structural improvement in agriculture's terms of trade,
the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages
following the devaluation in 1970, and subsequent acceleration of interna-
tional inflation and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975, the
ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from 0.48
in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Nevertheless, the incidence of poverty remains
high, at 40-45%, in both rural and urban areas, and malnutrition is
widespread.
Public Finance
14.       The public sector has historically claimed a much smaller share
of national resources in the Philippines than in many other developing
countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure averaged only
12% of GNP; public investment was strikingly low at about 2% of GNP; and tax
revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were dominated by
general administration and social services, particularly education. This
situation had resulted from a variety of factors including difficulties in
raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the public sector.
Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to correct this
situation and has raised both the overall level of expenditures and the
shares going to economic services and public investment. By 1978, government
expenditures reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and public investment equaled
about 5.5% of GNP. This expansion of public expenditures has brought about
badly needed improvement in basic infrastructure particularly in transpor-
tation, power and irrigation, as well as the development of more effective
programs in the field of urban development, health and family planning.
15.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues equitably
and efficiently. The overall tax ratio was raised by more than two percent-
age points between 1975 and 1978 through a series of new tax measures and



- 5 -
vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance.
However, the recent rapid growth of the public investment program has made
the Government's budget position quite tight in 1978-79. Continuation of a
strong revenue effort, both by the Government and the government corporations,
is necessary to allow for further expansion in infrastructure and social
services.
Private Savings and the Financial Sector
16.       Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. Gross domestic savings now finance about 85% of total invest-
ment, with the balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase
the efficiency of financial markets in intermediating between savers and
investors, the Government has made significant improvements in financial
policy. Organized banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest
rates were realigned to encourage a greater flow of financial savings into
time and savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes and to
reduce the spread between borrowing and lending rates. Further reforms are
required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency
resources. Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to
the credit-short agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs
of medium- and small-scale industries. A deterioration of loan recovery
rates was initially experienced by all government financial institutions and
credit programs. The Government has taken a number of steps to improve
collections; continued efforts in this direction are necessary to improve
financial discipline and ensure an adequate flow of credit to the productive
sectors without burdening the public finances.
17.       In response to the large balance of payments deficit in 1975 (see
para. 5 above), the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export
growth both to hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute
terms, while letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the
debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
External Trade and Capital Flows
18.       The current account initially behaved as anticipated - averaging
$1.0 billion per year but declining from 6.2% of GNP in 1976 to 4.1% of GNP
in 1977. However, since then actual developments have deviated from the
original scenario. First, the volume of commodity exports, particularly
sugar, has increased less rapidly than expected. Second, real import growth
has, on the other hand, been more rapid than anticipated, partly as a result
of a recovery of private investment and partly because of speculative
importing in 1979. Third, although prices for some commodity exports
(coconut products, copper) have increased substantially, the terms of trade
in 1979 were only marginally better than in 1976-77 due to the increased
price of petroleum imports and the acceleration of inflation in the OECD
countries which supply most of the Philippines' non-oil imports. The
combined effect has been a widening of the current account deficit to an
estimated $1.8 billion in 1979.



- 6 -
19.       In order to maintain growth and investment rates in the face of
the worsened external environment, major structural adjustment is necessary
to improve the balance of payments position. Initial steps have already
been taken with respect to export promotion, and major changes in trade,
industrial and financial policies are currently under consideration.
However, such adjustments will require a number of years to effect the
needed structural improvement in the balance of payments. The medium-term
outlook, therefore, is for high current account deficits although falling as a
percentage of GNP from 6% in 1980 to 4.7% in 1982.
20.       Net capital inflows doubled from the 1975 level of $580 million to
an estimated $1.2 billion in 1979, leaving an overall deficit of about $500
million. Most of the capital inflows came from medium- and long-term loans,
with about 40% from official sources. In 1980, a net capital inflow of at
least $1.8 billion will be required, increasing to $2.2 billion per year in
1981 and 1982. The ratio of debt service payments to exports of goods and
nonfactor services is expected to rise from an estimated 20% in 1979 to an
average level of 22% during the 1980-82 period, and to decline thereafter.
21.        In order to ensure that debt service obligations remain within
reasonable limits, the Government sought commitments of official assistance
of at least $1.0 billion in 1980 at the last meeting of the Consultative
Group for the Philippines, held in Washington, D.C. in December 1979. The
Group endorsed the Government's request.
22.       Satisfactory progress has been made in domestic resource mobiliza-
tion (paras. 15-18). However, because of the increase in the Philippines'
external financing requirements arising from the deterioration in the terms of
trade, and the fact that many of the projects planned for official assistance
have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary resource transfer can be
achieved only with some financing of local costs of projects, or through non-
project lending.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
23.       As of April 30, 1980, the Philippines had received 68 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,181.9 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million, together with an advance of
$50,000 under the Project Preparation Facility. At that date, IFC
investments totalled $93.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in total
debt disbursed and outstanding is currently about 13% and its share in total
debt service is about 6%. These ratios are expected to be about 23% and
16%, respectively, by 1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits,
Bank loans and IFC investments as of April 30, 1980, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Watershed Management and Erosion Control
Project, scheduled for Board presentation on July 1, 1980.



- 7 -
24.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of the
economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure,
which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank Group lending. In
agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irrigation system to
increase food production and to credit programs to support foodgrain produc-
tion and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree farming production.
Support has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in
low income areas. The Bank Group has also provided large amounts of assis-
tance in developing power and transportation to provide the basis for future
growth of the productive sectors. Substantial improvement in basic
infrastructure has been needed to compensate for many years of past neglect
due to low levels of public expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank's
main thrust has been on strengthening the capacity of public and private
development finance institutions with increasing attention given to meeting
the needs of small and medium industries.
25.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project comple-
tion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are likely
to be in line with appraisal estimates. However, disbursements have been
somewhat less than might be expected for a country having a relatively
high level of management capability, and the Government has recently adopted
a number of measures to expedite implementation of the public investment
program incuding more flexible budgetary and contract review procedures.
26.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricultural
and rural development will account for the largest part of future lending
with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase the
productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program provides for
several needed new initiatives, including support for agricultural
diversification through a commercial crops project and for small fishermen
through a national fisheries project. Assistance will also be provided for
integrated rural development projects which will support the Government's
objectives of redressing regional imbalances in income. Substantial
assistance will also continue to be given to industry with considerable
attention given to policy reform through a structural adjustment loan and
a financial sector loan, and to expanding the development of laborintensive,
small and medium industries outside of the Metropolitan Manila area. A
significant share of Bank lending will continue to be directed to social
sector projects to upgrade living conditions of low-income people in urban
areas, improve the quality of education and expand the Government's



- 8 -
population program in rural areas. While the Bank Group will continue to
provide support for transportation and power infrastructure needed to
support the Philippine development effort, the share of Bank lending for
these sectors will decline somewhat in the years ahead primarily because
alternative sources of financing are available to finance a large part of
the power generation program.
27.       This is the second loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. A program loan to support structural
adjustment in the industrial sector has been appraised and is scheduled for
Board presentation in the next month or two.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Rural and Agricultural Sector
28.       Some 31 million people or 70% of the Philippine population live in
rural areas where social services are poor, economic activities limited, agri-
cultural productivity often low and underemployment high. About 60% depend
directly on agriculture. The rural population is growing at 2.7% per year,
reflecting a natural increase of about 3.2% and an annual rate of migration to
the cities of 0.5%.
29.       Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Philippine economy,
accounting for about 30% of GDP, slightly more than 50% of total employment,
and 55-60% of the foreign exchange earnings. Nearly three-quarters of the
land under cultivation is devoted to grains production, notably rice and corn.
Other principal crops are sugar, coconuts, abaca, pineapple and tobacco.
30.       The major part of the Philippines' agriculture comprises small-scale
farms. The national average landholding is about 3.6 ha. Most of the
nonmarginal lands, especially in the lowland areas, are under cultivation,
and agricultural development and improvement of farm incomes critically
depend on increased productivity of the already cultivated lands.
Government's Sectoral Objectives
31.       Government's agricultural policy emphasizes food and feed produc-
tion, particularly to achieve nutritional improvements, crop diversification,
reforestation and stronger linkages between agriculture and industry. Key
components of the development strategy are agrarian reform of rice and corn
lands and rural infrastructure development, improved extension and credit
programs aimed at food and feedgrain self-sufficiency, and malnutrition pre-
vention programs. Progress has already been achieved with this strategy, as
is evident from increased farm production, the achievement of sustained



- 9 -
self-sufficiency in rice and a more favorable growth rate of rural family
incomes compared to incomes of urban families. Nonetheless, of the 15 million
people in the lower 40% of the income scale, 12 million are found in the rural
areas; 39% of the rural population are poor compared with 23% in urban areas.
32.        With the achievement of self-sufficiency in food grain production,
development priorities are no longer directed principally towards rice,
particularly since growth in the other food producing subsectors has not been
satisfactory. The Government is now preparing a "Food and Nutrition Plan," a
strategy for accelerating food production and improving consumption, with
assistance from Bank staff.
Agricultural Credit
33.        Agricultural credit programs in the Philippines form part of an
Integrated Agricultural Credit Plan which covers the period 1977-82 and which
is overseen by the Presidential Committee on Agricultural Credit. Within the
framework of the Plan, annual plans are established and evaluated. The Plan
covers both production and term credit, and takes into account all credit
programs implemented both by public and private institutions. The principal
government financial institutions are the Philippine National Bank, the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), the Land Bank of the Philippines
(LBP) and the Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA). The private financial
institutions are the commercial banks, rural banks, savings and mortgage
banks, and savings and loan associations. Apart from the several operations
which the Bank has supported through DBP, it is also assisting LBP in the
implementation of a project for agrarian reform beneficiaries and, in
association with the Central Bank, is assisting the rural banks in implement-
ing a fourth phase rural credit project. As part of a recent restructuring of
the ongoing Fourth Rural Credit Project, the private development banks have
been incorporated as eligible financial intermediaries. ACA is the principal
agency for the Bank-assisted land settlement project.
34.        Formal agricultural credit in the Philippines rose from F 5.7
billion in 1971 to P 12.1 billion in 1978, of which about 95% was for short-
term production credit. A major part of the remaining 5% is accounted for by
DBP, the main source of medium- and long-term institutional credit for
agriculture. Nevertheless, DBP's involvement in agriculture accounts for only
about 20% of its lending, while industry and other loans account for 50% and
30% respectively. DBP's agricultural lending covers commercial crops, food
crops, livestock, fisheries, grain processing and storage, most of which are
supported by Bank-assisted programs. It provides about 20% of all
institutional lending for livestock and 30% of lending for fisheries on a
nationwide basis. The majority of these loans were made under the World
Bank-assisted livestock and fisheries projects; the second projects in each of
these subsectors will be completed in the near future.
Animal Protein Subsector
35.       Demand. The projected population of the Philippines in 1985 is
about 57 million, or one fourth higher than the 46 million estimate for 1978.



- 10 -
At the same time, per capita income is expected to grow in real terms by
3.0% p.a. As a result, the national demand for animal protein in 1985 is
estimated to increase by 42% over 1978 for beef, with corresponding increases
of 40% for pork, 37% for chicken and 30% for fish.
36.       Supply.  In spite of substantial annual growth rates in the commer-
cial sector (in part supported by previous Bank loans) the overall annual
growth of total cattle and carabao population has not kept pace with human
population increases. However, commercialization has had a significant impact
on the number of pigs and poultry and, therefore, on total supply. For fish
the growth in marine catch has slowed somewhat, while investments in the
inland subsector have only recently begun to yield positive results. Although
production increases of about 4% a year can be expected in the fish catch from
all sources, thereby keeping demand and supply in balance, resource depletion
in areas which are heavily fished (particularly, but not exclusively, by
artisanal fishermen), vessel obsolescence and growing exports could a-l result
in curtailing supply to the domestic market. While the incremental production
attributable to the project would only be 1.1% of the total fish supply, DBP's
lending should nevertheless be based on a careful assessment of the market for
incremental production. On the other hand, there is likely to be a shortage
of meat by 1985, amounting to 16% for pork, 19% for poultry and 24% for beef
if no new investments were made.
37.       Government's Subsector Strategy.  The overall strategy is to promote
increased production and productivity in the animal protein subsector util-
izing predominantly smaller scale middle income entrepreneurs. However, the
Government has also evolved a regional approach to take advantage of favorable
local ecological and economic conditions and the need to utilize these
advantages for balanced regional economic development (see also para. 26).
The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
38.        General.  DBP is well known to the Bank, having served as the credit
channel for six agricultural and four industrial projects financed by the Bank
during the seventies. It was set up by the Republic Act 2081 in 1958 as an
autonomous, fully government-owned development bank. It has since become the
largest supplier of medium- and long-term agricultural credit in the
country. DBP has about 4,800 employees, divided equally between its Makati
(Metro Manila) head office and its 40 branches, 12 subbranches and seven
agencies. DBP's agricultural lending at the head office is handled by two
Agricultural Projects Departments (APDs), APD I for crops and processing and
APD II for livestock and fisheries. The latter would be responsible for
overall coordination of the project, and the Branches and Agencies Departments
(BAAD I and II) for project lending and repayment recovery through the branch
network. DBP's current intention is to crente a separate Metro ManiLa Branch
and transfer to it APD II's lending activittes in the Metro Manila area, thus
freeing APD II for intensified quaLIty control over all Ltvestock and
fisheries Lending country-wide and also enabling it to concentrate on tech-
nicaL assistance to the branches and on training activities. Restructuring
of the various departments ts required to be compLeted hy December 31, 1980
(Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.       DBP Resources and their Uses.  Renouirces have a[.most doubled
over the Last three years, growing from    11.1 hbltlion in June 1976 to



- 11 -
P 19.9 billion by June 1979, drawn almost equally from domestic and foreign
sources, with IBRD now accounting for about 24% of the foreign funds. Lending
for agriculture as a proportion of DBP' total assets declined from 14.9% on
June 30, 1976 to 11.7% three years later, and as a proportion of the total
loan portfolio from 24.3% to 19.4%. Within the loan portfolio this decline
has been offset mainly by increased lending for industrial projects, whose
proportion rose from 46.0% to 49.4%, as well as for other nonagricultural
loans, which rose from 29.7% to 31.2%. The slowdown in agricultural lending
can largely be attributed to DBP's involvement from mid-1977 onwards in
Government directed, socially oriented programs to help the small farmers and
fishermen, collectively known as "social loans"; these efforts diverted a
substantial portion of staff and other resources to this task, involving over
100,000 small loans to financially weak borrowers. Another activity
undertaken on an extensive scale (and through substantial investment of staff
time) was an overall review of DBP's agricultural portfolio in 1977, including
evaluation of collateral values to determine the required provision for
insufficiently covered loans.
40.       Agricultural Portfolio.  DBP's agricultural loan portfolio shows a
higher percentage of arrears than its other lending categories. Adjusted for
various distortions (including "social loans"), the agricultural past dues as
percentage of loans outstanding as of June 30, 1979 are about 22%, compared to
8% for industrial loans and about 14% for DBP loans as a whole. By age of
arrears, however, agriculture loans appear to be in a better situation than
DBP's portfolio as a whole. For instance, 76% of agricultural arrears were
less than three years old, compared to DBP as a whole with 56% as of June 30,
1979. Corresponding percentages for the IBRD-financed livestock and fisheries
projects were 92% and 97%. DBP is committed to improving the arrears'
situation. In the past massive collection drives did not, however, produce
results commensurate with the effort of tackling the portfolio of over 200,000
agricultural subloans. A new arrears reduction plan which was introduced
recently represents a new approach in that it is selective in terms of
subproject type, amount and age of arrears and specific DBP branches and
should therefore achieve better results. The system is under the control of a
special task force consisting of senior managers. Section 4.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement requires DBP to furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1980 a
report on the results of the plan and proposed actions based on it.
41.     Operating Policies. Results and Financial Condition.  DBP functions
on the basis of established operating policies which have been adjusted as
needed during the last two years in consultation with the Bank, leading to
improvements in financial management, standardization and rationalization of
lending terms for agriculture, and liberalization of lending terms and
conditions for smaller agricultural loans. Over the three years ending
December 31, 1979 DBP's income grew by 86% while its expenses increased by
98%. The main reason for the more rapid growth of expenses was increased
borrowings at higher costs. As a consequence of higher financial costs and
the consequent narrowing spread (see paras. 68 and 73), the net profit
declined proportionately during that period, although it grew in absolute
terms. DBP's debt to equity ratio, including guarantees, has remained stable
over the past three years at around 5:1 and thus well below its authorized
ceiling of 10:1. A substantial portion of DBP's deposits are government
funds. In general terms, DBP's liquidity is in a vulnerable situation given



- 12 -
the possibility of large withdrawals of government deposits and the relative
shortage of long-term domestic funds.  However, as recorded in the Agreed
Minutes for the Third Industrial Investment Project (Loan 1572-PH), the
Government has confirmed that it would take due account of DBP's liquidity
situation before withdrawal of its deposits from DBP.
Experience with Previous Livestock and Fisheries Projects
42.        Both previous livestock projects /1 provided finance through DBP
for the support of small- and medium-sized piggery and poultry enterprises,
cattle development, slaughterhouses and technical services. In the two
previous fisheries projects /2 funds were provided through DBP for the
financing of expansion and rehabilitation of brackish water fishponds,
fishing vessel construction, iceplants and slipways. The Project Completion
Report (PCR) and the Project Performance Audit Report on the first livestock
project comment favorably on the project execution and results. The PCR for
the first fisheries project is now under preparation and its findings are
also generally favorable.
43.        The experience of the previous livestock and fisheries projects over
the last eight years has contributed to the institutional development of DBP,
the growth of interagency coordination and the geographical spread of the
project funds to meet the growing demand for subloans in the livestock and
fisheries subsectors. DBP's institutional growth is closely linked to various
organizational changes whose principal objective has been to increase DBP's
subproject appraisal and supervision capability. At all stages DBP has proved
to be flexible in its organizational arrangements to meet new challenges.
In terms of financial administration DBP is a well organized, stable institu-
tion. Over the last two or three years, however, it has increasingly found
itself constrained by lack of appropriate management information relating to
progress of specific projects.
44.        Substantial progress has been achieved in interagency coordination.
DBP's techical capability has been strengthened by the development of closer
links with the Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) and the Bureau of Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (BFAR). This has enhanced DBP's ability to provide techni-
cal assistance to its borrowers. In both cases Bureaux staff are being
seconded to DBP to support its lending in the two subsectors and further
strengthening of these ties is envisaged in the proposed project. The Govern-
ment would cause DBP to furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1980 proposals
for future collaboration (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
45.        In the small livestock subsector the project participants have
enjoyed generally good results due to continuing undersupply of pork, chicken
/1 Loan 823-PH, $7.5 million, signed in M4ay 1972, fully disbursed by
September 1976 (two years ahead of Closing Date) and Loan 1225-PH,
$20.5 million, signed in April 1976, expected to be disbursed by June
1981 (a year ahead of Closing Date).
/2 Loan 891-PH, $11.6 million, signed in May 1973, fully disbursed by August
1979 (two months after the original Closing Date) and Loan 1270-PHI,
$12.0 million, signed in July 1976 expected to be disbursed by September
1980 (nine months ahead of Closing Date).



- 13 -
and eggs. Their financial rates of return were seldom found below 20%. A
similar situation has existed in the inland fisheries sector. As a conse-
quence, loan demand from both subsectors was strong and exceeded appraisal
estimates. Over the last twelve to eighteen months, however, the rising costs
of inputs and fuel, and a more competitive market place have lowered the
profit margins. In the cattle subsector only a few loans were made, mainly in
Masbate and Mindanao, but limited investment opportunities on existing
leasehold and freehold farms continued to be confirmed. The marine subsector,
on the other hand, continued to suffer from continuing fuel price increases
and general cost escalations in new construction and operating costs. This
has caused a gradual movement to smaller fishing vessels better able to fully
utilize their capacity in terms of catch per unit of effort. In addition,
this had led to efforts to achieve economies of scale, better fleet
management, and a new emphasis on the catch of high value species for export.
46.       Agricultural Credit - The Next Steps.  Although DBP will continue to
be a major channel for Bank-assisted projects, it is also becoming increas-
ingly evident that there is no clear line of demarcation between the
respective roles of the various institutions involved in agricultural credit,
particularly for term lending. The Bank's lending for agriculture through DBP
will increasingly be consolidated, as is being done in the proposed project,
and it is planned to move towards a single consolidated loan to DBP for agri-
culture by about 1985. It is also proposed to review the Bank's association
with all credit channels in the Philippines with a view to rationalizing the
arrangements. This can only be accomplished, however, within the context of a
comprehensive review by the Government of the entire credit mechanism,
including large segments with which the Bank is not involved. It is proposed
to discuss this subject as part of a proposed financial sector review which
would analyze the supply-demand relationships in agricultural finance as well
as the role of the concerned institutions.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
47.       The proposed project was prepared by the Development Bank of the
Philippines with the assistance of FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program and appraised
in September 1979. Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C., in June 1980.
The Philippine negotiating team was led by Mr. Jose V. de Ocampo, Vice-
Chairman of DBP. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2828-PH, dated June 13,
1980) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III of this report.
Pro-lect Oblectives
48.       The project would, over a period of three years, support the
Government's policy of increased animal protein supply through provision of
medium- and long-term credit to both the livestock and fisheries subsectors,
and by strengthening the institutional capability for planning and
implementing the present and future programs. For the agricultural credit
component DBP will have maximum flexibility to apply project funds to
subprojects of the type already identified under the Government's current
strategy, or to new types of subprojects which may be identified in the
future. Although basically a production project, it is DBP's policy to



- 14 -
provide support to small- and medium-scale enterprises in various parts of the
country aimed at redressing income inequalities and imbalances in regional
development. The project's institutional arrangements envisage a direct
linkage between Government agencies which have responsibility for strategy
formulation and DBP as the provider of medium- and long-term investment funds.
The Borrower would cause DBP to establish, by June 30, 1981 a reporting system
for the communication of regional findings and decisions to DBP (Section 3.11
of the draft Loan Agreement). The project includes non-credit components to
strengthen each of the participating agencies in matters of immediate
relevance to the project and for items whose early introduction would support
other planned activities./l
Project Area
49.       The credit component of the project would finance subprojects in
areas covered by the DBP branch network located in Luzon, the Visayas and
Mindanao. In the allocation of funds to the branches DBP would follow
regional and provincial priorities as determined by its annual lending
program.
Project Description
50.       The components of the proposed project are:
(a)  Credit Component.  The provision of credit through DBP for
(i) medium and small-scale commercial production of pigs and other
small livestock; (ii) expansion of the national cattle herd through
development of cattle breeding on pasture land, and the transfer of
young stock to the villages for fattening and breeding; (iii)
construction and equipping of fishing vessels to supply both the
domestic and export markets; (iv) rehabilitation and expansion of
inland fishponds; and (v) other subprojects in both subsectors to be
identified during the course of the project period;
(b)  Noncredit Component.  Strengthening of participating institutions
through financing of: (i) sectoral development program - cattle;
(ii) other Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) programs; (iii) Fish-
eries Industry Development Council programs; and (iv) technical
assistance to DBP.
Credit Components
51.       DBP's lending would be based on an annual lending program which
would be formulated and implemented on a flexible basis to enable it to be
fully responsive to variations in loan demand, DBP's administrative capacity
and Government's regional development priorities. The following description
of detailed features represents the appraisal mission's judgement of likely
subloan demand and DBP's administrative capacity. The quantified lending
program has been used primarily to estimate total loan size.
/1 These include the second phase of the Agricultural Support Services
Project, now under appraisal, and the National Fisheries Project, due for
appraisal before the end of CY 1980.



- 15 -
52.       Small Livestock.  The majority of the subborrowers for piggeries
would be operating a small, probably 5 sow, unit, located near an urban area.
Subprojects would raise the sow number to about 20 and introduce commercial
practices. Subborrowers for egg production would include existing operators
with up to 5,000 layers: a typical subproject would increase flock size from
about 400 to 1,600 layers. Past DBP lending has included broilers, ducks,
goats, rabbits and quail. These and other livestock production units could
also be financed where subproject viability can be demonstrated.
53.       Cattle.  BAI would identify villages suitable for fattening and
breeding about 50 head of stock for village level production. The sub-
borrowers would be either (i) entrepreneurs owning the 50 head and operating
the traditional cattle profit-sharing scheme (Paiwi) with 50 villagers
selected to care for one animal each, or (ii) individual-villagers, borrowing
on his or her own account. Limitation to BAI selected villages is contained
in para. 8, Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement.
54.       The Government grants pasture leases for extensive cattle develop-
ment of about 400 ha each, particularly in the hilly areas of Masbate and
Mindanao. The recent increase in demand for pasture bred young stock at
village level now warrants changing management practices of these pastures.
Subloans would support these changes through provision of finance for breed
stock purchases, infrastructure and pasture improvement to intensify the
production levels. Constraints in the issue of pasture leases /1 would affect
lending volumes but the project would also be based on existing freehold and
leaseshold land. This component is viewed as the beginning of a long-term
program to build up the national herd on these pastures so as to supply an
ever increasing number of young stock to support village level operations.
55.       As in the past, lending for cattle on pastures in the coconut groves
and similar small-scale operations would be eligible for assistance under this
project. For all cattle lending, however, this project would reimburse DBP
only for those subloans made to enterprises in designated priority areas.
56.       Marine Fisheries.  Subprojects are expected to finance fishing
vessels ranging from 12 GT to 150 GT. Of the estimated total of 75 subloans,
about 60 are expected to be for vessels smaller than 30 GT. In addition, the
project would support the financing of large traditional outrigger canoes
(bancas) operated by artisanal fishermen, and fishing for tuna for export
markets. Other investments are expected in the re-equipment of vessels and
the establishment of a limited number of stationary fishtraps.
/1 The constraints include difficulties in removing illegal settlers, con-
siderations of ecological and social balance, boundary disputes, and
absence of demarcation.



- 16 -
57.       Inland Fisheries.  Typical subprojects would improve milkfish
production technology levels in existing fishponds through rehabilitation and
expansion of pond dikes and water control structures, and also improve pond
management. Some lending is expected for shrimp culture, eels and tilapia
cage culture. Government is at present considering the creation of large
fishpond estates and the financing of this innovative prograui could be
included subject to prior consultations between the Bank and DBP regarding
evaluation criteria and procedures (para. 9 of Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
58.       Other Lending.  Past DBP lending has included slaughterhouses,
slipways and iceplants. These and any other new ventures, such as commercial
vaccine production, day-old chick production and other similar ventures, which
would be in direct support of animal protein production, would be assisted if
shown to be viable.
B. Noncredit Components
59.       The project includes a number of noncredit components which are
essential to the long-term development of the two subsectors.  They would
either support programs which have already been initiated on a modest scale
and have proven to be effective or others on which a beginning has to be made
as soon as possible in conjunction with other planned projects (para. 48).
60.       In the livestock subsector the project would support BAI's cattle
dispersal program, under which BAI acquires young stock for distribution to
selected villages in preparation for their future participation in credit
schemes; the breed stock upgrading program, under which approximately 55
purebred cattle would be imported to upgrade the existing herd on BAI's
Milagros stock farm; small livestock nutrition research, to conduct research
and extension on (noncommercial) piggeries and poultry, utilizing locally
available low cost nutrients; the pasture and legume seed propagation program
for which the project would finance the importation of selected range of
pasture and legume seeds; and cattle markets, which the project would support
by financing 50 weighing scales. The project would also fund the cost of
technical assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture to review livestock
policies and planning and assist with the formulation of a long-term strategy
for the livestock subsector and associated investment programs.
61.       In the fisheries subsector, the project would provide funds for
technical assistance to the Fisheries Industry and Development Council (FIDC)
to develop an extension package on the use of currently available deep sea
fishing gear, suitable for local conditions and technical assistance to
develop the design specifications for a specially constructed deep sea
research vessel and its research program. Technical assistance would also be
funded to review current regulatory practices under the marine regulations
with a view to instituting effective control over access to coastal waters by
type and size of fishing vessel and gear used, and related studies.
62.       Technical assistance would be provided to DBP for the promotion of
feed mill construction and operation in rural areas in order to support more



- 17 -
efficient poultry production and to avoid current dependence on the feed mill-
ing industry centralized around Manila and Cebu;/l other items include
development of a new management information system for DBP, development of
training programs for agriculture staff and training of in-house trainers; and
continuation and expansion of the ongoing monitoring and evaluation study
initiated under the Bank-financed Second Livestock Project, undertaken by DBP
with technical assistance from consultants. To ensure continuity of the study
a sum of up to $100,000 equivalent would be financed retroactively. The
Borrower would cause DBP by December 31, 1980 to: (a) appoint consultants for
the development of a new management information system and the training pro-
gram (Section 3.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreement); and (b) furnish the Bank a
plan for future monitoring and evaluation activities (Section 3.12 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Implementation
63.       Implementation of the credit components would be on the basis of an
annual lending program established by DBP in consultation with the Ministries
of Agriculture and Natural Resources, their relevant Bureaux, the National
Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) and the Presidential Committee on
Agricultural Credit. This annual lending program would establish indicative
lending volumes and broad sectoral and regional priorities.  It would be
reviewed by the Bank, and the agreed program would form the basis for evalua-
ting implementation progress. DBP would continue and further intensify its
present arrangements under which BAI and BFAR provide it with technical staff
on secondment. DBP is currently introducing a number of departmental restruc-
turing arrangements aimed at rationalizing control over quality aspects of
lending on the one hand and over branch implementation of the lending program
on the other. Moreover, measures will be introduced to strengthen DBP's
agro-economic expertise required for preparation of future lending programs.
Implementation of the non-credit components by the respective implementing
agencies would be based on a physical plan, implementation schedule and
budget, forwarded to the Bank for comment prior to commitment of funds. The
Borrower would cause DBP to furnish the Bank with an annual lending program
prior to January 1 of each project year (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Submission of a program for the balance of CY1980 to the Bank
would be a condition of disbursement of funds for the credit component of the
project (para. 4(c) of Schedule I of the draft Loan Agreement). The execution
of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and DBP is an additional
condition of effectiveness (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
64.       The total project cost, inclusive of price contingencies, is
estimated to be $140.7 million: the credit component is estimated at $122.4
million and the noncredit component at $18.2 million. Physical contingencies
ranging from 10% to 15% have been included in the noncredit component. The
price contingency is based on the following expected price increases during
1980 through 1983: local costs 16%, 10%, 7%, 7% and foreign costs 10.5%, 9%,
8%, 7%.
/1 Funds for the rural feed mills are currently available under the Second
Grain Processing Project, IBRD Loan 1269-PH.



- 18 -
65.        The proposed loan of $45.0 million would contribute 32% of total
project costs, including about $23.1 milion of local costs (para. 22).  It
would contribute about 37% of the total cost of the credit component, net of
subborrowers' contributions. The loan would be made to the Republic of the
Philippines for a term of 20 years including a grace period of five years at
an interest rate of 8.25% per annum. The Government would onlend to DBP
$41.3 million, of which $40 million equivalent would be for the project's
credit component and $1.3 million equivalent for the support of DBP's long-
term institutional development, both on terms and conditions identical to
those of the overall loan to the Government. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk. The balance of the Bank loan ($3.7 million) would be
channeled by the Government to the line agencies concerned and the Fisheries
Industry Development Council (FIDC).
66.        In addition, the Government would relend $15 million to DBP from
the proceeds of the Yen Bond No. 1 Series Issue of 1978 to finance part of
DBP's credit component under the project. This loan would have a term of
seven years, including three years of grace and an interest rate of 9.5%.
DBP would also pay a premium of 0.75% on amounts withdrawn and outstanding
to cover the foreign exchange risk.
67.        Consultancies.  The staff-month costs including fees, international
travel and subsistence, are estimated to fall within the range of $7,500 and
$12,000, depending on the number of trips necessary. The consultancies
include expertise in the following fields: small livestock nutrition
research, livestock planning, fishing gear technology, marine legislation,
management information system design including computerization and internal
audit, staff training systems, monitoring and evaluation. The total involved
amounts to about 143 staff-months with a total cost estimated at $1.4 million.
This also includes local travel and other reimbursable expenses and vehicles
and equipment in support of some of the consultancies.
68.       DBP Lending Terms.  DBP would onlend to its subborrowers at an
annual rate of not less than 12% for subloans up to P 150,000, at not less
than 14% for subloans up to P 3.0 million and at not less than 16% above
P 3.0 million, where subloans are secured by land. For subloans not
secured by land the rates would be 2% higher. These are standard rates,
established in December 1979, covering all the credit subcomponents. These
rates would be reviewed from time to time by DBP in consultation with the
Bank (Section 3.03(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The rate of domestic
inflation is expected to decline from its 1979 level of 22% to about 16% in
1980, with further decreases in subsequent years (para.  64) and DBP's
interest charges will, therefore, represent a positive rate in the
foreseeable future.
69.       Procurement
(a) Credit Component. In line with procedures established in the pre-
vious livestock and fisheries projects, procurement of goods and
services would be on the basis of DBP's procedures, which require
prudent shopping in most cases and competitive bidding locally ad-
vertised for some larger items. However, international competitive
bidding would be required for fishing vessels constructed from mate-
rial other than wood and any single item of equipment costing more
than $300,000, with a total value between $3.0 and $5.0 million.



- 19 -
(b)  Noncredit Components.  Funds are provided for various programs
(para. 59 through 62) to be undertaken by participating Government
entities including the Ministry of Agriculture, the Mfinistry of
National Pesources, their technical Bureaux, FIDC and DPB,
which will directly support the lending program. Items to be
procured are few in number and diverse in nature and cannot be
bulked to attract international bids. Procurement would be on the
basis of Government procurement regulations except for two BAI
items: cattle imports (about $150,000), which would be by limited
international tendering, and legume seeds (about $40,000) which
would be procured on the basis of prudent international shopping.
(c) Consultants would be appointed on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank.
Disbursements
70.       Disbursements for the credit component would be made against
statements of expenditure, at the rate of 37% of subloans made by DBP; no
disbursements would be made until the lending program for the balance of
calendar year 1980 had been submitted (Schedule 1, para. 4(c) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Disbursements for the noncredit components would be 100% of
foreign exchange cost of imported equipment and materials; 100% of the
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured items and 50% of the cost of locally
procured items. For cattle the disbursements would cover 100% expenditures
for imported breeding stock and 50% of the cost of cattle for the dispersal
program. Disbursements for consulting services would cover 100% of contract
costs. In all cases eligibility for financing would be conditional on
establishment of a detailed physical plan, equipment list, implementation
schedule and budget in consultation with the Bank. Retroactive financing is
recommended for consultants' services for DBP's monitoring and evaluation
study in an amount of up to $100,000 for expenditures incurred after December
31, 1979. An additional condition of disbursement for the noncredit compo-
nent is that the Bank be furnished with a detailed physical plan, equipment
list, implementation schedule and budget (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Justification.
71.       Because of the explicit flexibility in DBP's lending program
(para. 48) and the consequent uncertainty about the final mix of subprojects
to be financed, an estimate of the impact of the entire project on the economy
could only be made on the basis of a notional three-year lending program,
which excludes the banca fisheries and village livestock subcomponents which
have a very short pay-back period and would, therefore, have had an upward
bias on the rate of return. Also excluded were the noncredit components.
The resulting composite economic rate of return is 28%, but this would vary
substantially with the composition of the subproject mix. Economic rates of
return have been calculated for the various subcomponents on the basis of
appropriate accounting ratios to convert financial prices to economic prices.
The rates of return range from 17% for piggery enterprises and 18% for



- 20 -
fishpond reconstruction projects to 72% for some of the smaller fishing
vessels and aver 100% for the village cattle subprojects due to virtually
cost-free grazing, crop residues and family labor which has little opportunity
cost. The economic models least sensitive to cost/price changes are
bancas and hill cattle, followed by fishponds with minor rehabilitation
and vessels of various sizes. The most sensitive are the piggery and
poultry models. In the case of piggeries, a 10% increase in costs would
reduce the ERR to 2% but a 10% increase in price would increase it to 32%.
The small-scale poultry model shows even a greater sensitivity to cost
and price changes thereby indicating the highly risky nature of smaller
ventures in this field.
72.      Utilizing the indicative numbers that underlie the project costs
calculation, an assessment of employment and production has been made. These
results are only illustrative, and not intended as forecasts of the final
outcome of this project. For the livestock subsector the aggregate direct
annual incremental employment at full development would be about 2,000 and for
the fisheries about 5,300. The production impact in the livestock subsector
would be about 33,400 tons of incremental meat production and about 112,300
tons of fish capture.
73.       Project Impact on DBP. In nonfinancial terms the project's most
significant long-term impact would be the introduction of a new management
information system and departmental restructuring. In financial terms the
project's cash flows would be largely determined by the annual lending
programs and the resulting mix of subprojects. DBP's analysis of previous
years shows that the average all-inclusive administrative costs for
agricultural lending are about 4% p.a. of the value of the average amount of
loans outstanding. Combining this with the estimated cost of the World Bank
and Japanese Yen loans and DBP funds, estimated at about 9-1/2% p.a., the
income to DBP as generated by the project would, on the average need to be
about 14% p.a. This is approximately the average rate expected to be charged
for the project's mix of subloans and on this basis the project would be
financially self-sustaining.
Risks
74.       The project's approach to lending requires interaction among various
governmental agencies and DBP. While channels for such interaction do
exist, they have not to date been used for the establishment of an annual
lending program. Any lack of collaboration among the agencies concerned
would seriously affect the responsiveness of the project to national
objectives and the changing economic scene. Related to this is the need to
establish a "regional focus" on the basis of periodic data collection and
evaluation by DBP to ensure that the annual lending program fully reflects
regional needs and priorities. There is a risk that the highly centralized
process which has characterized past DBP lending programs may militate against
the regional focus.
75.       Over the past year there has been a general narrowing of profit
margins, particularly of the smaller and medium-scale entrepreneur.
Continued efforts by the Government to hold the product prices to an artifi-
cially low level would erode profit margins and eliminate producers at the
lower income levels. This would have adverse social implications as well.



- 21 -
76.       Environmental Impact.  No adverse impact on the environment is
expected. Effluent from large piggeries is typically placed in sewage
treatment lagoons. The small piggeries' waste materials are often used to
generate methane gas for household cooking. Alternatively, the waste is
used in food gardens and the rice fields. All droppings frQia poultry are
dried and utilized as fertilizer for vegetable production or in fishponds.
In the hill country, manure from cattle aids pasture production, increasing
soil moisture retention. In the villages cattle droppings are used as
fertilizers for subsistence crop production. In the inland fisheries sub-
sector the project would also have a positive environmental impact. The
fish farmers generally have much to lose by pollution of the environment and
they constitute an important pressure group against pollution. For
ecological reasons the Government policy aims at preventing uncontrolled use
of coastal mangrove swamps for fishpond development. Very few leases have
been issued in recent years for fishponds in those areas. The major pro-
portion of the project's support for fishponds would be for reconstruction
and rehabilitation of existing ponds rather than for wholly new farm
development.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
78.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of disbursement would be: (a) for the
noncredit components of the project, the provision to the Bank of detailed
physical plans, equipment lists, implementation schedules, budget and terms
and conditions of employment of consultants for such components; and (b)
for the credit component, the submission of the annual lending program
for the balance of CY1980 (Paragraphs 4(b) and (c) of Schedule 1 to the draft
Loan Agreement).
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 24 , 1980



- 22-                                                ANNX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SBEET
PHILIPPINES                       REPERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVP4AGHS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND So. EN.)                                                            - lDST RECENT ESTIHATE)
TOTAL            300.0
AGRICULTURAL      90. 7                                HOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960   b    1970 /b ESTIMATE  b        ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  140.0       230.0     510.0                  894.8                  1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     147.0        301.0     339.0                 842.4                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      27.4        36.9      45.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 30.3         32.9      35.4                   39.1                   63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       75.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        126.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        91.0       123.0     152.0                  376.1                   28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0        472.0     503.0                 2350.4                   81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.7         45.5      44.8                  40.4                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.3         53.6      52.1                   56.2                   54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0         2.9       3.1                    3.4                    3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.7         3.0       2.7                    2.4                    2.7
URBAN                               3.9         3.9       3.7                    4.1                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.0        44.0      35.0                   28.7                   34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      15.0        11.0       9.0                    7.9                    8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5/c       3.3       2.4                    1.9                    2.5
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       191.7     509.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           2.0      22.0                   39.0
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          102.0       101.0     114.0                  116.9                  106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   88.0         92.0      97.0                  108.9                  107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           45.0        50.0      53.0                   60.3                   65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0        20.0      2L.0                   18.8                   33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      16.0        10.0        7.0                   5.3                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0         57.0      60.0                   63.0                   63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           98.0        9s.0       74.0                   52.8                   66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..      39.0                   42.4                   65.9
URBAN                               ..           ..      51.0                   62.1                   80.4
RURAL                               ..           ..      33.0                   29.7                    4.0:
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..      56.0                   52.8                   62.3
URBAN                               ..           ..      76.0                   71.1                   79.4
RURAL                               ..           ..      44.0                   42.4                   29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..          ..    2758.0                 4120.1                 1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      3840.0    3058.0                 2213.6                 1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1208.0        850.0     639.0                 819.4                   480.3
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            .                                          28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.8         5.9
URBAN                               ..          6.2
RURAL                               ..          5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          2.3
URBAN                               ..          2.1
RURAL                               ..          2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              16.5        22.9sd    31.0
URBAN                               ..         62.8l.
RURAL                                ..         9.81/     0l.o0;



- 23 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
PEILIPtPINS - SOCIAL IDICAXS DATA SBUMT
PHILIPPINES                    EFERIENCE GROUPS (WEIGITED AvWGS
- MCST RECENT ESBTIMLTE)
MDST RECENT         MIDDIZ INC0ME           laDDLE INCOKE
1960  A    1970 a ESTIMATE A          ASIA & PACIFIC   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 95.0       114.0     105.0                 98.6                    9.7
MALE                 98.0       115.0    103.0                   99.2                   101.0
FEMAIE               93.0       113.0    108.0                  97.7                    99.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 26.0        50.0      56.0                 55.5                    34.4
MALE                 28.0        59.0      65.0                  60.7                    33.5
FEfALE               25.0       42.0      47.0                  49.9                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (l OF SECONDARY) 15.0         6.0        .-                  13.7                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           36.0        29.0     29.0                  34.6                    30.5
SECONDARY                         27.0        33.0      31.0                 28.5                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       71.9        82.6      87.0                  85.8                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         8.0      8.9                   9.0                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        22.0       46.0      41.0                 118.9                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.4        11.0      17.0                 39.4                    84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 17.0        14.0      18.0                   ..                    63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6         ..        7.6                   4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10893.2     13478.1   16310.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  34.4        33.1      32.0                 36.8                    22.2
ArRICULTURE (PERCENT)             61.0        53.0      48.0                 51.9                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                15.2        15.8     16.0                  21.9                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               39.8        36.6      35.3                 39.1                    31.5
MALE                                52.1        48.6      47.1                  48.5                    48.9
FEMALE                              27.4        24.4      23.3                 29.6                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.3       1.2                  1.1                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.8         ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  56.2        53.9      53.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2         3.7       5.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.9        11.9      14.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..    250.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    190.0                   192.1                  190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..    132.0                     ..                  474.0
RURAL                              ..          ..       87.0                 182.5                  332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..         ..       39.0
RURAL                               ..         ..       44.0                  33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970 between 19
and 1971; and for Most Recent Entimte, between 1974 and 1978.
Ic  1950-55;  /d 1967, household.
April, 1980



-24 -                                                                                  ANNEX I:
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL )DWICALTOOD
NOcts:  Although th. data ... draw  from  souca .gesflly judged th. moat authoitativa and raliabln, it should alsob hantod that tbay ma  not ho tote-
naWtiona lly cosparahl  haoaaa  of tha lack of st.al-dar -d dofiottitna and  -nopta nod by diffar-t coutrIns toooiotn   tha data,  Tha data t.. none-
theisas,.. uaful to dactibn orders of ngi a  indlicate tranda, and  hbara.tcrta  certain saJor dif faraooaa batarwn... outria..
Thorofcaaa  roua  re (1) th. aaato o  gr..a0pof aha auhiant -toary an  (2) a coun try grou.p winh au bthSIahncv.ag                       t _o   than tha county ac.u,
of tho sojn outy(n-apt for "Capital Surpl.a Oil Eoportara" groop  hors. "Iiddla lacun  ffornh Africa and faiddla Eant" to chonen hannos  of anrongar
atct-cltnr.lffiiiaa). T  tha rafaranon grop da ta tha avra.gan an. population waightad arithmtic mamn  for anh infototr and aba  only whoa at
lathoif oftlbs ooootia tI   o a Sroop h.. data for that indicator.  Sin-  tho  aorg  oftoain    aonnhidnaradpdsn theoratlailiyo
dat  and t.oo ant uafrm     ation stat he aasrtiaad ia ralattag avaraaao of ann indinator toaobr    ha   vrgsea-ol   afi ornaiog ltha vof
of one indi.tat   atfa time amon  tha country and ratfera..a groopa..                                                       !,r.1I f,i-cpr.    .-
LOtNO  -O (othuand a-b.)t'oaticc car 'hcattta   -  Paplauta  utntaa by numor at prta-tt t pghy-
Tao  -Tta cufa  ca rs  noeprisino land ara  and inland gaar.at  -n  quaifind                                    roaZi-al school at an ivars.ity lana.
Aaric-lturel - fEtimats of anialurl  ra  uad ntporarily or paranatly                      Poeniatiu  noPI    ran  Parson -. FPalation .di~id.d.bY n-bar of pra-ito
for crpa, pasnrna. marbat aad kitohan gurdana or to lita felIne; 197-7data,               easan   aal   rdnato  ua    prartica  nas,edeaittoua.
Poniabanca  isntalga  -total. orba. a   rora1 - Popolation  rtcI,
097PtCPTA (UI!) - GNP Par capita asntaat.  at corrant  arbat price..  to)--             ura,adcoa)dvdd bycortapti'alr fheiclhd
cuisted pby acecomanion eethnd as World Mob Atlas (1976-78 haao)  160,                       available in publin and peivata ganra  and apacialiand boapita1 and r-
1ulo, sod 1078 data.                                                                        habilitationtnara         Hopinsia at. antabliaht.et  pacmaaatly atff a
INUGY  ONSUMTION F    CAPIA   A.   1-_-pt.. of  ci.l  .. rgy(..I       bytat.leat on  phyatiia,  Establishment. proidign priti..pa11cgioi
adigieperola,    ntrlgsad hYdra-,. ...aa  an d aa-t Ionalalac                        ..soare not PoraM-tytaffe  byapytia   (but by I medical asistat,
tririty) It kitogsm   of col-   qivltpat ta.pita; 1960, 1971. 9an   lOtnrs   iwia   t,   bt  of fni-ain   noedta   n   rnd
data. ~~~~~~~~~~~~limited rasg of "aical fniFoatPr tagiatinal purpoan urban hoapi-
rts. incids WHD. printtpl genaraI and aparielined boapitela, and rune
PcPUfLuTION ANT VITAL) STATESTOCS                                                              hoptal  loa  crrrlbarti   n  edr ad  -at.rnity c.ntera
Total Population. Mid-Yaar (eillitna..    As of loly 1; 1960, i9709, end 1970             hdalpatun  ca  -tnta  Bad.   - Toital.nueho  of detsrn   ordicare
'rhb" Ponulaion!1  (cattant of total) -Ratio of urban to total pcpnlation:h!'a.  ll.   yt.    bro   ..
di,ffoen  dfinitinca of urban ara   nay affat cnparability of data                   HOoUtING
among.. tcuttia; 1960, 1970,..ad 1970 dato.                                             Aveoa  us      f gH-jhold (nersoaorhaaol)-tnl   rbn   n   ,r
Porulo1tilan  Proactoar  00-C-.   ...i.po.ta.v   ..                          ia            A moouashol'd cona.tat  of a group  otdidulwhohrotlining q-atars
Poplaton  n cac  100-  urrct  opuatin pcjetins  ra  aea  onlog     edh chir  aio meals.  A hoards. or lodger nay or nay no  ha inclodad to
tota  population by aga and a-  nod choir mortality and fertility rats...               the hooaahold far notte.tioal purpea.
Frola-rion pa nasfor mortality ratee cnepnie  of thr.. lana.s.asur.                  A-c-rn  atbar of pnr-o pa nr roe-total. urben, and rural - AnaraS.cn
ing life ep-ct-ny at birth i..cr..aiag with ...aotry'a par capita iocon                 bar of par..aa per root Ia all ura,ad ruralI- oooptsd nooan-iona
1o1, and f-1nslaiot  onpc-,t atahilaing. at7 y75 yanre.  T'hapr-                        dsioarsacnay    lwaltnsecu atpraatsrcaa   n
mee. fr fa-tility Irt   lohon  thr...ani  aaaeio  dtino  inuocpid:ra
faoioacrdicg to Incoe  i1-1 and.past family plaaiag prpeac,                   A...a.a to'Dioc`tnit*,ty (Pefar..t of d-Ilitna) - atacl. urban. eed co..ai -
Each country Ia than anaigoad  one of cheon nian cobinations of mortality               EC..nanti..a.  d-olitS. rith ai1ctrtoity in linin   quartessparntg
and fertilIty trends fur projection purpaa.                                             o   oa,  to,ad  ua   aniasrepoia
Stationar.y rorulatim    I - En a attionary population there in no growth atoco            fttl    b,.drr1d.1~
tho btrrl rat  O   qalto tho  et  rt,ad aa   h   g   trutr 
anios constant.  This is schiavad only etter factil icy ratas~~~~~~c dacitast  Adlented foro1lmat Ratios
,ho rnplacaat lunel  f antitnet r-prduction rate,  han  -            Sob ga aian        Primary school -  totl, mal and f-1al  - G.... total, male ad fnmal
ofwmnrplceitaf stly,  The atetionry pnpa1ianto  aiaewssrima   falna   ttepimr   aa                                                        aonae   frnatv
eooiaatd ccth cbsmat  oftho projactad chaIlrecteiation of cbs  popltin                    cimary -thoo-aga p-1orn            nrmlY inclndna cbildraa agd h-li
In oh. ysar 2101, and the rata of dnclIIno of tarlitty cots to rapias-                    yenra-ht adjotad for ditffreat lanotha of potmary education; for
want L_nai.                                                                               cnnro    ith ani-r-aI adenat.a  aarnllnett naynomd 1)0 parcaa.t
-ncatti Par    oaaion Is rac-bad - Tha yan rhan stationary popolation                 .ics  nn  paptil  nra he1le or a.,ahor   th WfIcia  achnol aga.
att  hasita   ahd                                                                           tnaysho   - ttal.lnaa and tamal  - lumpatd aaabona;eacunIda
Foralation lacaity                                              education requiras at lasso foor y-Ar  of appr-rd primar   -tuarttion
Per s1 ho..   i fd-ynar population par square kilctiar (100 hbatctres  of                  Pr,nda i  g-ns,  vocti.onal *o  ta...har training i-struttinas far popik
Per at. an. asricultural Land -             as.t    .   bho  cur aaricc1tura.  lend         useIp  f1)t   7    r  of aINs; corepondenc  c                   rrsea   goSra1ly
only.     O~~~~~~~~P                                                ano~~~~ludad.
l,uli,  icruc,tur  (partcat) -Childr-  (0-lA years), ari-ge(15-                     .ocationltenrollment  ercnt" of saton,dar)y   Voationa  Iatitatton
Pocolatino tan                                                        ~~~~~~~incide thoica1, iadpuatriel, or ros  prgr-awich oparte indapn-
hA years), and-atitd (1ysssdon)asor tosfaiA-yaer op.p-                                     dntly  c e  dopar-tean  of e.t..dary Ti-aiuoos
lotio; 190, 170,  nd 100 daa.                                   Pral-sacbrrtn-orar.ndscdrn-Total student. enro1lld to
Poroletion Icowo ht I    rrcnI     - total - Annua  grctth rotna of toctal mid-                prinary and IoNadarylevels divided by nmesof tc..chara In the
yac1tp p     iulttn  too 1950-60. l9b0-7E, and 1970- 78.crrpodnlae.
I'clail Ooyh  at   fontanu  - urban-  anua  growth rates of urbc coca-             Autitsavna(ea)-Lit.tnrt  adults labia no rand and -it.e)-
lotions for 1950-60, 1960-70,an  197078.asanooaorltnlautppueiaaeL5  ar   n   c.
Crude Birtch Rats (par thousad) - annul Lion biroha par thous...d of mid-yoac                        a  .  ..o  ttlautpp.i.   .   5y...d.c
population; 1960, 17,ad 19 78 data..cC.NSUMPTIO
Crudn Death gate (Per thousand) -A Anua  deaths par thoa..and of nid-ya-                  Pa...anr la      actoandpneaia   - P...nga  tas mpiamtor
popu1anirn; 1960  1970, and 1670 dect.                                                    cas  saig loss than  igh poralntia; nanude   amoan.c             hasa   n
ir... nenrud-ctiot Rate-Average n-anbr of daughtarn a  oa ill baa. In                          iitr  nbcs.             igt..d    ablo.,h ..Id
bar irty    rardciapro   fse  eetnn   rsn   g-acifu  Be                                  a tdi   Raei ps o. thousad popalatier)l - All typostf rtiesf or redo
cilit  rats; uuall  fiv-psa  evaagesanAlg in 1960, 170, an   97                 raosso   aaa   ulcprtosd Io  ppuaton                         Ia'ld" unit-
Famiy rlann-EatPaoetfsridnmn  -Fracg   fere                                                  onro  abolisHed piablndagf.
Pu0d1rd... p...010t0..it coo tr ..iesc a                                                                         . to-yrae   whe  riatryttn of TO eas     onsi  affaio
Indn  f  on  Pndoctn  arCeits(169711If      Idea    o  prcaia  ana             Owrae  Circlatio C et honsnd   tnultian  - Sows thaona                     irut-
L.inl  vrg   cIdcrpiewihsc16-).90   a   90dae                                    ibt   eddrn  the yer.            icudn ad     missitna no.d.ilu-in otlimas
L  nad g  eqf iaFan  of "   net foodtspp9ia   antalodin  fcnr por  capita            hAo-oc Poutl
aPr or.tinof ad chaaf  to stoc.ne  e               .p.is   aluda. au..u  fed,ees,ade foresan  oepiyn.bt  eluin:idiwna,  tum                                le act
quantities usd. l.b fno  prcessing  and. ..eans  in odistibutio.        leuro             siottiona  int cpri-oc l c tn s  era..   000 comparale  1960  1975end-
nants ware ostimaqed by FAt asod on phystelagicel aFedaator...rmalf.cti-   1970 date
ci.ty sod  tag_b c            dse ibletnicnds-oe  tsseaturp  body, caigfta  age        Feoie (A-c-Ir -ttPamel  lbo  for sprcnaec  tota  laborfore
Pr  c aciaorir       fooni  aoaccdn -I drutoiA  cocoent ofdperioapft...tdc.... tpecen)I-Laor  orc  tolting,  catctt.   eten
tot auply offcd pa.r dayt Oe  sohply 19f food is1 de-od  usiatone.  Op-d                             d dlcticty  oath, end ites  pecnun  fttl  ao   ore   OS
qarant      of allcoonrie  ea...tslad by .ISI  pciie (      d e tm17  an  176dta
pula  proein  c  whichbl   10pl. a-riee  hcud-htina protein.ob   Thots stand-           t. Laborit  rates ate coptd  as tcts-i,nab, en fe-a..... iebor udrcaa
quM tmal prutainasfanro g   for tho.  erd, propose.dibytFAGtoi oh  ThiMrd               1060, 1970. end 1975data   Thar   era din'g  parn-icietnnterfat
Acri  Food  urvpy-196165,9170 an11977date
ago  rou  1-  por.,  o tildan  ~  ths ae goup  furcaunt deteloinecu'         to te ttallabrafroe
,Id   11,tr1b.ti.. of p.pul.ci.%,          urercoutsa of  rivat   loas(both to cas  and-tied of tehv.                                  yrihs
hf   ..::,c   toci  (ees)-iAorgutlbo-o yLracblferamf-ng                                    S   rLo,  icfe 20petet,porsc              f7 eren. and prat  AS  poren
so brth  191, 1970 and 197 9dta            It.hushod. .r..t190170.d98W
infao  _Pnuit.   Ratsl (pa  thdnsed   -           -Atua   datb of  -nfatauodar en-pac.      fi.hi. TAAO  iOpar..tg   fttllbrfr.
ofaePerd thousandpl live birthsd.                                                  fnt-Ima.tsd Absolute  Paovrt Incomei Lani.i5.      oreia9-ob nad  oa
Accese to      feorcer (rrato   oulto)-otl ubc   n   ua  -                                   dhalote   very, u-om  lse  i   hadncm  level                           19owwic  a 0ot
fste 6suppl   (iclde   vrstod surf tacs espc'd ccunrotd  h0g..of 0  ncntannat0 efude19be.
oeeruhn    hat h   frm     o Sc _ boeoe, r n Pngeed sen toyaia.o siaa    aatine ct.                     Poet1ocm    ee  (059 nor capta  -u.rba fandr c'
percsateges of hem  respective   opulatiote.  loa    uban erAs a9 public      1ura      0 reatne 97 povety   Thnnoa  ln IisOna-.tipthido   avraepe   apt
coaida red ts hingwti -- eoaSjr bls   -Ied.ftathus.I  rura  aZrds                         ee  with  dutmat  for hio    cos  of. pultinu   in urbtere.
Wreaon hia  oas  wo    mpytht h  huswf96o1enar f6hehush7d                               EsIatd  oulcunaeowasout   ovrt  ocflLve  (etttl-o                            ga
Acarst  oct ilLsl(aca   of  dccularic -tcv i urban7 sod  .dd-                                            .-'
ruci-Otfumhatc..pscclr p(todsl.u961eo1ecdtrur_i.al)I spreedatohfyopocrnte.r15..  6  .d 
dispcesl ea percentaes of theic h....cdi - Abo.ua dico h. EPc.t  die              ooinantScil at  Dviio
pChild  nay includ  theclipyoRtonaddipel  aipaccrtctu  traosc-                                                       tcnod     A Iyt)adPrjeton faato
of. husac eaot yand.t nahn-ldtr.  by wterhi   orto 'ystan  ccr -the use                                                                 April, 1980
ccc pccvtee end simile. tostellhat20pittne....  2  p.-1  -dp-                                                                          ~ pa .. 



ANNE1X I
- 25 -                                                                    Page 4 or 5 pege.s
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Annual average            1979
Actual                      Est.              Proiected                        grs wth rates (Z)         share
1972     1975    1976    1977       1978      1979       1980        1981       1985      1972-78  1978-80  1980-85    of ODr
National Accounts (millions
of US$ at 1975 prices and
exchange rates)
GDP                              12,929  15,769  16,822  17,865  18,928         20,077   21,298    22,594        29,392         6.5       6.1       6.6       100.0
Terms of trade adjustment           168        0    --456    -613       -70        -70      -387        -465       -262         -         -         -
GDY                              13,097  15,769  16,366  17,251   18,695        20,006   20,910      22,129      29,129         6.1       5.8       6.9        99.6
Imports - constant prices        3,304   4,116   4,460   4,799   5,489           5,865     6,068      6,484       8,271         8.8       5.2       6.4        29.2
Exports - constant prices         3,020   3,000   3,,784   4,644   4,592         4,425     4,852       5,362      8,022         7.2       2.8      10.6        22.0
Exports - adjusted for terms
of trade            3,189   3,000   3,327   4,030   4,359          4,355     4,464       4,897      7,760         5.4       1.2      11.6         21.1
Resource gap                        115   1,116   1,133        768   1,129       1,510     1,604       1,586        511         -         -         -            7.5
Consumption                      10,221  11,977  12,270  12,756  13,861         15,646    16,393     17,262    21,421           5.2       8.8       5.5        77.9
Investment (incl. stocks)        2,991   4,907   5,228   5,264   5,963           5,822     6,176      6,552       8,524       12.2        1.8       6.6        29.0
National savings                  3,016   3,983   4,098   4,435   4,743          4,718     4,948       5,360      8,410         7.9       2.1      11.2        23.5
Domestic savings                  2,876   3,791    4,095   4,495   4,833         4,537     4,807       5,227      7,328         9.0      -0.3       8.8        22.6
Sector Output (millions of
us$ at 1975 prices)
Agriculture                       3,993   4,535   4,897    5,140   5,385         5,417     5,688       5,972      7,259        5.1        2.7       5.0        27.0
Industry la                      4,087   5,314   5,836   6,285   6,690           7,043     7,536      8,064      11,061        8.6       6.2        8.0        35.1
Services                         4,849   5,920   6,089   6,440   6,853           7,617    8,074       8,558    11,072          6.0       8.5        6.5        37.9
Prices (1975 = 100)
Export price index                 47.4   100.0    86.2    86.6    99.2          117.6    123.2       131.6       180.3       13.1      11.4        7.9         -
Import price index                 44.9   100.0    98.0    99.8   104.5          119.5    133.9       144.1       186.4       15.1      13.2        6.8         -
Terms of trade index              105.6   100.0    87.9    86.8    94.9           98.4      92.0        91.3       96.7       -1.7      -1.6        1.0         -
Selected lIdicators
ICOR lb                             4.5      3.4      3.4      3.6      3.6        4.4       4.0         3.9        3.3
Import elasticity                  0.93    0.59      1.24     1.22    2.32        1.13      1.12        1.12       2.08
Average  savings rats              19.5    24.7    24.4    25.0    25.3           23.1      22.9        23.4       26.8
Imports/GDP                        25.5    26.1    26.5    26.9    29.0           29.2      28.5       28.7        28.1
Investment (iocl. stocks)/GDP  23.1    31.1    31.1    29.5    31.5               29.0      29.0       29.0        29.0
Resource gap/GDP                    0.9      7.1      6.7      4.3      6.0        7.5       7.5         7.0        1.7
Public Finance                       1972    1975    1976    1977    1978
(Central Governmentl              --  (X of GDP in current prices) ---                 Labor lorce in 1978 /c              Millions      (x)
Current revenue                    12.2    15.0    13.9    13.2    14.0                   Agriculture                           7.4      44.4
Tax revenue                         9.7    12.0    11.6    11.2    11.9                   Industry                             2.7       16.2
Current expenditare                13.0    13.2    12.3       11.6    11.3                Services                             5.6       33.0
Current surplus                     0.8      1.8      1.6      1.6      2.7               Unemployed                           1.1       6.4
Capital expenditures                1.9      3.0      3.5      3.4      4.1
Total Labor Force              16.8    100.0
1s Includes mining, manufacturing, construction, and utilities.
/b  The ICOR is defined as the ratio of fixed capital formation in the previous
period to the current increase in GDP over the previous period.
/c Estimate based on second quarter, 1978.
East Asia and Pacific Region
November 1979



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                                          Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ million)
Actual                              Eat.             Projected
1972       1975       1976        1977       1978      1979      1980      1981        1985
iunnoaro of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods ans  services               1,455      3,170      3,387       4,161      4,736     5,790    6,620       7,650     15.500
Of waic21:  exports of goods               1,136      2,294      2,574       3,151      3,425    4,260    4,900    5,700         12,100
Inports of goods and services                1,632      4,412      4,763       5,248      6,322     7,910    8,920    10,210       17,400
Of eiriop; lf :pOrts of goods              1,230      3,459      3,633       3,915      4,732    6,000      6,720   7,6905       13,100
Transfers (aiet)                               188        318         269        260        312        340       370       400        600
Current Account Balance                       11       -924    -1 107         -827    -1,274   -1,780   -1.930   -2,180          -1,400
Dir-ct investmeait (net)                       -22         125        144        216         163       150       150       170         250
i,bT Loans (net)                               140         359      1,040        662        834      1,000     1,300     1,670      1,140
OtficiaL-source loans (net)                   94        117         282        332        333       420        520       710        780
Prsvate-scurce loans (net)                    46        242        758         330        501       580        780       960        400
Otlner capitol /i                               56        -81        -238        113        233         47       100       120         170
Overall Ba-ance lb                            94       -521       -161         164        -54      -583      -380        200        400
International reserves (end-year) /c           551      1,358      1,640       1,525      1,883    2,423      2,130      2,130      3,200
Grants and Loan Comerit..nts
Official grants                                0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Total public loa-s                           422.0      769.4   1,577.4    1,372.7   2,417.0
IBRD1                                       29.5      114.0      226.0      317.5       533.0
IDA                                         10.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       28.0
Other multilateral                          43.3      106.0       64.2       207.3      189.2
G-oeronents                                275.5      182.3      391.6       122.3      370.4
of which CPE                               0.0       13.2        5.9         0.0        0.0
Shappliers                                   2.0       52.5       52.0       194.2       76.7
Financial institutions                      61.7      314.6      476.4       341.7   1,000.5
Bonos                                        0.0        0.0      367.2       129.7      219.2
other ' t.T loans                            130.0      283.0       603.6      134.8      914.0
Ite-or-adsa Itens
Gras1t element of commitments                 28.0       16.4         8.8       14.7       16.8
Average interest (I)                           5.4         7.4        8.3        7.9        7.4
Avvrage maturity (years)                      17.3       16.7        13.1       15.3       15.9
Itedi-1  6 Long-Tern,l Debt (disbursed only)
Total aabt outstanding (end of period)1,890.0    2,965.0   4,383.0   5,554.0   6,839.0
Including undisbursed                     2,638.0   4,520.0   6,817.0   8,155.0  10,856.0
Paslic debt service                         -149.6    -225.3    -239.2    -441.9    -468.1
ot whichi:  interest                       -51.6      -73.0      -97.9    -215.2    -167.1
other HILT debt service                     -167.6    -232.7    -283.5    -357.1    -441.9
Totac debt service                          -317.2    -458.0    -522.7    -799.0    -910.0
Delt Burden
Ou'ostanding
Deut service ratio                            22.1        14.9       15.7       18.0       20.0                         December 31. 1978
Debt service ratio /d                         22.7        15.6       16.4       19.5       20.6                          AMount  Percent
Debt servilce/GDP                              3.8        3.0         2.9        3.7        4.0   External Debt          (1US  ci.)
Pubsic debt service/governnent                                                                     (disbursed only)
revenae                                     17.0        9.1        9.9        12.0       20.1      IBRD                  546    13.0
Bank Group /e         57h     13.8
Ge ros                                                                                                 Other multi-
lateral             27'      6.6
Interest on total DOD/total DOD                6.1        5.4        4.1         6.4        4.0      Covernments         1,039      24.8
Total debt service/ttoal DOD                  17.7       16.9        10.5       15.8       13.3      Suppliers              271      6.5
Financial
oepcadencv  Ratios                                                                                        institutions      1,254    29.9
Bonds                 771     18.4
Gross disbursements/imports (GNFS)            30.2       21.4        37.9       28.7       34.3      Total public
Net tra.sfer/imports (GNFS)                   12.7         7.7        6.1        5.4        5.4        MLT debt           4,188    100.0
Net transfer/gross disbursements              41.9       36.2        16.2       18.9       23.2      Other MLT debt    2,651        63.3
Other NLT debt
txposure                                                                                                  (incl. un-
disbursed)        3,291    78.6
IBRD disb./gross total disb.                   4.7        9.8        5.5         7.4        8.3      Total public
Bank Groap ditb./gross total disb./e           4.8       10.7         6.2        7.5        8.3        debt (incl.
IBRD DOD/total DOD                             7.8        8.0         7.2        7.3        8.0        undisbursed)      7,563   180.6
Bank Groap DOD/total DOD /e                    7.8        8.6         7.8        7.8        8.4      Total HIT debt
IBRD debt ser.ice/retal debt service           4.4        5.5        6.6         5.6        6.9        (incl. un-
Barik Group debt serv./total debt. serv./e 4.4            5.6         6.7        5.6        7.0        disbursed)       10,85t   259.2
/d  Short-ter- capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
/b Eq1als change in net international reserves.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves",  IFS).East A
/d  Includes net direct investment income.                                                                           sia and Pasific Region
T.   Exclud.s IFC.                                                                                                    February :*980



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE S7TT' (INS  BANE (E1PO   UPiRATIONS IN TiE PEILIPPINES
A.  STATEliENT OP BLUsNN  LOATIS AND IDA CREDITS
As of April 30, 1980
Loae or
Ccedit                                                                          Amount (less cancellations)
Neh cl  r    PF     Borrower                  P Lrpe' I                         Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Seventeen loans and two cre, its tully disbursed                                264.0   19.5
72()-P1t   1971  Rep. of the Philip.    Rice Processing  & Storage              14.3                 0.3
80S9-Ph    19'12  National Pow/er Corp.   Po)wer                                22.0                 0.2
149-PH   1973  Rep. of thc Philip.          Educoti n 11                                12.7         0.0 /a
939-PHi   1973           "                  Ports                                6.1                 0.1
950-Ph   1973             "                 Second  llghiways                   68.0                 1.6
984-Ph   1974            "                  Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation          9.5                 I.8
998-Ph.   1974                             IDBP T                               50.0                 4.0
1034-PH    1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                    61.0                 3.2
1035-Ph1   1974  Rep. of the Philip.         Population                          25.0                12.2
1S43-PH    1974                              SulippinF                           20.0                 8.3
1052-Pli   197a,  Phtlip. NatLonal Bank  PDCP IV                                 30.0                 5.1
1060-Ph    lQ75  Nep. of the Philip.    Tarla, Irrigation                        17.0                 6.2
1132- H    1975                              Rural Development                   25.0                11.6
1120-PH    1975                              Smnll s Mledium Induistries         30.0                 0.7
1154-P1I    19876                           lNagat Irrigation                    42.0                16.6
1190-PH    1976                              lEPE I7                             75.0                 7.4
1224-I-Ph 197s             "                 Education III                       25.0                13.1
12375-P1    1976                             li-vestock 7I                       20.5                 6.4
12 7-1P   1917            "                 LilCh     Irrigat ion               50.0                35.6
1272-T-PH 1976                               Manila Urban                        10.0                 5.8
1268'-PF    1976                             Manila Urban                        22.0                12.7
1269-Pl:   1976           "                  Second Grain Processing             11.5                 9.7
1270-PEl    197h                             Second 1isheries                    12.0                 3.2
1353-P1'    1977           "                 Third highways                      95.0                71.8
1367-Ph   197i             "                 Jalaur Trrigation                   15.0                 9.0
1374-Pli   1977            "                 Fourth  Eduration                   25.0                15.4
13Q)9-P.i   1977 Central  Sac1 c,i the       Nou,rth Nural Credit
Philippines                                                   36.5                21.7
1414-Ph   1977 Rep. of the Phil ip.          liational ITrr. Sys. Inprov.   50.0                     39.9
1415-PHl   1977            "                 Provincial Cities Water Sup.  23.0                      17.9
1421-Ph    1977            "                 Rural Dev. Land Stlit. II           15.0                13.2
1460-E1'   1977  satri--l  P-oer Corp.    Seventh Power                          51.0                55.6
1506-P1,   1978 Rep. of tne Philip.           Snlellhlder Tree Farning            S.0                 7.6
1514-PiH   1978 Philip. Natt-onal Bank   PDOP V                                  30.0                23.1
1526-PI:   197S rop. oi the Philip.           2nd Ilatul . Irrg. Sys. Improv. 65.0                   54.1
790-PP    1978                              PEral Infrastructure                        28.0        27.4
S.S-PE    1975 7                            iEducation                           2.0                 1.9
1547-Ph    1978 Nat. Electrif. Adnin.   Rural Flectrification                    60.0                37.4
1555-PE    1979 Philip. ';ational bank   PIlL.                                   15.0                 4.5
15t7-P1    1978 Rep. of the Philip.          Iagat 11                           150.0                96.0
1572-PE    1978            "                  Industrial Investment III          80.0                5t.6
1615-Pit   1979            '                 lianila Water Supply  II            88.0                86.7
162b-l'h   1979            '                 National Extension                  35.0                35.0
1h39-PH    1979                              Magat River Multipurpose            21.0                18.9
1646-Ph   1979                               Snall Farner Dev. Land Bank    16.5                     15.3
1647-PNi    1979          "                  Second Urban Development            32.0                29.9
1661-PH    1979                               Highways IV                       100.0                99.7
1710-PH    1979            "                 Water Supply II                     16.0                16.0
920-PHi   1979            "                 Water Supply II                             22.0        22.0
1727-PH    1979            "                 Small & Mledium Industry II         25.0                25.0
923-PH    1979                              Population 7I                               40.0        40.0
1772-PH/b 1980                               S Samar Island Rural Devel.         27.0                27.0
1786-Ph/b 1980                               F Pisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)    38.0                    38.0
1809-PH/c 1980            "                  Rledium-Scale Irrigation            71.0                71.0
1814-Ph/c 1980             "                 flanila Sewerage & Sanitation   63.0                    63.0
1815-PH/c 1980            "                  Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)   12.0                     12.0
Total /,                                                                 2,181.9  122.2    1,318.4
of wHIMc  auas been rosaId
(Bank and third partlies)                                                163.2
Total now outstanding                                                    2.018.7  122.2
Amount sold                                                  24.3
of which has bee  ro paid
(third  parties)                                           16.0            8.3      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustaents)                                  2.010.4  122.2
Total undisbursed                                                        1,229.0   89.4   1.318.4
/a  Balance of S28,207.60 to be disbursed  in  say/June 1980.
/b  Became eifectire in Mlay 1980.
/c  Not yet effective.
/d  Not included:  Urban  IIT, $72 million, signed  June 2, 1980; Ports III, $67 million,
signed June 13, 1980;  and Rural Roads Improvement, $62 million, signed June 13, 1980.



- 28 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of April 30, 1980
Fiscal                                                        Amounts ($m_illion)
Year                      Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the          15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967          Manila Electric Company                         8.0       -       8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                   -       4.0      4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone              4.5       -       4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                     0.8      0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the              -       2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                 6.2      2.1      8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial               15.0       -      15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9      0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation           1.5       -       1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5           0.7      2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2       -       1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                 7.0       -       7.0
Corporation
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                      2.6      0.2      2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                      2.3      1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                      3.5       -       3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1           -       2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                     4.0      1.1      5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                         -        0.1     0.1
Total gross commitments                        77.1    16.7    93.8
Less sold, acquired by others,               34.3    12.3    46.6
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC              42.8      4.4    47.2
Total Undisbursed                               1.5       -       1.5



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30. 1980
Project funds have been fully committed. Final disbursements
are expected to be made by September 1980 on completion of a warehouse con-
struction project, now about 40% complete. The repayment arrears situation
has improved with arrears of principal and interest amounting to 10% of
the loans outstanding. Half of the arrears are less than 12 months old.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30. 1980
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Work on the dams
and transbasin diversion channels was completed in 1975, about one year ahead
of schedule. There were initial delays in the award of contracts for the
service area improvement works. Further delays were caused by a typhoon in
1978 which damaged some of the project area. Completion is now planned for
1980 - a two-year delay in the original schedule. Due to increased costs, a
reduced cropping intensity and delays in construction, the internal rate of
return is expected to be close to 12% compared with the appraisal estimate of
17%.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 27. 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining
work is under way. Progress continues to be slow, with about 70% of project
works completed. Due to initial delays and recent shortages of fuel and
cement, the project is likely to be completed by June 1982. The total project
area is likely to be reduced by about 20%, mainly due to elimination of areas
subject to deep flooding by the Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers. The project
cost has increased from $34 million at appraisal to about $44.1 million, with
the result that the economic rate of return will be reduced from 15% at
appraisal to about 10%.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
Loan No. 1152      Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Physical implementation of the irrigation and drainage components
is about 62% of the appraisal estimate. Due to delays in contract award and
recent shortages of fuel and construction supplies, construction has slowed
down. However, now that the Pula river irrigation system contract has been
awarded, progress is expected to improve. The road subpro1ect is about 68%
complete. Disbursements are in line with physical projects, with 50% of the
loan amount allocated for road works disbursed.
Loan No. 1154      Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 MIillion Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Consultants' work on engineering and economic evaluation studies
of the proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by
local contract and force acount for rehabilitation and new construction of
canals, drains and access roads are progressing well, and the project is
about 70% complete. The water management training is continuing satis-
factorily. A delay in the contract award for improvements to the project
diversion dam will mean about a year's delay in the completion of the project.
Loan No. 1225      Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Investments in pig and poultry subloans continue to exceed appraisal
estimates, with subloans for beef production development lagging behind.
The project's list of goods has been amended to allow for this fact. Funds
for the project's nutrition research funds are unlikely to be used, due to
difficulties in recruitment of consultants. A revised component will be
included in the next project. The establishment of the monitoring and
evaluation system is proceeding satisfactorily, and procurement of laboratory
equipment for the Feed Quality Control Program is complete. Project funds
have been fully committed, and the loan should be fully disbursed by
mid-1981. Repayments of many of DBP's borrowers under the project are still
under grace, but a build-up of interest arrears is beginning to emerge.
The Bank has assisted DBP with the development of an intensive action-
oriented collection program which will be further reinforced under the
proposed Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project. Thanks to government
approval of increased salary scales, DBP has significantly improved its
staffing position. Various improvements to DBP's organizational structure
have been instituted and other organizational developments are under
consideration.



- 31 -
AiENEX II
Page 5 of 18
Loan No. 1227       Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976: Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project had a slow start due to delays in procuring construc-
tion equipment for force account works. Changes in the design of the Chico
diversion weir, the main diversion dam and the main canal siphon resulted in
contracts being awarded behind schedule. Even though progress has improved
since the contracts were awarded, and work is now proceeding satisfactorily,
the project is about two years behind schedule.
Loan N4o. 1269      Second Grain Processing Project: $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976: Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to delays in implementing the first phase project, handling of
applications for the project only started about 2 years after effectiveness.
After three years of bumper rice crops, medium and large millers continue to
make reasonable profits, but Government controls have affected the investment
climate. DBP has undertaken to intensify its technical assistance to the
smaller millers, and this should result in better repayments. Demand for
subloans has also been slowed down by what is perceived by prospective
applicants as slow processing of subloans by DBP. The Bank has, in
consultation with DBP, developed a list of detailed recommendations on actions
to be taken. Recently, the Bank approved various amendments to broaden the
scope of the project for the loan to become more responsive to current needs
and to speed up disbursements. New proposals have recently been made for the
Grains Losses Study which represent a change in the previously agreed terms of
reference and reflect the change in focus caused by the Philippines currently
achieving a rice surplus situation.
Loan No. 1270      Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to problems related to procurement procedures for fishing
vessels and increased deployment of staff on loan recovery work, the
Development Bank of the Philippines slowed down the processing of subloan
approvals in the second half of 1977. However, loan approvals had picked up
considerably during 1978; the loan was fully committed in August 1979,
and is expected to be fully disbursed by September, 1980.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
Loan No. 1367      Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the project is about 28% compared with appraisal
estimates of 34%. Force account work is proceeding satisfactorily. Nine of
the 24 contracts for civil works have failed, and NIA has taken over eight of
them for completion by force account. With the equipment now on hand, NIA is
capable of completing this work satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1399      Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
After two and a half years of project implementation, commitments
and disbursements are roughly one-half of appraisal estimates. The Central
Bank has reassessed the project and as a result new categories of lending
(for medium-size trucks, tree crops and working capital), and a new set of
financial intermediaries (private development banks) have been included in
the project. Although these should accelerate implementation, it is
tentatively estimated that the completion date will be delayed by about 18
months. A better idea of eventual performance will be obtained by late summer
of 1980, when the above changes, which were introduced in late February 1980
will have been effective for six months.
Loan No. 1414      National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to staffing
and design problems. Contracts for drainage works in Leyte are to be
awarded shortly, and those for the Abulog works have already been awarded.
Progress is now expected to proceed satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1421      Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Satisfactory overall progress is being maintained with infra-
structure and in work towards appropriate technical packages in agriculture.
Problems associated with legitimatizing land holdings are now better
understood by concerned authorities. Some initial steps toward resolving them
have now been taken. Feasibility studies towards a forward program is well
underway, and have been expanded to include policy studies on the future use
of, or developments within, unalienated lands in general.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Loan No. 1506      Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million
Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Operations have started in all project components except research,
which is expected to begin early in 1980. However, progress has been lagging
behind schedule. In order to stimulate the slow smallholder enrollment rate
in the treefarming component, DBP eased the collateral terms and application
procedures for treefarm subloans. Insufficiency of government funds has
delayed the other components to varying degrees, particularly the Abra pine
plantation component for which vehicles have still not been been acquired. A
gradual improvement of this situation is expected, although funding could
continue to be a problem in 1980. Disbursements have started at a moderate
rate.
Loan No. 1526      Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project equipment has been procured ahead of schedule and has
started to arrive at the project sites. Topographic surveys and mapping have
been completed for about 80% of the project area and design of project works
is under way. Construction work has started and is primarily devoted to
service roads and structures along main and secondary canals. A new Project
Manager and his Assistant are providing excellent leadership in getting the
project moving. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 790    Rural Infrastructure; $28 M4illion Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply, health stations and ports is proceeding well. Construction of about
70 km of roads has started and about 50% of the design work on the remaining
680 km has been completed. While construction of the road component is
behind schedule, overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1567-PH The Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is generally satisfactory. Work on the diversion tunnels
and the main dam and spillway has accelerated due to a marked improvement in
the management, planning and execution of the contractor's operations. River
diversion through both tunnels was completed on Mtay 1, 1980. Excavation on
the main contract is ahead of schedule, but there has been some delay with the
batching plant.



ANEX II
Page 8 of 18
Loan No. 1626-PH  National Extension Project: $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978: Date of Effectiveness: March 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
A Management Committee has been created under the Chairmanship of
the Minister of Agriculture, and appropriate subcommittees established.
Nominations have been approved by the President for 12 MOA Regional Directors,
and 24 Assistant Directors. The first staff appointments have been
contracted. Allocation of 500 proposed agricultural centers has been made to
all 75 Provinces and negotiations on site ownership and registration are in
progress. The first year's vehicle allotment is being procured, including
about 1,000 motorcycles with sidecars which will be purchased by extension
workers under the project's newly estabished special vehicle loan fund.
Training is well under way. The first consultancy, to establish project
monitoring and evaluation procedures within BAEx is about to begin. The
appointment of a second consultant should be contracted soon. Pilot areas
have been selected in all 12 regions of the Philippines for introduction of
the "training and visit" extension system, and specialized training of the
district agricultural extension supervisors, who will administer the pilot
areas, has been completed. Four pilot areas are operational, and the
remaining eight will be as soon as the benchmark agroeconomic surveys are
completed in 1980.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Force account construction started in early 1980. There have been
some delays in awarding major construction contracts. Bowever, NIA was
expecting contractors to begin work in April/May 1980, and completion is still
expected, as scheduled, by end-1982.
Loan No. 1646-PH  Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Since the loan became effective, the Land Bank has improved internal
procedures and strengthened field operations, although staffing is still below
required strength.  Lending under the project for agricultural term credit
has commenced in most subcomponents, although loan disbursement has been very
slow. No disbursements have been made for infrastructure improvements due to
difficulties with the Government's budgetary procedures which are currently
in the process of being resolved. The trend in implementation is improving,
although progress will be slower than expected in the foreseeable future.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Loan No. 1772-PH Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; proposed Date of Effectiveness:
June 30, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, and is expected to be
declared effective on June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1809-PH MIedium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Proposed Date of Effectiveness: June 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan was signed on March 28, 1980 and is expected to be
declared effective on June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1815-PH Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: June 26,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan was signed on March 28, 1980 and is expected to be
declared effective on June 26, 1980.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939       Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973;
Closing Date: July 15, 1980
Project civil works at General Santos were completed and turned
over to the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) on December 7, 1978. At
Cagayan de Oro, 99% of the project is complete, and PPA is already using the
new quay extension. The Closing Date of the loan has recently been extended
to July 15, 1980 to cover civil works contract guarantee retention monies
and the costs of the next ports project feasibility study. The latest
project cost estimate is $20.2 million compared to $12 million at appraisal.
Loan No. 950       Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall, the project is about 99% complete. Difficulties have been
encountered by contractors at various times in the execution of the works
which, together with inflation, have resulted in cost increases and time
delays. These problems have now been overcome. Further major problems are
not anticipated, and the project is expected to be completed by May 1980,
except for one bridge reconstruction, which is scheduled for completion in



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
August 1980. This represents a delay of about 3 years, with a new Closing
Date of June 30, 1980. Total project cost is now estimated at about $189
million, an increase of about 47% over the original appraisal estimate, due
primarily to inflation and the serious time delays that have been experienced
throughout the project.
Loan No. 1048      Inter-Island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Closing Date was extended recently to June 30, 1981 to allow
for the completion of training programs and for ship construction guarantee
payments. About 50% of the loan has been disbursed. Loan applications
covering the balance of uncommitted funds are under consideration by DBP.
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Overall, the project is about 30% complete.  Miajor problems have
been encountered in the implementation of the national roads contracts, with
7 out of 14 contracts terminated due to unsatisfactory performance by the
contractors. Two new contracts have been awarded and bidding is underway
for the remainder. As a consequence, delays and costs higher than the
original bids are expected. Contracts for the improvement of minor roads
have been awarded but Presidential approval is being awaited for some of them
before work can begin. After substantial initial delays, the road maintenance
and restoration programs are now making satisfactory progress. All 28
workshop contracts have been awarded but work has only begun on 8 of them,
awaiting release of budgetary funds for the rest. Procurement of road
maintenance equipment, tools and other machinery is virtually complete.
Consultants for supervision of construction of roads and workshops are in
place and the road and ferry feasibility studies have been completed. The
technical assistance advisors to MPH completed their assignment in November
1979. Training advisors to MPH completed their work in Mfarch 1980. Overall
project costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates, but project
completion is likely to be delayed until late 1982, more than 24 months later
than the appraisal schedule. This delay is due to the late start of some
critical activities and to the serious delays in the execution of some of the
road construction contracts.
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness:  June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project has made a slow start, but prequalification of contrac-
tors for the road construction works is underway, utilizing new procedures
agreed during loan negotiations. Proposals for the technical assistance to
MPH and MLGCD have been received from the short-listed consulting firms and
evaluation is in process. A short-list of prospective consulting firms for



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
the design and construction supervision of workshops has been prepared and
proposals requested. Preparatory work for the continuation of the road
maintenance and road restoration programs begun under the Third Highway
Project (Loan 1353-PH) has begun. Selection of technical assistance
consultants to MPWTC/NEDA for the continuation of the transport planning
advisory services, begun under a previous project (Loan 1272-T/1282-PH) is in
process. Land acquisition for road construction and workshops is under way.
Prequalification for equipment suppliers has begun.
Loan No. 1855      Third Ports Project; $67 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan was signed on June 13, 1980 and is expected to be declared
effective on September 11, 1980.
Loan No. 1860      Rural Roads Improvement Prolect; $62 Million Loan of
June 13, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: Septem-
ber 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan was signed on June 13, 1980 and is expected to be declared
effective on September 11, 1980.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224T    Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has established an autonomous textbook agency to manage
book development, production, and distribution for public elementary and
secondary schools. It includes the writing of 75 textbook titles and
production of 27 million textbooks. Good progress has been made towards
achieving the key institution-building feature of the project. Implementation
is proceeding well with minimal delays in textbook publishing/printing and
teacher training. About 18 million textbooks have been produced and
distributed. Delays are greatest in construction of the central warehouse
complex, which is about 20 months behind schedule. Project costs are close to
appraisal estimates, and disbursements are about 69% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is generally about one year behind
schedule because of delayed contract awards, shortages of building materials
and rapid price escalation. Remedial measures have been taken by the Go-vern-
ment and the delays arrested. Enrollment projections and staff development
programs show that the project is making steady progress towards its
development impact targets. Project costs are close to appraisal estimates,
but disbursements are about 41% of appraisal estimates, reflecting the
implementation delays.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Loan No. S-8-PH   Educational Radio Technical Assistance:  $2 Mfillion Loan
of April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is functioning
smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs and
printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio Assisted
Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education for Teachers
(CET). These programs have reached the two selected pilot areas on schedule
(Pangasinan and Leyte Provinces). CET started another experimental
utilization in Mlindanao in late 1979. In order to provide information on the
desirability of nationwide project implementation, the pilot project includes
a substantial evaluation component which is proceeding smoothly and is
expected to be completed in the mid-1980s.
Loan No. 1786-PH Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980: Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980: Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, was declared effective on
May 19, 1980. A monitoring and evaluation unit has been established within
EDPITAF and the collection of base line data is in progress. A review of
combined World Bank and bilateral sources assistance shows that the fishery
technical assistance program is well coordinated and mutually complementary.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T    Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of  Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Overall construction on the Tondo project is about 57% complete.
The 65-classroom high school is now occupied, and final designs for the
remaining four schools are nearing completion. 95% of the infrastructure and
1,480 of the 2,000 units in the Dagat-Dagatan sites and services component are
complete. Both packages for the Radial Road (R-10) have now been awarded.
The project is generally progressing satisfactorily with many initial diffi-
culties overcome and lessons learned which should hasten implementation of the
remainder of the project.
Loan 1415-PH   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project, $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Contracts have been awarded in all six Water Districts for distri-
bution networks, pumping stations and reservoirs. The scope of subprojects
was revised by LWUA and approved by communities in public hearings.
Difficulties in contracting local firms for drilling have resulted in delays



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
in the preparation of feasibility studies in remote areas. LWUA has been
requested to present a plan for assistance to Water Districts in
institution-building, and proposing solutions to the scarcity of local well
drilling contractors.
Loan 1615-PH   Second Mlanila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Delays in ADB-financed components of the project have resulted
in similar delays in IBRD-financed parts of the project. Nevertheless,
according to new re-scheduling prepared by consultants, it is expected that
the original target of completing the project by June 1983 will be met.
Because of the overall impact of inflationary pressures resulting from recent
oil increases, the increase in water rates of P 0.25 per cubic meter ori-
ginally scheduled for October 1979 has been postponed to about mid-1980.
MWSS now expects to achieve a rate of return of 5% on net revalued fixed
assets in 1981 instead of 1980.
Loan No. 1647-PH  Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
,1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation hlas begun on earthworks, sewage and drainage
contracts in Manila and the three regional cities of Cebu, Davao, and Cagayan
de Oro. Designs for community facilities in Dagat-Dagatan are complete, and
those for the elementary and high school are in various stages of
production.
Credit 920-PH Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan 1710-PH   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
Consultants to assist LWUA in the preparation of feasibility
studies for the first group of 20 cities have been hired. A new project
manager was appointed and LWUA is actively promoting the creation of new
Water Districts. Work has started on the development of a financial
planning and control system.
Loan 1821-PH Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
September 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
This loan was signed on June 2, 1980, and is expected to be
decleared effective on September 2, 1980.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Power Sector
Loan No. 809       Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296    of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule.
Due to cost overruns, a part of the transmission project was transferred to
the Sixth Power Project, and the actual project cost as finally constructed
was about $59.3 million, an increase of about $11.0 million over the original
estimate. The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from December 31,
1979 to June 30, 1980 to allow full disbursement of committed funds. As of
the end of December 1979, the undisbursed funds amounted to $1.0 million.
Credit 296-PH was fully disbursed in April 1975.
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consultants'
services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and the
transmission facilities are now expected to be completed in the first quarter
of 1981, more than three years behind schedule. The revised cost of the
project is estimated at $124.2 million, an increase of about 35% over the
original estimate ($92 million). The Closing Date of the loan has been
postponed from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for
completion of the transmission systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The revised foreign exchange component is estimated at $44.4
million, compared with the original estimate of $58.0 million. Procurement
has been slow, with the result that disbursements have been behind schedule.
The Bank waived the 8% rate of return requirement for 1978 and the Government
has requested that this be repeated for 1979. NPC's financial performance was
reviewed by the Bank during the energy sector review in April/May 1980.  In
the meantime, the Government authorized a 31% power rate increase effective
February 1980, and NPC expects to meet the covenanted 8% rate of return in
1980. Plans for establishing a training center, which was to be financed by
the Bank, have been deferred.
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of April 4,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17. 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Execution of the project is now improving, after initial delays in
tender document preparation and procurement. Following reorganization of



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
NEA's management, the first contracts for purchase of Bank project materials
were awarded in April 1979. Construction started in late l1/9 following
receipt of project materials, and first disbursements are expected before
June 1980. Bid documents for the third and last package of materials have
been prepared, and contract awards are expected in September 1980. NEA's
financial performance in 1978 and 1979 was satisfactory, and steps are being
taken by NEA to strengthen its monitoring of the financial performance of
the cooperatives, especially their compliance with the Government's finan-
cial performance guidelines.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998       Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
September 9, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million) has been fully
drawn down by DBP to finance medium and relatively large industrial projects.
DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance about 1,300 smallholders in a
pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao; this part of the loan is almost fully
disbursed.
Loan No. 1052      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12. 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The loan is for on-lending by PDCP to financially and economically
viable industrial subprojects. After some slowdown in commitments and dis-
bursements experienced in 1976 and 1977 the loan has now been fully committed.
Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120      Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The DBP ($16.7 million) and IGLF ($12 million) portions of the loan have been
fully disbursed. The Rural Industrial Cooperative Program ($0.6 million)
which is being implemented by the National Electrification Administration is
facing management and staffing problems because of its experimental nature.
Disbursements on this component have been slow. The Small Business Advisory
Centers program ($0.7 million) of the Ministry of Industry has been
implemented and is working satisfactorily. Overall progress of the project is
satisfactory.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Loan No. 1190       Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of January 28,
1975: Date of Effectiveness: April 6. 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the loan were intended to be used by DBP to finance
large-, medium- and small-scale industries. Commitments of funds, which were
initially much slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the
industrial sector as a whole, improved in 1978 and 1979. The loan has since
been fully committed by DBP for subprojects. Disbursement is now proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 23. 1978: Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
The proceeds of the loan are being on-lent by PDCP for financing
viable private industrial enterprises. As of March 31, 1980 commitments under
the loan amounted to $18.5 million. The project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978: Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The actual pace of commitment of the loan was much faster than
anticipated during loan appraisal, and the loan has since been fully committed
by PISO. As of March 31, 1980, disbursements amounted to $10.5 million.
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1572       Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Out of the total loan of $80 million, $50 million is earmarked for
financing large industry and $29.7 million for small-scale industry projects
and a small portion ($0.3 million) for technical assistance. Commitments for
subprojects under the large industry component amounted to $43.5 million as of
March 31, 1980. In addition, as of the same date the small and medium
industry and the technical assistance components had been disbursed to the
extent of $7.6 million. The overall progress of the project is satisfactory.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 29, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
In the last quarter of 1979, the Government and the Central Bank
worked on the introduction of policy changes in IGLF, for which purpose $24.5
million was provided under the loan. Loan utilization is now progressing
well. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
As of March 1980, 193 of the 219 project facilities had been comple-
ted, 12 were under construction and 14 had not been started. Contractors have
completed about 92% of all construction work. During the period January to
October 1979, many project components experienced implementation delays due to
non-availability of Government counterpart funds. While this problem was
partially solved by internal transfer and reallocation of funds it is likely
that there will be a 6- to 12-month delay in project completion. Following
the disbanding on December 31, 1979, of the administration unit for this
project, a Project Coordinator wras appointed for both this and the second
project. This action is expected to speed up significantly the completion of
this first project. In January 1979 the project was amended to include
financing of additional vehicles and equipment for service delivery; training;
information, education and communication campaigns; and studies in preparation
for the second population project. The amended total project cost is $40 mil-
lion. The total cost estimate had decreased from the estimate at appraisal,
due mainly to price increases not materializing as forecast. The management
situation in the Commission on Population (POPCOM) is improving and a func-
tional analysis of the Ministry of Health is completed. The recommendations
of this study are being considered to strengthen the integrated health/
nutrition/family planning programs.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 29 , 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit was declared effective on October 15, 1979. Implemen-
ting agencies obtained sufficient GOP budget allocation for CY1980 and have
started several significant activities under this project. A new construction
unit has been established to monitor and coordinate all civil works under the
project. Most of the contracts for operational research and production of
communication materials have been finalized. The Ministry of Health is
streamlining the project management activities into its line functions. A
national task force is engaged in developing the operational policies,
guidelines and manuals for implementation of Primary Health Care Program and
two independent studies to strengthen the finance/accounts management and
integrated health/population/nutrition management information system are
underway. Though due to delayed release of GOP funds implementation is
slightly behind the schedule, the overall progress is satisfactory.



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
THIRD LIVESTOCK AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Agency which prepared the project: DBP with assistance from
FAO/CP.
(b) Date of first presentation to the
Bank and date of the first Bank
mission to consider the project:    October 1977 and March 1978
(c)  Departure of Appraisal mission:       August 23, 1979
(d)  Negotiations completed:               June 13, 1980
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:        October 17, 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) DBP to present to the Bank before December 31, 1980:
(i) report on the results of the current arrears' reduction
plan and a plan for future actions (para. 40);
(ii) draft agreements defining collaboration between DBP on the
one hand and BAI and BFAR on the other (para. 44);
(iii) terms of reference and a short-list of consultants for the
development of DBP's new management information system and
for the development of an agricultural staff training
program in sufficient time to enable appointments to be
made by December 31, 1980 (para. 62);
(iv) plan for monitoring and evaluation studies of agricultural
subprojects (para. 62); and



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(v) a lending program for the balance of the year ended
December 31, 1980 and by January 1 of each subsequent
project year an Annual Lending Program (para. 63).
(b) Other matters to be attended to by DBP:
(i)  structural changes reallocating departmental responsibilites
would be completed by December 31, 1980; the Branches and
Agencies Department of DBP would establish by June 30, 1981
a reporting system to record and report on decisions reached
at regional/provincial development councils (paras. 38 and
48);
(ii) lending for cattle in villages would be limited to villages
selected by BAI (para. 53);
(iii)  lending for fishpond estates would be subject to consultation
with the Bank (para. 57); and
(iv)  annual project accounts would be redesigned and the internal
audit system would be reviewed to reflect the new management
information system (para. 62);
(v)  DBP would make subloans on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, which would be reviewed from time to time in
consultation among the Bank, the Borrower and DBP (para. 68).
(c)  An additional condition of effectiveness is the execution of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and DBP (para. 63).
(d)  Conditions of disbursement:
(i)  for the noncredit component, the submission to the Bank
of a detailed physical plan, equipment list, implementation
schedule and budget (para. 63);
(ii)  for the credit component, the submission to the Bank of DBP's
lending program for the balance of calendar year 1980 (para. 70).



IBRD 14744
1160                                                520                                                                                                   JANUAIRY 1O
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES
BY GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS                                                                                             PHILIPt 
I   COS                 V3I WESTARN VISAYAS                                                           Developmffent Bank of Philippines
2 Abra                   38 Capiz                                                    THIRD LIVESTOCK AND FISHERIES CREDIT PROJECT
3pooDs Sur        39 Antiqsue                                                                                                                                    20
_zp3 ltoeoS Sur     ~40 Bioito8
5 La Union              4        Ms Occidsnta      r
6  8en9uet             VlI CENTRAL VISAYAS                                                                       S,ra Glf PIMA?1Y FPStlNOROUND
7 PnlnoaSr              42 lebu                                                                                             R -   PEGIONAL $UNWVISION OF FtSHIlNG.GROUND
43 qroao lrelntig         I                                                   -         E
11 CAGAYAN VALLEY    44 aohol                                                                                      ---   PROWt4IAL 80J4ARIES
8 Bat1es                45 Sjujiie                [                            Cn                                                   L IAE
9 Cagayan              VllI EASTERN VJSAYAS    |                        8      el '                                  _      RE      &  UOIJNOARIES
10 KaltApseyao           46 Nrwn                    |w-  -  tNTEMATIONAL  UMIWARIES
11 1s2bel                47 Sanar                          1
12 1fugeo                48 EaRern Samar                                         2Aper" t
13 Nuev  Vizcaya         49LeV t                                  b  tI
14 Xtlao                 50 South ern                                                                                                                        20
11 C:ENTRAL LUZON         IX WESTERN MINDANAO                            10                             -K. t
15 Ntueva Etila          51 Zemboange de[ Norl                       -       1REGION          I
16 Tarlac                52 Z     np  delSur S                                 - 3 
17 Zrnbaes               53 SeSiOlet               I             I                 11  
818 Prmpenga             54                       -lh                  12
19  gutwasr 655 TawI w                       \            \        r b
20 BEaton                 X  fRHBMINDANAOg <                  _(      3  t 14,                 tq
NV ETROPOLITAN          X NORTHIERNIN3 AI                
6     MhL                  56 Surigga del Notte              7/
I-, SOUTHERN TAGALOG 57 Candguin                     i            - .   15
21 Quezon                58 Agusan del Norte
22 Rlzat                 59 ?4eatis Orienrtl                 6  16    |
23 GoalIe7
24 Laguna                60 MUamins  =              I      E16Ilf9 k                               \!
25 Batanga,              6loal*ldnon                            N -~P II    21
26 Ma* inue              62 Agrmn  det Sur                                                - 2
27 Mindoro Orienti7       Xi SOUTHERN MINDANAO
28 Mindoro --aernal      63 Surigo det Sur                     G ON                        _  
29 Robo                  64 Do"*, Oridoal                                                  31
30 Palawan               65 Dao                    i
v  ICOL               I66  *W' de3Sur
31 Camarimes Norte       67 SIth COD                |                                                                                                        SEA
32 Cnimis Sur            Xi- CENTRAL MINDAEAG
33 Catanduaes            68 Lanoo dtel Namrte
34 Alboy                 69 Lia. del Sur
35 SorsOion              70 N,rth COtbato                      I           v/
72 Urttm Kuaat           /29                                                           fi          >s] r
/     12K,.    x '%S.                                 athat         iL 7                                                 2
-120 ~~                                        ~       ~        KN                                                                          ''1
-                              \\3 j  >"SOy\  Soc,   -                                                   i
SOUTH CHINA SA0 /                                                                      0                              4
/ /                              /          J                 <        MR        M{lHPanelGu:f
or1>   X/9-REGI X3 \
A   RtWAN   /                                 K /S:                                e             A1 9  RECS XX t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
,IEgp   <A                                                                           R                            8, _F0-_  
CHN                                                                                                            xi CELBX          -W 
n0TH   ',B  A                                                  _67_____ _1tp
/                                                                            SEA
/                            -,~~~                            --     -      --       -






IBRD 14745
1200                                                     ~~~~~~~PHILtPPINES-IRD                                                                                                          74
2Dvelopment Bankm f Phitppne                                                        _
C H I N A                                                                     "O,~~,i !TOCK AND FISHERM$X CTDIT
-           N~iti~d Economic Zone qnii,                                   u~frgC
50,00cu,   vz-v ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~50
-A  '0 J .                                                                                                  _____                                        Mas
% 0 = W=7t7 t 311iiigi%'3 t > 11 j0 j 3 30D >w00M ., 5 ,? X : .,,, ; t :, H 4 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)    y,Kf:M,:)ESXLl 11 l    i3:::u!,.::^e|.'str 1S:: .   za v a o1:\ :
a r 0>: Z 41 , ' r l 4~~~~~~~~~W                                                                                        * :h0g^.-:ScJ C:ENl.v,_,53
l~~~~ N 



