Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB5018 
Project Name 
Sustaining Social Gains for Economic Recovery 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (25%); Other social services 
(25%);Health (25%);General education sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P118036 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF EL SALVADOR 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
August 31, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 21, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 24, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The recent elections in El Salvador point to the maturing of democratic processes and greater 
political stability. El Salvador’s polarized political system has been a major obstacle for the 
development of public policies in the past. The FMLN’s victory in both the Presidential and 
Congressional elections, after 20 years in the opposition, and the smooth handover of political 
power is a milestone in the country’s development. Although the new Government came to 
power with an explicit agenda for accelerating implementation of social programs and inclusive 
economic growth, to date, it has shown significant moderation by balancing the concerns of 
different parties and negotiating consensus. 
 
Recent economic progress has been accompanied by improvements in the country’s social 
conditions.  Economic growth reached 4.2 percent in 2006 and 4.7 in 2007, up from 2.3 percent 
over the period 2000 to 2005. The main social indicators showed significant improvements in 
this period. The poverty rate declined by 18 percent between 2001 and 2007 (from 43.6 to 35.5 
percent), which is equivalent to pulling almost half million Salvadorans out of poverty. About 
15.4 percent of Salvadoran households were living in extreme poverty in 2007. These figures 
represent significant advances from the end of the civil war, in 1991, when the proportions of 
poor and extreme poor were 64.4 percent and 31.2 percent, respectively.  In addition, access to 
basic services and health care and education outcomes have all improved. 
 
Nonetheless, the country continues to face significant development challenges. Even before the 
onset of the economic crisis, slightly more than 2 million people were living in poverty (2007).  
Furthermore, the quality of school education remains low, while the net enrolment rate for high 
school is much lower than that of similar middle income countries. In the health sector, problems 
remain in terms of access and quality. In 2002, a significant proportion of the poor did not seek 
health care even in public facilities, due to high costs. El Salvador’s economy relatively high 
dependence on remittances from the United States, which support the incomes of a significant 
proportion of poor households, also makes the country highly vulnerable to external shocks.   
 
Page  2
2
The on-going economic crisis is likely to increase poverty through increased unemployment and 
reduction of incomes of poor households in the short term, compounding the negative impacts of 
the food and fuel price increases in 2008.  Unemployment is expected to increase with job losses 
in the 
maquilas
 and other industries, as well as in the construction and service sectors. It will also 
make migration relatively less attractive, since job opportunities in the US will be limited as 
well. These impacts may lead to a stagnation or even increase in poverty rates. Indeed, household 
survey data shows that rural poverty rose in 2007 to about 40 percent, reversing a secular decline 
from 52 percent in 35 percent in 2007.  In 2008, the rural poverty rate rose to 49 percent. The 
urban poverty rate rose to about 35 percent in 2007, compared to about 30 percent in 2007. The 
rise in the price of food grains, associated with the global food price crisis was largely 
responsible for the rapid increase in the incidence of poverty. 
Given these challenges, the Government of El Salvador (GoES) has prepared an Anti-Crisis Plan 
to mitigate the immediate economic and social impacts of the global economic crisis, while 
preparing a foundation for rapid recovery once global conditions improve.  The authorities have 
mobilized external borrowing to finance the Anti-Crisis Plan. The proposed DPL will support a 
number of the initiatives in the GoESs Anti-Crisis Plan.  
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The DPL will support the government’s Anti-Crisis Plan to protect the social gains made in the 
past decade and reinforce the framework for economic recovery.  
 
The GoES has requested support from the multilateral institutions to finance this deficit without 
having to curtail expenditures on social programs and public investment, which are required for 
the long term development of the country. Apart from providing a part of the financing, the 
proposed DPL will also enable the Bank to provide technical assistance in the area of 
institutional strengthening and policy development to a new government with limited experience 
in administering the country.  
 
The Government’s Anti-Crisis Plan has four major objectives and components. The objectives of 
the program are to: (i) protect employment and generate new opportunities for work; (ii) protect 
the vulnerable population from the impacts of the economic crisis; (iii) initiate the creation of a 
Universal System of Social Protection (
Sistema de Protección Social Universal
-
SPSU) and (iv) 
begin the construction of economic and social policies in an inclusive manner.  To this end, the 
program elaborates four components of work: 
x
Support the production and generation of income and employment 
x
Design and launch of the Universal System of Social Protection (SPSU) 
x
Strengthen Management of Public Finances 
x
Improve institutional framework for the medium-term development agenda 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The proposed DPL is designed as a single tranche operation to support the government’s Anti-
Crisis Plan and serves as a bridge between the on-going DPL and a possible programmatic DPL 
Page  3
3
series in FY11 and FY12. A single tranche operation is an appropriate response to the immediate 
needs of the government
’s Plan, while the government finishes preparing the new medium-term 
development strategy. The proposed DPL is included in the new Country Partnership Strategy 
(CPS), which is concurrently being prepared and submitted to the Board on November 24, 2009.  
The proposed DPL is structured around three pillars: 
 
a. 
Protecting social expenditures by improving targeting of subsidies:
 The DPL will aim to 
protect non-personnel recurrent spending and essential investments that are required to 
sustain the quality of education and health services, while generating resources from the re-
targeting of some subsidies. 
 
b. 
Protecting the income and consumption of the poor:
 The DPL will support the launch of 
essential programs including the extension of access to health and education services, the 
provision of temporary income support, and the transfer of other benefits to vulnerable 
populations in poor municipalities. 
 
c. 
Strengthening the institutional and policy making capacity of sectoral Ministries/agencies:
 
The DPL will support specific actions to build the capacity of the Ministries of Education 
and Health as well as the Technical Secretariat of the President (
Secretaria Técnica de la 
Presidencia- STP
), which is in charge of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of 
social policy. 
 
4.    Environnent Aspects 
 
Given that neither construction nor rehabilitation of infrastructure will take place, the Operation 
is unlikely to cause any effects on the country
’s environment, forests and other natural resources.  
However, in case the community project proposed by Municipalities has the potential of raising 
environmental concerns, the FISDL will provide an environmental framework to define the 
nature of the potential impact and the mitigation measures for those activities to be financed by 
the program.  
 
5.    Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) 
100.0 
 Total 
100.0 
 
6.    Contact point 
Contact: Sajitha Bashir 
Title: Sector Leader, LC2 
Tel: (202) 458-1669 
Fax: (202) 614-0202 
Page  4
4
Email: sbashir@worldbank.org 
 
