Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.: AB5074 
 Project Name 
Sustaining Social Gains for Economic Recovery 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (25%);Other social services 
(25%);Health (25%);General education sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P118036 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF EL SALVADOR 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
October 2, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 28, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
November 24, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
El Salvador is at a critical juncture in its development, after a historical political transition which took place in 
the midst of an unfolding economic crisis triggered by global financial turmoil and the U.S. recession. In 
March 2009, President Maurizio Funes, candidate of the 
Frente Farabundo Martí para la Liberación Nacional
 
(FMLN), the party which had been in opposition for 20 years since the end of the civil war, won the 
Presidential elections. The Presidential candidate ran on an electoral platform with a clear social policy 
agenda, focusing on employment, job creation, provision of basic health and education services and social 
protection for the poor.  The new government also promised improvements in the efficiency of public 
spending and taxation in order to ensure the fiscal sustainability of its ambitious medium term development 
strategy.  
 
The elections were held at a time when El Salvador was hit hard by the triple shock of rising fuel and food 
prices, followed by the global financial crisis. The recent impact of the global economic crisis on El Salvador 
has generated major economic and social risks and jeopardizes the ability of the new government to implement 
its social policy agenda. By early 2009, tens of thousands of Salvadoran households had been affected by the 
loss of jobs, especially in the export sector, reduction in incomes and a sharp drop in remittances. The sharp 
downturn in the US economy in the first half of 2009 magnified these impacts, due to the close links between 
the two economies. These developments compound the problem of a rapid rise in the poverty rate in 2008 
caused by the increase in food prices. The new government was also confronted with a rapidly deteriorating 
fiscal outlook, as tax revenues declined more than anticipated, constraining its efforts to deliver on its pro-poor 
social agenda.   
Given these challenges, the Government of El Salvador has prepared an Anti-Crisis Plan for the period 2009-
2011 to mitigate the immediate economic and social impacts of the global economic crisis, while preparing the 
foundation for implementing is medium-term development agenda once global conditions improve.  The 
government recognizes that, while enhanced social expenditures are required, maintaining fiscal and 
macroeconomic stability is key to putting the country on a sustainable growth path which can support a 
permanent reduction in poverty and accumulation of human capital. Hence, the authorities have focused on 
selective expansion of the safety nets and access to education and health services, together with 
institutionalization of the mechanisms for social policy formulation, coordination and implementation and 
improvement of public expenditure management.   
Page  2
2. 
Operation Objectives  
 
The DPL will support the government’s Anti-Crisis Plan to protect the social gains made in the past decade 
and reinforce the framework for economic recovery.  
 
The Anti-Crisis Plan and overall program of the government are broadly consistent. The objectives of the Plan 
are to: (i) protect employment and generate new opportunities for work; (ii) protect the vulnerable population 
from the impacts of the economic crisis; (iii) initiate the creation of a Universal System of Social Protection 
and (iv) begin the construction of economic and social policies in an inclusive manner.  To this end, the 
program elaborates four components of work:
 
x
Support the production and generation of income and employment 
x
Design and launch of the Universal System of Social Protection (SPSU) 
x
Strengthen Management of Public Finances 
x
Improve institutional framework for the medium-term development agenda
 
The DPL is constructed around three pillars, drawn from the most important elements of the Government’s 
program and Anti- Crisis Plan. These pillars are: (i) protecting fiscal space for social expenditures; (ii) 
protecting the income and consumption levels of the vulnerable population and (iii) strengthening institutional 
capacity for policy formulation in the social sectors for economic recovery.   
 
While the government’s Anti-Crisis Plan is wide-ranging, the DPL selectively supports specific and critical 
policy actions, focusing on those with the greatest immediate impact on the poor and vulnerable sections and 
institutional strengthening.
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The government has requested additional resources in order to close the fiscal gap for 2009 and alleviate the 
social burden of the economic crisis, while laying the ground for a social policy that is sustainable and 
responds to the long-term development agenda.  In December 2008, faced with adverse fiscal pressures and a 
threat to macroeconomic stability, the previous government sought and secured a two-tranche Public Finance 
and Social Sector Development Policy Loan for US$450 million from the Bank and a parallel US$ 500 million 
loan from the IDB. The first tranche of US$200 million of the World Bank DPL was released in February 
2009 and the program was designed to have a second tranche disbursing in FY11. However, the fiscal deficit 
for 2009 is projected at 5.1 percent of GDP against an initial projection of 2.8 percent of GDP in the IMF 
Standby Arrangement (SBA) approved in early 2009. As a result, the GoES has requested support from the 
multilateral institutions to finance the fiscal gap without having to curtail expenditures on social programs and 
public investment, which are required for the long term development of the country. 
4. Financing 
 
The loan amount is expected to be US$100 million to be disbursed in one single tranche. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Finance is responsible for the implementation of the DPL as well for coordinating actions 
among the concerned line ministries/ agencies, including in particular, the Central Bank, Ministry of 
Education, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, the Vice Ministry of Transportation, 
and the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (for SPSU).  Together with the Ministry of Finance, these 
ministries/ agencies will collect the necessary data to assess implementation progress and report it to the Bank, 
Page  3
taking into account both process advances and service statistics, survey and other data that might be used to 
assess the achievement of the program’s end outcomes.
 
6.   
Benefits and Risks 
 
Risks  
Macroeconomic instability arising from fiscal pressures
.
Fiscal pressures are likely to emerge due to the 
sharp decline in current revenues associated with the economic slowdown, while expenditures will 
grow in order to protect the poor from the effects of the crisis. The fiscal deficit is expected to reach 
5.1% of GDP in 2009.
 The Bank is continuing a policy dialogue with the Government to ensure that 
incremental expenditures are focused on the program’s objective of protecting the vulnerable population in an 
economic crisis. The Government has also reached an agreement on a new three-year Standby Arrangement 
with the IMF.
 
Opposition to approval of Bank loans in Congress
.
The operation supports specific programs and areas 
which are reflected in the government’s program and Anti-Crisis Plan. Although the new administration has 
been working closely to ensure support for this operation, the relationship could change with time. The 
administration does not have the required majority to Bank loans in the Congress, and in the past, several Bank 
projects were not approved. The Bank has made sustained efforts to maintain dialogue with all parties, 
including opposition parties, on all aspects of the government’s program. The SSGER DPL is also being 
processed as part of a package including the new Country Partnership Strategy and two investment projects 
supporting the government’s program.
 
Benefits 
The proposed program will support the Government’s implementation of the Anti-Crisis plan by: 
(a) Protecting fiscal space for social expenditures; (b) Protecting the income and consumption levels of the 
vulnerable population; and (c) Strengthening institutional capacity for policy formulation in the social sectors 
for economic recovery.  
 
6. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
The operation is expected to have significant positive distributional effects by supporting the Government's 
efforts to protect social spending levels with a special focus on the most vulnerable population. Pro-poor 
actions in the social sector, including protecting incomes of the poor, eliminating health co-payments, and 
implementing school feeding programs, are specifically designed to promote poverty reduction or at the very 
least prevent deterioration during the crisis.  
Environment Aspects 
This program is not expected to have significant positive or negative effects on the country’s environment, 
forests and other natural resources.  
 
Contact point 
Contact: Sajitha Bashir 
Title: Sector Leader, LC2 
Tel: (202) 458-1669 
Fax: (202) 614-0202 
Email: sbashir@worldbank.org 
 
7. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Page  4
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop)
 
