                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001843




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD 7806-SV)

                                     ON A

                                    LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION
                                TO THE

                        REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR

                                    FOR A

          SUSTAINING SOCIAL GAINS FOR ECONOMIC RECOVERY

                       DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                                 June 27, 2011




Human Development Sector
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      The US Dollar is the current currency in El Salvador



           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

   CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
     CS     Comunidades Solidarias
  CSU       Comunidades Solidarias Urbanas
   DPL      Development Policy Loan
  GDP       Gross Domestic Product
   IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
   IMF      International Monetary Fund
    ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
 MAIS       Integrated Health Care Model (Modelo de Atención integral de Salud)
MINED       Ministry of Education
  MoF       Ministry of Finance
MSPAS       Ministry of Health
  PATI      Temporary Income Support Program (Proyecto Temporal de Apoyo
            de Ingresos)
 PASE       School Feeding Program (Programa de Alimentación y Salud
            Escolar)
  PDO       Program Development Objectives
  PEIS      Extraordinary Budget for Social Investment 2009-2011 (Proyecto de
            Decreto contendiendo las reformas al Presupuesto Extraordinario de
            Inversión Social)
 PFSS       Public Finance and Social Sector
  SBA       Stand-By Agreement
 SPSU       Universal Social Protection System (Sistema de Protección Social
            Universal)
SSGER       Sustaining Social Gains for Economic Recovery
  STP       Technical Secretariat of the President (Secretaría Técnica de la
            Presidencia)




               Vice President:    Pamela Cox
             Country Director:    Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
              Sector Manager:     Chingboon Lee
            Task Team Leader:     Sajitha Bashir
            ICR Team Leader:      Sarah Elizabeth Berger
                                            EL SALVADOR
                             Sustaining Social Gains for Economic Recovery

                                                         CONTENTS

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................ 1 
   1.1  Context at Appraisal ............................................................................................. 1 
   1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
   approved) ........................................................................................................................ 4 
   1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification .................................. 4 
   1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program .................................................... 5 
   1.5 Revised Policy Areas. The policy areas were not revised. ....................................... 6 
   1.6 Other significant changes. None. ............................................................................. 6 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6 
   2.1  Program Performance ........................................................................................... 6 
   2.2  Major Factors Affecting Implementation ............................................................. 7 
   2.3  Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization ..... 8 
   2.4  Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation ......................................................... 9 
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 10 
   3.1  Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation ...................................... 10 
   3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives ............................................... 11 
   3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating ................................................................ 15 
   3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts.............................................. 16 
   3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops. Not
   applicable...................................................................................................................... 16 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 16 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 18 
   5.1 Bank Performance .................................................................................................. 18 
   5.2 Borrower Performance ........................................................................................... 19 
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 19 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 20 
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 21 
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 22 
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 23 
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 24 
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 32 
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 33 
Annex 7. MAP .................................................................................................................. 34 
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Sustaining Social Gains
Country:                El Salvador              Program Name:
                                                                           for Economic Recovery
Program ID:             P118036                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-78060
ICR Date:               06/27/2011               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     DPL                      Borrower:
Original Total
                        USD 100.0M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 100.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 100.0M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministerio de Hacienda
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/09/2009      Effectiveness:             08/25/2010         08/25/2010
Appraisal:            10/09/2009      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             11/24/2009      Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2010         12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                          Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                          Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                         Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem                                Quality at Entry
                          No                                             None
Program at any time                              (QEA):


                                                 i
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                           40                    40
General transportation sector                                      10                    10
Health                                                             30                    30
Other social services                                              20                    20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                             30                   30
Health system performance                                           30                   30
Nutrition and food security                                         10                   10
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                    20                   20
procurement
Social safety nets                                                  10                   10

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                          Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Laura Frigenti                      Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
Sector Manager:            Chingboon Lee                       Chingboon Lee
Program Team Leader:       Sajitha Bashir                      Sajitha Bashir
ICR Team Leader:           Sarah Elizabeth Berger
ICR Primary Author:        Sarah Elizabeth Berger


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The DPL will support the Government's Anti-Crisis Plan to protect social gains made in
the past decade and reinforce the framework for economic recovery.




                                                ii
Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally      Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target     Completion or
                                               documents)          Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Reduction in transport subsidy by 38 percent from US$84 million
Value
(quantitative or   84,000,000.00           52,080,000.00                      48,000,000.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008              12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved. Source for baseline and actual value data: Ministry of Finance.
achievement)
                   Non-personnel recurrent expenditure in education and health budgets for 2009
Indicator 2 :      and 2010 are maintained at least at 2008 levels and critical investments in
                   health are protected
                                           141,740,000.00                      184,100,000.00
Value              141,740,000.00
                                           (education)                         (education)
(quantitative or   (education)
                                           220,500,000.00                      265,200,000.00
Qualitative)       220,500,000.00 (health)
                                           (health)                            (health)
Date achieved      12/31/2008              12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved. Source for baseline and actual value data: Ministry of Finance.
achievement)
                   Coverage of school feeding program expanded to 1.3 million students in grades
Indicator 3 :
                   1 through 9
Value
(quantitative or   857,400                 1,300,000                          1,316,779
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2009              12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
                   Achieved. Source for baseline and actual value data: Ministry of Education,
(incl. %
                   Programa de Alimentacion y Salud Escolar.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Number of hospital discharges in the public sector increased by 10 percent
Value
(quantitative or   337,113                 370,824                            374,690
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008              12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved. Source for baseline and actual value data: Ministry of Health.
achievement)
                   The Temporary Income Support Program is fully operational in 11
Indicator 5 :
                   municipalities



                                                iii
Value
(quantitative or   0                       11                                  11
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008              12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments
                   Achieved. Source for baseline and actual value data: Technical Secretariat of
(incl. %
                   the President.
achievement)
                   A new curriculum for the teaching of science and technology in upper
Indicator 6 :
                   secondary has been elaborated
Value
(quantitative or   Does not exist.         Developed.                          Semi-Developed.
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008                12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
                   Partially achieved. Science and technology curriculum was developed for
Comments
                   upper secondary technical education in agriculture and electrical engineering;
(incl. %
                   however, not for all of upper secondary education. Source: Ministry of
achievement)
                   Education.
                   Proportion of individuals receiving health care attention in the 80 poorest
Indicator 7 :
                   municipalities rises to 80 percent
Value
(quantitative or   70                      80                                  86
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments           Achieved. 86 percent of individuals in 80 poorest municipalities are receiving
(incl. %           health care attention. Source for baseline and actual value data: Ministry of
achievement)       Health.
Indicator 8 :      Number of municipalities where Comunidades Solidarias Urbanas is piloted.
Value
(quantitative or   0                       2                                   0
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments           Not Achieved. This result is contrary to the last ISR rating and an explanation
(incl. %           is provided in the main text. Source for baseline and actual value data:
achievement)       Technical Secretariat of the President.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                          Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value                          Revised
                                                approval                           Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                           Target Years



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

         Date ISR                                                                   Actual
 No.                                 DO                       IP
         Archived                                                               Disbursements


                                                iv
                                                          (USD millions)
  1    01/16/2010       Satisfactory       Satisfactory             0.00
  2    06/04/2010       Satisfactory       Satisfactory             0.00
  3    12/24/2010       Satisfactory       Satisfactory            99.75


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                       v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Economic Developments
1.     At the time of appraisal, the global economic crisis had begun to have severe
impacts on El Salvador, reversing years of positive, though modest, economic growth. The
years just prior to the onset of the economic crisis, between 2005 and 2007, had seen an
acceleration of growth to about 4 percent per annum, compared to an average rate of about 2.2
percent per annum between 2000 and 2005. In 2008, growth slowed again to 2.4 percent. With a
sharp fall in proceeds from remittances (-7.1 percent), the collapse in consumption and
investment, and reduced foreign demand, GDP declined by 3.5 percent in 2009.

2.      The sharp economic contraction sparked a rise in unemployment and poverty; the
latter was also affected by the earlier rise in food and fuel prices. Within a few months, tens
of thousands of jobs were lost in the formal manufacturing sector and in the construction sector.
Between 2008 and 2009, the unemployment rate increased by 25 percent, from 5.8 percent to 7.3
percent. Unemployment disproportionately affected urban areas, rising by 29 percent compared
to 17 percent in rural areas, and youth, among whom the unemployment rate increased from 10.7
percent in 2008 to 13.3 percent to 2009. The poverty rate rose even more steeply, leading to a
dramatic reversal in poverty trends, which had steadily declined from 43 percent in 2000 to 35
percent in 2007. By the end of 2008, poverty had increased to 40 percent, due to the fall in labor
income and remittances and especially due to the rise in food prices (8 percent in 2007 to 17
percent in 2008). By mid-2009, at the time of appraisal, it was anticipated that poverty rates
would remain relatively high and that the fall in labor income and remittances would negatively
impact many social indicators, such as infant and child mortality and enrollment in primary and
basic education. The crisis highlighted the country’s vulnerability to external shocks, given the
high degree of openness of the economy and the dependence on the US market for exports and
remittances. The steady progress made in education, health and poverty indicators in the two
decades following the end of the civil war in 1992 was at serious risk of reversal. This rise in
unemployment, together with a rise in poverty caused by rising food prices earlier, motivated the
Government to increase public spending in order to counteract the effects of the recession. As a
result of the combined effect of falling tax revenues and new expenditure pressures, the projected
fiscal deficit at the time of appraisal was anticipated to increase from 3.1 percent of GDP in 2008
to 5.3 percent in 2009.

3.      At the same time, the Government’s ability to undertake counter-cyclical public
spending was seriously hampered by the fall in tax revenue, also caused by the crisis. Tax
revenues declined from 13.1 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2008 to 12.4 percent
in 2009. With one of the smallest tax to GDP ratios in Latin America, even prior to the crisis, and
a high level of dependence on indirect taxes, especially value-added tax on imported goods, the
fiscal position of the government was vulnerable. In addition, with relatively low levels of public
spending, the scope for expenditure reduction was limited. Although some progress had been
made in reducing untargeted subsidies at the time of appraisal, in the absence of well-developed
safety nets, these subsidies could not be easily reduced during the crisis without further raising
poverty.



                                                1
Political Developments
4.       In the midst of the unfolding economic crisis, El Salvador was also going through
an important political transition. In June 2009, a new President and political party, which had
been in the opposition for over 20 years, assumed power in El Salvador. The administration
came to power with an explicit agenda for accelerating the implementation of social programs
and inclusive economic growth, focusing on job creation especially for the urban youth, the
provision of basic health and education services, social protection for the poor and reducing the
high levels of violence. At the same time, recognizing the difficult circumstances of the country,
the new administration expressed its willingness to balance the concerns of different parties and
negotiate consensus.

5.      Faced with a sharp economic decline and potential budgetary crisis, the new
administration encountered the challenge of addressing short-term needs while preparing
the foundation for its medium-term development agenda and ensuring fiscal sustainability.
Higher levels of public spending would be required to cushion the impact of the economic
downturn, especially on the poor. However, more sustained improvements in the coverage and
quality of education and health services, and in providing a more robust social protection system,
would also require more public spending for which fiscal space needed to be created. The
country’s growth rate had to accelerate in order to create more jobs and to expand the tax
revenues required to sustain higher levels of public spending.

6.      The Government of El Salvador responded proactively to these challenges by
preparing an Anti-Crisis Plan for the period of 2009-2011, which also laid the foundation
for its medium-term development agenda, and undertaking important institutional changes.
The Plan provided a critical balance between enhancing social expenditures, while maintaining
fiscal and macroeconomic stability necessary for a sustainable growth path. Amounting to
US$587.5 million or 2.8 percent of GDP, it included programs to generate temporary jobs,
expand key safety nets, increase access to education and health services, and provide housing
among other programs. Although focused on short-term measures, the Plan was accompanied by
the implementation of key mechanisms to improve the consultation and participatory processes
for the preparation of a medium-term development agenda centered on these programs. The
Government instituted a National Dialogue for defining a national development plan, which
involved weekly consultations with the private sector and social organizations. Furthermore, it
created an Economic and Social Council to provide a forum for the dialogue on economic and
social policy formulation. The sectoral ministries also worked with key stakeholders for the
development of sectoral strategies.

7.     To finance the Anti-Crisis Plan, the Government used national funds and solicited
financing from the international financial institutions. At the time of appraisal, the
Government had secured about 60 percent of the funds, primarily from national funds. The
Government requested support from the multilateral institutions, namely the World Bank and the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), to finance the remaining costs of the Plan.

The Sustaining Social Gains for Economic Recovery Development Policy Loan
8.     At the time of appraisal, the Bank had approved a two-tranche Public Finance and
Social Sector (PFSS) Development Policy Loan (DPL) (Ln. 7635-SV) for US$450 million, of



                                                2
which the first tranche (US$ 200 million) had been disbursed in February 2009.The PFSS
DPL, which was prepared at the onset of the global economic crisis in late 2008, supports policy
actions in the following areas: (i) expanding fiscal space for priority spending and improve
targeting of public spending; (ii) improving public expenditure management and fiscal
transparency; and (iii) maintaining steady improvements in social protection and education. In
view of the impending Presidential elections in March 2009, the DPL was specifically designed
as a two-tranche operation at the request of the previous administration in consultation with the
opposition, to ease fiscal pressures for the next administration and remove the need for additional
Congressional approvals for a new loan. The second tranche for $250 million was designed as a
floating tranche, and was expected to disburse in 2011 to enable the new administration to
achieve the triggers. Fiscal pressures were also expected to increase in 2011 due to the
unfavorable debt profile in that year, when debt service payments were set to almost double to
about 4.9 percent of GDP. In the context of El Salvador’s polarized political climate, the
agreement on the two-tranche DPL represented a significant consensus on broad policy goals.

9.     The deepening of the economic crisis and the steep decline in tax revenues, which
were greater than anticipated at the time of the preparation of the PFSS DPL, led to a
deterioration of the fiscal deficit and prompted the new administration to request a stand-
alone DPL. The Bank considered the option for an early disbursement of the second tranche to
support the new administration’s Anti-Crisis Plan; however, this was rejected as it would have
required a waiver of most of the conditions for the second tranche (which, in accordance with the
Program, were scheduled to be completed by 2011) and would have effectively derailed the
achievement of the objectives of the DPL. A restructuring of the two-tranche DPL was also
deemed inappropriate for the same reasons. Hence, the Bank agreed that a stand-alone operation,
with policy areas complementary to those supported under the two-tranche DPL, was the best
way to respond rapidly to the Government’s request and remain engaged with the Government to
ensure policies under the second tranche were achieved.

10.     As a result, a stand-alone operation, the Sustaining Social Gains for Economic
Recovery (SSGER) DPL in the amount of US$100 million, was prepared to support the
Government in undertaking a select number of immediate measures proposed under the
Government’s Anti-Crisis Plan to protect the poor, while also ensuring continuity with the
two-tranche PFSS DPL by protecting fiscal space, and supporting institutional strengthening for
policy making in the social sectors. Given the wide-ranging nature of the Anti-Crisis Plan
spanning from income generation and employment to strengthening the management of public
finances to the creation and expansion of social programs (school uniforms, school supplies,
basic pensions), the SSGER DPL supported specific policy actions with an explicit focus on
those with the greatest impact on the poor and vulnerable population and institutional
strengthening.

11.    The SSGER DPL was also designed to serve as a bridge between the ongoing two-
tranche DPL and a possible programmatic DPL series for FY11 and FY12 and to prepare
the ground for several social-sector focused investment loans in which the Government had
expressed interest. At the time of appraisal, the Bank was also preparing a new Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) with the Government with a shortened three-year horizon, due to the
risks related to the global economic crisis and a new administration with little previous



                                                3
government experience and inadequate time to prepare a medium-term program. Further, as the
lending envelope and program for outer years of even the shortened CPS period had not been
defined, no specific operations, other than the two investment operations mentioned below, were
included in the CPS. However, discussions were underway between the Bank and the
Government for a programmatic DPL series with a strong focus on the social sectors, as well as
other investment projects, possibly in the health and education sectors. The inclusion of policy
and institutional areas in the SSGER DPL enabled the Bank to engage in the dialogue on
education and health at an early stage of the development of the Government’s program.

12.     The SSGER DPL was included in the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2010-
2012 (October 29, 2009, Report No. 50642) and shared many of its guiding principles. The
DPL complemented two investment operations (Temporary Income Support Project, Ln. 7811-
SV and Fiscal Management and Public Sector Performance Technical Assistance Loan, Ln.
7821-SV), which were prepared and submitted to the Board for approval at the same time. The
lending envelope for 2010 was US$250, of which US$100 million was allocated to the SSGER
DPL. The DPL shared many guiding principles of the CPS, namely: (i) strengthening
fundamentals for economic recovery by addressing macro and institutional vulnerabilities; (ii)
strengthening delivery of social services; and (iii) increasing economic opportunities, particularly
for the poor.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

13.     The Program Development Objectives were to support the Government's Anti-Crisis Plan
to protect the social gains made in the past decade and reinforce the framework for economic
recovery.

14.       The overall key outcome indicators were set as follows:

         Reduction in transport subsidy by 38 percent from US$84 million;
         Non-personnel recurrent expenditure in education and health budgets for 2009 and 2010
          are maintained at least at 2008 levels and critical investments in health are protected;
         Coverage of school feeding program is expanded to 1.3 million students in grades 1
          through 9;
         Number of hospital discharges in the public sector are increased by 10 percent;
         The Temporary Income Support Program is fully operational in 11 municipalities;
         A new curriculum for the teaching of science and technology in upper secondary has
          been elaborated;
         Proportion of individuals receiving health care attention in the 80 poorest municipalities
          rises to 80 percent; and
         The Comunidades Solidarias Urbanas, one of the components of the Universal System of
          Social Protection (Sistema de Protección Social Universal - SPSU), is piloted in 2
          municipalities.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

15.       Neither the PDO nor the core indicators were revised.


                                                  4
1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program

16.   Policy areas supported by the Program to achieve objectives supported by the DPL were
grouped in three pillars, each of which was comprised of several key reform areas:

Pillar I- Protecting fiscal space for social expenditures through:
   (i)     Rationalization of public transport subsidy: The public transportation subsidy
           reduced by a legislative decree, effective August 1, 2009.
   (ii)    Protecting critical non-personnel recurrent expenditures in the social sectors and
           critical investments in the health sector: Non-personnel recurrent expenditures in the
           education and health sectors for fiscal years 2009 and 2010 maintained at least at
           2008 levels; critical investment expenditures contemplated for hospitals in the Draft
           General Budget 2010 represented at least 39 percent of investments budgeted for
           hospitals the 2009 General Budget; and 48 percent of the 2009 investment budget for
           public hospitals executed.

Pillar II- Protecting income and consumption of the vulnerable population through:
   (iii)   Expansion of School Feeding Program to urban pre-schools and primary schools:
           The School Feeding Program (Programa de Alimentación y Salud Escolar- PASE)
           expanded to cover 764 additional schools and 452,800 additional students between
           pre-school (4-6 years) and the end of basic education (1-9th grade).
   (iv)    Ensuring access to health services for the poor: Elimination of voluntary co-
           payments (cuotas voluntarias) for services provided by public health care facilities
           and the provision of funds to the Ministry of Health to compensate the public health
           providers for the resulting loss of revenue.
   (v)     Protecting incomes of the poor: Established the program Comunidades Solidarias
           (CS) of which the Temporary Income Support Program (Programa de Apoyo
           Temporal de Ingresos-PATI) is a part of, and set forth the legal and operational
           framework for the CS’ implementation.

Pillar III- Strengthening institutional capacity for policy formulation and implementation
in the social sectors for economic recovery. One of the Government’s top priorities was to
formulate policies for long-term economic and social development. The DPL’s design supported
actions to strengthen institutional capacity and policy making in education, health and social
protection, which were important for the development of a medium-term sectoral strategies that
could enhance the country’s economic recovery.
   (vi)    Strengthening the institutional capacity and policy making for the Ministry of
           Education (MINED): The Vice Ministry of Science and Technology created.
   (vii)   Strengthening Institutional capacity and policy making in the Ministry of Health
           (MSPAS): The Vice Ministry of Health Sector Policy and the Vice Ministry of
           Health Care Services created.




                                               5
   (viii) Strengthening institutional capacity for policy planning in social protection: The
          Technical Secretariat of the President (Secretaria Técnica de la Presidencia- STP) re-
          organized.

17.   The policy actions under the SSGER DPL policy matrix were linked to medium-
term policy actions. While these actions were not legally binding, they supported the
Government in promoting the development of its medium-term policy agenda. These included:

Pillar I
    (i)    Review the Transport Subsidy scheme and determine whether to eliminate,
           restructure or phase out the subsidy.
    (ii)   Put in place a multi-annual framework for the social expenditures budget.
Pillar II
    (iii) MINED/STP will do an evaluation of the School Feeding Program and improve its
           cost-effectiveness.
    (iv) The Government re-allocates a larger share of the health budget to primary health care
           services.
    (v)    Several municipalities can prepare and implement projects for local development.
Pillar III
    (vi)   The Government begins implementation of the reform of science curriculum in
           secondary schools.
    (vii) The Government pilots systems of financing provision of basic health care based on
           unified standards for outputs and quality of care.
    (viii) The Government develops the legal framework of the SPSU and the implementing
           mechanism for the Comunidades Solidarias.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas. The policy areas were not revised.

1.6 Other significant changes. None.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

18.    The Sustaining Social Gains for Economic Recovery DPL was a stand-alone operation
that was disbursed shortly after effectiveness. The DPL was approved on November 24, 2009
and became effective on August 25, 2010. All conditions were met on time as planned and the
funds were released on August 27, 2010. Implementation Status and Results Reports were
prepared on January 16, 2010, June 4, 2010, and December 9, 2010. The loan closed on
December 31, 2010.




                                               6
Stand Alone Development Policy Loan
Amount in Millions Expected Release Date                      Actual Release Date              Release
USD 100.0M                July 20, 2010                            August 27, 2010             Regular
Condition                                                                                                Status
The Borrower has reduced the Public Transportation Subsidy by means of a legislative decree,
effective August 1, 2009.
                                                                                                         Met
The Borrower has: (a) maintained non-personnel recurrent expenditures in its education and health
sectors for fiscal years 2009 and 2010, at least at fiscal year 2008 levels; (b) ensured that critical
investment expenditures contemplated for hospitals in its Draft General Budget 2010 represents at        Met
least 39 percent of the investments budgeted for hospitals in its General Budget 2009; and (c)
executed, by August 31, 2009, 48% of the 2009 investment budget for public hospitals.
As of August 31, 2009, the Borrower has expanded the School Feeding Program to cover 452,800
more students between preschool (ages 4-6 years) and the end of basic education (1st-9th grade),         Met
compared to a baseline of 857,400 students as of June 30, 2009, in an additional 764 public schools.
The Borrower has eliminated co-payments for services offered by public health facilities and has
provided supplemental funds to the MSPAS to compensate fully for the resulting loss of revenue.
                                                                                                         Met
The Borrower has established the program Comunidades Solidarias, of which the Temporary Income
Support Program (PATI) is part of its urban intervention, and has set forth the legal and operational    Met
framework for its implementation.
The Borrower has: (a) created a Vice-Ministry for Science and Technology within MINED; (b)
created a Vice-Ministry of Health Sector Policy and a Vice-Ministry of Health Care Services within       Met
MSPAS; and (c) re-organized the STP to coordinate social policies.
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

19.     Impact of Hurricane Ida: On November 7th and 8th, 2009, El Salvador was hit by
Hurricane Ida, with widespread destruction of homes, water-supply, and power systems in 11
municipalities. The Government responded immediately to this natural disaster, but the scale of
the reconstruction effort put an additional strain on Government resources. The damage left more
than 75,000 individuals displaced and floods and landslides killed some 200 people. The
Government had identified about US$77.5 million in infrastructure damage (bridges, highways,
and schools) and an additional US$27.5 million in agriculture loss. Conscious of the fragility of
the fiscal situation, the Government did not increase public spending, but re-allocated funds from
existing projects of the IDB to finance reconstruction. The Hurricane also led to the Government
prioritizing certain social programs to the municipalities hit by the disaster which had relevance
for one of the outcome indicators of the SSGER DPL.

20.    Analytical Underpinnings. The policy areas of the SSGER DPL were underpinned by an
extensive portfolio of the Bank’s analytical work. Since 2000, the Bank had been engaged in El
Salvador’s social sectors primarily through analytical work, apart from a few investment loans.
The soundness of the background analysis contributed to a strong technical design of the
operation. The reports prepared by the Bank that influenced the design included: (i) Central
America Education Strategy (FY05, Report No. 29946), (ii) Key Issues in Central America
Health Reforms: Diagnosis and Implications (FY07, Report No: 36426); (iii) Health Policy Note
(FY10); (iv) Policy Note on Education in El Salvador (FY09); (v) policy note on Income
Vulnerabilities and Poverty and Youth Employability and Economic Opportunities; (vi) 2003
Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 26238) and (vii) a draft of the 2010 El Salvador
Public Expenditure Review.



                                                          7
21.    IMF Program. In March 2010, shortly after the DPL program had been approved by the
World Bank’s Board of Directors (but was not yet effective), El Salvador entered into an IMF
three-year Stand-By Agreement (SBA) that supported El Salvador’s medium-term
macroeconomic framework. The Agreement supports the gradual consolidation of public
finances, while strengthening tax administration to increase public revenues and reforming
energy subsidies in order to create space for high-priority spending and public investment.
Subsequent reviews of the SBA during the Program’s implementation confirmed that all
performance criteria of the Program had been met, but also emphasized the need to continue with
the implementation of structural reforms, namely the tax reform.

22.    Collaboration with other donors. In addition to collaborating with the IMF, the Bank
worked closely with the IDB to ensure that there was a coordinated effort in responding to the
Government’s request for budget support and investment operations. At the time, the IDB was
supporting the Government with a development policy investment loan of US$500 million.

23.     Appropriateness of Risks and Mitigation Measures. The operation had identified two
significant risks: (i) macroeconomic instability arising from fiscal pressures; and (ii) opposition
to approval of Bank loans in Congress. Both risks were appropriately defined given the
macroeconomic projections at the time and the history of Bank loans being rejected in Congress.
With regard to the first risk, macroeconomic stability did prevail through the Government’s
adherence to an acceptable macro-economic framework, continued policy dialogue with the
Government and the signing and implementation of the SBA with the IMF. Mitigation efforts
against this risk began during the preparation of the loan and continued throughout
implementation, as the Bank began preparing a new programmatic series of DPLs. In terms of
the second risk, this was mitigated by maintaining a dialogue with all parties in the Congress in
order to garner support for the Program and by presenting to the Congress the entire package
comprising the CPS, the SSGER DPL and the two investment projects. This enabled the
Congress to assess the overall approach to Bank support as well as the links between the
different operations. As a result, the Congress approved the Loan on July 19, 2010 and it became
effective on August 27, 2010, about eight months after the approval of the Loan by the Bank’s
Board of Directors. These mitigation measures proved effective for both risks.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

24.     Design. An outcome indicator, baseline values, and a target were assigned to each of the
policy areas defined under the Program’s Policy Matrix. Medium-term policy actions were also
adequately defined for each of the policy areas. The MoF, the MINED, MSPAS and STP worked
closely with the Bank to select each indicator and target based on available data and sector goals.
While most of the outcome indicators were well-designed and measured the short-term impact of
the policy actions, there were minor shortcomings in the design of two indicators: the design of a
new curriculum for the teaching of science and technology for upper secondary education and
the piloting of Comunidades Solidarias Urbanas (CSU) in two municipalities. The indicator on
the development of a new curriculum was overly ambitious and premature and the indicator on
the piloting of the CSU was relevant, though too ambitious.




                                                8
25.    Implementation. Data were collected during the Program’s implementation using
available survey and service data. The MoF, MINED, MSPAS and STP reported on progress on
the outcome indicators twice during the implementation of the Loan- in early December 2010
and in February 2011 (final figures) and reported to the Bank. While the reporting methodology
was consistent, there was a difference in what was reported for the outcome indicator, piloting of
CSU in two municipalities, in the December 2010 Implementation Status and Results Report
(ISR) and the final result. In the ISR, the outcome indicator was reported as achieved. However,
during the ICR mission, it was confirmed that the CSU had not been piloted in two
municipalities.

26.     This variation in results is a minor shortcoming. The CSU is not a single program; instead,
it is an integrated approach of providing services to targeted individuals or households. These
services are provided through multiple programs implemented by various social institutions and
ministries. The DPL intended to operationalize this approach in several municipalities. During
implementation, several of the programs that make up CSU were implemented. At the time of
reporting the achievement of this indicator in December 2010, the STP felt that the gradual
implementation of the CSU was a success, and therefore the implementation of some of the
programs was equivalent to piloting the CSU in a municipality. During the ICR mission, though,
the STP agreed that the complete piloting of the CSU implies that all the programs that make up
the CSU would be operational and running. As a result, the indicator was not achieved. The Bank
and the Ministry of Finance could have followed up more closely with the STP to ensure
accuracy of monitoring.

27.    Utilization. The Bank used data collected from the outcome indicators as an entry point
to engage with the Government on the development of new investment lending and a new
programmatic DPL.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

28.     The Bank is continuing its assistance for many policy areas supported under the
SSGER DPL through a Public Finance and Social Progress DPL (Approved by the Board
on June 2, 2011, Ln. 8048-SV), which is part of a new programmatic DPL series. The new
DPL focuses on two main policy areas: (i) creating fiscal space for needed social spending; and
(ii) protection and inclusion of vulnerable segments of the population. Actions supported under
the first policy area included improvements in tax collection through electronic payments,
strengthening tax recovery instruments, fiscal reform, increasing efficiency, transparency and
accountability in the allocation of public resources, approval of a law of gender equality and a
Law against domestic violence, and the implementation of a basic pension for poor individuals
over 70 years of age. Some actions supported under the second policy area include support for an
executive decree aimed at creating a new, simplified schedule for income tax payments,
framework for public procurement processes, implementation of an access to public information
law, the implementation of the CSU in 5 poor urban municipalities, and the piloting of a full
school-day for at risk young adults.

29.  New and ongoing sector investment lending will also continue to support some of the
medium-term policy actions identified under the SSGER DPL. The Income Support and



                                                9
Employability Project (Ln. 7811-SV), which was prepared in parallel to the SSGER DPL, will
continue to support the expansion of the PATI in several municipalities. The PATI’s main
objectives are to (i) provide income support to the poor and unemployed population, in particular
youth and women; (ii) augment human capital development through training; (iii) strengthen the
role of the municipalities in designing and delivering the program; and (iv) encourage
participatory processes in selection of beneficiaries and monitoring of implementation. The
project also supports the development of the legal framework for the Universal Social Protection
System and the operationalization of the Comunidades Solidarias Urbanas, both areas supported
by the DPL. Additionally, a new Strengthening the Public Health Care System Project (Board
date July 14, 2011, Report No. 58498-SV) will finance the provision of basic health care services
based on unified standards for outputs and quality of care. A new education project is currently
under preparation and will focus on improving the quality and governance of basic education,
including the quality of science and technology education. Finally, the Fiscal Management and
Public Sector Performance Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 7821-SV) will contribute to the
beginning stages of the development of a multi-annual budget framework for the Ministries of
Health and Agriculture and will continue to expand to others.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

30.    The Program Development Objectives (PDOs) continue to be appropriate. The
actions taken under the three policy areas proved relevant in responding to the political and
economic challenges that El Salvador faced in 2009 and 2010. They responded to the short-term
need to support the Government’s Anti-Crisis Plan by protecting fiscal space for social
expenditures and the income and consumption of vulnerable populations, while contributing to
the medium-term objectives of strengthening institutional capacity for policy formulation.

31.     The design of the SSGER DPL as a stand-alone operation was relevant, as it served
the dual purpose of responding to the fiscal impact of the crisis while providing continuity
with the on-going dialogue under the two-tranche PFSS DPL and the new programmatic
DPL series. The medium-term fiscal challenge was to create the space for pro-poor spending
and enabling higher growth, which required actions to enhance revenues as well as to rationalize
expenditures. The SSGER DPL reinforced the policy dialogue on reducing untargeted subsidies
which had been initiated under the PFSS DPL. Untargeted subsidies in electricity, gas, transport
and water amounted to a significant proportion of the total expenditure on social sectors and their
rationalization represented an important plank of fiscal restructuring. The PFSS DPL
incorporated policy actions to eliminate the non-residential electricity subsidy, while noting the
need to improve both the efficiency and targeting of the transport subsidy. The SSGER DPL
focused on reducing the cost of the transport subsidy, as complete elimination of the subsidy in a
period of crisis was not feasible. Both the PFSS DPL and the SSGER DPL protected critical
expenditures in the social sectors to prevent the erosion of gains made in the previous two
decades. The SSGER DPL also aimed to lay the groundwork for future engagement in the social
sectors, making the link with the forthcoming programmatic DPL series, which is also focused
on the social sectors.




                                                10
32.     The inclusion of the institutional strengthening pillar in the design of the DPL
enabled the Bank to engage in a high-quality policy dialogue in the social sectors which
subsequently shaped new non-lending activities and investment operations. In the education
sector, the Bank’s support of the creation of the Vice Ministry of Science and Technology
enabled the Bank to enter into a technical dialogue on improving the quality of education,
particularly in mathematics and science, although the Bank had not been involved in the sector
for many years. This led to the Government’s request for a NLTA for the Vice-Ministry of
Science and Technology during the implementation of the DPL. The NLTA was designed to
support the Vice-Ministry’s initiatives to improve the quality of science teaching in school
education, including the preparation of new materials for teachers and students and the sharing of
international experiences. In the health sector, the DPL’s support to the creation of the Vice
Ministry of Health Sector Policy and the Vice Ministry of Health Care Services also kept the
Bank engaged in the dialogue to help define the key policies and the operationalization of the
Integrated Health Care Model, which is being supported by the forthcoming health project,
Strengthening Public Health Care System Project. Similarly, the strengthening of the role of the
STP in coordinating social policies and developing the Universal System of Social Protection,
included in the DPL, was supported by the Income Support and Employability Project through
its technical assistance activities.

33.     All, but one of the outcome indicators, continue to be relevant. During
implementation, it became clear that the indicator on curriculum reform on science in technology
for upper secondary education was premature. At the time of appraisal, the new Vice-Ministry of
Science and Technology (within MINED) had just begun to elaborate its strategy for improving
the quality of science education. The reform of the science curriculum of upper secondary
education was originally foreseen as the first priority of the Vice-Ministry, during the preparation
of the DPL. Subsequently, during the implementation of the DPL and with the support provided
by the Bank’s NLTA on science education, the Vice-Ministry decided to focus on improving the
quality of science education in primary education (grades 1-6). This change affected the outcome
indicator of the DPL. The remaining outcome indicators, however, reflected a proper diagnosis
of the development priority for each policy area.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

34.   The outcome results and current status of the policy areas that were outlined in the
Program document are discussed below.

3.2.1 Pillar 1- Protecting fiscal space for social expenditures

35.      Fiscal Space for social expenditures protected. Of the two outcome results under this
pillar, both of them were achieved: the public transport subsidy is reduced by 38 percent from
US$84 million; and critical investments in health and maintenance of non-personnel recurrent
expenditures in education and health budgets for 2009 and 2010 are protected.

36.     Policy Area 1a. Reduction of public transportation subsidy. Achieved. The Bank had
been engaged in the dialogue on the rationalization of untargeted subsidies, an important source
of adverse fiscal pressures, both with the current and previous Government, through analytical



                                                11
work (Draft 2010 Public Expenditure Review) as well as the Public Finance and Social Sector
DPL. In 2008, gas, electricity, water and transport subsidies were estimated to cost US$420
million (about 2 percent of GDP), compared to spending in health and education, which was
US$365 million (1.65 percent of GDP) and US$635 million (2.87 percent of GDP),
respectively.1 The transport subsidy had been introduced in December 2007, to maintain bus
tariffs, through a transitional law for the stabilization of public transport tariffs for passengers
(“Ley transitoria para la estabilización de las tarifas del servicio público de transporte colectivo
de pasajeros”). This established a monthly subsidy of US$500 for buses and $250 for small
buses. Faced with rising fuel prices, in July 2008, the subsidy was raised to US$800 and US$400,
respectively, to avoid further tariff increases, which were set to end in 2009. The new
administration entered into negotiations with bus operators to seek a reduction in the transport
subsidy. The SSGER DPL supported this policy action as it reinforced the commitment of the
new administration to follow the agreed policy framework to create fiscal space for
implementing its social policy agenda. The complete elimination of the subsidy during a deep
economic crisis without adequate safety nets would not have been feasible or desirable.

37.     On August 1, 2009, the Government passed a Legislative Decree, which was valid until
December 31, 2010, that reduced the Public Transportation Subsidy. The Government negotiated
with the bus operators to lower the subsidy to US$500 a month for buses and US$250 a month
for microbuses (i.e. prior levels). The decrease in subsidy was expected to yield a 38 percent
reduction in the overall total Public Transport Subsidy from US$84 million in 2009 to US$52
million in 2010. For 2010, the expected reduction was surpassed. The Public Transportation
Subsidy of US$84 million was reduced by 42.8 percent, to US$48 million, surpassing the
outcome indicator. This was a significant achievement for El Salvador, given its legacy of
untargeted subsidies, rendered all the more notable by the fact that it was achieved while the
country was still recovering from a major economic crisis. This policy measure created part of
the fiscal space to protect critical expenditures in social sectors and to fund new initiatives.

38.     Policy Area 1b. Protect critical non-personnel recurrent expenditures in the social
sectors and critical investments in the health sector. Achieved. Evidence from previous
financial crises indicate that cutbacks on critical non-personnel expenditures such as education
supplies, medicines, laboratory materials and other equipment can have a long-term impact on
educational quality and health outcomes. Protecting these expenditures ensured the quality of
public education and health services. The Government aimed to maintain non-personnel
recurrent expenditures in the health and education sectors in 2009 and 2010, at least at the levels
of fiscal year 2008. In fact, it tried to re-allocate more funds to education and health from other
sectors, through a draft Decree to reform the Extraordinary Budget for Social Investment 2009-
2011 (Proyecto de Decreto contendiendo las reformas al Presupuesto Extraordinario de
Inversión Social- PEIS) as well as through the Draft 2010 General Budget. In the Policy Matrix
of the DPL, the presentation of the Draft Decree reforming the PEIS and the Draft 2010 General
Budget were considered the means of verification for the prior action. However, the Congress
did not approve the decree to reform the PEIS, maintaining the original sectoral allocation of
funds for each of the three years that had been approved at the time it was passed by the



1
    World Bank.2009. Program Document: Sustaining Social Gains for Economic Recovery.


                                                      12
Congress in December 2008. However, the Draft 2010 General Budget, which increased the
allocation for the health and education sectors in 2010, was approved.

39.    As a result, the outcome indicator for this policy action was met. In the education sector,
the nominal amount for non-personnel recurrent expenditures in 2008 was US$141.7 million and
in the Draft 2010 General Budget, it increased to US184.1 million. In the health sector, the
nominal amount for non-personnel recurrent expenditures in 2008 was US$220.5 million and it
increased under the Draft 2010 General Budget to US$265.2 million.

3.2.2   Pillar 2- Protecting Income and Consumption of the Vulnerable Populations

40.      Income and consumption of vulnerable populations protected. Of the three outcome
results expected under this pillar, all three were achieved: coverage of school feeding program is
expanded to 1.3 million students in grades 1 through 9; number of hospital discharges in the
public sector increased by 10 percent; and the Temporary Income Support Program is fully
operational in 11 municipalities.

41.     Policy Area 2a. Expansion of School Feeding program to urban pre-schools and basic
schools. Achieved. As of June 2009, the School Feeding Program (Programa de Alimentación y
Salud Escolar- PASE) reached nearly 857,400 students from pre-school to the end of basic
education (end of grade 9) in rural areas. The action for this policy area was to expand the PASE
to cover an additional 764 public schools and an additional 452,800 more students in urban and
rural areas.

42.     In 2010, the PASE benefitted some 1,316,779 students, surpassing the target outcome of
1.3 million students by more than 15,000 students. This coverage reached 4,950 urban and rural
school centers. The MINED made three distributions of a package of food over the course of the
year. Each distribution was made up of oil, rice, sugar, beans, milk and a nutritious drink.
MINED also purchased 1,641 kitchen kits for preparation of the food and more than 700,000
student eating kits (bowl, plate, and utensils). Actual expenditures on the program in 2010 were
approximately US$24 million, against a budget estimate of US$27.9 million. The budget
projection was higher because the Government had originally anticipated universal coverage of
the PASE. Currently, it does cover most urban and rural areas, but not all schools benefit from
this program.

43.      Policy Area 2b. Ensuring access to health services for the poor. Achieved. In June 2009,
the Ministry of Health (MSPAS) abolished a system of co-payments (cuotas voluntarias) in
public health institutions, which were being used to purchase medicines and supplies. There was
strong evidence that the co-payments had a negative impact on utilization of health services by
the poor. The anticipated effect of the elimination of the voluntary co-payments was to increase
utilization of public health and hospital services by the poor.

44.     With the abolishment of voluntary co-payments by a decree in June 2009, and
strengthening of the network of services, namely medicine, human resources, equipment and
infrastructure, hospital discharges increased by 11.1 percent between 2008 and 2010 (from
337,113 to 374,690, respectively). The MSPAS supported hospitals and health units with nearly



                                               13
US$15.7 million in 2010 to cover the financial gap caused by the elimination of the voluntary
co-payments.

45.     Policy Area 2c. Protecting income of the Poor. Achieved. The economic crisis hit the
country in several different ways, disproportionately affecting the urban poor. To reach the poor
and vulnerable populations, the Government created Comunidades Solidarias (CS), comprising
four strategic interventions- human capital development, basic service delivery, income
generation, and local development/management, which are applied differently for rural and
urban areas. Each of these interventions consists of different programs implemented by various
social institutions and ministries. Under the CS initiative, these programs (including the PATI)
would be coordinated to ensure delivery to the most vulnerable population. As part of El
Salvador’s Comunidades Solidarias, the PATI is currently operational in 11 municipalities.
These municipalities are Santiago Nonualco, Santa María Ostuma, San Pedro Masahuat,
San Luis La Herradura, Verapaz, Guadalupe, Tepetitán, San Bartolomé Perulapía, San Pedro
Perulapán, La Libertad and Santiago Texacuangos.

46.     While the Government had originally intended for the PATI to be implemented in urban
areas, these first 11 municipalities were a mix between urban and rural and were targeted
primarily because of the destruction caused by Hurricane Ida on infrastructure and livelihoods.
This, however, did not affect the outcome indicator, which focused on measuring the success of
implementing a Program that would provide immediate income support and labor market
training to poor and unemployed individuals rather than on whether the municipality was urban.
Beneficiaries in the 11 municipalities were primarily women/heads of households that were
looking to get involved in the community and gain skills that would help them start their own
business or participate in a community cooperative.

3.2.3 Pillar 3- Strengthening institutional capacity for policy formulation and
implementation in the social sectors for economic recovery

47.      Institutional capacity for policy formulation and implementation in the social
sectors for economic recovery strengthened. Of the three outcome results expected under this
pillar, one was achieved, one was partially achieved, and one was not achieved.

48.    Policy Area 3a. Strengthening institutional capacity and policy-making in the Ministry
of Education. Partially Achieved. With the aim of improving quality and relevance of
education, the Ministry of Education (MINED) defined a new organizational structure, as part of
which a new Vice-Ministry of Science and Technology was created within the Ministry. The
goal of this important institutional change was to enable the formulation of policies and
programs to improve the quality of science and technology education at all levels. An expected
outcome of this new structure was the development of a new curriculum for the teaching of
science and technology in upper secondary education.

49.     In 2010, MINED developed a new curriculum for the teaching of science and technology
for technical upper secondary education in agriculture and electrical engineering. The outcome
indicator, however, indicated the development of a new curriculum for the teaching of science




                                               14
and technology in upper secondary education. MINED, instead, prioritized curriculum reform for
science and technology for primary school during the implementation period of the DPL.

50.     Policy Area 3b. Strengthening institutional capacity and policy-making in the Ministry
of Health. Achieved. Recognizing the challenges of extending coverage of health care services
to poor and vulnerable populations, the Ministry of Health (MSPAS) created an Integrated
Health Care Model (MAIS). This Model aims to consolidate the experiences of provision of
primary health care services to the rural population and provide a continuum of health care
services (from primary to hospital care) to the population as well as the promotion of family
health and community participation. The MSPAS created a Vice Ministry of Health Sector
Policy and Vice Ministry of Health Care Services to improve the operational definition of the
Model, including the set of essential health interventions that would be provided by the
integrated public health care service network. An anticipated result was the rapid expansion of
the coverage of the population by the MAIS.

51.     By the end of 2010, 86 percent of individuals in the 80 poorest municipalities were
receiving health care attention through the implementation of the MAIS. In 2010, through the
MAIS, the MSPAS successfully extended health care attention to 93 percent of the population in
74 of the poorest municipalities in El Salvador. The remaining 6 poorest municipalities could
not be covered by that date. However, the outcome indicator was surpassed, as the weighted
average of coverage for the 80 poorest municipalities is 86 percent of their combined population,
exceeding the target by 6 percentage points.

52.     Policy Area 3c. Strengthening Institutional Capacity for policy planning in social
protection. Not Achieved. A core policy supported by the DPL was the design of a Universal
Social Protection System, which envisages coordination in the provision of a variety of social
services for an integral development of families and communities through various partnerships
through the Comunidades Solidarias program. The CS includes different adaptations for rural
and urban areas. While the rural CS program was mainly organized around Red Solidaria, a
Conditional Cash Transfer program for rural areas which had been in existence for several years
and had an impact on reducing poverty, the CS program for urban areas had not been developed
at the time of the Program’s appraisal. The Government reorganized the STP (the Technical
Secretariat of the Presidency), whose mandate is to coordinate and plan social policies, in order
to design and implement Comunidades Solidarias Urbanas (CSU). An expected outcome of the
re-organization of the STP was the piloting of the CSU in two urban municipalities.

53.     The Government, however, did not succeed in piloting the integrated CSU program in
two municipalities. By the end of 2010, only individual interventions that comprised the CSU
had been implemented in different municipalities. As mentioned in paragraph 26, while this was
originally thought to be the equivalent of piloting the CSU, during the ICR mission the STP
agreed that the “piloting of the CSU” implied that all the programs supported under the CSU
would be operational and running; hence, the expected outcome was not achieved.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory




                                               15
54.     The overall outcome rating is Satisfactory. In general, the SSGER DPL achieved the
Program Development Objectives. The DPL successfully financed the Government’s Anti-Crisis
Plan through supporting specific policy actions that had an explicit focus on protecting the
income and consumption of poor and vulnerable populations and protecting fiscal space for
social expenditures. All of the outcome indicators for pillars 1 and 2 were achieved. The
Program did have minor shortcomings under the institutional strengthening pillar since one of
the outcome indicators is no relevant and one was overly ambitious. Despite minor shortcomings,
the DPL supported strengthening of institutional capacity and policy-making through sustaining
these institutional reforms over time.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

55.     The horizon of the DPL was too short for the Program to have an identifiable
impact on growth, poverty, gender or social development. One could, however, make
speculations about the longer run impact of the Program, which would likely be positive given
the direct interventions targeting the poor and vulnerable populations.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

56.     The impact on institutional strengthening was notable. Although this was a stand-
alone DPL, a special feature was the pillar was dedicated to improving institutional capacity and
policy-making. As discussed in Para 33, this prepared the ground for the development of specific
policies in the social sectors, supported by the Bank’s lending and non-lending activities. More
importantly, it opened a fresh page in the Bank’s engagement with the new administration in
several critical Ministries where the Government was keen to develop its medium-term
development agenda.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts. Not applicable.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops. Not
applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
   Rating: Moderate

57.    The assessment of risk to development outcomes is Moderate. The definition of
medium-term indicators for each policy area served as a guide to ensure that policy actions were
maintained. That said, the recent rise in food and fuel prices poses a risk to some development
outcomes.

58.     Economic Risk- Rise of fuel prices and impact on transport subsidy: On December 31,
2010 (the closing of the DPL), the decree that reduced the transport subsidy expired, although
this in itself does not represent a reversal of the policy action supported by the DPL. With the
rise in gasoline and diesel prices in 2010 (13.4 and 26 percent, respectively), the Government



                                               16
decided to increase the transport subsidy to avoid an increase in bus tariffs. Subsequently, the
transport subsidy for bus operators has increased from US$500 to US$750 per month for buses
and from US$250 to US$350 for microbuses per month, amounting to nearly US$60 million for
2011. The impact, though, is expected to be fiscally neutral due to the expected payment of
overdue taxes and fines that the bus and microbus drivers owe, which is expected to equal the
increase in the subsidy. The Government has also used the changes in the subsidy to improve the
quality of service, by conditioning access to the subsidy to a number of actions, such as requiring
all drivers to be registered and have a permit to drive, improving the payment system, and
enforcing the appropriate taxes and penalties on drivers who do not comply with the rules.

59.     Economic Risk- Maintenance of critical non-personnel recurrent expenditures in the
social sectors. To ensure that these expenditures are protected in the future, the Government has
begun to establish multi-annual frameworks for budget preparation that distinguish between
investment and recurrent expenditures in the Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Health.
This work will be financially supported by the World Bank Fiscal Management and Public
Sector Performance Technical Assistance Loan. The Government has found this exercise helpful
for holding ministries accountable for results and better performance and aims to carry out this
exercise with two other ministries in 2012.

60.     Economic Risk- Rise of food prices and impact on the school feeding program: In 2010,
the country’s Food Consumer Price Index increased by 6.4 percent. The Ministry of Education
has begun to assess the costs of universalizing the School Feeding Program by the end of 2011,
which may not be feasible or sustainable given the rise in food prices. MINED is also assessing
the benefits of a universal School Feeding Program versus a more targeted approach. To inform
the policy dialogue with data and results, the Brazilian Government is providing technical
assistance to strengthen the Program’s information system. In an effort to reduce costs, the
MINED has also begun to seek out alternative suppliers, particularly for beans, a main staple of
the school feeding program.

61.    Social Risk- Ensuring access to health care services and elimination of cuotas
voluntarias. Since the closing of the DPL, the Ministry of Health has begun to evaluate ways to
improve management efficiency and protect essential expenditures so that hospitals and health
centers do not resort to reinstating voluntary co-payments and that access to health services
increases. The Ministry is currently working on reducing costs through the reduction of external
consultations and pending surgeries. The MSPAS has been able to increase efficiency through
the purchase of key equipment, medicines and infrastructure. Risk to this policy area is also
mitigated through investments under the forthcoming World Bank supported health project,
which will finance equipment, medicines and other recurrent expenditures that might otherwise
be covered through the cuotas voluntarias.

62.    Institutional Risk- Strengthening Institutional Capacity for policy planning. New,
forthcoming or active investment operations in the health, education and social protection sectors
continue to support strengthening capacity and informed policy making. Expected advances in
medium-term outcome indicators are also indicative of a low risk to the development outcomes:
in 2011, the elaboration of the new science and technology curriculum for all of secondary
education will be taken up and in the health sector, the Government has committed to expanding



                                                17
services to over 1 million people in 130 municipalities. In terms of policy planning in social
protection, the STP has created a framework and operational definition of the CSU. It is hoping
that with an increase in operational funds for the various programs that make up the CSU, it
would be fully operational in 5 municipalities in 2011: Ahuachapán, Colón, San Miguel, San
Martín, and Santa Ana.

63.     Financial risks: While the government’s medium-term macroeconomic framework is
sustainable, there are two main sources of uncertainty: (i) the speed of economic recovery after
the crisis; and (ii) the progress in implementing the fiscal consolidation. The debt path remains
sustainable under a number of deviations from the baseline projections including higher real
interest rates and temporary shocks on the primary balance and economic growth. Nevertheless,
a significantly slower GDP growth rate or absence of fiscal consolidation could result in
unsustainable fiscal dynamics. These analyses emphasize the need for the implementation of tax
and spending measures, which are currently being considered by the Government and are
supported under the upcoming programmatic DPL.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
   Rating: Satisfactory

64.     Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated Satisfactory based on the
following factors: The technical design of the DPL at entry was relevant for the economic and
political context at the time. It struck a balance between the short-run political demands of the
new Government’s agenda for accelerating the implementation of social programs and the
immediate need to respond to the global financial crisis. Furthermore, the Bank had the foresight
to include policy areas that were focused on strengthening institutional capacity for improving
policy planning in the medium term and to link medium-term outcome indicators to the policy
actions. The Bank was extremely responsive to the Government’s request for fast preparation
while remaining highly committed to ensuring quality and relevance of the design. The Bank
organized five missions for the preparation of the Program in a period of 4 months between June
and September 2009. This intense preparation was important because it established a strong
relationship between the Bank and the Government and ensured that the DPL was technically
sound. A minor shortcoming in the Bank’s quality at entry was the over ambitious design of one
of the outcome indicators, and the current irrelevance of another. Finally, the Bank worked
closely with the IMF to ensure that the financial and macroeconomic framework supported by
the DPL was in line with the Fund’s program.

(b) Quality of Supervision
    Rating: Satisfactory

65.    The quality of supervision is rated Satisfactory. The Bank carried out one technical
mission and two supervision missions after the Loan was approved by the World Bank board of
Directors. The quality of supervision was also enhanced by the Bank’s active involvement
through the NLTA in the education sector, the preparation of a new health sector investment loan,



                                               18
and technical missions for the Temporary Income Support Project. Finally, the Bank’s positive
engagement with the Borrower and persistent follow-up on the policy areas proved to be critical
for the preparation of the new programmatic DPL series.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

66.    Overall, Bank performance is rated Satisfactory. This is based on a satisfactory rating
for quality at entry and supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

67.    The Government performance is rated Satisfactory. The Ministry of Finance was the
primary implementing agency, but several other agencies were involved in the implementation of
the DPL including MINED, MSPAS, Vice Ministry of Transportation, and the STP. The MoF
provided competent coordination between the various agencies and showed ownership and
commitment to the Program. During the preparation of the Program, the MoF and the other
agencies involved actively participated in every mission to help design the policy areas and
outcome indicators, to ensure that the prior actions were met and to provide the required
evidence, given the tight time line for preparation. This high commitment also ensured that the
Program’s objectives were aligned closely with the Government’s Anti-Crisis Plan and
framework for economic recovery. There was a minor shortcoming in the monitoring of one
outcome. Finally, the Government was extremely supportive and involved in the development of
the new Public Finance and Social Progress programmatic series DPL, which draws on the
SSGER DPL, demonstrating its commitment to its implementation.

(b) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

68.    Overall, the Borrower’s performance is rated Satisfactory given its high level of
engagement during preparation and implementation and frequent coordination with the social
sector ministries and agencies involved in the Program.

6. Lessons Learned

69.    Relevant analytical work in countries where there are few investment operations
can serve as a critical input for engaging the Government on key issues and eventually the
design of future lending operations. Analytical work including the draft 2010 Public
Expenditure Review, social sector policy notes in health and education, and a research paper on
youth and employment at the time of the Program’s preparation served as the entry point for
many of the policy discussions on the social sectors and provided critical inputs in the design of
some policy areas under the Program. It also prepared the Bank to adequately respond to the
technical assistance demands of the Government and eventually the preparation of new non-




                                               19
lending and lending operations. Relevant analytical work can be a critical tool for remaining
engaged with a Government even when there are few lending operations in country.

70.     In order to prepare projects rapidly and ensure that they are of the highest quality,
it is critical to have the full commitment of both the Bank and the Government. The
successful rapid preparation of this Program can be strongly attributed to the overwhelming
commitment in time and resources of both the Bank and the Government. This is most evident in
the numerous missions that occurred during preparation, the active participation of Bank team
members from all the concerned sectors, as well as Government officials from the concerned
Ministries throughout the preparation period which ensured the relevance of the policy areas, and
the Government’s achievement of the policy actions in such a short time.

71.     Including medium-term development outcomes in a stand-alone DPL can be an
important means for remaining engaged with the Government on key development issues.
While the design of the DPL supported the implementation of the Government’s Anti-Crisis Plan
and other critical short-term policy actions, it also focused on defining clear medium-term policy
actions and outcomes. The definition of medium-term policy actions at the time of preparation
set in motion key development policies in the social sectors, thus keeping the Bank engaged with
the Government.

72.     Taking a risk and supporting sound policies where the Government has a strong
commitment, even if the Bank has not done prior analytical work, is useful especially if it
opens the door for a longer-term engagement. Prior to the preparation of the DPL, the Bank
had completed a policy note on the quality of education in El Salvador, focusing on the analysis
of test scores and other measures. While the Bank had made some recommendations in the note
on some possible ways of addressing issues of quality, the new Government approached the
Bank to support secondary curriculum in science and technology education, which was outside
the scope of the note. The Bank took a risk in supporting the Government in this initiative given
that it had done little work on this area in the region. Subsequently, the Bank supported an
NLTA on science and technology and continues to remain engaged on this issue through support
to science and technology in primary schools.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies: Not applicable.

(b) Cofinanciers: Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders: Not applicable.




                                               20
       Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                Names                                 Title                           Unit
Lending
 Sajitha Bashir                    Sector Leader, Task Team Leader               LCSHD
 Alejandro Alcala Gerez            Sr Counsel                                    LEGLA
 Jimena Garrote                    Counsel                                       LEGLA
 Sarah Elizabeth Berger            Social Protection Specialist                  LCSHS
 Rafael A. Cortez                  Sr Economist (Health)                         LCSHH
 Michael Drabble                   Sr Education Specialist                       LCSHE
 Jania Ibarra                      Operations Analyst                            LCCSV
 Andrea Kucey                      Senior Country Officer                        LCC2C
 Alberto Leyton                    Representative                                LCCSV
 J. Humberto Lopez                 Lead Economist and Sector Lead                LCSPR
 Fernando Montenegro Torres        Sr Economist (Health)                         LCSHH
 Edmundo Murrugarra                Senior Social Protection Economist            LCSHS
 Maria E. Colchao                  Senior Program Assistant                      LCSHE
Antonella Novali                   Extended Term Consultant                      LCSHE

Supervision
Sajitha Bashir                     Sector Leader, Task Team Leader               LCSHD
                                   Social Protection Specialist, ICR Task Team
Sarah Elizabeth Berger                                                            LCSHS
                                   Leader
Jimena Garrote                     Counsel                                       LEGLA
Maria E. Colchao                   Senior Program Assistant                      LCSHE
Antonella Novali                   Extended Term Consultant                      LCSHE

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                 Stage                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY10                                        21.37                       $106,584.67
                          Total:            21.37                       $106,584.67
Supervision/ICR
FY10                                         0.32                        $6,655.04
FY11                                         6.41                       $ 27,863.42
                          Total:             6.73                       $ 34,518.46




                                           21
                  Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                  22
                  Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                        23
           Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower submitted its Project Completion Report on March 28 2011. An informal
translation of the report is below. The Borrower also submitted official comments on this ICR on
June 21, 2011. These comments support the conclusions and findings of the report. All
recommendations provided by the Borrower have been incorporated in the document.

Informal Translation of Borrower’s comments (letter dated June 24, 2011)


                                                                             DGICP-562-2011
                                                                  San Salvador, 24 of June 2011

                    Item: Referral letter for the Implementation Completion and Results Report of
                                     the Sustaining Social Gains for Economic Recovery Program
                                                                                 (Loan 7806-SV)


Sajitha Bashir
Human Development Department
Regional Office of Latin America and the Caribbean
World Bank, Washington DC

Dear Mrs. Bashir,

We refer to your communication received on the 13 of this month, through which you submitted
the Implementation Completion and Results Report of the Sustaining Social Gains for Economic
Recovery Program for our review and comments. We have found that the implementation
process and results of the Program were presented objectively and, accordingly, we do not have
any objections regarding the ratings cited in the Report.

In the same vein, it is important to highlight the relevance and timeliness of the Program’s
resources, which supported critical and immediate policy actions under the Anti-Crisis Plan
designed by the government, allowing for the protection of fiscal space for social expenditures
within the context of the international financial crisis.

I take this opportunity to greet you.


Roberto de Jesus Soloranzo Castro
Vice Minister of Finances




                                               24
25
Informal translation of Government’s Project Completion Report Received on March 28, 2011

                                   Project Completion Report

                              Development Policies Loan (DPL)
                Sustainability of Social Achievements for Economic Recovery
                                   Republic of El Salvador
                                          March 2011

I. Introduction/Context
Since 2008 high food prices as well as record and volatile oil prices in the international market
have severely impacted the Salvadorian economy, and this situation was further exacerbated by
the international financial crisis and global economic slowdown, resulting in a weakening of the
fundamentals of the Salvadorian economy.
The negative effects of the global economic recession were reflected in the contraction of
economic activity, the loss of over 30,000 jobs, the fall of family remittances and of exports and
imports, among others. All of these had an impact on tax revenues, which by the end of 2009 had
fallen by close to 8% with regard to 2008, increasing the fiscal deficit.
The economic crisis also threatened the social achievements achieved in previous years.
According to the “Multiple Purposes Household Survey,” poverty levels increased from 34.5%
in 2007 to 40.0% in 2008, while extreme poverty worsened, increasing from 10.8% to 12.4%.
Furthermore, despite increases in allocations for education, the illiteracy rate for the population
10 years of age and above increased to 14.1% in 2008 from 13.9% in 2007.
In this context, the current Administration formulated an Anti-crisis Plan (PAC, in Spanish) to
minimize the negative impact of the economic crisis and to protect the income of the poorer and
most vulnerable sectors of the population, as well as to serve as an anti-cyclical fiscal policy to
stimulate the economy and lay the groundwork for the government’s social inclusion policies.
This Plan also considered measures to strengthen the country’s fiscal position and increase
transparency and accountability as a means to create the fiscal reserve needed to finance new
social programs through the promotion of the most efficient use of public resources.
In this sense, given the fiscal limitations deepened by the economic crisis, the Development
Policies Loan negotiated with the World Bank for US$100 million, known as “Sustainability of
Social Achievements for Economic Recovery” was timely and appropriate to selectively support
critical and immediate policies of the Anti-crisis Plan to protect the poor and vulnerable
population, while undertaking the economic recovery process through the design of initiatives
and institutional strengthening in the social sectors.
II. Objective and Expected Results
The DPL was designed to support the Government’s Anti-crisis Plan in order to protect the
social achievements achieved in the previous decades and to strengthen the economic recovery
framework. For this purpose, the loan was structured on three pillars, as follows: (i) protection of
the fiscal sphere for social spending; (ii) protection of the income and consumption of the



                                                26
   vulnerable population; and (iii) institutional strengthening for the formulation and
   implementation of social sector policies for economic recovery.
   Although the general budget support operation did not finance directly a set of concrete actions,
   during loan preparation agreement was reached on a number of expected results to be produced
   by December 2010, among which are:
   Pillar 1: Protection of the Fiscal Sphere for Social Spending
a) A 38% reduction of the public transportation subsidy;
b) The non-salary recurrent spending in the education and health budgets in the 2010 General
   Budget Proposal and the proposed decree to reform the Social Investment Extraordinary Budget
   (PEIS, in Spanish) for the period 2009-2011 are at least at the same level of the 2009 General
   Budget.
   Pillar 2: Protection of the Income and Consumption of the Vulnerable Population
c) The School Feeding Program, which benefits 1.3 million students, was maintained throughout
   the 2010 school year;
d) The number of hospital discharges in the Public Health Sector has increased 10% since 2008;
e) The Temporary Income Support Program is completely operational in 11 municipalities.
   Pillar 3: Institutional Strengthening for the Formulation and Implementation of Social
   Sector Policies for Economic Recovery
f) Development of a new curriculum for teaching science and technology subjects in high school
g) 80 percent of the people living in the 80 poorer municipalities is formally registered and
   receiving health prevention, promotion, and care services through the Integrated Health Services
   Model;
h) The Urban Collective Communities Program, one of the components of the Universal Social
   Protection System, is piloted in 2 municipalities.
   III. Final Results and Evaluation of the Policies one year later

   In general, the expected results proposed in the program to be reached by the end of 2010, were
   reached satisfactorily. These results are discussed below:

   Pillar 1: Protection of the Fiscal Sphere for Social Spending
   With regard to the reduction of the public transportation subsidy by 38%, toward the end of 2010
   the Legislative Decree No. 92, in force since August 1, 2009, regulated the reduction of the State
   subsidy to mass transportation. Through the reduction of this subsidy, the amounts for authorized
   minibuses and buses were US$250.0 (from US$400) and US$500.0 (from US$800.0),
   respectively. At the end of 2010 the amount of the public transportation subsidy amounted to




                                                  27
US$48.02 million, showing a relative reduction of 42.8% with regard to the 2008 baseline of
US$84 million.
Furthermore, the non-salary recurrent spending on the education and health budgets in the 2010
General Budget Proposal and the proposed decree to reform the Social Investment Extraordinary
Budget (PEIS) for the period 2009-2011, have remained at least at the same level of the 2009
General Budget, as shown in the table below.

                                        Education Budget (in US$ millions)
                                                  2008                  2009                            2010
                                                 Budget *          Budget *    PEIS1/              Budget *    PEIS1/
Education (1+2)                                      635.18             702.90 13.50                    671.45 21.70
     Recurrent                                         486.61            565.70         0.00               580.24     0.00
          Personnel                                    344.92            396.85         0.00               396.19     0.00
          Non-personnel                                141.69            168.85         0.00               184.05     0.00
     Public Investment                                  68.88             51.32        13.50                 11.94   21.70
     Support to cultural and
    educational institutions 2/                         79.68             85.88         0.00                 79.27    0.00
Of which:
Basic Education                                        322.86            378.35         0.00               405.08     0.00
     Recurrent                                         322.86            378.35         0.00               405.08     0.00
          Personnel                                    231.38            270.58         0.00               283.93     0.00
          Non-personnel                                 91.48            107.77         0.00               121.15     0.00
   Public Investment                                  0.00             0.00     0.00                0.00              0.00
* Approved Budget
1/ PEIS: Social Investment Extraordinary Budget
2/ It includes: University of El Salvador, MINED Employees Credit Union, Salvadorian Institute for Child
Development, and Miscellaneous Subsidies
Source: Law of General Budget of the State 2008, 2009, and 2010; and SAFI


                                       Public Health Budget (in US$ millions)
                                         2008                    2009                                     2010
                                                                                  1/
                                        Budget *          Budget *        PEIS                 Budget *          PEIS1/
Health (1+4)                                 356.73             393.40       34.50                  390.65           34.80
     Recurrent                               307.76             347.47          0.00                371.26            0.00
          Personnel                            87.29             96.90          0.00                106.07            0.00
          Non-personnel                      220.47             250.57          0.00                265.19            0.00
     Public Investment, of which:              48.97             45.92       34.50                   19.39           34.80
       Hospitals                            36.17            40.62      34.50                        16.04           34.80
* Approved budget
1/ PEIS: Social Investment Extraordinary Budget
Source: Law of General Budget of the State 2008.2009 and 2010; and SAFI



2
    Source: Economic and Fiscal Policy Directorate, Finance Ministry.


                                                         28
Pillar 2: Protection of the Income and Consumption of the Vulnerable Population
With regard to the School Feeding and Health Program (PASE, in Spanish), since August 2009
this Program covers all the public schools of the country, rural and urban, from pre-school
through 3rd grade. In accordance with data from the Ministry of Education, 4,950 School Centers
are eligible to participate in the Program, that is, 96% of the 5,179 public schools of the country.
In the group of eligible schools to participate the Program, 3,908 are in rural areas (78.3%) and
1,082 are in urban areas (21.7%). The 4,990 schools account for 1,316,779 enrollments, of which
762,412 are in rural schools (57.9%) and 554,367 in urban schools (42.1%). The enrollment
distribution among the different school levels is as follows: 13% in pre-school, 32% in 1st grade,
31% in 2nd grade, and 32% in 3rd grade. Approximately 50% of the School Centers have up to
160 students and 51% have up to 10 sections3.
In turn, hospital discharges in the Public Health Sector, whose baseline from the total of hospital
discharges in 2008 was 337,113, in 2009 the number of hospital discharges increased to 364,916
(8%) and in 2010 the number increased to 374,690 hospital discharges, an increase of 11.1%
with regard to the total in 2008, exceeding the goal set by 1.1%. The discharges increased with
the elimination of voluntary quotas, reduction of the waiting periods for hospital care and
strengthening of the productive capacity of the network of services (drugs, human resources,
equipment and infrastructure).

With respect to the elimination of voluntary quotas, for its effective implementation an
economic-social Diagnosis was developed as well as the legal instruments to eliminate the
authorized collection of contributions within the services; for the second semester of 2009,
US$7.2 million were negotiated with the Ministry of Finance in order to cover the income from
voluntary quotas. In fiscal year 2010, a budgetary increase of US$15.7 million was included to
cover the contributions from the households, both in hospitals and in health units.

With respect to the reduction of waiting periods for Outpatient Consultation Appointments and
Pending Surgeries, the Ministry prepared the Reduction of Waiting Time Plan, which included a
diagnosis of personnel, inputs, and financing needs for its implementation.
Among the actions carried out, the following should be highlighted: improvement of hospital
infrastructures and increase in the number of beds, improvement of internal medicine services
and specialized services in national referral hospitals, as well as increase in the number of beds
for patients’ care in emergency rooms, provision of highly specialized equipment for long-term
hospital orthopedics patients, authorization and economic support for the procurement of
laboratory inputs and reagents, provision of mechanical respirators for the care of seriously ill
children in Intensive Care Units (ICU), and provision of X-rays equipment for diagnostic support
for children.

In 2010, US$65.17 million were earmarked for the sustainability of the supply of essential drugs.




3
    Source: Proposal for an M&E System for PASE, Final Report.


                                                      29
In turn, the Temporary Income Support Program is completely operational in 11 municipalities,
among which are Santiago Nonualco, Santa María Ostuma, San Pedro Masahuat, San Luis La
Herradura, Verapaz, Guadalupe, Tepetitán, San Bartolomé Perulapía, San Pedro Perulapán, La
Libertad and Santiago Texacuangos; reaching with this initiative 15,669 Salvadorians, among
which priority has been given to women heads of household and to young people between the
ages of 16 and 24, which are the most vulnerable population groups that need the support of the
State.
Pillar 3: Institutional Strengthening for the Formulation and Implementation of Social
Sector Policies for Economic Recovery
With regard to the development of the new curriculum for the teaching of science and
technology subjects in high school, in 2010 the MINED developed a new curriculum in technical
training that includes the common thread of science and technology. The new curriculum is
being implemented in 2011 with the participation of the productive sector and is taking into
account the labor market element, from the productive map of the country. For example, the
agricultural high school is being implemented in 10 educational centers at the national level.
With respect to the result concerning 80 percent of the people of the 80 poorer municipalities
who are formally registered and are receiving health prevention, promotion, and care services
through the Integrated Health Services Model, 195 Family Health Teams (family ECOS) and 15
Specialized teams were established and became operational in 2010 in 74 priority municipalities
achieved 93% of the expected results providing coverage to a population comprising 672,000
inhabitants with an investment of US$15 million, exceeding the expected result by 13%.
In general, the MSPAS received a net budgetary increase of US$35.18 million in 2010, making it
possible to increase its budget to US$460.64 million (from US$425.45 million), included in the
Budget Law. For the year 2011, the approved budget for the Health Sector according to the
Budget Law, was US$501.48 million. As of January 2011, an additional transfer of US$51.7
million from the PEIS was approved to expand coverage from 74 in 2010 to 130 municipalities;
this increase will benefit more than 1 million people in the poorer communities of the country in
2011 under the new family health model.
In turn, the Collective Urban Communities Program piloted in 2 municipalities, which is one of
the components of the Universal Social Protection System, was carried out satisfactorily in the 2
pilot municipalities—San Martin and Ahuachapán— which were targeted through the Urban
Poverty Map. In 2011 three additional municipalities will be included among which are Colón in
La Libertad, San Miguel, and Santa Ana, adding five municipalities that will benefit from this
Program. At the end of the 5-year period it is expected that this program will benefit 25
municipalities that concentrate 44% of the total population of the country, that is, 2,547,977
people.
IV. Policy Evaluation in the Medium Term

The DPL discussed in this report, in addition to helping meet some immediate financial needs of
the Government within the framework of the PAC, also served as a bridge between the Public
Finance and Social Sector DPL and the other potential programmatic DPLs with the World Bank
in the coming years which, coupled with other sources of financing and the internal efforts to


                                               30
increase tax collections, will help support the social agenda of the Government, focused on the
significant and verifiable reduction in poverty, economic and gender inequality, and social
exclusion.

In this regard, the technical and financing assistance of the World Bank continues to be
fundamental in alleviating the most urgent needs of the most poor and vulnerable sectors of the
population, contributing in moving forward the social agenda of the current administration.

V. Conclusions and Lessons Learned

As previously discussed, the resources obtained through the DPL were timely and appropriate to
selectively support actions of critical and immediate policies of the Anti-crisis Plan, within the
context of weakened public finances due to the effects of the international economic crisis and
the threat to the social gains achieved in previous decades. In addition, these resources became
an important element in reducing the use of Treasury Bonds as a financing instrument,
something that had become a recurrent pressure factor on the national treasury with a relatively
greater cost than the longer term instruments.

Furthermore, one of the key lessons learned is the importance of financial partners—particularly
the World Bank—in supporting on a timely basis the efforts of the government to withstand
external shocks, which means that with the successful experience of the DPL in question, the
Government of El Salvador reaffirms its positive assessment on the global experience offered by
the World Bank on various issues. In this same order, based on the experience with the DPL, the
Government corroborates the flexibility and desirability of stand-alone disbursement loans
whose policy actions have been fulfilled prior to the signing of the loan, thus contributing to the
fast disbursement of the resources and avoiding having to resort to the exemption of actions that
could not be fulfilled due to various circumstances.




                                                31
          Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                         32
                          Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Acosta, Pablo. 2010. “Effects Of The 2009 Global Financial Crisis In Salvadorian Labor Market
And Incomes.” The World Bank. Washington, D.C.

Dirección General de Estadística y Censos. 2011. “Encuesta de Hogares de Propósitos Múltiples-
Proporción de Hogares por Año, según condición de pobreza y área.” Accessed on the web at
http://www.digestyc.gob.sv/

Ministry of Finance. February 2011. “Desempeño Fiscal 2010: Cifras Preliminares.” Powerpoint
presentation prepared on February 23, 2011.

Ministry of Education. December 2010. “Programa de Alimentación y Salud Escolar (PASE).”
San Salvador, El Salvador.

Ministry of Finance. February 2011. “Desempeño Fiscal 2010 (cifras preliminares). San
Salvador, El Salvador.

Ministry of Finance. 2010. Presupuesto General 2010: Ramo de Educación- 3100. San Salvador,
El Salvador.

Ministry of Finance. 2010. Presupuesto General 2010: Ramo de Salud Pública y Asistencia
Social- 3200. San Salvador, El Salvador.

Ministry of Finance. 2009. Presupuesto General 2009: Ramo de Educación- 3100. San Salvador,
El Salvador.

Ministry of Finance. 2009. Presupuesto General 2009: Ramo de Salud Pública y Asistencia
Social- 3200. San Salvador, El Salvador.

Secretaria Técnica de la Presidencia. February 2010. “Comunidades Solidarias Urbanas:
Definición de Intervenciones.” Powerpoint Presentation. San Salvador, El Salvador.

Unidad del Sistema de Protección Social Universal Secretaria Técnica de la Presidencia.
December 2010. “Comunidades Solidaria Documento Conceptual.” Borrador Preliminar Sujeto
a Revisión. San Salvador, El Salvador.

World Bank. 2011. “Public Finance and Social Progress DPL.” Draft Program Document.
February 26, 2011.

World Bank. 2010. “Assessing Good Quality Jobs: Priorities for Education, Social Protection
and Science and Technology.” Human Development Department, Latin American and the
Caribbean Region. Washington, D.C.




                                             33
                              90°W                                                                                                                            89°W                                                                                                                          88°W



                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                   Quezaltepeque
                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                     Nueva
                                                                                  To                                               Ocotepeque
                                                                                 Ipala
                            G U AT EM ALA
                                                                                                          Metapán                La Palma

                                                                              Lago de
                                                                                                                                                Cerro
                                                                                                                                                El Pital                                      HO NDURA S
                                                                                                                                              (2,730 m)                                                                                                            EL SALVADOR




                                                                                                            A
                                                                  To            Güija




                                                                                                         N
                                                                Jutiapa




                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                TA
                                                                               Candelaria de
                                                                               la Frontera                                       C H A L AT E N A N G O




                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                 Nueva                           Tejutla




                                                                                         SA
                                          To                                                                 Concepción
                                      Jalpatagua                                                                            Lempa
                                                                                                                                                                        Chalatenango
                                                                                       Santa                                                         Embalse                                                 Lem                                                                          To
                                                                                        Ana                                                                                                                        pa                                                                   Marcala




                                                                                                                                   SA
                                                                                                                                   S
                14°N                                           Chalchuapa                                                                         Cerrón Grande                                                                                                                                                                      14°N
                                  z




                                                                                                                                                  CU
                                                                                                                                                  CU
                               Pa




                                                                                                                                      N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Jocoaitique
                                      Ahuachap
                                      Ahuachapán                    N        Volcán de
                                                                                                                        Aguilares                             Suchitoto
                                                                                                                                                                                         CABAÑAS
                                                               PÁ
                   To




                                                                                                                                                        SC
                                                                             Santa Ana
                                                                                                                  LA




                                                                                                                                        S L
                                                                                                                                        SAL
                 Taxisco
                                                           A                 (2,365 m)
                                                                                                                                                                          Ilobasco
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sensuntepeque
                                                       H                                                   L I B E R TA D




                                                                                                                                                           AT
                           La Hachadura
                                                   C                                           Lago de                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                               A




                                                                                                                                            VA D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ro   la




                                                                                                                                                              LÁ
                                                                                               Coatepeque
                                           U                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Osicala




                                                                                                                                             A
                                       H                                                                                                                                                                                                Ciudad Barrios




                                                                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                           Armenia                                                                                                                                                                                                         Nueva
                                                                              Izalco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MORAZÁN
                              A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Esparta
                                                                                                                           SAN                                                             SAN


                                                                                                                                              OR
                                                                                                                      SALVADOR                                                                                                                                                     San Francisco
                                                                                                                                                                                         VICENTE

                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                          Sonsonate                                                                       Lago de         Cojutepeque




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Goascorán
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (Gotera)
                                                               S O N S O N AT E                                  Nueva
                                                                                                                                                         Illepango
                                                                                                           San Salvador                                                                  San Vicente
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Santa Rosa               Nacaome
                                               Acajutla                                                                                                                 Volcán de




                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         de Lima




                                                                                                                                                               Jibo
                                                                                                                                                                          Vicente
                                                                                                                                                                        (2,182 m)
                                                                                                                                            Olocuilta                                    Tecoluca            Santiago                                                                               LA
                                                                                                                                                                   Zacatecoluca                              de María                            SAN MIGUEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UNIÓN




                                                                                                                                                                                               pa
                                                                                                            La Libertad                                                  LA                                                                                              San Miguel




                                                                                                                                                                                              Le m
                                                                                                                                                        San Luis                                                                                  Volcán de
                                                                                                                                                                        PA Z                                                                     San Miguel
                              90°W                                                                                                                                                                        USULUTÁN                                (2,130 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              La ahía
                                                                                                                                                   La Herradura                                                                                                   San Miguel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Un de
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jiquilisco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           de d e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ión
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Usulután     Gr a                                                      La Unión
                       EL SA LVA D O R                                                                                                                                                                    Bahía de Jiq
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         uilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              c   o                                                     Laguna de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Olomega
                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Intipuca    Golfo de
                                 DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F onseca
                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                    PA CI FI C O CE A N
                                 RIVERS
                                                                                                This map was produced by
                                 MAIN ROADS                                                     the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                                                                                                                           13°N
                                                                                                World Bank. The boundaries,
                                 PAN AMERICAN HIGHWAY                                           colors, denominations and
                                                                                                any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                     0   10          20           30          40 Kilometers
NOVEMBER 2006




                                 RAILROADS                                                      on this map do not imply, on




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 33401R
                                                                                                the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the
                                 DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                          legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                     0        10                    20                 30 Miles
                                                                                                or any endorsement or
                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                       acceptance of such
                                                                                                boundaries.                                                   89°W                                                                                                                          88°W
