Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2832 CH
(Pehuenche Hydroelectric Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CORPORACION DE FOMENTO DE LA PRODUCCION
Dated December 16, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2832 CH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1987, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and EMPRESA ELECTRICA PEHUENCHE S.A. 
(PEHUENCHE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion (the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety-five 
million dollars ($95,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that PEHUENCHE agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the Borrower will make available to PEHUENCHE the proceeds of the loan 
required by PEHUENCHE for carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, as equity 
contribution; and
WHEREAS PEHUENCHE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PEHUENCHE declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out 
Parts A and B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, power utilities and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the 
Schedule to this Agreement.
(b)
PEHUENCHE shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, a board of 
consultants with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, responsible 
for verifying, through periodic visits to the Project site, the appropriateness of the 
detailed design and construction methods of the dam on the Melado River and related 
infrastructure works included in Part A of the
Project.  
Section 2.03. PEHUENCHE shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 2.04. Without limitation to the generality of Section 9.08 of the 
General Conditions, PEHUENCHE shall, under a program acceptable to the Bank, cause the 
dams and related infrastructure included in Part A of the Project to be periodically 
inspected in accordance with sound engineering practices in order to determine whether 
there are any deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the quality and 
adequacy of maintenance or
methods of operations of the same, which may endanger their safety. To this end, 
PEHUENCHE shall propose to the Bank such program for the Bank's review not later than 
one year before the expected completion of such structures.
Section 2.05. PEHUENCHE shall: (i) enter, with the Borrower, into the 
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement; and 
(ii) take all such corporate action as shall be required in order to permit CORFO to 
transfer to PEHUENCHE as equity contribution, the proceeds of the Loan
required by PEHUENCHE to carry out Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) PEHUENCHE shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
PEHUENCHE shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by PEHUENCHE of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.07. PEHUENCHE shall implement, as part of Part A (v) of the Project, 
its program to address all the environmental matters arising out of, or in connection 
with, the execution of the Project, as stated by PEHUENCHE in a letter to the Bank of 
even date herewith.
Section 2.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement, PEHUENCHE shall: (i) furnish to the Bank by November 30 of each year, 
starting on November 30, 1987, a plan satisfactory to the Bank for financing the 
carrying out of the Project during the following year, in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request; and (ii) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, carry out 
the Project within the financial terms and
conditions set forth in such financing plan.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PEHUENCHE
Section 3.01. PEHUENCHE shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and public utilities practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. PEHUENCHE shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utilities practices.
Section 3.03. PEHUENCHE shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) PEHUENCHE shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition, including separate records and accounts in respect of the resources and 
expenditures for Parts A and B of the Project.
(b)
PEHUENCHE shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses, and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year 
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures for Parts A and B of the Project, with respect to 
which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, PEHUENCHE shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
Page  4
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PEHUENCHE shall 
maintain at all times a ratio of debt to equity not greater than 67 to 33.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of PEHUENCHE maturing by 
its terms more than 
one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to  be  incurred:  
(A)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing for such 
debt or for the modification of its 
terms of payment on  the date of such 
contract, agreement 
or instrument; and
(B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
 
(iii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained 
earnings and reserves of PEHUENCHE not 
allocated to cover specific liabilities.
(iv)
Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable 
in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
purposes of servicing such debt, or in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PEHUENCHE shall not incur any 
debt after the date twelve months from the date on which PEHUENCHE starts its 
commercial operations, unless the net revenues of PEHUENCHE for the fiscal year 
immediately preceding the date of such incurrence
or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, 
whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.1 times the estimated maximum debt 
service requirements of PEHUENCHE for the following fiscal year on all debt of 
PEHUENCHE, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of PEHUENCHE maturing by 
its terms more than 
one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred. 
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
Page  5
modification of its terms of 
payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into.
(iii)
The term "net  revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to take 
account of PEHUENCHE's rates in effect at the 
time of the incurrence of 
debt, even though they were not 
in effect during the twelve-month period to 
which such revenues 
relate, the amount represented by the sale of assets and 
net 
non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of: (i) all expenses related to operations, 
including 
administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
but excluding 
provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges 
and interest and other charges on debt; and (ii) any dividend payment, or 
payment to any shareholder for the repurchase or redemption 
of shares of 
stock, or any other payment to any shareholder 
which would result in the 
reduction of PEHUENCHE's equity.
 
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the 
generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, 
debt.
 
(vi)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained 
earnings and reserves of PEHUENCHE not 
allocated to cover specific liabilities.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms 
of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PEHUENCHE shall refrain 
from acquiring its own shares of stock, or otherwise concur in any action which would 
result in a reduction of its equity capital, except: (i) when required by Article 69 
of Law No. 18,046, dated October 22, 1981, or Article 106 of Decree-Law No. 3,500, 
dated November 13, 1980, as amended to the date of this Agreement, for the purpose of 
redeeming shares owned by dissenting shareholders of PEHUENCHE; or (ii) PEHUENCHE 
shall have provided evidence satisfactory to the Bank that PEHUENCHE will be in 
compliance with the financial ratios included in Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of this 
Agreement after taking into consideration any such equity capital reduction.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.O2. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of PEHUENCHE 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
Page  6
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify PEHUENCHE thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For PEHUENCHE:
Empresa Electrica Pehuenche S.A.
Pio X 2422
Santiago, Chile
Telex:
341510 EEPSACK
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PEHUENCHE, or 
by PEHUENCHE on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the General Manager of PEHUENCHE or such other person or persons as the 
General Manager of PEHUENCHE shall designate in writing, and PEHUENCHE shall furnish 
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Page  7
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA ELECTRICA PEHUENCHE, S.A.
By /s/ Jaime Bauza
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for the works included in Part A (i), (ii) and (iv) of the Project to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be prequalified as described in 
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Chile may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to all contracts, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of 
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the Project Agreement.
3.
The figure of 5% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines. 
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist PEHUENCHE in carrying out Part A of the Project, and the 
Borrower in carrying out Part C of the Project, PEHUENCHE and the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
Page  8
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
