Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2832 CH
(Pehuenche Hydroelectric Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 16, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2832 CH
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1987, between the REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion (the 
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in 
the financing of the Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in various currencies 
equivalent to ninety-five million dollars ($95,000,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement, and of Empresa Electrica Pehuenche 
S.A. (PEHUENCHE) as provided in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Bank and PEHUENCHE, and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Page  2
Agreement with the Borrower and the Project Agreement with PEHUENCHE, has agreed so to 
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower and PEHUENCHE;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on 
the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other obligations 
of the Borrower and PEHUENCHE, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement and the Project 
Agreement, respectively.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower or PEHUENCHE will 
be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required to carry out the Project, to 
make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to provide the Borrower and PEHUENCHE or cause the Borrower and PEHUENCHE to 
be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall: (i) take all such measures as shall be 
required to assist the Borrower in the preparation of the guidelines and methods for 
carrying out studies on the protection of the environment and for addressing 
resettlement issues related to the execution of power projects, and in the execution 
of the study on means to reduce the illicit use of electricity included in Section 
3.05 of the Loan Agreement; (ii) not later than March 31, 1989, exchange views with 
the Bank on such guidelines and methods, and on the conclusions and recommendations of 
such study; and (iii) taking into account the views expressed by the Bank, put into 
effect such guidelines and methods, and implement the recommendations of such study 
within a timetable acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall, not later than December 31, 1988, regulate 
Decreto con Fuerza de Ley No. 1, dated September 13, 1982, in areas related to 
concession operations and electric services, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take, or cause to be taken, all necessary 
action to promptly increase the equity capital of PEHUENCHE by such amount as shall be 
required to enable PEHUENCHE to be in compliance with the financial ratios included in 
Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of the Project Agreement, whenever the equity capital of 
PEHUENCHE is reduced pursuant to Section 4.04 (i) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Page  3
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120, Piso 12
Santiago, Chile
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MHDA-CL 241334
Santiago, Chile
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Hernan Felipe Errazuriz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf of
the Controller General and
of the Treasurer General of
the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Hernan Felipe Errazuriz
Page  4
Authorized Representative
