Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2832 CH
(Pehuenche Hydroelectric Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CORPORACION DE FOMENTO DE LA PRODUCCION
Dated December 16, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2832 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1987, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CORPORACION DE FOMENTO DE LA PRODUCCION 
(the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Guarantor), having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by Empresa Electrica 
Pehuenche S.A. (PEHUENCHE), with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to PEHUENCHE part of the proceeds of the 
Loan as provided in this Agreement;
(C)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, and the Project Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Bank and PEHUENCHE;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and PEHUENCHE of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(b)
"CNE" means the Guarantor's Comision Nacional de Energia; 
 
(c)
"Legislation" means the Guarantor's Decreto con Fuerza de Ley, No. 1, 
dated September 13, 1982, as amended up to the date of this Agreement, and any other 
legislation of the Guarantor including, without limitation, constitutional provisions, 
laws, legislative decrees, decree-laws, supreme decrees (Reglamentos) and any other 
legal provision of a similar nature, which regulates the pricing of electricity in the 
Guarantor's territory;
(d)
"By-laws" means the by-laws of PEHUENCHE approved on April 1, 1986, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement; and 
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.O1. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ninety-five million dollars ($95,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
a bank acceptable to the Bank a special account in dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Page  3
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester. 
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is  signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the 
Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as a 
percentage per annum, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall: (i) carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and environmental practices; and (ii) for as long as the Borrower remains 
the controlling shareholder of PEHUENCHE pursuant to Section 4.03 of this Agreement: 
(A) cause PEHUENCHE to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of PEHUENCHE therein set forth; (B) take or cause to be 
taken all action within its authority, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the execution of the Project; and (C) not 
take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with PEHUENCHE's performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to PEHUENCHE, as equity contribution, 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (1) in the table in Schedule 1 of this 
Agreement, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the contractual arrangements 
referred to in the preceding paragraph in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, or abrogate such 
arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project, and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A and B 
of the Project shall be carried out by PEHUENCHE
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Page  4
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project in accordance 
with the plan of action and under the timetable stated in a letter from the Borrower 
to the Bank of even date herewith.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1988, under terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Bank: (i) develop or cause to be developed, 
guidelines and methods for carrying out studies on the protection of the environment 
and for addressing resettlement issues related to the execution of power projects; and 
(ii) carry out, or cause to be carried out a study on means to reduce the illicit use 
of electricity. 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, not later 
than December 31, 1988, a handbook for the execution of basic design of small- and 
medium-sized hydroelectric projects up to 50 MW.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain separate records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures for Part C of the Project with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, and except as provided in 
Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement, the Borrower shall refrain from taking any 
Page  5
action for, or which would otherwise result in, the reduction of PEHUENCHE's equity 
capital.
Section 4.03. (a) Until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall not 
assign, sell or otherwise dispose of, or pledge or otherwise encumber, any share 
subscription rights or shares in the equity capital of PEHUENCHE paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan without the prior written consent of the Bank, any such consent 
to be always conditional upon the assumption by the assignee, purchaser or creditor of 
all the obligations of the
Borrower, in its capacity as shareholder of PEHUENCHE, under this Agreement.
(b)
After the date of completion of the Project, and until the termination of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank that its ability to comply with its obligations towards the Bank provided for in 
the Loan Agreement will not be reduced in any way, before proceeding with any sale, 
assignment or otherwise disposition of, or pledge of any share subscription rights or 
shares in the equity capital
of PEHUENCHE paid out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(c)
Notwithstanding the foregoing and unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower undertakes to maintain under its ownership until the completion of the 
Project, at least 70% of the voting shares of stock of PEHUENCHE. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
PEHUENCHE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that PEHUENCHE will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(c)
The Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, 
waived or otherwise modified in such a way which would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
materially and adversely affect the mechanisms and methods for the determination of 
electricity prices to be charged by electric power utilities in the Guarantor's 
territory, including PEHUENCHE.
(d)
The shareholders of PEHUENCHE or any authority having jurisdiction shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PEHUENCHE or for the 
suspension of its operations.
(e)
The By-laws shall have been amended or otherwise modified so as to affect 
materially and adversely the operations of PEHUENCHE or its ability to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any of the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
Page  6
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have entered into the arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by PEHUENCHE, and is legally binding upon PEHUENCHE in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date March 15, 1988 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Vicepresidente Ejecutivo of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Corporacion de Fomento de la
 Produccion
Moneda 921
Santiago, Chile
Telex:
240690 CORFO CL
240421
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64l45 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  7
CORPORACION DE FOMENTO DE LA PRODUCCION
By /s/ Carlos Borquez
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  PEHUENCHE Component:
     (a)  Civil works for       79,000,000     100%
          the construc-
          tion of a tun-
          nel from the
          Maule River to
          the Melado dam,
          and Maule River
          intake dam
          under Part A (i)
          and (ii) of the
          Project
     (b)  Equipment and         15,455,000     100%
          materials for
          Part A (iv) of
          the Project
     (c)  Fellowships              145,000     100% of foreign
          abroad under                         expenditures
          Part B of the
          Project
(2)  Consultants'                  400,000     100% of foreign
     services, equip-                          expenditures and
     ment, materials                           30% of local
     and fellowships                           expenditures
     under Part C
                               ___________
          TOTAL                 95,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
Page  8
$100,000 may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date, but after February 1, 1987.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to expand Chile's power-generating facilities to 
meet a growing demand for electricity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Power Plant Construction
 
Construction of a 500 MW hydroelectric power plant on the Maule River, 
including: (i) an intake dam at the Maule River and a daily storage earth dam at the 
Melado River; (ii) two tunnels with a total length of 13.3 Km; (iii) an underground 
power house with two 250 MW turbine generating units; (iv) a 220 kV double circuit 
transmission line to connect the power plant to Chile's central
interconnected power system; and (v) environmental protection works in the Project 
area.
Part B:
Technical Training
 
About 36 staff-months of training for PEHUENCHE professional staff in areas 
related to construction, contract administration, technical operation of power plants, 
power pooling and economic dispatching, and finance and administration, including 
fellowships abroad.
Part C:
National Environmental Protection Program
 
Carrying out a national program designed to protect endangered species, 
including training of four professionals in environmental and ecological matters 
through fellowships abroad and in local universities.
* * * * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
     beginning March 1, 1992
     through   March 1, 2004                       3,655,000
On   September 1, 2004                             3,625,000
Page  9
_______________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.O4 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The interest rate (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                             .18
     before maturity
More than three years but                             .35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                               .65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                            .88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years                                   1.00
     before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $7,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
Page  10
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting 
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus 
the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be 
equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account for immediate 
cancellation.
