Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report :No.  12422-CV
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REP"BLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
JANUARY 7, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
RePort No:         12422 CV
Type: SAR
Country Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed whout Wold Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Cape Verdean Escudo (CV Esc.)
US$ 1.00: CV Esc. 70.0
CV Esc. 1 Million: US$ 14,286
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AN') MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January-December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB:        African Development Bank
BADEA:       Arab Bank for African Economic Development
BCV:         Bank of Cape Verde
CENFA:       Center for Public Administration Training
CFN:         Center for Nautical Training
DCA:         Development Credit Agreement
DGP:         Directorate General of Planning
DGS:         Directorate General of Statistics
EC:          European Community
LG:          Local Government
MEC:         Ministry of Economic Coordination
MIA:         Ministry of Internal Administration
MIT:         Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport
MJL:         Ministry of Justice and Labor
MOC:         Ministry of Culture and Communications
MOF:         Ministry of Finance
MPA:         Ministry of Public Administration
PC:          Project Coordinator
PCM:         Project Component Manager
PCU:         Project Coordinating Unit
PERP:        Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization Unit
RAIMB:       Reform Advisory and Implementation Monitoring Board
VDP:         Voluntary Departure Program
This project was appraised in August 1993 by a team consisting of Messrs. Emmanuel Mbi (Principal Country
Officer), Loup Brefort (Sr. Public Sector Management Officer), Joseph Bredie (Sr. Education Specialist), Raj
Soopramanien (Sr. Counsel), Francesco Sarno (Sr. Procurement Specialist), Charles Thomas (Private Sector
Development Specialist), and Luiz Villela, Carlos Proenga, Alda Carvalho and Maria Paixao (Consultants).
Mnes. Roseleen Mba-Kalu (Operations Analyst) and Jennifer Edwards (Country Officer) participated in
processing the operation. The Peer Reviewers/Advisors are Messrs. Jerry Silverman, Rogerio Pinto and
Mamadou Dia. Ms. Katherine Marshall, Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib and Mr. Emmerich Schebeck are the
Department Director, the Managing Division Chief, and the Projects Adviser, respectively, for the operation.



roR omacsL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACTrY BUILDING PROJECT
STAFFAPPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EagLa
CREDIr AND PROJECT SUMMARY .v.................................... v
I.    IKMEDU(=1N  . ............................................  I
A.    COUNTRY BACKGROUND  ......                                                        I
B.  MACRO-ECONOMIC CONTEXT ANDPOLICIES.                                                 2
C.    PROSPECTS FOR GROWTH  ......................................   3
H. THE PUBLIC SECOR..                                                                         4
A.  CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PUbLIC SECTOR.                                              4
1. Overview.                                                                    4
2. Structure and Organization of the Public Administration Sector ...............   4
3. Profile of the Civil Service  .  ....................................  5
B.  MAJOR ISSUES IN PUBUC SECTOR PERFORMANCE .............                             7
1.    Institutional Environment for Civil Service Reforms ....... ............. 7
2.    Modernization of Hulman Resources Management .......      .............. 7
3.    Capacity to Make Policy and to Communicate ........     ............... 9
4.    Municipal Development/Local Government Capacity ......      ............. 10
5.    Legal and Judicial Context ..............       .............             12
6.    Management of Public Assets and Public Procument ................... 14
C.    CONSTRANTS AND OPPORTUNMTES IN THE REFORM OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR 14
1. Introduction.                                                                14
2. Constaints .15
3.    Opporunities ... . ....................................... 15
D.  GOVERNMENfrS STRATEGY AND REFORM EFFORT .16
E. IDA INVOLVEMEN .                                                                    18
m. THEPROJECI                       .............. 19
A.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES, SCOPE AND DESCRIPTON                          .       .     19
1.  Program and Project Objectives .19
2. Project Descripdon .19
3.  Detalled Project Features .20
B. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN .28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usd by ro4:,s only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



C.    PROIECT Ir ?LPLIENIATION              .................................... 30
1.    Project Management and Coordination ............................ 30
2.    Ammal Work Program, Monitoring, Mid-Term Review and Evaluation ........  31
3.    Procurement and Disbursement ...... ....       ....................... 32
4.    Accounting and Auditing    ................      .................... 35
5.    Environmental Aspects ...................................... 35
rv. PROJECTBENEFSMAND RISKS    ..35
A. BENEFnS .35
B. RISKS .36
V.  AGR_EMNT TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . .36
TEXT TABLES
Table 1: Level of Education of Public Servants..                                     6
Table 2: Estimated Project Costs    ..28
Table 3: Summary Financing Plan by Item           .       .        .30
Table 4: Procurement Anangements          ..33
Table S: Allocation and Disbursements of IDA Credit             ..                   34
TEXT BOXES
1.  Cape Verde: A Snapsot .............  1
2.    Modernizing Civil Service: At the Cutting Edge in Sub-Sahara Africa.            8
3.    Rising to the Chiallenge of a Modern Adm. .is...ion                             9
4.  A Municipality in Cape Verde .11
S.  Rigidities in the Labor Code .12
.                                                                                        S39
A nneX 1:E  ...........................................                             40
Annex.       Cape Verde: A Historical Perspective ............................ 53
Annex 3:     Ihe Public Sector in Cape Verde: Facts, Figures ..................... 55
Annex 4:     Civil Senice Reforms and Modernzation .......................... 59
Annex 5:     Deentralization and Municipal Strengthening....................... 109
Annex 6:     Institutional Development: Stae  to Increase Public Participation .... ..... 154
Annex 7:     Legal Framework and Judicial Reorm  ........................... 158
Annex 8:     Economic Management .     .................................... 162
Annex 9-A:   Agreed Monitoring and Performance .dicators                            172
Annex 9-B    Global Prog      Targets and Key Actvties  .184
Annex 10:    Coordination Structure ....................................... 201
Annex 11:    Role and Responsibilites of the Project Coordinator (P)  ..... .......... 2C2
Annex 12:    Role and Responsibilities of Project Component Managers (PCMs) .... ..... 204
Annue 13:    Role and Responsibilities of Reform Advisory and mle ion
Monitoring Board (RAIB) ................. 205
Annex 14:    Project Supervision Plan .................  207
Annex 15:  List of Documes in Project Fie .209
- IBRD No. 1509R1



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLJC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CRED1T AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Republic of Cape Verde
Beneficarie:            All 15 local authorities of Cape Verde; Ministries of Economic
Coordination, Finance, Public Administration, Justice and Labor, Internal
Administration, Communications; and Public and Private News Media
Credit Amount:          SDR 5,700,000 (US$ 8.1 million equivalent)
Termis:                 Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Coordinated Financing:  UNDP: US$ 0.3 million equivalent; Switzerland: 1.0 million; France: US$
1.0 million; EC: US$ 4.0 million.
ProZect (2W3ectives     The major objective of the proposed project is to assist the Government of
and Descrlp.tion:     Cape Verde implement its long-term public sector institutional development
strategy. The project would support improvements in the legal, judicial and
administrative environment for investment and for business operations, and
economic policy analysis and management, through a program of
institutional development and capacity building in public administration,
both at the central and at the municipal levels. It would complement the
ongoing restructuring of the public enterprise sector (Cr. 2377-CV),
transport and infrastructure modernization (Cr. 2466-CV), as well as the
planned Basic Education and Training and Financial/Private Sector
Development Projects, and provide the underpinnings for the delivery of
basic services at the local level to be supported under the proposed Basic
Social Services Project.
The project would be a specific investment credit, operating within a
framework outlined in the Policy Letter. It would consist of five
components: (i) civil service modernization; (ii) municipal strengthening;
(iii) economic management support; (iv) legal and judicial upgrading; and
(v) public procurement reform. They are described below.
The first component will provide assistance to reform and modernize the
civil srice by providing short-term advisory services and equipment to the
Ministry of Public Administration, training for staff from various parts of
the civil service, and training and retraining for voluntary departees from
the civil service. In particular, the component would consist of: (a) the
implementation of improved human resource planning and management
systems (organization planning, performance evaluativa, career planning,
employee development, etc.) to promote and organize vertical and
horizontal mobility of personnel, in direct relation with short and long term



requirements and with the priorities of the various public services and
organization units in response to their new role; (b) implementing a
comprehensive training program directed at managers, administrators and
support staff in public administration, sector policy and analysis, in response
to the new role played by the State In the economy, and to the requirements
of a truly public service-oriented administration; and (c) the design of a civil
service retrenchment implementation strategy, and implementation of
demand-driven training and retraining schemes which would also includejob
search assistance to facilitate redeployment of voluntary departees from the
civil service.
The second component will provide assistance for building local capagity
to garticipate and to manage (decentralization and municipal strengtheing
through the provision of training, equipment, short-term advisory services
and support for operational studies for all 15 municipalities and, where
appropriate, the Ministry of Internal Administration. In particular, the
component would involve: (a) institution-building: further detailing
guidelines for the decentralization process; supporting establishment of
inter-municipal technical support offices (TSOs), to ensure a "critical mass'
through which scarce technical support and equipment can be shared; and
providing the means to facilitate closer contact between the municipal
authorities and the population of the various villages and/or citizens' groups,
and local community associations; (b) developing sound administration and
management practices: planning, budgeting and inventory systems to ensure
transparency and accountability in fiscal and related matters; and local fiscal
administration and revenue mobilization capacity thereby ensuring
sustainability of the decentralization process and improvements in local
services provision; (c) actions in human resources development: helping the
municipalities attract and retain qualified personnel; training within the
framework of a comprehensive program for existing staff; and procedures
for personnel management and their adequate use; and (d) strengthening the
internal organization of the municipalities: rationalizing the organization of
the various municipal services that could eventually become autonomous
services or be contracted out; and the provision of basic equipment to
implement the new systems and the provision of services by the
municipalities.
The third component will support and strenghen economic management
oapacily by assisting with operational studies and public information
campaigns, and providing advisory services, training, equipment, library
support to the Ministries of Economic Coordination, Finance, and
Communications and their major agencies (Statistics, Planning, Public
Finance, Radio, etc.) as well as the private media. The component will
specifically involve: (a) restructuring the national accounts and statistics
system and catching up on preparation of backlog of essential statistics; (b)
strengthening economic policy and impact analysis capacity of the Planning
Directorate General, establishing a multi-year rolling investment program
(PIP), and a pre-investment studies fund (PIP) to relieve the constraints on
public investments caused by the present lack of properly prepared projects,
and reinforce institutional capacity for identifying public investment
proposals and processing these adequately. The PIF would also support the
- ii -



final preparation of the National Envirownental Action Plan (NEAP); (c)
supporting improvement in external debt and public finance management,
aid coordination, and assessing the feasibility of and designing and
implementing, if appropriate, mechanisms for increased public resource
mobilization through expansion of the offering of Treasuiy Bills to the
public at large; (d) Improving the communication of economic and social
policies, including the training of journalists; (e) testing pilot scbemes
designed to facilitate the provision of assistance in various fields of
economic and social development by non-resident Cape Verdeans; (t)
improving intra-government communications through the introduction of
electronic communication systems and training; and (g) designing a shared
data system for government operations.
The fourth component will provide assistance for legal and judicial refoms
and modernizing the justice system through the provision of training,
equipment and materials, textbooks and printing, and advisory services for
the Ministry of Justice and Labor and its major agencies including the
Judiciary, the Rcgistrar of Companies, and the Registrar of Deeds as well
ss legal services for key ministries. The component will include such actions
as: (a) revision of commercial and labor legislation; (b) specialized training
in business law for magistrates and, possibly, other members of the legal
profession; (c) strengthening of the capacity of the Ministry of Justice to
draft, revise and update legislation on a routine basis; (d) establishment of
a specialized jurisdiction(s) and, if need be, arbitration facilities, to dispose
of commercial law disputes; and (e) provision of modern computerized
facilities for specialized legal services dealing with company registry,
notarial services and business activities.
The fifth component will provide assistance for continued reform of public
procurement by providing training, short-term advisory services and
equipment to the Public Procurement Department (PATRIMONIO) and
selected administration departments in GOCV. The component will include,
in particular: (a) selective revision of the existing legislation for
procurement of goods and services; (b) training for the technical staff of
PATRIMONIO as well as the staff In charge of the purchase and
distribution of goods in the various administration departnents of GOCV;
and (c) modernizing the purchasing departments through computerization of,
and training for about 40 staff in, systems for planning, purchasing and
storing of information.
Projec Benefits          The project would assist a business-oriented Government at a critical
and Rids:               time in the implementation of its liberalization program by adapting the
administration and the civil service as well as the judicial system to a new
vision of the role of Government in the economy. It would support the
policy of the Government to create an enabling environment for private
sector development. It would foster efficiency in the public administration,
through the implementation of modern human resource management systems
and procedures. It would also promote greater participation In planning and
managing the development process at the local level, and foster
accountability. It would increase the availability, and reduce the delays
encountered in the preparation and execution, of public investment projects
- Iii -



and increase efficiency in public resource use. Improve;. ent in investment
execution monitoring and in policy and Impact analysis would help the
Government in its efforts to reduce poverty. It would help remove, over
time, the constraints on sound economic management due to a weak
analytical base.
There is some risk that vested interests within the civil service will resist
reform measures as these impact on their entrenched ways of performing
their tasks, and may involve physical relocation of staff to municipal
governments. Given *he positive achievements of the Government to-date
in these fields, and strong grass-root support for decentralization, these risks
are not considered high. There Is a risk that the training of civil servants
and the retraining of voluntary departees from the civil service could be
slowed down by the limited capacity of local training institutions. This risk
is not considered insurmountable because the Government is, In parallel
with this project, embarking on a restructuring of vocationa education for
which it has requested IDA support through the proposed Basic Education
and Training Project. The implementation of the reform program may also
be slowed down by the limited capacity of the Government administration
to design the details of some of the necessary reforms and to monitor their
implementation. These risks are addressed through the strengthening of the
project's execution agencies and the appointment of a coordinator in the
Ministry of Economic Coordination. The Government has also shown a
capacity to monitor complex reforms under its ongoing public enterprise
restructuring program. Finally, implementation of the Government's civil
service retrenchment program (voluntary departure aspects), though not an
explicit part of the proposed project, could lose momentum if the added
strain on the private sector's already limited capacity to absorb new labor
force entrants results in higher unemployment and a political backlash. Ihis
risk will be minimized by an attractive incentive package that provides
monthly income payments for up to three years - just enough to meet
subsistence needs of retrenchees without discouraging them from looking for
a job - in addition to a lump sum distribution at the time of departure. The
Government has already made its budgetary allocations for the payments,
and key donors have expressed interest in providing funding, it the need
arises.
Ehxironfmental Risks:    No environmental risks are foreseen. The project basically involves the
financing of consultant services, office and commurncation equipment and
training. GOCV intends to engage advisory services under the project to
finalize the National Enviromnental Action Plan (NEAP).
Porerty Categorv:       Not applicable
fconi Rate of Return: Not applicable.
1F6tlmated EroJect      December 31, 1998
cgmpledon Date
Memorsndu n ot- Ihe     P. 6184-CV
Pkuident
- iv -



SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED EROCT -COMS
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
LocaJ   Forei   II
(US$ MUlion)
1. Reform and Modernize Civil Service                      0.41     0.30    0.71
2. Build Local Capacity to Participate ai d to Manage       0.25     1.75    2.00
(Municipal Strengthening)
3. Support and Strengthen Economic Management               0.25     1.65    1.90
4. Support Legal and Judicial Reforms and Modernize Justice  0.20    1.55    1.75
System
5. Support Public Procurement Reform                        0.08     0.26    0.34
6. Operations/Project Management                            0.54     0.30    0.84
7. PPF Refinancing                                           -       0.20    0.20
8. Contingencies:
- Physical                                               0.10     0.42    0.52
- Price                                                  0.13     0.52    0.65
TOTAL PROJECTS COSTS                                     1.96    6.95     8.91
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
Local        Poreign      Tot
Government:                     0.81           -          0.81
IDA:                             1.15        6.95          8.10
Estimated Credit Disbursements
(n US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year
____________ 1994       1995       1996        1997        1998        1999
Annual           0.2        1.8        2.3    I   2.5           0.8         0.5
Cumulative       0.2        2.0        4.3         6.8          7.6         8.1
- v-



IEPIBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REIOItM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
&TFF A12RUSIA R13PORT
L   lRODUCMD
A. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
1.1 Cape Verde consists of ten Islands
located 650 kilomets off the coast of Senegal,           = e                1           r
wih  a laud area of about 4,000 square
kilometer. Only nine ildands are populated    ,.~          ~oo   vtt~
with a resident population of about 400,000. a            3 i 
'The annual population growth rate averaged at
2.7 percent, or 1.5 percent per annum adjusted 
for emigration in the 1980s. Austere living   <         i
conditionsandli vedemploymentoppotuntes          g  
in CVpe Verde have traditlonaily induced an   a         io o                       _
outflow of Cape Verdeans to the Unite State,
Europe and continenal Africa wher  the    .                                        ...
emigrant community is now estimated at more 
ta 700,000 (Anmex 2). Nearly one tird of ;
the resident populaton is concentrated in Pta", 
the capital and Mindelo, the Industial city.
The country has a poor na    resource base.  3                             S         _
Lack of water rewourc  sverely coains
most economic actity, and is especially severe
in the urban centers: Mideo relies entirely on d
desalination, and Praia on ditat and dwindling
ground water sources. Although the country Is    *
self-sufficient in vegetables, fruit and some   
basic fostuffs, the limied agriculal land
available and meager and erratic ainlrelt t__
in a strong dependence on cereals imports 
provided as food aid.
1.2   Despite these  miations, the counry                                  
has acheved strng economic performance,  ,a6Y14urs
with an average red GDP growth of 6 percent _
per annum In the 1980s.   i peformce, 
however, deteriorated  In  1989-991, and                                          ..
intrna and oextena imbalances emerged. Mm  .:            ~O0t58Sa~a
previous Government's policy of assigning to         __
the public sector a key role in productive  ?$             
activies, which could have been performed                    _ 
more efficlentiy by the privato sector, proved
inceasingly inappropriate in recent years and
-1 -



reslted In low efficiency, poor financl_  resits, and high share by public enterprises In the overall extend
debt.
1.3   In 1988, the previous Govenment of Cape Verde recognized these shortcoming and adopted an
outward-looking developmet strategy. It failed, however, to filly implement this strategy. Ihe export-
crdented strategy In fact stood liltle chance of success given the failure to define more clearly an appropriate
goverment role in the economy In light of a changing world. A new Govemment took office in April 1991,
following its electio  in the first multi-party elecdons since independence on a platform of reform and
libelization of the economy. Cape Verde's quiet and remarkable political transition went largely unnoticed
in the International community because it coincided with the Gulf war. A first-order activity has been the
fiurher definition of the outward-looking development strategy, aimed at promoting a market economy, and
the undertakdng of a broad range of specific actions towards its implementation. A major priority i the
reform, rationalization and modnization of the public sector. Box 1 presents background on Cape Verde
in a snapshot.
B. MACRO-ECONOMUC CONTEXT AND POLICIES
1.4   Economic growth slowed to 3.7% per annum over 1989-1991 from 6% during the eighties, with
mounting inflationary pressures and intal and enal imbalances. Stagnation of the world economy has
been a factor together with the reduced fore'gn exchange earing capacity of iernationat airport and
maritime services, due to political uncertiies and decreasing international competitiveness. Rainfall deficits
also cubed agricultural output. Endogenous causes, however, strongly contributed to the economic recession.
Foremost among these were structural deficiencies resulting from the excessive reliance on public enterprises
to produce essentia goods ar services for a narrow domestic market. Emerging private initiatve was st;fled
by pervasive regulations, bureaucratic allocation of foreign exchange, and excessive protection of local labor.
Less than adequate investment planning and implementation might also have played a role, together with the
decreasing number of large investment projects which curtailed the inflow of foreign exchange. Above all,
the deterioron of economic performance stemmed from the poor economic and fincial performance of
public enterprises, resulting in lower contributions to budget revenues and increased deficits, escalation of
borrowing and internal and eal arrears, and pressing calls for Government financial help. The decline
of profitability was especially severe for public enterprises In key sectors of the economy: fishing, air and
maritime transport, petroleum import and ditbution, and agro-process,.
1.5   As early as 1986, the Government undertook to recast its economic policy which led to the adoption,
two years later, of the outwardlooking development strategy. The needed follow-up acton on designing new
procedures and enacting detailed legislation was somewhat overlooked during the long and intense political
campaign period that ended late in December 1991, with the election of regional assemblies and town
councils. The new Government confirmed the outward-looking strategy. Action is now being taken to
streamline public dm   on, reduce Government participation In public enteprises through restrcturing,
privatization, or lquidation, enrhance Govaernment capacity to design economic reforms, and integrate sector
priorides into growth-effective Investment plans.
1.6   The Government has itiated a parti transfer of responsibilities to local governing institutons.
Municipal and regional assemblies already enjoy limited power to legislate and raise revenues, but still derive
most of their resources from the Government budget. While there are several compelling arguments for
reditributig responsibilities and resources between the cental government and local authorities (see Section
B.4 below), the sheer distance and ocean waters separating Praia from the outlying islands - in some cases
an hour or more by air - and the rugged terrain of the islands, are reason alone for encouraging the process
of decentralization. If implemented prudently, this process will reWlt in more rapid, adaptive and efficient
responses to the needs of the far flung cizenry, who wiD have better access to decision makers and a
stronger voice in the design and implementation of programs and projects that respond to basic needs. Ihere
-2-



are however potential pitfalls: (I) rerc'rce wit be inefficinty used if administrative, technical and finci
capabilities are not developed at the regional and Township levels; and (ii) mechanisms need to be set up to
ensure resources are allocated in accordance with sound a;tional priorities, transparent formule and equity,
rather than the political clout of local leasd.  Some work remains to be done In streamlining the
decentralization process including some Arter detailing fo trsferrig responsibilities.
1.7   The Government has put a premium on developing a competitive private sector. The prvae  sector
is not yet well-organized ad will require substanti assistance In developing export markets. Much local
attention is currenty focused on the potential response of foreign investors both to the privatzation of some
public enteprises and to the expansion of key sectors like tourism, fisheries, bang, and export processing.
Joint venture with locai investors could catalyze and strengthen the domestc priva sector, ad options of
this kind are encouraged. Of paramount Importance in the global competition for foreign nvestment is the
modernization of national Infastructure. Cape Verde has inadequate transport, telecommunicains, water
supply, and electricity networks. Removal of many infrastructure bottlenecks is an essential condition for
developing international comparative advantages and improving local standards of living. The 1992 recut
budget, of which two-thirds is plowed into infrstcture and social services (36% and 27% respecIvely),
is evidence of Government's shifting role from direct intervention in production to provision of basic services
and facilitator of private investment and economic growth.
1.8   The Government's stratg (Pat I.D) confronts squarely Cape Verde's skewed ecommy, in whic
export earnings for example, cover only 5% of import needs and it builds on Cape Verde's stability and its
leaders' determination and commitment to the econoic Strategy, one trly -owned- by them. There are real
prospects in building on Cape Verde's service traditon, and on its relatively educated population with stMg
lihn overseas. Tourism tor instance, offers interesting possibilities, when seen In light of the contrast
between the Canary Islands and Cape Verde: 6 million versus 30,000 arrivals in 1991. Fishery Is another
potnidal growth industry - the country disposes of (630,000 sq. km of territorial waters) - but a clear
strategy there is not yet on the horizon.
C. PROSPECTS FOR GROWTH
1.9   In the medium term (1994-1996), asuming sustained application of reforms, includg those in public
sector management, economic growth is projected to average 5.5% a year in real terms. Public investment
would provide the main engine of growth in the short term, wbhe over time the share of export-oriented
activites would increase moderately. Specifically, growth is expected to come from: (i) investments In
infrructure, modernizationof telecommunications, housing and water supply and sewerage systems in urban
areas; i) moderate private investment in fisheries, tourism, services (including banking and teleports), and
light manufg for export; (ii) higher agricultural output provided rainfall is adequate; (lv) contmous
growth in private housing construction and in commerce; and (v) growth in services to international air and
maritme transport, including transhipment. Given the key role that public investment will play, planning
and implementation of the public investment program (PIP) need to be stegthened, and harnessed much
more effectively as an effective insm  for aid coordination.
1.10   Eternal debt servicing was not a major Issue until recently. The extal arrears that acumulated
in 1989 and 1990 resulted from deferred negotiations with two major donors on rescheduling debt service,
and from failure of some public enterises to service their debt. lbe arrears have been rescheduled and
payments have resumed. Ihe debt service ratio averaged about 11% over 19861990 and is projected to
remain unchanged due to a continuous high share of concessional lending. The improvement of aid
cordinadon is essenti for effective mobilization of extrnal resources toward priority uses, in support of
the outward-looking economic development strategy.
- 3-



1.11  With high unemployment (about 25%) and underemployment, and 3,000 young adults entering the
job market each year, high growth and labor-intensive strategies are a must. Poor job infornation and
employer-employee matchmaking services, and the slow down in public works progrms, ar also sning
the labor market's absorptve capacity. These underlying trends will challenge the Govenmens bold
privatization plans, for virually all 22 wholly-owned and 12 mixed enterprises, employing about 6,400 people
as well as its plans for a reduction in the civil service workforce by about 1,700 persons.
n1.    THE M=Ll sEro
A. CHARACTERISTCS OF THE PUBLIC SECrOR
1.    Overview
2.1   In Cape Verde, the two pillars of the public sector, central and local govermnt, and the public
enterprises together they employ more than 19,000 people. The country's public sector has managed the
economy, developed infrastructure, provided social services and established and managed public sector
entrapises for power, water and telecommunications utilities, and for light manufacturing, ship building, food
production and processing, and maritime and air transport. It has played a dominant role in the eonomy of
Cape Verde, pady because the private sector was small bnd lacking i entre u   capacity and capital
or assets for borrowing. Ihe sheer depth and breath of the public sector's interventions in economic, fiscal,
production and social development activities produced a numerically large public administion and 36 public
eterpises.
2.2    Consistent with the Government's efforts to roll back its role in the economy, It has embarked on a
far-reaching - and thus far successful - public enterprise restructuing program, a process whih IDA is
assting. Facts and figures on the public enterprise sector are in Annex 3. Streamining, moderizing, an d
srengthening the capacity of the public sector proper' is a central objective of GOCV and would be cruci
for the success of its economic reform program. For an in-depth discussion of the public sector, see Annexes
3 through 6. The discussion that follows oudines the stucture and organization of public administation and
sketches the proffle of the Civil Service.
2.    Structure and Orgnization of Public Admhinstration Sector
2.3   Im.u for Reform  Public adminstmon in Cape Verde has a long history. t is wellorgnized
and established, dedicated and respected but lacks proper facilities and equipment, and efective procedures
and practices for modern management and human resources development. Its capacity for policy-ming and
impact analysis is also weak. Unlike the case of many other Sub-Saharan Afiican counties, the impetus for
reform is not fiscal pressure. Ihis represents a special opportunity to retool the Civil Servie with more
modern instruments of human resource management, which will enable it to fillfili a new service-oriented
mission in support of the State as facilitator rather than manager of economic growth. Cost-ontainmt in
Cape Verde is not an end in itself, which could undermine capacity-building, but an abiding concern in the
larger effort to raise efficiency and pay for a more adaptive and skilled Civil Servce.
2.4   Strucbre. Ihe central government apparatus comprises 13 ministies and the Office of the Prime
Minister, which includes the department for youth and social promotion, the Agency for Promotion of
' Henceforth in this report, the terms public sector", -public sector proper', and -public
administraon sector are used interchangeably to dencte the Goverment (cental and local) and direct
adminitratons. When public enterprises are included, this would be so indicated. Otherwise, the
references would be to the 'public enterprise sector.'
.4-



xpors (PROMX) and tie Ministry of Defence (and its amed forces of 125 strog). At the local levd,
ere are 15 mipalies supervised by the Mimistry of 1ntna Affairs. To respond more effectively to
the changing economic and social situation in the country, the structure of the Government was realined in
March 1993. The Ministers of Justice and Labor, and Finance and Planning, were elevated to the rank of
Minsters of State, with the latter assuming responsibility for a new Ministry of Economic Coordination
(MEC). Finance became a separate ministry.
2.5  OQ animg. The organizational scture of the 13 mistries is similar and typically Acludes the
Cabinet of the Minister and a Secretary of State (in five Ministries) who oversees the work of the Ministy.
'Me Secretary of State is assisted by one or more Director(s) General in charge of departents, and by
Directors who manage units. Most ministries have departments of studies and research, or planning, to
coordinate and carry out analytical work. Each ministry, except Economic Coordination, has a Director of
Administrative Services, heading up a department responsible for personnel management, fiace, fadiities
and procurement.
3.    Profile of the Civil Service
2.6   In 1992, the total wage bill of the public administration amounted to 52 percent of total recurt
expenditures. Ihis is not high when compared to many countries of the region (except The Gambia) and
esewhere.
2.7   EmplomentTrends. The size of the Civil Service in Cape Verde remained fairly stable from 1975
to 1985, growing from 6,800 to 7,800 persons during the period, or by slightly less than 15 percent. In the
five years between 1985 and 1990, however, it increased rapidly from 7,800 to 11,300 employees, or by
almost half. During this five-year period, the highest rate of growth took place in the last two years (1988-
90). On a yearly basis, between 1975 and 1985, employment in the civil service expanded at an average rate
of less than 2% per annum, much slower than economic growth (6%) and population growth (2.7%). In the
following five years (1985-1990) this employment grew by 9% a year-about 1.5 times the GDP growth rate.
Further details are in Annex 4-B, Charts 1 and 2. Most of the increase took place before the first multi-party
elections.
2.8   Pending a thorough assessment of the impact of its policy on Public Administran, and a better
uderstnding of the strengths and weaknesses of the civil service, the new Government, in 1992, froze all
new recruitment, except for professional-level staff on a selective basis. In a second phase, the goverment
inends to selectively bring down the size of the civil service, and improve the adequacy of its personnel in
line with the new role of the State. Between 1990 and 1993, the size of the civil service acaly slighldy
decreased from 11,300 to 11,172 through a combination of natural attrition and freeze in the recritment of
almost all categories of personnel and, in particular, the lower level and unskilled. A classification of civi
servants by category is in Annexes 3 and 4.
2.9   Pay and Expenditure Trenhds. Unlike the patten found in many Sub-Saharan African countries, real
wages have kept pace with inflation, and the pay structure has become somewhat less compressed. In Janay
1989, with the amnua consumer price index rising 4.4 percent over the previous twelve months, the
Govenment graed  a 17 percent across-the-board pay increase for all but highlevel managers, whose
salaries were increased by 17 percent to 28 percent. This was followed by another 17 percent increase in
1991, and a further adjustment in 1992 owing to a regrading exercise. Whereas the before-tax ratio of the
base pay of amanager in Grade A to that of an unskilled worker in Grade U was 4.1:1 in 1987, that ratio
had Improved to 5.1:1 by 1992 (MF, 1993). If the salaries of directors-general are included, the
compression ratio stands at about 7.1:1. Positions are graded and paid on the basis of well-defined points
for job content and responsibility, and the salary structure, published for all to see in the Official Gazette,
Is free from the distortions of excessive fringe benefits.
- 5-



2.10   The sie of the civil service wage bill is less an issue than the share of budgetary resources allocated
to the facilities, equipment and other goods and services civil servants need to be productive. Pay increases,
combined with the rapid rise in employment of unskilled workers in the run-up to the multi-party elections,
contibuted to a rising wage bill, which represented 52 percent of recurrent expenditures in 1992 and 7.5 per
of GDP, compared to 44 percent in 1988. The increase in the wage bi1l as a share of recurrent expenditure
has been offset largely by decreases in the share of transfers to public enterprises and local government, and
inrest payments. At the same time, outlays on goods and services have not improved much, falling as a
share of recurrent expenditure from 7.4 percent in 1988 to 6.3 percent in 1992, although they are expected
to rise again to 7.5 percent In 1993 
2.11   Oualificatton Profile. Of the 11,172 civil service employees, 3,355 persons, or one-third of the total
(43 percent if teachers are excluded), were office and service employees of low professional qualification.
A high proportion of those are in the "servente" category (i.e. cleaners, office messengers, and such) which,
by itself, groups more than 10 percent of all civil service employees. Another 737 persons, or 6.5 percent
(10 percent if excluding teachers) were blue-collar workers. Excluding the Ministry of Education, only 1,625
civil servants, or 13 percent of the total (20 percent excluding teachers) were in civil service grades requiring
a level of education of high school or above.
2.12   Of the 5,507 recruitment in the last five years, 1691 persons, or 30 percent of the total, were blue-
and whie-collar workers of the lowest civil service classification. Another 2,508 persons, or 45 percen,
were integrated in the civil service as teachers, but close to half that number in the classification open to those
possessing only the lowest minimum qualification required to teach at primary school level. Only 670 of the
new civil servants, or 12 percent, belonged to the various classification of the civil service requiring a
minimum of high school-level education.
2.13   As a consequence, the recent increase of Its size actually contributed to decrease the average level
of qualification of public servants, just when the new economic policy of the government will require a
significant improvement in professionalism, both in technical and managerial terms, of the civil service. The
level of education of public servants is shown in Table 1 below:
Table 1
LEVEL OF  IWATIOU OF PUEIC S£RVAMTS                  Ni.ber               Percmitage
__ _______________________________________________ma oava tlable  data
Go more than basic literacy                                            65             0.59X
' to 5 years Primary                                                 3,199            29.02X
6 v. Prtmary to 1 Y. Secondary (7 years of schooling)                4.010            36.38X
2 to 4 years Secondary (t to 12 years of schooling)                  1.253            11.37X
5 years Secondary (11 years of schooling)                             943             8.56X
Comleton of Nfgh Schoot (12 years of schooling)                        169            1.53X
|8achelor's degree                                                     657             5.96X
Iester's degree or above                                               25             0.23X
Techntcal & Professional Education (Less than 12 years of             701             6.36X
schooling)             -
Data uravaIlable                                                      150
GMA  TOTAL                                                          11,172           100.001
8e_ Mklty of Pub& AdMOUon. Cope VOids.
-6 -



2.14 &ge Djstution. The civil service of Cape Verde is young. Two thousand and fifty (2,050) people,
or 29 percent of those for which age data is available, are of less than 29 yeas of age. Another 3,060, or
43 percent, are of between 30 and 39 years of age. Although the mandatory retirement age in Cape Verde
is 65 years (with an option to retire at 60 years of age for those with 34 years in the civil service), 46 persons
of over 70 years of age were still employed by the civil service in March 1993, either because they occupied
an essenti position for which no qualified replacement could yet be found and hired, or because they
belonged to one of the lowest income categories and their contract was renewed at their own request.
Annex 4 provides a detailed breakdown of the age profile of civil servants.
2.15  Qender Di. Women and men are more or less equally represented in the Public
Administration in Cape Verde, with respectively 46 and 54 percent of the total civil servants. While women
are under-represented in, or totally absent from, cerain grades, this does not reflect a deliberate
discriminatory policy but rather the nature of the jobs associated with the grade (blue-collar for instance).
Further, an analysis by grade shows that Cape Verde Is fairly advanced by any standard in promoting women
to managerial positions. Women account for slighdy less than 50 percent of the middle management position
('Technico"), 25 percent of the top civil servants ("Dirigente*) and 50 percent of the Cabinet positions ("De
Quadro Especial"). (See Chart 6 in Annex 4-B).
B. MAJOR ISSUES IN PUBLIC SECTOR PERFORMANCE
1.    Institutional Environment for Civil Service Reforms
2.16 Evidence from Africa and other regions shows that technical interventions to improve the efficiency
and effectiveness of public administration fail outright, or produce meager and unsustainable results, when
undertaken in a non-conducive environment. Of paramount importance is the governance system (i.e., role
of the State vis-a-vis the civil society, rule of law, accountability), as it impacts (i) on the performance of the
bureaucracy in the design and implementation of effective economic and social development policies, and (ii)
on its commitment to deliver a high level of quality in public service. The environment for civil service
reform in Cape Verde was thoroughly assessed (see Annex 4) and the results point conclusively to an
auspicious environment for the implementation of reforms of a technical nature that would improve the
operation of Cape Verde's public administration. The assessment found that on-the-job training, and a more
flexible and dynamic human resource management system, were two areas of improvement most likely to
yield significant results in the short and long term.
2.    Modernization of Human Resource Management
2.17 The system and techniques of public personnel management in Cape Verde are fairly advanced by
Sub-Saharan Africa standards. Nevertheless, they are essentily instruments of control, better suited to
administring  and moitoring compliance with rules and procedures than to developing, managing and
deploying human resources efficiently and productively. To achieve a better fit with the State's human
resource needs, the modernization of human resource management in the Civil Service is now high on the
reform agenda: the creation of a framework for private-sector-led growth and investment, the making of
sound public investments in infrastructure (with private partners where possible), and the cost- and quality-
conscious delivery of basic service; all require significant changes in the ways public personnel are managed.
2.18  Several of these choges have already been made over the past two years (see Box 2). In a signal
of the premium the Government puts on human resource management, this function, previously handled by
a Secretary of State, was upgraded to cabinet rank, with the creation of a Amiistry of Public Adminison.
A computerized personnel information system, linked to the payroll system in the Ministry of Finance, was
greatly improved. Two decrees issued in July 1992 substantiaUy revised the basic rules of civil service
- 7-



employment, making them simpler, more flexible and transparent (Decreto-Lel No. 86/92 and 87192, July
16, 1992). The pay, classification and grading system was revamped, with fewer classification categories
and some decompression of the pay stucture. An examination system regulating between-rade promotions
was introduced. Recruitment rules and career streams for technical, administrative and managerial staff were
clearly specified, and new mechanisms to promote horizontal and vertical mobiliby of persomel were
developed. Notwithstanding these Impressive changes, much remains to be done. Recruitment and training,
and organizational planning and career management, need to be strengthened to attract and retain a sufficient
pool of qualified personnel, and to manage and deploy more efficiently existing human resources.
VEtwg                        __p_ of OEC govemments who are                 d tht pa 4*4" 
' Jsnqi t k#  h ~iloatle~er,tiui orfIydle  wc.  t1 WIPOWWIng Idar. fro
w~~~#ww&  O me"'tse1 .                                      PemIctly
2.19 Organization Plannine. Ihe organization chart and description of roles and responsibslittes of all
Mini    and Government Agencies, and their constituent units, are pubished in the Officnt louanal when
a modification occurs. The Miistry of Public Administration mainta   a proper record of all the various
'cadre organiques'. However, graphical organization chatns documenting all the positions, their budget
er, and the inctumbent, are not systematically available. Neither the internal structure, adr the se.ffin
levls, of the Ministries and Goverment Agencies appear to be based on a thorough assessment of their past
or emerg*g needs, supported by a well-defined methodoloU   and by standards of comparison in such areas
as productivity meas     s spans of codtrol, ratio of admirative personnel to direct providers of
services, or doumentaidon of qualificaton profga es for the positionsu
2.20   M#d   pOltion. Job descriptions of all the job categories existing in the civil service have been
p ared and are regulaly updated, when required. It is clear, however, th  these documents are piearepd
for the prmpose of grading jobs.    their present form, they cannot properly support a human resrce
mat   system. If they document, in broad and generic terms, the roles and responsiblities of each job
- 8 -



category thiey do not provide any detail which is position-specific. Further, the qualiifcation profile attached
to each job description does not go beyond mentioning the minimum level of education required to belong
to a specific job category. It does not document the personal abilities, specialized training, Or type of
experience, suited to thie various positions.
2.21   Peoe  adZin Personnel evaluation of a sort is reguarly and transparenty conducted in the
civil service. Standard evaluation forms including well documented criteria are used, and the results are made
aailable to the evaluee, who has a right to appeal to the level immediately above his/her supervisor in case
of disagreement. A mininmum Ievel of performance, as reported in the evaluation system, is required for
promotion to a higher step within the same grade. Promotion from one grade to another rests on the results
of standard tests administeredt within each Ministry. The present evaluation system, however, is primarily
designed to assess work attitudes (e.g., discipline and assiduity), rather thian results achieved, and the
strengths and weakonesses of a particular incumbent in a given position. As a result, it does not provide the
kind of infionmation required for career planning and the identification of individual training needs.
F.oinance-need strwengthein and the means zt~o  operaten effcietly  at,Ae  ovrmnhareiedse
to b desred  Th prole ies iwi  ifi less *OIsacoz  coordinatiOon  amon doos and pkartty ..
the choie of tetnia asitne design4 o~fra~ the94&$ tem  o  efrnc,an  uerviinoqatvte.    ebi
to  suplydrien mappo ach, ill-sui.tedton lroa c~aapacty buildin. On oxetonpto ths diorecorvad is 
e  u*    admtia  aai od solipono collectedIl            an  rcesdb the    difeenmnilre
g~~~~~~~



and agencies is often not shared with the General Directorate of Statistics. A mechanism to ensure continuous
flow of information is lacking. The institutional framework for managing statistics needs restructing and
streamlining and, the mountain of backlog of statistical work needs to be organized and processed. Among
other things, actions are required to: (i) restructure the statistics department to provide it greater auttomy
so that it can, among other things, attract and retain qualified staff and take decisions quicldy; (ii) organize
and publish statistics regularly; (iii) build up operational statistics in such areas as commerce, housing,
employment, etc.; (iv) review the basis and methodology of the national accounts given the implications for
the level and condition of external assistance; (v) develop demographic and social statistics; and (vi) train
statistics and other government staff.
2.24 Plpming and Conununications. In the area of economic planning, the systems for investment analysis
and planning, macro-economic modelling and forecasting need to be strengthened. The weaknesses are quite
evident in existing documents such as the National Development Plan and the Public Investment Program
(PIP). The capacity to make policy is also hampered by communications weaknesses at two levels: intra-
governmental and between the government and the public at large. At the intra-governmental level, rapid
communications are of essence in a fast changing world. They can be accelerated in two ways: electronic
communications of information among key personnel in the government; and the development of a shared
data base among ministries that would ensure consistency and rapid flows of data across Government. The
development of a shared data base will be a long and painstaking activity, but well worth the effort. As for
improved communications between government and society, with the aim of increasing participation of society
at large in decision-making, the issues are discussed in Sections I (C) and (D) below.
4.    Municipal DevelopmentlLocl Government Capacity
2.25   Cape Verde's decentralization efforts are consistent with its overall economic reform program. An
important feature of that broader policy framework are principles concerning the changing roles and
responsibilities of the Government and the expanding role of the private sector, both in the sense of private
commercial entrepreneurship and voluntary community initiatives. This requires the public sector to limit
and reorient its role to: (i) establishing appropriate policies and regulations for the efficient and effective
operation of market mechanisms; (ii) developing human resources; and (iii) facilitating the construction and
miaintenance of appropriate physical infrastructure and facilitating the provision of appropriate (i.e. demand-
driven and quality) services. Cape Verde's decentralization policy is a key element of this new approach.
Its objectives are essentially four-fold: (i) to facilitate access of all Cape Verdeans to political and economic
decision-makers; (ii) to increase direct popular participation and control in the design and implementation of
programs that meet basic needs (e.g., health and sanitation, urban infrastructure, and socW services); (iii)
to deploy resources more efficiently, through a better distribution of tasks between central and local
governments, and facilitation of local private provision of public services; and (iv) to improve manageria and
administrative efficiency by developing the capacity to respond more rapidly and flexibly to unique
circumstances of local communities.
2.26 Following the Presidential and Legislative elections of 1990, the Government enacted Decree-Law
n° 52-A/90 of July 4, 1990 (Legislaao Autirquica). which built upon the framework for decentralization
defined in the Municipal Basic Law passed in 1989 (Law n° 47A/189), but never actually implemented.
Democratic municipal elections were then held for the first time since independence on December 15, 1991.
The elections created Municipal Assemblies (Assembleia Municipal) as the legislative branch of local
government, and Municipal Council (Clmara Municipal) headed by a Mayor (Presidente da Chmara
Municipal), as the executive branch of local government. The whole process elicited an enthusiastic response
from the population.
2.27   Since the elections, the Mayors and Assemblies have risen to the challenge of providing the local
population with a decent array of services with only limited revenues, and critIcal shortages of skilled
- 10-



persoe and equipment. However, expectations for the delivery of a wider range, of higher quaity services
to the local population are rising. The resources of the nmnicipalities (Box 4), as well as their managemet
capabilities, urgendy need to be improved to ensure the success of Cape Verde's pursuit of grass-roots
pardcipatory democracy.
2.28  While Decree-Law 52-A/90 establishes the legal basis for decentralization, the actual transfer of
responsibilities and powers from the central government needs to be phased in gradually to ensure an orderly
and effective process, with due regard to the gradual build-up of the fincial, human and managerial capacity
of the Municipalities to face their new responsibilities. In particular, building up their capacity to employ
sound economic and financial criteria in the selection and implementation of activities, and the management
and control of revenues and expenditures, will require time and signfficant investmerts in training, tehnical
assistance and equipment. On behalf of the GOCV, the Ministry of Internal Administration (MIA) is charged
with assisting the local and central government units with the organization and transfer of functions and
resources from decentralized agencies of central Ministries to the Municipalities. It is also responsible for
monitoring the timely implementation of decentralization.
g i  ~~~~~~~~~~"
-~~~~~~~~~~~~                 11 -
R. ~  ~     ~     A
-                          *.:JER M



S.    Legal and Judidal Context
(a)    Legislative Texts
2.29  Cmmerciat Code. Inherited from the Portuguese colonial era, the Commercial Code dates back to
the 19th century. By all accounts, it is totally outdated and ill-suited to serve the needs of modern-day
business activities. The law governing companies is also contained in the Code and has hardly evolved during
the past cent. Ihe Code needs to be revised as a matter of urgency; so do the procedures that it embodies
with regard to the establishent of companies.
2.30  Labor L&Wslgha1jw   Labor legislation is of more recent origin but, like the Commercial Code, it Is
considered to be outdated. It was conceived in an era when concer for workers' rights far outweighed any
desire for growth and development. Like the Commercial Code, the existing labor legislation is regarded
as a potential obstacle to development. The legislation as a whole is complex and ill-understood; so are the
provisions thereof which relate to dismissal and severance pay. An intermediate revision of the Code has
recendy been concluded. The reform has removed unduly restrictive provisions governing such mate  as
fixed-term contracts and part-dme employment.
Po m-m  I !    i ' S '   m'S'-
2.31  Onither Lganti~ove~. P-tvas*ons.A munbper ofre other .nWtivde ter avee-we a .lso been ci mted asosbed
obde t gowh nddeelpmntgq          ee  arethe~'  Codme of Civtil Procedurpae, andte egis*at4o govemifa ng
0 ! 3a M~da~t  wsi~~tf haM  .t-1
- *! i~ ta g. it t                                   IO**fj44Q                 
dg .9                                       7   mm
|g~~~~~~~~~~~~,     ,   i   l  ,
S,,     IM ,.4Sedwa' nUo ', uvSi  Aw,.S.*:ffl=sN2+ggs">a -    tSo ea;ff:f wiw _off
mebsewl to  olv man dvlpe nta.1. lhese arenm Vfie Code of Civi Prwedumrn e,and  eisltio govenin
-~~~~~~  12-



notaa acts, and the companies' and property registes, all of which are considered as iportant tDoob of
economic development. The Code of Civil Procedure is relatively old and outdated, as are the procedures
that it precribes. The legislative provisions govening notarlal acts, as well as those relating to the
companies' and propert registers, are unduly complex and rigid, and have the effect of delaying and
complicating commercial and business transactions.
(b)    Ilentiidopn
2.32   The Ministry of Justice shares responsibility for administeing the justice system  with the
Procrador-GeraI, or PG's Office, and the tribunals. The Ministry of Justice consists of four main
Directorates, including one Directorate which is responsible for studies, legislative drafting, documentation
and information (DGELDI) and another which is responsible for notarial services and companies, property
and other registries (DGRNI). The other two Directorates, which are responsible for judicial affairs and
prison services, respectively, are not relevant for present purposes and are not discussed any fiurher herein.
2.33   DGELDI. DGELDI has overall responsibility to underae legal reform, and to provide advice and
guidance generally to all other ministries on legislative proposals. In practice, for lack of adequate capacity,
it has never been in a position to perform this role. It is currently headed by a Director-General, who is
assisted by a couple of junior lawyers, neither of whom has any particular expertise in the legislative drafting
process, for which DGELDI was created in the first place.
2.34   Most of the legal officers of the Ministry of Justice are degee-holders, without post-graduate
professional qualifications. Accordigly, their status Is somewhat lower than that of magistrates; so ^re their
wages and benefts. Due to budgetary constraints, they operate in tight and difficult conditions. They are
poorly paid and in-equipped to perform the critical responsibilities that are vested in them. Thus, it has
proved more and more difficult to retain staff in the Directorate on a regular basis. Most of them simply
leave for better and more lucrative opportunities or continue only on a part-ime or consultancy basis.
2.35   DORMI. The DGRNI has exclusive responsibility for providing notarial services to the public at
large. It authenticates business traons, including those relating to the incorporation of companies. The
Directorate doubles up as the companies' and property register. It is also responsible for civil status acts and
for the provision of personal identification cards.
2.36   Because DGRNI performs all its services manually, it consutes a major bottleneck for business
transactions. Nothtanding the brave atempts by Its personnel to expedite the processing of transactions,
unavoidably, there are delays both in the provision of notadal services and in the subsequent process of
registration. Irrespective of any attempt to streamline the process of establishment of companies, there is a
clear need to computerize the system and, thereby, achieve substantial gains in the processing time for
business activities.
2.37 Tribunals. Tne courts' system consists of an appellate jurisdicion and a jurisdiction of first instance.
The Supreme Court exercises appellate jurisdiction, whilst first instance jurisdiction belongs by and large to
the regional and sub-regionra courts. In Praa, as in Sao Vicente and Santa Catarina, there are separate
judges for civil and cdmia cases. In all other courts of first instance, the same judge is competent to hear
and dispose of all cases, civil and criminal alike. There is presenty no speciaized jurisdiction for
commercial or industrial cases.
2.38   Judges as a rle are not properly trained, particularly for commercial and business law cases. Ihey
are poorly paid and generally iU-equipped to perform their functions. Like other Government employees,
they have experienced the harsh realities of budget cuts. Although their conditions are marginally better than
- 13-



those of legal officers of the Ministry of Justice, many continue to leave for the bar and other more lucrative
oppormuities.
6.     Management of Public Assets and Public Procurement
2.39   A recent review comraissioned by the GOCV found that the basic legislation govening public
procurement and the system for the acquisition of goods and services by various public organizations, are
long overdue for rationalization and streamlining. The problems can be grouped into three broad areas:
legislation, skills training, and functioning of the system. Tne legislation governing the procurement system
is out of date in some areas and increasingly unsuited to Cape Verde's curent realities. The system includes
nine principal laws, one dating back to 1901 (Royal Order), another to 1932 and so on. The last of the laws
dates back to 1977. Several factors have complicated the application of these laws by the purchasing
departments, namely: (i) the fragmented nature of the regulations governing procurement and inadequate
knowledge or even total ignorance of them by a considerable number of officials who should be applying
them; (Ii) threshoads in terms of amounts for contracts, for which signature of very senior officials is
required, have become quite derisory; (iii) the authorities or decision-making bodies referred to in the laws
have completely changed (with independence, etc); (iv) there are omissions in important areas that are
covered by modern legislation, relating to the new requirements imposed by the nature of the modern
equipment that the public administration is now using; and (v) procedures are excessively bureaucratic and
completely out of line with the momentum of the economic changes in recent years.
2.40  The General Directorates of Administration in various ministries purchase the goods and services
required for their departmental operations. The General Directorate of the Budget in the Ministry of Finance
verifies the legality of the expenditure and its conformity with budget rules. Specifically, its task is to check,
sete and authorize payment and to record it in the accounts of the State. In reality, though, the principle
of competition is not scrupulously observed. Tk3 general practice is simply to seek a quotation from the
market, without any recourse to procedures that would ensure a transparent process and give the State, as
purchaser, the benefits of competition. There is also no effective central planning, rationalization or
coordination of government purchases, although significant benefits could be obtained from centralization and
grouping of some acquisitions into lots, and from better departmental coordination. The potential gains are
not insignificant in the 1993 budget year, with reference only to outlays contained in the operating budget,
expenditure on goods and services is projected at US$7 million.
C. CONSTRAINTS AND OPPORTUNlTlES IN THE
MODERNIZATION OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR
1.    Introduction
A.41 The reform of the public sector will be challenging: There are three potential constraints that conld
slow down implementation: (i) resistance of the civil servants to change their entrenched ways of working;
(ii) insufficient capacity of local institutions to train civil servants to improve their skills; and (iii) inadequate
coordination in implementing the reform. At the same time, there are several opportunities present in the
country that make success likely. First, the need for reform has been debated extensively and intensively in
parliament and at the polls. ITere is a strong sense of purpose and agreement among the key actors in the
Government and Parliament that the reform must be effectively implemented. Both the public and private
press have opened a wide discussion about various aspects of the reform which is helping to shape public
opinion in a constructive and positive way. Third, there is a strong feeling in the municipalities that greater
autonomy in fiscal and financial affairs will be good for the people and for the economic development of the
different regions of the country. FinaRly, the Government has not shied away from implementing tough
reorm measures: public enterprise restructuring; stabilization of public finances; imposing for the first time
income taxes on civil servants.
- 14-



2.    Constraints
2.42   Resistance to Change. Generally speaking, civil servants are sfill in a reflective mood, digesting and
discussing changes the reforms may bring to work practices. This discussion is taking place in the context
of the longstanding tradition and good reputation of the civil service. Nevertheless, cvil servants are well
organized and have active unions to represent their interest. It is therefore possible that the civil service as
a whole or in groups may decide to resist the reform.
2.43   At this time, however, the general consensus view in Govemment and among higher-level civil
servants is that the majority of civil servants will not resist the reform or attempt to block it in an organizeC
way. The reason for this assumption is that civil servants of Cape Verde have a special sense of duty and
esprit de corps* that stiffen their will to face difficult times and make the best of them. Also, the public
debate that is going on has helped to clarify the necessity of the reform and has convinced most civil servants
that implementation will be transparent and fair. Moreover, Cape Verdean society has in the past been very
receptive to modernizadon, which is the centerpiece of the reform, and recognized that there is a "price to
pay' for modernizing the public sector. Finally, the majority of the civil servants know that they wi1l be
given choices to stay, transfer or leave the services. Ihey know that they will get training and possibly new
tools such as computers which will improve their capacity and may make their work easier and more
interesting.
2.44   Limited Capacity for Training. One of the premises of the reform program is that the capacity of
civil servants can be improved through a systematic, targeted, demanddriven training program linked to
improved systems for management of human resources (career development, promotions, salaries, etc). Ite
Government has prepared a training program for the core staff of each of the thirteen ministries, specifically
targeted at creating the skills required by the managers, supervisors and administrative staff. An estimwated
800 civil servants are proposed to be trained over a four year period. The program has been appraised and
the evaluation suggests that: (a) if a number of the existing centers can be strengthened; (b) the private
(proprietary) training centers can be utilized to execute some of the training; and (c) the Government would
agree to extend incentives to civil servants who enroll in training, then the effort to Improve capacity through
rainig is likely to succeed. The Government has taken measures to meet these conditions.
2.45 Coordinating Capacity. The reform program is comprehensive, it includes many agencies of the
Government, all the municipalities, the judiciary and the press. The Government has proposed a simple
system for the implementation and coordination of the reforms supported by the project where the Ministry
of Economic Coordination (MEC) would establish a coordinating unit and each affected agency would have
a small task force responsible for implementation of its respective component. The unit at MEC would
coordinate with the task frces in a regular and systematic mane through bi-weeldy meetings and special
reviews if necessary. This system for coordination and implementation would be adequate if the various
agencies have suitable tools, such as computer-based planning and monitoring programs available and the staff
will have been trained to use such software effectively. Adequate software is now available and provisions
will be made in the project for the introduction of this monitoring 8-,ftware. In addition, a high-level advisory
Board has been established to oversee the pace and direction of reform implementation.
3.    Opportunities
2.46 Public MMpprt. The timing and environment for the reform is opportune. The Government has
launched a steady campaign of informing the people of impending changes that are necessary to address the
difficult economic and social issues facing the county. Support for the ideas have been tested at the polls
in recent elections. The public debate about the Government's program has reached the point where
constiuencies are now asking for actions and results at speeds th  may be unrealistic. One of the first
actions the Government has embarked upon is the privatiaon of public enterprises. Despite some painfol
- 15-



short-term consequences such as the possible retrenchment of managers and workers, the general public has
accepted the need for the privadzation program. The reform of the public sector proper, is a logical
complement to the privatization program and the decision of the Goverment to go ahead with it at thi tm
is opportune and is already receiving the support of the general public. The reform program includes a
number of measures that respond to the demand of Leveral constltuentgroups (i.e., local business community,
municipalities, journalists, core staff In civil service and NGOs) in the country. In particuar, there is the
strong sUpport for the municipal development proposals, for the press renewal program and for the suggested
Improvements of the legal and judicial environment.
2.47  Building the Capact  he Press. The proposed assistance to the press is responding to the demand
of journaists and readers for better information and more openness and accountability by government. The
press Is struggling with very old, obsolete equipment and primitive facilities but has found a willing audience.
People are willing and ready to pa; for newspapers and the press in general is keen to work to improve their
services. The window of opportunity to respond to this demand is now open but journaists and readers will
lose interest and become disillusioned and dissatisfied if the Govermnent does not deliver the promised
support.
2.48   SuM= ftm Business. Finally, the business community is increasingly ready to play a larger role
in the country but feels handicapped by the archaic business law system inherited from Portugal. They
applaud the initiative by the Government to review the legal environment for business and are ready to work
with the legal professionals and the courts to simplify the system. Cape Verde is fortunte in that it has a
pool of well educated law professionals although their experience and experdse in business law is limited.
I the Government succeeds to mobilize the legal specialists, and finds a way to systematicaUy consult with
a broad section of the business and legal communities (as it is now doing) then the -. Ann process will be
implemented quickly and effectively.
D. GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY AND REFORM EFFORTS
2.49   Overall Strate   . Government's overall economic reform program is aimed at rnforming the
economy from a public sector-dominated to an outward-looking economy, in which private investments in
telecommunications, transhipment, tourism, offshore banking, and light manufacuring for exports, are
expected to gradually increase and eventually lead economic growth. The Government's strategy postulates
fundamental shifts in policies and institutions and confronts squarely Cape Verde's extreme resource poverty
and skewed economy. It builds on Cape Verde's stability and is underpinned by a program truly owned
by Cape Verde. The public sector reform and capacity building program translates that strategy into a series
of inter-connected activities (Annexes 1 and 6) designed to help bring about tha economic and soci
transfornmation of the country.
2.50 The Government realizes gmat to ensure the sustainability of stabilization measures introduced in 1991
including curbs on credit to public enterprises, controls on budgetary expenditures, maintenance of positive
interest rates and mobilization of higher tax revenues, it needs to improve the capacity of the public sector
in economic and fiscal management. The same is true for the implementation and susinabiity of structural
reforms such as trade liberalization, simplification of the tax system, removal of state monopolies in services
and commerce, price liberalization and legal and regulatory reform. Success and sustainability however, also
require securing the support of various constituencies and the people at large. The Government recognizes
this as demonstrated by its efforts to strengthen the press and involve municipalities and private sector in the
decision-making process.
2.51 Under the public sector reform program, the objective of improving economic and fiscal management,
moderning public administration and the justice system, will be pursued through complementary top-down
and bottom-up actions: promotion of development at the grasroots level; 9Ad broad-based paricipation of
- 16-



constituencies and the population in the reform. The linkages between the actions and the strategy are
evidenced by the Govemment's plans for the proposed project and are discussed below. The Government's
objectives and strategy for public sector reform were published in the Official Gazette soon after it took office
in 1991 (Resolucao No. 611V191 in Boletim Oficial No. 31 of August 8, 1991). A policy statement on public
sector reform, is found In Annex 1.
2.52   jarigj  Coacft and Broadening Democdzaon. The effective implementation of the economic
transformation program requires improvement of the capacity of the public administration in economic and
fiscal management and inprovement of the legal and judicial environment. To generate public support for
the reforms requires broadening the democratization process through delegating more power and
responsibilities to the regional municipal governments and strengthening the capacity of the press to inform
the public about government policies.
2.53 Tmproving the Capacity of the &blIc Administration. ITe weaknesses in public administration
became quite apparent in the face of a deteriorating economic performance, declining public investments and
demand for maritime and transport services, and worsening performance of the public sector enterprises. To
address these problems, the Government has begun to undertake a comprehensive program to improve the
quality of its economic and fiscal management, the efficiency of public administration and the privatization
of public sector enterprises. Specifically, the Government has embarked on a program to reform the
ministries responsible for economic and fiscal planning and management and has created a new ministry to
oversee and coordinate economic policy and development, the Minisry of Economic Coordination. It has
alo reorganized the Ministry of Fmance and is in the process of strengthening the capacity of the public
fnance, budgeting and internal auditing departments of that ministry. In addition, the Government has
prepared a plan to modernize the sectoral ministries through a reform of the civil service, improving
personnel management and training civil servants to be Implemented under the proposed project.
2.54 The Legal Environment for Private Sector Development. To facilitate and promote private sector
nvestment and growth in general, the Government has also embarked on a reform of the legal environment
for business. A detailed operationral review of the legal environment for business has been completed and
an action plan recommended. The reform will include furter streamlining of labor legisla,on, and
simplification of legislation on entry and exit of businesses. 'Te development of the private sector will be
further assisted by the establishment of a competitive commercial banking system and expansion of the market
for trading in treasury notes, and eventually stocks and bonds.
2.55 Sup=ort for the Reform Program. The planning and execution of the reform program requires the
support and commitment of the political parties, parliament, civil servaus, political and other constituencies
and the public. To this end, the Government has begun a program of streamining relations with the press
for the purpose of reaching a wider audience for the information it is making available about the reform
program and facilitating public discussion and scrutiny from constituencies and the public at large. Plans to
assist the printed (newspapers) and electronics press (radio and television) in geuing access to Government
officials and information, acquire better equipment and modern prinng and broadcasting technologies are
included in the Government's reform program.
2.56   Strengtbening the Role of Ijnicipaljimt. At the core of the Government's effort to build local
capacity is a program for decentralization of Government functions and services to the municipalities, which
has been prepared by the Ministry of Internal Administration. It calls for more equitable distribution of
resources to municipalities on the basis of transparent criteria. It also calls for a greater role of the
municipalities in the development and maintenance of utilkles and other infrastructure and the provision of
soc  services. As for strengthening the municipalities, the Government has already identified the needs to
be supported under the proposed project. It has reviewed key issues such as revenue sharing and the
allocation of expenditure responsibilities in accordance with capacity. Several of the larger municipalities
- 17-



have prepared comprehensive proposals regarding their new roles and the resources and capacity building that
are required to take on these roles. The proposals have been assessed and many are considered sound. Plans
for the allocation of resources, and recruitment and training of municipal staff will be supported under the
proposed project.
2.57   Two issues are of partiular concern to the Government, as it prepares to reinforce the process of
decentralization and the transformation of the role of the municipalities: (i) relations between the
municipalities and the central administration; and (ii) relations between the municipalities and the various
groups and constituencies in the communities. For that reason the decentralization plan contains proposals
for the development of a common set of procedures for fiscal and financial functions, and for the provision
of social services, to ensure an efficient exchange of information, and adequate monitoring and auditing. At
the same time, more autonomy for the municipalities must be accompanied by greater responsiveness to local
political forces, if the needs of constituents and local communities are to be met. The Government believes
that regiona economic and social development must -be driven by grass root level moveiments and public
participation in the identification of priorities and the formulation of social and economic policies and
programs. The Government is therefore encouraging the municipalities to foster the development of local
associations and organizations as a means of generating community self-help programs and defining local
projects that cater to the needs of the poor and less privileged groups in the society, particularly women and
youth. Assistance will be provided under the proposed project in support of those efforts.
E. IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.58   Lessons    ed. In addition to the Privatization TA project (Cr. 2377-CV), which has performed
very well to date, IDA has supported other public sector reforms (including public enterprises) with good
results. Assistance to the ENAPOR (Cr. 1322-CV), ELECTRA and TRANSCOR (Cr. 1954-CV) enterprises
produced significant improvements in their quality of service and overall operational efficiency and
performance. One of the keys to success so far of the Privatization TA project has been the active role
played by an independent advisory Board. A similar Board has been established under the proposed project.
The proposed project is in response to the commitment displayed by the Government to undertake a major
institutional transformation in terms of the roles of, and interactions within the State and the private sector
which ensures ownership. The environment for carying out the reforms is conducive. Finally, experience
from similar operations has shown that advisory services are much more effective when provided in
conjunction with a reform program that has already been launched and to which the Government is fully
committed.
2.59   Rationale. In the past, the Government relied to a large extent on bilateral assistance, but did litte
to coordinate the assistance of donors. Moreover, much of the assistance did not address institutional
weaknesses. The Govermnent and the donors are aware of these shortcomings. With the encouragement of
the donors, it has prepared the institutional development program and deliberately sought IDA's assistance
to implement the programs. The proposed project follows up on and complements the Privatization TA
project, which has helped lay some of the foundations for the project through studies such as the one on the
legal business environment. The project would also complement other ongoing or planned IDA-supported
projects in the infrastructure, financial, and social sectors, which together with the reform of the public sector
(mcluding public enterprises), are the pillars of the Bank's assistance strategy for Cape Verde. Those projects
all ain at assisting the GOCV to create the conditions for the private sector to become the engine of
sugtainable economic growth and to improve the well-being of its citizenry. Capacity building in public
adminitration, both at the central and local levels, was identfied in the recent Country Economic
Memorandum (June 1993) and Country Assistance Strategy paper (March 1993) as the necessary keystone
in the consolidation and acceleration of past and present reforms, and in the passage to a new phase of
economic and social development. The CEM identified the severe constraints to economic management
bescase of a weak analytical base which also resulted in hardened terms for assistance by several donors.
- 18-



Finally, as a privileged partner in Cape Verde's economic restructuring program, and one that recognizes that
the sustainabiity of reform depends on the capacity of implementation, IDA is well positioned to extend its
dWogue to the medium- and long-term process of modemizing the public sector's management of the
economy through institutional dc ielopment and capacity building.
m.   THfE PROJEI            
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES, SCOPE AND DESCRIPTION
1. Program and Project Objectives
3.1    Effective economic management and the transformation of any economy and society in the direction
proposed by Cape Verde not only requires good policy, but strong institutions, an appropriate legal and
judicial framework, a sound analytical base, and skilled individuals to implement policies and to communicate
them throughout the administration and to the public at large. The principal objective of the actions to be
financed by the proposed IDA credit is to support the Government's broader program to transform and
modernize key public institutions, the laws supporting them, and the personnel staffing them, thereby helping
sustain the economic and social reform program which the Government initiated. As outlined in the Policy
Letter (Annex 1), parts of this larger program are already underway or are being considered for support
through coordinated financing from a number of other bilateral and multilateral donors. Specifically, the
project, prepared on the basis of extensive diagnostic assessment of institutional capacity undertaken mostly
by GOCV, with some support from donors and the Bank, would support improvements in economic policy
analysis and management, and in the legal, judicial and administrative environment for investment and for
business operations through a program of institutional development and capacity building in public
administration, both at the central and municipal levels.
2. Project Description
3.2 Introduction and Summary of Features. The proposed credit will finance a five-year time slice
consisting of selected components of the program. Actions to be financed by the IDA credit are limited to
those which can be effectively completed within five years, and which will result in lasting improvements in
key areas of civil service performance, the administrative and legal environment for investment and business
transactions, and the capacity of the grassroots level to sustain development. To this end, the project aims
to increase effectiveness, efficiency, and transparency in public sector functions that are critical to the long-
term success of the overall economic and social reform program. Global program targets and activities are
in Annex 9-B. Annex w-A contains monitoring and performance indicators for the proposed project, fully
covering the first three years (as needed, additional targets would be set for the last two years during the
project mid-term review). Agreement was reached on these during nggtjg1iQna. Specifically, the credit will
finance five components:
a) Modernization of the Civil Service (US$.80 million). The credit will finance short-term advisory
services, studies, computers and software to modernize human resources management by the
Ministry of Public Administration (MPA); training in critical skill areas organized and
coordinated by MPA for line ministry staff; and retraining and redeployment services also
managed by MPA, for participants in civil service's Voluntary Departure Progrm;
b) Building Local Capacity to Participate and to Manage (Decentralization and Municipal
Strenathening} (USS2.26 million). Through financing for short-term advisory services and
operational studies, equipment, and training for all 15 municipalities and (where appropriate), the
- 19-



Ministy of Inteal Admnstration, the credit will assist the Govertment in implementing its
decentralization policy, i strengtenig the municipalities' capacity to mne eonomic and
social activities, and in involving the populaion more in the development process;
c) Strengthening Economic Management Capacit (US$2.15 million). The credit will finace
operational studies, public information campaigns, advisory services, training, equipment, and
library support for the Ministries of Economic Coordination, Finance, and Communications and
their major agencies (Statistics, Planning, Public Finance, Radio, etc.), as well as the private
media. It will assist GOCV with the organizadon and gradual processing of the mountain of
backlog of statistical work, the restructuring of the national accounts and statistics system, and
the transformation of the statistics department into an Institute of Statistics with sufficient
autonomy. A long-term adviser will be provided to help with the transformation. In addition it
will support the development of an electronic communications system within the GOCV, as well
as an action plan for a shared data base for government operations. It would help establish a pre-
investment studies fund (PIF) to relieve present constrain  on the lack of properly prepared
investment projects. This fund would support the final preparation of the National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP). Support will also be provided to strengthen the Public Finance Department
which is responsible for extnal debt, public finance management, design of instruments for
public resairce mobilization, and aid coordination. Options for the greater involvement of non-
resident Cape Verdeans in the development process of the country would be reviewed and
supported by this component;
d) Leal and Judicial Reform and Modemization of the Justice System (USS1.98 million). Support
will include financing training, equipment, and materials, essential publications and printing, and
advisory services for the Mfmistry of Justice and Labor and its major agencies including the
Judiciary, the Registrar of Companies, and the Registrar of Deeds. Ihe component will help
strengthen legal services for key ministries and such actions as improved commercial and labor
legislation, training in business law for magistrates, and establishment of arbitration facilities to
dispose of commercial law disputes; and
e) Public Procurement Reform (US$0.38 million). This componen wil finance training for about
40 staff short-term advisory services and equipment to help modernize the Public Procurement
and Assets Management Department (PATRIMONIO) and selected Departments of Administrative
Services in the ministries. Selective revision of legislation on procurement will be undertaken
and instittional procedures to improve the public procurement process will be streamlined and
strengthened.
Sample terms of reference for advisory services and studies have been prepared and are in Annexes 4, 5 and
8. Understandings were reached on these during negotiato. A key design aspect of the project is that most
advisory services will be short-term, with long-term resident assistance strictly limited to activities such as
the establishment of the National Institte of Statistics (see component (c) above).
3. Detailed Project Features
3.3   The project is described in more detail below. Further and in-depth discussion of the major
components are in Annexes 4, 5, 7 and 8. Main activities, expected impacts and timing targets are detailed
in matrix form in Annex 9.
- 20-



(a)Id'- MogMeion of the Civil Serv.
(i) Human Resources Mement. The Goverment has identified orgiMin and Mw Wo
,lnnn as the most critical area to be addressed under the project, as the changing role of the State
requires a significant adaptation of the civil service. Accordingly, a medtodology and the instruments
conducive to quantitative and qualitative analysis of the present and forecasted demand and supply
of personnel in public administration are essential to provide the data required for the development
of comprehensive strategies and action-plans in the areas of recruitment, training, productivity
improvement, career and succession plans, redeployment and altemative means of delivering services.
Short-term advisory services from personnel management specialists will be financed under the
project to: (a) assist the Ministry of Public Administration with the design and/or adaptation of
instruments and methods for organization design, human resources evaluation, career and succession
planming, and training needs assessments; (b) recommend the selection of one of the many well-
designed software packages which exist on the market to manage orgaization and human resource
planning and control; (c) develop an action-plan for the implementation of the new Instruments and
methods; and (d) provide in-house training in the use of the new instruments for the staff of the
Ministry of Public Administration and for personnel officers in the Ministries and other Government
agencies. Recipients of this training would, in turn, train supervisors and managers throughout the
central government;
(ii)   Civil Sevice Training. Civil servants enjoy a good reputation dating back to the colonial
period, when Cape Verdeans were frequentiy seconded to administrative positions in various
Portuguese colonies. However, the efficiency and effectiveness of the civil service today is
constrained by a shortage of administrative, technical, professional and managerial skills. Also,
unmanaged growth in government employment in the 1985-90 period diluted the average skill level
of civil servants. Under the civil service modernization component, an assessment was made of the
technical and professional capacity of civil servants in six ministries: Ministies of Education and
Sports; Fishery, Agriculture and Rural Development; Health; Infrastructure and Transport; Public
Administration; and Tourism, Industry and Commerce. The level of technical and professional skills
is either relatively low or in short supply in these ministries (Annex 4). The Govermnent has begun
to address the need for mid- and higher-level relevant professional skills. The skills development and
uaining is being done in the context of foreign-aided development projects executed by the ministries.
For example, staff of the  imisry of Education and Sports are receiving training in education-specific
skills under the Bank-supported Primary Education Upgrading Project (Cr. 1853-CV). ITis trining
wiUl be continued and expanded in the proposed BET project. Similarly, the management staff of the
Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport will receive training in relevant skills under the Transport
and infrastructure Project (Cr.2466-CV). The staff of the Labor Department of the Ministy of
Justice and Labor will also be receiving professional training under the BET project. In addition, the
Ministries of Public Administrion and Internal Administration have on-going arrangements with
their sister ministries in Portugal for professional staff training. Under the proposed project,
technical and professional tMning for the staff of the Ministries of Finance, Economic Coordination,
Communications, Justice, municipalities, etc wfll be supported under the respective components.
Under the civil service modernization component, training wil be provided for three levels of
administrative staff in the six line ministries mentioned above and possibly others as the need is
letermined: managers, spervisors and administrative support personnel. The training plan (Annex
9) contains training in communications and computer-related skills for administrative support staff
and first-line supervisors, and training in project management, budget and accounting and personel
management for supervisors and managers. Most of the traiing would be done locally at the Center
for Administrive Training and Development (CENFA), which was established in 1984 for the
purpose of raising the administrative capacity of civil servants. CENFA already offers a set of basic
administatve training programs, taught by civil servants, but the Government proposes to adjust the
- 21 -



program offerings to tailor them better to the skill deficiencies of administrative and managemet
staff. 'Thus, to strengthen the administrative and management skills and capacity of civil servants In
the participadng line ministries and possibly others, the training, to be designed and implemented with
assistance under this component, would include:
(a) for the Ministry of Education and Sports, five local training programs for: 18 managers and
supervisors in planning, budgeting and accounting and word processing; eight administators
and inspectors in informatics and supervision; and, for 36 support staff in building
maintenance;
(b) for the Ministry of Fishery, Agriculture and Rural Development, local training programs for:
36 managers in planning, HRD and project management; 48 supervisors in informatics and
management of agriculture and public works projects; and, 180 administrative staff in
informatics, communications, and accounting;
(c) for the Ministry of Health, local training for: 24 managers in budgeting, HRD and Project
management and a seminar in Policies and financing of National Health programs; 84
supervisors in maintenance, and accounting; and, 48 administrators in informatics, and
communications;
(d) for the Miistry of Infrastructure and Transport local training for 24 administrative staff in
HRD management, and Comnunications skills;
(e) for the Ministry of Public Administration local training for: 4 managers in HRI) and Project
Management; 8 supervisors in HRD Management, and public administration management;
and for 6 administrators in informatics, and communications; and
(t) for the Mimistry of Tourism, Industry and Commerce training for: 6 managers in Project and
HRD Management and a National Workshop in Tourism Promotion; 12 supervisors in Project
Administration, and Communication Skills; and 12 administrators in inormatics, and
communications; and
Qii)   Retrenchment Program Support and Retraining. The Government has defined a civil
service retrenchment program. The program has oeen discussed by the Social Consultative Council
(made up of labor unions, employers and other interest groups), approved by the Council of Ministers
and the Parliament and publicly announced (Annex 9). The program was discussed during
negotiations and transmitted to IDA as a condition of presentation of the proposed Droject to hie
lBad. The program comprises: a voluntary departure program (VDP) aimed at reducing the mnmber
of lower-level staff in three categories of the civil service - auxiiar, operario, administrativo - by
about 1,600 Cn two phases); an early retirement program (ERP) aimed at about 400 civil servants;
and retraining and assistance to VDP participants to help them reintegrate into the formal and
informal sectors. Under the Government's plans, those who opt for the VDP would receive a lump
sm payment and monthly subsistence payments for up to three years (both totalling no more than
the one lump sup payment they would have received under traditional schemes). The proposed credit
would not provide funding for payments under the VDP and ERP. The Government has made its
budgetary allocations for the payments, Switzerland has allocated assistance and other key donors
have expressed interest in providing funding if the need arises. Under this component therefore
support would be provided: a) to finalize the details of the various Incentive packages under the VDP,
with a view to arriving at a final decision on least cost/best result combination; to review the poteal
supply of jobs exisdng in the formal and informal secors for the categories of personnel targeted
under the VDP; to explore the potential for creation by retrenched staff of small and micro-
-22 -



enterprises, and identify the type of assistance to be (ffered to facilitate their start-up (including
conting out services previously delivered by Government); to develop mechanisms for monitoring
and control of the VDP; and to assist any needed preparatory activities to mobilize additional donor
funding for the VDP; and b) to implement a comprehensive demand-driven retraining program
directed at VDP and ERP participants including: a primary education completion package for about
1,000 VDP participants; a lower-secondary education completion package for 300; a one-year
subsidized and on-the-job training package for about 300; and a business advisory program for
perhaps 200 VDPIERP participants who qualify. Various primary and lower-secondary educadon
completion programs are presely provided in Cape Verde by various public and private institutions
and these can be adapted to meet the needs of the VDP. The business advisory package would be
available to participants who are able to produce a business plan that meets minimum standards of
viability, affordability and sustainability. Participants whose business plans meet those standards
could elect to receive specified levels of assistance, support and training from business counselors -
some of who may be recruited on a voluntary basis from the business community and non-resident
Cape Verdeans (NRCV-see component C) - in three areas: marketing, basic finance and book-
keeping for small businesses. The Government intends to allow participants with qualifying business
plans to convert the monthly payment portion of their VDP payment package into a block payment
for the start-up of their businesses;
(b) Building Local Canacit (Decentralization and Municipal Strengthening).
This component covers several actions designed to help the municipalities to efficiently and effectively
discharge not only their present responsibilities but to execute the new ones foreseen in the
framework of the Constitution, which assigns to the municipalities responsibility for all that has to
do with local population needs. The project will provide support in the following four areas: a)
institution building; b) administration and management; c) human resources development and
management; and d) internal organizational strengthening.
(i)   Institution Building. This would include: a) further detailing, where necessary, guidelines
for the decentralization process (e.g. revenue sharing formulae, responsibility for maintenance of
certain public infrastructure, etc); b) preparation and implementation of action plans for the
establishment, for groups of municipalities, of inter-municipal technical support offices (rSOs), in
an effort to ensure a "critical mass' for sharing which will allow for a rationally and economicatly
sound use of scarce technical support and equipment; and c) equipment, materials and logistical
support for intra-municipal deconcentration, thereby facilitating closer contact between the municipal
authorities and the population of the various villages and/or citizens' groups, and local community
associations. A number of operational studies, for which terms of reference appear in Annex 5-D
will be prepared;
(ii) Administration and Management: Technical assistance to atl municipalities to: a) design
and implement planning, budgeting and inventory systems, to ensure transparency, accountability and
adequate monitoring of fiscal and related matters and effective expenditure management; and b)
evaluate options and develop local fiscal administration and revenue mobilization capacity, in order
to ensure the susinability of the decentralization process and of local services provision;
(iii) Human Resources Development and Management: a) technical assistance to qualitatively
and quantitatively identify necessary staff for each municipality and to design actions to help attract
and retain qualified personnel; b) preparation of a training needs assessment for each municipality;
c) design and implementaton of training sessions, within the framework of a comprehensive program,
for municipal staff, managers and elected officials and covering various areas (Annex 9). The
program wiUl provide about 150 people with training in such areas as management, organization,
- 23 -



computrs and operational activities related to municipal responsibilities. Some will receive formal
training in specialized institutions in Cape Verde such as CENFA, others will be trained in the
municipalities themselves through locally-held courses, and others through on-the-job trining via
technical assistance furnisied under the project; and d) design and implementation of personnel
management procedures for the municipalities; and
(lv)   Internal Orgaization Strengthening: a) development of recommendations for internl
organiation in each municipality; b) assistance for the organization of the various municipal services
that could eventaly become autonomous services or contracted out; c) the provision of a minim
quantity of basic equipment (computers, printers, copiers, other office- machines and firniture,
topograhy instruments, vehicles, etc) to each municipality to help establish and implement the new
structures and systems and to improve provision of services. A list of equipment is in Annex 5-F.
(c)Eoo^gamaUeetSpo
(i)    Strengtheding Communications. Three major areas of activity will be supported: a) design
and implementation of an electronic communications system for about 200 users. Ihe project will
assist with: the identification/procurement of appropriate networking solutions; the
identification/procurement of Office Mail software; and the training of end-users; b) design of a
shared information data base. The project will assist with the development of an action-plan for the
implementation of a computerized data-base of economic information and statistics which could be
shared among Ministries and government agencies. In this connection support witl be provided under
the project to among other things: identify information needs at the intra- and inter-Ministerial levels;
develop detafled recommendations regarding the computer and communications equipment, as well
as the systems and procedures, required for the establishment and maintenance of integrated data
bases; cost the technical assistance and equipment required to create and maintain a deconcentrated
on-line informationsharing system, includingthe cost of training end-users; and develop atime-bound
action plan for implementation; and c) improvement in the communication of economic and social
policy. The ongoing process and efforts to inform the public about the overall economic reform
program and the public sector reform and capacity building program in particular, will be assisted
and reinforced under the proposed project. This wiUl be in the form of public information campaigns,
training seminars for various interest groups, material and equipment support for the Documentation
and Information Center for Development (CDID) of the Minisbtry of Economic Coordination, etc.
Cognizat of the deficiencies in economic journalism, the Governmen has given high priority to
providing journalists from both the public and private media with better understanding of economic
subjects. Thus the project would help strengthen the understanding of those who analyze, intepret
and mold public opinion on issues of economic and social policy. About 40 journalists would receive
training under the project. Most of the training would be in the form of seminars organized locally
by specialists. Some training abroad could also be supported especially those organized in
colaboratin with other counties. Fmally, the project would assist with the provision of basic
computer equipment, msatals and communication eqipment to the public and private media;
(ii)   Plnning Support. The proposed project would provide support in a number of areas among
which: a) preparation of multi-year rolling public investment program (PIP). The rolling PIP is
expected to become one of the key instruments of aid coordination given Cape Verde's high
dependence on external aid for its investment projects; b) establishment of a pre-investment studies
fund (PIF) including the preparation of the legal insuments establishing the fund, development of
procedur  for its use, seed money to start-up the fund and the carrying out of priority studies under
the fund. Support for the final preparation of the NEAP will be provided under the PIP; c)
preparation of a planning manual adapted to Cape Verde's realities as part of efforts to develop local
capacity for strategic planning; d) training (both short and long term) for the staff of the Planning
- 24 -



Directorate General (DGP) as well as for staff of the various planning and studies offices In the
Ministries. A total of about 30 staff will receive training. The specific training activities are
described in Annex 8'A; and e) provision of equipment to the DGP including an integrated computer
system and training of the staff in the use of these computers.
(lii)   National Aounting and Statistia Systan Restruduring.  The success of the
Government's program to strengthen economic management through institutional development depend
very much on the availability and quality of economic, social and financial data. At presen, an
appreciable amount of economic and social data is either deficient or out of date. Also, much
information has been collected but these need to be organized, processed and analyzed. Much has
been accomplished in the last two years-the 1990 population and housing census, the 1988 NatIonal
Accounts, etc, but a lot remains to be done. Methodologies for processing the information for
National Accounts also need to be reviewed. These deficiencies have affected Cape Verde negatively
in other ways. Because of methodological problems national accounts have been overestimated
leading to hardening of terms by lenders and donors who have assumed Cape Verde to be richer than
it is. Cape Verde's donors have committed themselves to providing support for data collection,
management, analysis, and economic forecasting. France (technical assistance), the ADB (technical
assistance and some equipment) and the UNFPA (some training and tedhnical assistance) are
providing significant assistance in accordance with a long-term strategy and program developed by
the Government with the help of donors and shown in matrix form in Annex 9. MDA support would
complement these donor assistance and will cover five major areas: a) insttutional development to
strengthen the collection and management of economic and social data, the Government will
transform the General Directorate of Statistics (DOE) into an autonomous institution, the National
Institute of Statistics MNE), with the ability to recruit and retain qualified staff and providing
statistical services under contract to government departments and instituions. The proposed project
will support the creation of the INE (Annex 9-A); b) national accous: the organization ad gradual
processing of the mountain of backlog of National Accounts including the production of accounts for
1989-1992 and possibly those for the following years; and review of the basis and methodology of
national accounts including specific survey needs; c) devel== of demoghi and social stascs:
follow-up of UNFPA assistance including data analysis of the 1990 general census (oopulation and
housing); preparation of emigration and immigration statistics; environment statistics; and a sedes
of economic and poverty-focussed surveys as part of Government's efforts to get a better handle on
and deal with the social dimensions of adjustment; d) training: the design and implementation of a
training program in statistics for staff of DGE/INE and of the studies/research departments of the
various ministries and the Central Bank as well as the Planning Directorate of the Ministry of
Economic Coordination. Traning will include on-the-job, extenal short-term, extnal long-tm
and in country seminars and workshops; and e) equipment and materials to help with the training,
and the transformation of the DGE;
(iv)   Public lnaee Support. The project wil provide support in three areas: a) improed public
debt management including the computerization of the debt management system, and training of staff
involved in its monitoring; b) improvement in aid coordination including the development an
implementation of institutional procedures for aid management and execution (roles of the Ministries
of Economic Coordination, Finance (Treasury), Secretariat of State for Cooperation and the
beneficiary institutions); and c) public resource mobilization: as part of efforts to mobilize domestic
resources and savings to finance development activities, the project will assist with the expansion of
the market for treasury bills. At present these T-Bills are limited to institutions but initial studies
have shown hat the public, particularly emigrant savers, would be interested in these. An operational
study to assess the feasibility of this expansion will be undertaken and if feasible, the mechnisms and
market circuit for its implementation will be organized with assistance under the project;
- 25 -



(d) LIS  and Judicial Reform and Moderpization of Jusce SysteM.
Ihe Governmentes institudonal development and public sector modeion program focuss
broadly on the legal and judicial context in addition to emphasizing reforms which most directly affect
business and commercial activity. A coordinating committee, headed by the Director General of
Studies, Legislation and Information (DGELDI) at the Ministry of Justice, and consisting of Ministry
officials, judges, private legal practitioners and a non-resident Cape Verdean (NRCV) providing
assistance on a voluntary basis to the Ministry of Justice prepared the proposed legal and judicial
component. The preparation work benefitted from the active participation of the Minister of Justice
himself. Under the Privatization TA Project (Cr. 2377-CV), the Government commissioned a study
of the legal and judicial business environment in Cape Verde. The study examined the legal and
judicial framework for Cape Verde, from a business perspective, identified issues that need to be
addressed, and contributed to the groundwork for the preparation of the proposed project. As
discussed in more detail below, the proposed project component will finance: legislative reform and
institutional development for the Ministry of Justice; establishment of specialized courts;
modernization of the notary and registry system; judicial information strengthening; and professional
training and specialization for magistrates and other legal practitioners.
(1)    Legislative Reform. Four key pieces of legislation would be fully revised: a) Labor Code;
b) Commercial Code; c) Registry and Notarial legislation; and d) Civil Procedural legislation. These
laws all have an impact upon commercial and business activities in the country. Revision
(uintemediate revision) of the Labor Code is already underway with the first phase having been
cmpleted in December 1993. This was aimed at removing the most flagrant restrictions such as the
provisions on fixedterm employment and the procedures for employment and dismissal. ITe follow
up revisions would be supported under the proposed project. The Government has taken steps to
strengthen the capacity of the DGELDI, by assigning more lawyers and experienced magistrates, to
undertake law reform and to provide advice and guidance to other Government Ministries on
legislative proposals. Under the project DGELDI would be provided with appropriate materials and
equipment that it requires to be In a position to discharge its functions. Specialized short-term
advisory services wfll also be made available to DGELDI during the project period, as and when
needed, to help supervise the legislative drafting activities, and to train DGELDI legal staff. To
ensure continuity in the legislative reform process, the Government has taken measures to contain the
high rate of staff turnover in the Ministry of Justice as a whole and, in particular, within DOELDI.
Magistrates can now be redeployed from the tribunals and the PG's Office to fill up positions within
DGELDL In order to enhance the eareer prospects of legal officers of the Ministry of Justice, the
Government will, under this component, take measures (e.g. amending rules governing the
recruitment of magistrates, locally-sponsored training programs combining practical training and
courses at the Center for Judicial Training to be established by Government by end-1995 with
assistance from Portugal) to allow them to qualify as magistrates otherwlse than by having to follow
the single option of professional training program in Portugal. Other means of attracting competen
legal staff to occupy key positions in the Ministry of Justice would also be reviewed. I order to help
supervise the process of revision of the various pieces of legislation, the committee that prepared this
project component bas been expanded to include a wide cross-section of business representatives,
business law  xerts, labor unions, employers and other interested officials. It will help review draft
strategy papers and legislative proposals, as and when they are submitted to it by DGELDI. Ihis
expanded committee will not be expected to draft or initiate legislation;
(i)   Specia&zation of Courts. In order to streamline the flow of comnercial and induswtrial
litigation at the regional level, and thus ease the pressure resulting from the growing volume of such
litigation, the project wil assist with the creation of a separate commercial jurisdiction within each
of the regional courts, as well as separate industrial tribunals. In the initial stages, however, such
-26-



coMM      JursdionndInstrial tr       swilonly be fully opaional nPraaand Mmddl.
Based oan the epience in Praua and Mindelo, and subject to the availability of fillly tzined judges
to handle commercial and  _iustr  lItigation, the system wil grdually be extended to the rest of
the county. The project will finance ftrning and equipment needed for the establishment of a
commercal jurisdiction, and industrial tribunals, in Praia and Mindelo;
(iI)   Moderization of Notaq and Regqity Systems (DGRNI). Ite project will assist with the
computer   of the notary, property and commercial registries, all services provided by DGRNI.
An       e of needs together with cost ema  has been undertwcen. Given the changing naure
of techdlogy, under the project an equipent specialist would be hired to car  out an additional
urvey of the technological needs of DGRNI, and to prepare bidding documents acoordingly. Ihe
sme specialist will also carry out the final assessment in respect of DOELDI and the commercial
courts In order to ensure consistency and compatbility of eqipment;
(lv)   Judcial Infornation Stengthing. The project would assist with the setting up of the law
libray at the Minstry of Justice, the acquisition of textbooks, equipment and materials for the
functioning of the library. It would support the establishment of conditions that would allow the
publication on a reguar basis, of a Law Review Journal by the Ministry of Justice in order to ensure
Inormation flow to the public and those in the legal field. This publication would include, among
others, a collection of all major decisions of the Supreme Court; and
(v)   Thanltg and Spbetn.  la order to be able to respond to a growing need for
specialization in commercial and business law and, in particular, banking legislation, of&hore
banking, intentional conts, international arbitradon and maritime legislation, the project would
upport a substantial inrease in taining opportunities for lawyers and magist . For those lawyers
and magistrates who wish to train as maitrates locally, taining programs will be arranged
accordly. Specialized training in commercial and business law will also be provided forpracticng
lawyers and mgistts, and paralegal staff. The law library textbooks provided above will be used
to support the taining activities; and
(e) PubligPocrenmt      mn.
The Goverment has for the past year been revising key parts of the legislation governing public
procurement as they relate to goods and services (para 2.39); the regulations governing works are
considered adequate for the time being. Ihe proposed project will support these efforts by ficing
advisory services to assist with updating the existing legislation in order to arrive at a consolidatio
of the regulatons Into one set of regulations, including ancillary texts In the form of standard general
conditions of contact for goods and services; clarification of existng regulations in order to inrease
the speed and transparenc of public procurement procedures; uniform application, regardless of
sorce of funding, unless agreement to the contrary with any foreign donor is reached and duly
ratified; and more realistic thesholds for delegation of authority in line with the evolution of the
economy. The project wil also finance staff development and traning including training and
refresher courses for about 40 staff from PATlIMONIO and other govenmena  enities involved
in procurement in such area as regulations, technical specifications, contract moniting and
usmment of supplier/contractor qualifications, bidding doments, etc. FnaUlly, the project will
finance the design and implemention of a computeion plan for planning, monitoring purcha
and storing information. The           plan would include the trainn of the staff involved
In ts use.
-27 -



B. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
3.4    PSect Coss  Total project costs, net of taxes and duties, are estimated at US$8.91 mlion
equivalent. 'eM estated foreign exchange component is US$6.95 million, or 78% of total cost. The costs
by component are provided In Table 2 below:
Table 2. ETATED 1'RQ . COST
A.Pieot Cost ES,,_ f 
__________  ~~~~~~~~~~~LQlIEqmigsIInW
_ _____________________________________________              - -(-US   Million)-
1. Modernion of the Civil Servicq
Advisory Servies (Shortetm)                               -        0.10      0.10
Traing/Retaiing
* Seected Ministries                                   0.05       0.05      0.10
* Voluntmy Departees                                   0.36        -        0.36
Equipmet/urniture                                         -        0.15      0.15
0.41      0.30      0.71
2. Build Lo  Capacity to Participat and to Manais
Studies and Adisory Sevioe (Short-term)                   -        0.35      0.35
Taining                                                 0.25       0.15      0.40
Equipment/Furnitunr                                       -        1.25      1.25
0.25      1.75       2.00
3. LSftiLM Ecowmi Mnaement QML
Studes/Advi    services
* Short-trm                                             -        0.35       0.3S
* Long-tem                                                        0.17      0.17
Pr.Inv.stment Fund                                                 0.20      0.20
Training                                                0.20       0.20      0.40
Equipmet/Furniture                                        -        0.65      0.6s
Opeoations (icluding Public Information Campaign)       0.0S       0.08      0.13
SubkloRal                                            0.25       1.6S      1.90
4. Leoand Judicial Reform and Modemization of the Justice
StudieAdvisory Senrices                                            0.30      0.30
Taining                                                 0.20       0.0s      0.25
Equipmant/MatrerialafTexbooks                             -        1.20      1.20
0.20      1.55       1.75
-28 -



;_ __  _ __ __  _ __ __ _  __ _ __ __  _ __ __  _ __ _      --l. --- -( S   M i lio )-
!~~ - 
S. RefonM of Public Pft.. dinent
Training                                                0.08      0.02       0.10
Advisory Services                                        .        0.10       0.10
Equipment                                                _        0.14       0.14
. Sub-totaQ0.08                                                0.26      0.34
6. Project Manageme
Local Staff                                             0.36                 0.36
Taning                                                            0.03       0.03
Audits - IDA Credit                                     0.03      0.12       0.15
Equpment and Vehicles                                    _        0.05       0.05
Supplies                                                          0.05       0.05
Advisory Services                                                 0.05       0.05
Office Space                                            0.15       -         0.15
Sub-total                                            0.54      0.30      0.84
7. PPF Refinancing g                                                 0.20      0.20
TTAL BASE COSTS                                         1.73      6.01       7.74
8. Continuencies
Physical                                                0.10      0.42       0.52
Price                                                   0.13      0.S2       0.65
Sub-total                                            0.23      0.94       1.17
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                     1.96      6.95       8.91
3.5       Base Cost estunates are in May 1993 prices. Physical contingencies amounting to about 8 percent
of base costs are included. Price contingencies have been estimated at about 8.4 percent of base costs.
Annual rates of inflation are those projected in the June 1993 CEM and are estimated at about 3.1 percent
for international inflation in the costs of foreign goods and services, and about 5.5 percent for local inflation.
3.6   Financing Plan. The proposed IlDA credit of US$8.1 million equivalent would finance approimely
90 percent of total project costs, net of taxes and duties; this woudd cover all of the foreign exchange costs
(US$6.95 million) and 59% of locl costs (US$1. 15 mllion), a large proportion of which represents training
costs for the staff of the various agencies and municipalitis involved in the project. A PP-. in the amount
of US$0.2 million was approved on November 5, 1993. The Government would financ4 the remainder of
the costs (US$0.81 million). The fhiancing plan of the project is set out in Table 3 below:
-29-



TABLE 3. SUIMARY FINANCING PLAN BY ITM
(US$ million)
Gov'tof      IDA       Total     % of IDA
.__ __   Cape Verde                   Contribution
Training                                         1.46      1.46       100
Retraining (Voluntary Departees)    0.21         0.20      0.41       49
Advisory Services/Studies
* Studies/Short-term                            1.45      1.45      100
* Long-tenn                                     0.20      0.20      100
Equipment/Vehicles/Furniture/
Essential Publications                          4.07      4.07      100
Pre-Investment Fund                              0.20      0.20       100
Operations
. Local staff                      0.40                   0.40       0
. Supplies                                      0.05      0.05      100
* Office Space                     0.17                   0.17       0
* Other (Iel. Public. Info. Campaign)   0.03    0.10      0.13       77
Audits: IDA Credit                             0.17      0.17      100
PPF Refinancing                                  0.20      0.20       100
TOTAL                               0.81         8.10      8.91
3.7   Because of the complexity involved in attemptng to establish formal co-financing arrangements with
donors already providing or planning to provide assistance to the Government's program of public sector
reform and capacity building, coordinated cofinmcing is under discussion which could include additionally
about US$0.3 million from the UNDP; $4 million from the EC; and $1 million from France. Swiss assistance
wili make available nearly $1 million in support of the program. Most of this donor financing is expectd
to supplement GOCV's budgetary allocation for payments under the VDP as well as provide some specialized
equipment for information entities (public and private).
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.    Project Management and Coordination
3.8   Bank sector work in the field of instional developmentrTA has concluded that the management of
institution,1  --forms should be an integral part of day-to-day responsibilities of the ministries concerned.
Based on tL. .xperience, the specific program for each component has been largely formulated by and wil
be implemented by the ministries and agencies themselves. Although the project is in part intended to addrs
the weaknesses in institutional capacity in these ministries and entiies, Cape Verde's administration is
recognized on the whole as being relatively capable, and as noted In par. 3.15, portfolio management has
consistently been among the most highly rated In the Sahel. This day-to.da management and implementation
of each component would be the responsibility of the concerned ministries and enthies, as follows: the civl
eNice component would be managed by the Mistry of Public Adminisrton; the mudicpal
strengthening component would be managed by the Mistry of Inal Admin on in close
coilaboaion with the municipalities; the econoc management component would largely be under the
Minities of Economic Coordinion, and Finance through the Departmen of Planing, Statstics, Research
Public Finae as appropriate; the legl and judical component would be under the Ministry of Justice and
Labor; and the publie procuremnt reform component would be managed by the Department of Public
Assets in the Miistry of Finance. Ihe Ministry of Economic Coordination, in coUaboaion with the
-30-



Ministry of Communications, would carry out the Improvement of economic and socal poicy
communiations sub-component of the economic management component. Prior to negotiations, the
Government formalized the appointments (pra. 5.1) of managers (project component managers-PCMs) for
each component or major sub-components within the respective agencies. A central Project Coordinator
(PC), with qualifications satisfactory to IDA was also appointed at the Ministry of Economic Coordintion.
The terms of reference of the PC and PCMs are in Annexes 11 and 12 and were are tQ at neggtiations.
3.9 The project's policy measures are integrated in the various components, and a high-level advisory and
monitoring group, comprising representatives of the central and local governments, the private sector and
selected civil groups such as unions, would oversee their implementation. Prior toD resentatinof this project
to the Bard, the Government established the advisory group, the Reform Advisory and Implementation
Monitoring Board (RAIMB) to, among other things, provide policy guidance on the direction and pace of the
public sector reform and modernization program, and to provide advice on the conduct and pace of
implementation of the program wit. a view to ensuring effectiveness, efficiency, transparency and consistency
in the process. The RAIMB is co-chaired by the Minister of State for Economic Coordination and the
Minister of Public Administration. The terms of reference of the RAMB were agred to at ne2etinxiQ  and
are in Annex 13. A small Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), to be established within the Ministry of
Economic Coordination and headed by the PC, would be responsible for day-to-day coordination of project
activities. The PCU would serve as the secretariat for the RAIMB. The establishment and staffing of the
PCU would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit. Project coordination arrangements are
shown in the Chart in Annex 10.
2.    Annual Work Program, Monitoring, Mid-Term Review and Evaluation
3.10  Project implementaion will be ca.ried out on the basis of annual work programs for each component
and major sub-component, thereby enhancing flexibility in planning and monitoring, and allowing objectives
for each component to be attained independently. Each anmnu work program would include: (J) an
evaluation of the previous years' work program; and (ii) the proposed budget and work program including:
(a) in keeping with the monitoring and performance indicators agreed (Annex 9-A), a statement of
monitorable objectives and a program of activities to be undertaken to achieve those objectives; (b) detailed
budgets and financing plans, including a schedule of proposed procurement contruas to be financed by the
Credit; and (c) training plans. They would all be submitted to the PC who would synthesize them and
prepare a project-wide budget and procurement plan to be submitted annally, prior to the end of the previous
year (October 31), to the RAMB for consideration/advice and then to IDA for review and approval.
Agreement with IIDA on the detailed work program for the first year of the project is a condition of
effl&eness of the proposed Credit. PCMs would be expected to present periodic progress reports on project
implementation, on the basis of which the PCU would furnish concise quarterly progress reports to IDA.
These progress would compare actl and forecast progress. The detailed range of project monitoring
indicators is provided in Annex 9. During negotiations. aFreement was reached with the Government on the
project monitoring and performance indicators and on the submission of quarterly reports no later than 30
days after the end of each of the following quarters: March 31, June 30, and September 30, and an annual
report which would include the December 31 period, to be fiunished within two months of year-end. These
reports would include, Iuer atia, the agreed monitoring and performance indicators. Reporting requirements
would begin with the first full quarter following effectiveness.
3.11  In order to review projectprogress, and if necessary to reorient implementation, it was agmei duin
neS"atiwa that IDA and th( tovernment shall undertake jointly, yearly reviews, beginning October 31,
1994, of the progress in the implementation of the project and that a mid-term review would be scheduled
approximately two-and-a-half years (between thirty and fbrty months) after Effectiveness. In order to ensure
its usefulness and that effective evaluation procedures are established during project implemen tion, his
review will have a major focus on the key performance indicators. It was agree that the Government will
- 31 -



furnish to IDA, for conuents, not later than one month prior to each of the above reviews, a draft report
which will be the basis for the reviews. It was also agreed that the Borrower will prepare and furnish to IDA
a Project Completion Report within six months after the closing date. A Supervision Plan is in Annex 14.
3.    Poment and Disbursement
3.12  Procurement. Procurement under the credit would cover the cost of goods, advisory services for
technical assistance, trainingfretraining and studies, and operational support. The totl cost of goods - largely
computer equipment and software, legal textbools, national accounting publications, vehicles, office
machines, equipment for legal services, would be approximately US$4.07 million. All procurement of goods
will be in accordance with Bank Guidelines dated May 1992. Equipment and software, photocopiers, fax
machines, legal textbooks and furniture totalling about $3 million equivalent would be procured through ICB.
Since adequate local competition exists, and the contracts will be relatively small, smaller items of equipment
(including publication of national statistical texts as well as legal publications for the law library), the total
costing $770,000, would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the
Association. LCB documents would be reviewed by the Association, and foreign firms would not be
precluded from participation. Individual contract amounts over $100,000 would however to be procured
through ICB. Vehicles, equipment and other materials (total US$300,000) would be grouped whenever
possible, into bid packages of not less than US$30,000 and procured through international and local shopping
after receipt of price quotations from at least three qualified suppliers. All contracts of US$100,000
equivalent or more will be subject to prior review by the Association, while contracts below will be subject
to upot review by the Association.
3.13   Consultants and technical assistance personnel to be fianced by IDA would be appointed in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines dated August 1981, and would be employed on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. All of the consulting and advisory services (about 8 sy short term and 1.5 sy long-term)
financed under the project, except for the Project Coordinator and Project Component Managers who might
be individually selected, will be selected on the basis of terms of reference and short-lists acceptable to IDA
and procured according to the World Bank Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. Draft sample terms of
reference (TORs) for all major advisory services and studies were ofirmed during ngoatio. Overall
procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4. Training costs under the project include some
consultants, equipment and materials for local training, as well as a limited amount for training (mostly short
and refresher courses) abroad.
3.14   A        was reached during nejgoations on the utilization of Sample Bidding Documents, Letter
of hIvitation for selection of consultants, and Sample Consultants Contract modified, as appropriate with
regards to taxes, liabilities and payment terms. Prior to grmnlatiQn to the lgaQd of the proposed project,
the Government discussed with IDA, and adopted, a model consultancy contract including a sample letter of
invitation, sor the recruitment of consultants and advisors under the project.
3.15   As of end FY93, lIDAs portolio of ongoing operations in Cape Verde comprises five projects. The
FY92 ARIS revealed an average overall performance rating of 1.7, primarily because of the difficulties In
contracting the construction of the pedagogical instite under the Primary Education Project (Cr. 1853-CV).
The problems were resolved in early FY93 and implementation has been very sadsfactory. The Industra
Promotionprojectisnow closed. Progressontheremaining three nfzastructureReabilitation, Privaization
TA, and Transport and Inffastructure) has been satisfactory. The FY93 ARPP has revealed an average
overall performance rating of 1.4. The portfolio is problem-free. However, under the soon-to-close
Irastructure Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1954-VC) four audit reports were due. Three were received but
the one for ELECTRA is now overdue because the auditor closed its Dakar office out of which the audit was
being carried out and thus did not complete the work. A plan has now been worked out with Government
for completion of the report. Receipt by IDA of the outstanding audit report for ELECTRA is a cndition
- 32 -



gf effetiveness of thfe proposed Credit. Procurement bottlenecks have been identified as a source of serious
delay in implementing TA/ID projects throughout Africa. Because of these problems and the results of the
review undertaken by GOCV which revealed that the procurement system needed to be updated In some
areas, even though the Prdvazation TA project has not been slowed down due to delays in procurement, the
proposed project addresses system-wide procurement reforms In Cape Verde.
Table 4. PROCUREIMENT ARRANGEMENIS
(US$ Million)
|proiect EkmleetP m                                       tMebdoalCs
l______________________           _   0ICB        LCB       Otber      NBF
I. mining                                                   1.46                  1.46
(1.46)               (1.46)
2. Retaining (Voluntay Departees)                           0.41                  0.41
(0.20)               (0.20)
3. Advisot ServicesStudies
- Short-term/Studies                                      1.45                  1.45
(1.45)               (1.45)
- Long-term                                               0.20                 0.20
(0.20)               (0.20)
4. Equipment/Vehicles/Fire/            3.00       0.77      0.30                  4.07
Publications                       (3.00)     (0.77)     (0.30)                (4.07)
5. Qmig
- Local Staff                                             0.40                 0.40
(0.00)               (0.00)
- Supplies                                                0.05                 0.05
(0.05)               (0.05)
- Office Space                                            0.17                 0.17
(0.00)               (0.00)
- Oter (icl. Public. Info. Campaisn)                      0.13                 0.13
(0.10)               (0.10)
- Audits: IlDA Credit                                     0.17                 0.17
(0.17)               (0.17)
6. Pre-Investment Studies                                   0.20                  0.20
(0.20)               (0.20)
7. PPP Refmmcini                                            0.20                  0.20
(0.20)               (0.20)
Tota Costs                          3.00       0.77       5.14                  8.91
IIDA Credit                        (3.00)     (0.77)     (4.33)                (8.10)
~i~fi:  Figures in paenthesis are the amounts financed by the 1DA Credit. Figures shown above include
contingencies.
a/     Not subject to standard procedures but will require prior approval by IDA and will be caully nonitored,
d_cumented and auditod. Ibis tining wil all take place in local institutions or on an intenship basis.
Speci evening courses would aLso be organized.
-33 -



3.16   Disbugnen   The project is expected to be implemented over a five year period, as the
Government wishes to proceed rapidly with its public sector reform program and aims to complete all
activiies within that period. Ite success to date in implementing the overall economic reform program
and the already advanced state of a number of the proposed project actions indicate that this can be
accomplished. Accordingly, while the average disbursement profile for such operations in the Africa
Region is seven years, the credit is forecast to be disbursed over six years, and to be closed in December
1998.
3.17 All disbursements of the IDA credit would be based on prior documentation except for consultant
contracts of less than $50,000, contracts for equipment and vehicles of less than $100,000, contracts for
training and retraining, and for operating costs which will be made against statements of expenditures
(SOEs). The Project Coordinator would have responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications
for all components. Tie documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be retained at the Ministry
of Economic Coordination for review by IDA staff during supervision missions and for regular semi-
annual audits.
3.18 To facilitate disbursement, the Government would establish a Special Account in a commercial
bank in Cape Verde to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures. An initial deposit of US$250,000
equivalent would be made from the proceeds of the proposed credit upon effectiveness. IDA would
replenish the Special Account monthly, upon receipt of proof of incurred eligible expenditures. Details
of the establishment and operations of the Special Account and other disbursement procedures have been
agreed during credit negotiations. An agrment was also reached and evidence provided that adequate
provision for local costs will be inscribed in the annual operating budgets of the Government for the
PCU, for the retraining of voluntary departees from the civil service and any other expenditures for which
the Borrower would be responsible. Ihe estimated disbursements and allocation of the proposed IDA
credit are shown in Table 5 on the following page.
Table 5. ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENTS OF IDA CREDIT
Cakg~rx                                         Amount           Percentage of Ependiptres
(USS Million)           to be Financed
1. Tainins                                       1.31                        100
2. Retraining (Voluntary Deparee)                0.20                         49
3. Advisoy Services/Shuies                       1.50                         100
4. Furnitzue, Equipment, Vebicles, Textbooks     3.70                         100
S. Operations (supplies, audit, etc.)            0.31                         100
6. Ote (Inlm. Public. Ino. Campaign)             0.10                         77
7. Pre-lnvestment Studies                        0.20                         100
8. PPF Refinancing                               0.20                        100
9. Unallocated                                   0.68
Total                                         8.10
Estimated Disbursements
Cn US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year
1994       1995        1996        1997       1998         1999
Anmual            0.2         1.8        2.3         2.5         0.8          0.5
Cumulative        0.2        2.1         4.3         6.8        7.6           8.1
- 34 -



4.    Accoumting and Auditing
3.19  The Ministry of Economic Coordination, through the Project Coordining Unit would establish
and maintain, to the satisfaction of IDA, separate accounts and records to be used exclusively for the
proJect. The accounts will be maintained in accordance with sound and internationally recognized
accountng principles and practices. The Project Coordinating Unit will provide interim and annual
financial statements to reflect the financial performance and position of the project. The project would
also finance the hiring of a local accounting firm to assist the Project Coordinating Unit in establishing
a financial management/accounting system. _Independent auditors acceptable to the Association would
audit the project accounts in accordance with interationally acceptable auditing principles and in such
detail as IDA may request. Establishment of a financial management/accounting system for the project
and the selection of the auditors of the project will be conditions of effe tWeMess. The audits would be
undertaken annually, on the basis of a three year contract, with the report submitted to IDA no later than
three monts after the close of the year. In addition, the Special Account would be audited anually, and
the SOEs semi-annually, and audit reports submitted three months after the end of each audit period.
S.    Environmental Aspects
3.20   Cape Verde's enviroment is austere but the people deal with it bravely. The environment is very
frile, given: i) exposure of its predominantly bare surface to wind and water erosion; and ii) fast
growth of urban areas. lnadequate fresh water supply and lack of sanitaion and satisfactory system for
coilection and disposal of hazardous and solid waste pose immediate health hazards to the fast growing
popuation in the urban areas. Environmental problems are well identified and recognized by the
Goverment. The Government has adopted an active approach in carrying out some concrete actions to
address different aspects of the environment (e.g. allocating increasing financial resources to improve
urban living conditions, massive reforestation efforts, etc.). It has also established an inter-agency
National Council on the Environment (CNMA). CNMA has embarked on the design of a strategy, the
identifition of policy measures coherent with other policy reforms, and on the preparation of a
legiaive package and institutional framework to deal with environmental issues on a more
comprehensive basis. The Bank has assisted this process through the preparation of a Country
Evironmental Strae  Paper (CESP). An integral part of the Government's active stance on the
environment is the preparation of a National Environmenal Action Plan (NEAP) which has already
begun. The Goverment has indicated its intention to engage advisory services under the project, under
the category of pre-iestme  studies, to finalize its NEAP by July 30, 1994 (Annex 9). The project
will also include assistance to build the capacity of the Planning Department of the Ministry of Economic
Coordinatio and the Municipalities in environmental policy and impact analysis. The project does not
present the prospect of any detmental environmental impact.
IV. EROCI BENEM AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
4.1   The proposed project would assist a business-oriented Government at a critical time in the
implementation of its liberaization program in adapting the adminision and the civil service as well
as the judicial system to a new vision of the role of Government in the economy. It would support the
policy of the Government to create an enabling environment for private sector development through
modernization of the legal and judicial systems. It would foster efficicy in the public administration,
through the Ilemention of modern human resource management systems and procedures. It would
also promote greater participation in planning and managing the development process at the local level,
and foster accountability. It would increase the availability, and reduce the delays encountered in the
- 35 -



pepari  and  ecuton of public investment projects and increase efficiency in public resource use.
Ilprovement in investment exon monitorig and in policy and impact analysis would help the
Government in its efforts to better target and reduce poverty.
B. RISKS
4.2 Ihere Is some risk that vested interests within the civil service will resist reform measures as
these imp  on heir entrenched ways of perfirming their tasks, and may involve physical relocation of
staff to municipal goverments. Given the positive achievements of the Government to-date in these
fields, and strong grass-root support for decentralization, these risks are not considered high. There is
a risk that the training of civil servants and the retainig of voluntary departees from the civil service
could be slowed down by the limited capacity of local tainig institutions. This risk is not considered
insurmountale becaus the Govement is, in parallel with this project, embarking on a restructuring of
vocational education for which it has requested IDA support through the proposed Basic Education and
Traiig Project. The implementation of the reform program may also be slowed down by the limited
capacity of the Government administration to design the detais of some of the necessary reforms and to
monitor their ilementation. These risls are addressed through the strengthening of the project's
execution agencies and the appointment of a coordinator in the Ministry of Economic Coordination. The
Government has also shown a capacit to monitor complex reforms under its ongoing public enterprise
resructuing program. Finally, implementation of the Government's civil service retrenchment program
(voluntary departure aspects), though not an explicit part of the proposed project, could lose momentum
f the added strain on the private sectors already limited capacity to absorb new labor force entrants
results in higher unemployment and a political backlash. This risk will be minimized by an attractive
incentive package that provides montly income payments for up to three years - just enough to meet
subsistence needs of retrenchees without discouraging them from looking for ajob - in addition to a lump
sum distribution at the time of departure. Government has already made its budgetary allocations for the
payments, a key donor has already allocated assistance and other donors have expressed interest in
pxoviding fnding should the need arise.
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AM RECOMMENDATON
5.1   The Govermnt has submitted a Letter of Public Sector Reform Policy covering the various areas
of focus of the project (param 3.1). A central Project Coordinator (PC), with qualifications satisfactory
to the Association, has been appointed ht the Ministry of Economic Coordination (para. 3.8). The
appoiments of Project Component Managers (PCMs) have been formalized within the respective
agencies for each of the major project components, or sub-components (Legal and Judicial; Civil Service
Refori; Decentrizatlon/Municipal Stening; Planning; Statistics; Social and Economic Policy
Commnunications; Electonic Com cations and Shared Data Base Development; Public Finance; and
Public Procurement Reform) (para. 3.8). The performance indicators containing key project activities
(paras. 3.2 and 3.10) have been transmitted to IDA and aeed.
5.2   Agrment was also reachdduing ngodations on the following:
(a) terms of reference for the PC, PCMs and the RAIMB (paras. 3.8 and 3.9);
(b) the Govenment would submit to the Association, by October 31 of each year of the project,
staring in 1994, for review and approval, its draft annual Public Sector reform program
covering areas under the project, widh explicit targets, including a schedule of implementation
of key actions/reforms, in the sub-sectors based on explicit and monitorable targets (paa.
3.10);
- 36 -



(c) quarterly reports would be fushed to the Association i- '   than 30 days after the end
of each of the following quarters: March 31, June 30, aK 4 ;,ntember 30, and an annual
repo  which would include the December 31 period, to be trniaed within two months of
year-end (para. 3.10);
(d) the Goverment and the Association shall, not later than October 31, 1994 and, thereafter,
not later than October 31 of each subsequent year, undertake a joint review of the Project or,
as the case may be, not later than October 31, 1996, a mid-term review, during which they
shall exchange views generally on all matters relating to the progress achieved in the
implementation of the objectives of the Project. Following each such review, the Government
shall undertake to take corrective actions deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted
in the hmplementation of the Project, or to Implement any other measures as may have been
agreed upon in furtherance of the objectives of the Project (para. 3.11);
(e) not later than one month prior to each such review, the Govermnent shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, a report In such detl as the Association shall reasonably
request, to undertake the above-mentioned yearly and mid-term review (para. 3.11);
(X) as a general rule, consulting and advisory services would be selected on the basis of short-
listing, and on Sample Bank Bidding Documents, Letters of Ihvitation for selection of
consultants, and Sample Consultants' contracts, modified as appropriate. (para. 3.13);
(g) the Government will prepare and furnish to the Association a Project Completion Report
within six moths after the closing date (para. 3.11);
(h) the Government shall provide appropriate local financing for the Project Coordination unit
and for the retraining of voluntary departees from the civil service for each budget year (para
3.14);
(J) the establishment and operations of the Special Account and other disbursement procedures
(paras. 3.17 and 3.18); and
f-) key tme-bound monitoring and performance indicators for each component of the project
(paras. 3.2 and 3.10) and asurances and evidence received on the ongoing public information
campaign as wel as plans to launch additional campaigns by April 30, 1994.
5.3    Pmentation of the credit to the Board of Diretor of IDA was condngent upon:
(a) establishment of a Reform Advisory and Implementation Monitoring Board (RAIMB) and
appointment of its members (para. 3.9);
(b) receipt by the Association of the details of the civil service retrenchment program (para.
3.3 (lii)); and
(c) adoption of a model consultancy contract acceptable to the Association, including a sample
letter of invitation, for the recruitment of consultants and advisors under the project (para.
3.14).
-37 -



5.4    E          of this credht will be subject to the following conditons:
(a) Government would establish a small Project Coordinatig Unit (PCU), to be headed by tho
PC, approprately staffed to handle such matters a overal project acouting, bulk cenl
procurement, disbursements and project monioring, and to serve as the secretat of the
RAIMB (para. 3.9);
(b) selection of an independent auditor on the basis of a the-year contract, acceptable to the
Association, to audit the Project Accounts (para. 3.19).
(c) establishment of a financial managemen/accousing system for the project (par 3.19);
(d) agreement on the detailed work program for the first year of the project (para 3.10); and
(e) Government would submit the outstanding audit report on ELECTRA (para. 3.15).
5.5    Recommendt    Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a credit
of US$8.1 million equivalent to the Government of Cape Verde on standard IDA terms with 40 years
maity.
- 38 -



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
ANNEXES
- 39 -



Policy Letie
A    *                    Page lof13
M(INISTt.RIO  n A  COORP\ENW\ \O  ECON6\M(ICA
Gabinete do Ministro
IEtBF~m1 O R{Z         N ST I TUtJC I O NAEa        E
C A ?a C I TAHCNSO   D Ab   A1D DI N I S TRAZiCa O
3? L. BII CAi
:_ -e_ec_ _                                   _ _
I - INTROWDUCAO
O   Programa   do  Governo   aprovado   pela   Assembleia
Nacional,identifica   a   modernizacao   e   capacitacao   da
Administracao Pgblica como um dos eixos principais da accao
governativa.Esta opcao de fundo decorre da concepcao de quo a
Administracao Pfblica nao 6 neutral ,podendo constituir-se em
factor de bloqueio ou de promocao do desenvolvimento. Para quo
se trnasforme em factor de desenvolvirento, a Administracao
Pfiblica caboverdiana necessita de ser capacitada em tormos
t6cnicos o comportamentais para implementar um programa global
de reforma da economia e da sociedade,susceptivel de conduzir
o pais a um outro nivel de desenvolvisento econdmico e social.
Esta e a razao de ser do programa de Reforma
Institucional da Adninistracao Pdiblica,cujos objectivos gerais
sao:
.Modernizacao da Adainistracao Pfiblica,pela transformacao
das suas organizacoes,o reforco da sua capacidade tecnica e a
valorizacao dos seus recursos humanos,afim de torna-la apta
para apoiar o processo de desenvolvimento do pals.
.Reforco  da  capacidade de  formulacao,gestao,analise  e
comunicacao das politicas pfblicas,particularmente da politica
-con6mica,atravds   da   melhor   capacitaco   dos   servicos
governamentais da area econdmica
.Ielhoria na utilizacao dos recursos piblicos atrav4s da
criacao de sistemas transparentes e oficientes de gestao do
patrim6nio piblico
.Revisao o emodernizacao do sistema juridico legal e de
administracao da justica,com vista & criacao de um ambiente
apropriado ao investimento privado,& seguranca dos neg6cios e
a actividade empresarial em geral.
.Reforco da democracia e da participacao popular no
desenvolvimento,mediante a capacitacao dos municipios e a
consolidacao da sua autonomia
II. CONTBXT0 D& RFOCNI
- 40 -



Policy Letzer
Page 2 of 13
0  programa  de  desenvolvimento  econdmico  do  Governo
articula-se em torno de algumas linhas de forca,explicitamrente
formuladas que se podem sintetizar do seguinte modo : a)
insercao plena e dinAmica de Cabo Verde na economia mundial;
b) reducao do papel do Estado enquanto agente econ6mico
directo na esfera produtiva; c) reconhecimento do papel
determinante do sector privado como motor da economia a medio
prazo e da preponderancia dos mecanismo de mercado; d)
abertura ao investimento externo;rerducao da pobreza.
Esta concepcao desaf ia politicas e praticas anteriores e
colide frontalmente com o modo de funcionamento das estruturas
existentes no pals,nomeadamente a Administracao Pgblica, as
quais foram concebidas para dar suporte a uma politica de
desenvolvimento virada para o mercado interno e tributaria de
un forte intervencionismo estatal na economia.
As reformas estruturais ja iniciadas polo Governo, com o
apoio do Banco Mundial e outros parceiros, abrangem as
seguintes areas principais de intervencao:a) reestruturacao do
sector empresarial do estado; b)liberalizacao da economia e
desenvolvimento  do  sector  privado;  c)  reforma  do  sector
financeiro; d)  reforma  do  ensino; 4tinfraestrutu.racao;  *1
reforma   institucional  da   administracao   pdblica   e  t)
responsabilidade pela gestao de recursos entre o centro e as
diversa ilhas,dada a natureza do pals.
As reformas em curso visam,de um modo geral,criar ur
ambiente favoravel ao investimento e a actividade dos agentes
econ6micos privados,atraves do  redimensionamento  do  sector
pidblico  empresarial,da  revisao  do  papel  do  Estado  na
economia,do     desenvolvimento      dos      mecanismos      de
-ercado,nomeadamente da concorrencia,da abertura do sistema
financeiro   e   da   diversificacao   dos   instrumentos   de
financiamento da economia,da capacitacao dos recursos humanos
e da criacao das infraestruturas indispensaveis a integraco do
mercado interno e a insercao de Cabo Verde no mercado mundial.
A eficScia real das reformas estruturais depende em
grande parts da capacidade de implementacao da propria
Administracao Pdblica,a qual nao se encontra suficientemente
preparada  para  dar  resposta  As  solicitacoes  da  nova
estratigia.
A    Administracao    Pdblica    Caboverdiana    revela
caracteristicas de urnA organizacao tradicionalista,um pouco
fechada  em  si  mResma,  legalista,pesada,de  urn  modo  geral
insuficientemente qualificada,por vezes pouco sensivel As
mutacoes ambientais,pautando a sua accao por urna racionalidade
juridica   quo   tende   a   bloquear   o   desenvolvimento
organizacLonal.Estas caracteristicas obrigam a administracao a
funcionar mediante um ritualismo que transforma a sua
organizacao numa maquina pouco eficaz,esquecendo os valores e
os objectivos concretos a que se destina toda a actividade
administrativa.Ela  carece  igualmente  de  certos  recursos
tdcnicos e materiais para desempenhar as suas funcoes.
Obviamente,uma administracao deste tipo pode
constituir um  entrave is reformas economica e A realizacao do
- 41 -



ANNEX-I
Polic ae
Page 3 of 13
programa de desenvolvimento do Governo.Por isso se impoe a sua
modernizacao   e   capacitacao,para   que   possa   responder
positivamente &s exigOncias de um processo de reforma global.
III. OBJBCTIVOS KSPUCZFICOS E ACCOES
I1I.l. Funcao Pdblica
A modernizacao e capacitacao da funcao piblica traduzir-
se-ao numa administracao mais preparada para responder an
solicitacoes do publico e dos agentes economicos,mais atenta
as necessidades especificas da sua "clientela" e mais virada
para a sociedade em que se insere,facilitando dessa forma os
processos de mudanca em todas as oeferas da vida economica e
social
Os objectivos especificos da reforma da funcao  pablica
sao os seguintes:
.Desenvolvimento de um sistema de planeamento o geatae
dos  recursos  humanos  que  possibilite  uma  politica  de
mobilidade do pessoal em funcao das prioridades e das
necessidades estruturais e conjunturais dos servicos p1blicos.
.Implementacao de us abrangente programa de forracao por
forma a elevar a qualificacao tdcnica dos funciondrios a
adaptar as suas capacidades o atitudes as reais necessidades
de um servico pdblico oficiente.
.Reducao da dimensao da funcao piblica para niveis
adequados e compativeis com a novo papel do Estado,a melhoria
da produtividade o da qualidade da prestacao de servico * a
motivacao dos funciondrios.
Accoes importantes foram j& desencadeadas do uma forma
gradual mas sistevatica.Assim,uma campanha do sensibilizacao
foi lancada com a finalidade de informear o sensibilizar as
funciondrios e o pdblico para a necessidade o urgencia da
reformamnovos  instrumentos  de  gestao  do  pessoal  foram
introduzides cor resultados satisfat6rios,nomeadamento um nova
Plano de Cargos, Carreiras o Salarios (PCCS), instruxentos de
mobilidade  do  pessoal  no  ssio  da  aduinistracao  e  a
requlamentacao dos concursos de promocao.Proced.u-se ainda A
elaboracao do plano nacional do desburocratizacao o ao inicia
da sua implementacao nas areas de maior dificuldade nas
relacoes entre a administracao e o pidblico,nomeadamento
alfandegas,administracao  dos  impostos  o  notariado:forae
interditas novas nomeacoes para a funcao piblica desdo Janeiro
de 1993,cor excepcao dos quadros teonicos,pessoal docents o
tecnicos de saide,com o objectivo de estabilizar os efectivos
da funcao p4blica.Os elementos essenciais do Programa de
Abandono Voluntario (PAV)foram estabelecidos e discutidos em
sede de concertacao social.
As accoes de maior impacto previstas no aebito do
programa do reforma consistem  : a) na implantacao de um
sistema de planeamento e gestao de recursos humanos quo
onvolvera o reforco da base de dados existente,a elaboracao o
implementacao  de instrumentos para a avaliacao dos recursos
- 42 -



ANNE I
Policy Letter
Page 4 of 13
humanos,o planeamento do desenvolvimento das carreiras e a
identificacao de necessidades de formacao,a concretizar-se a
partir do ano de 1994; b) na elaboracao e implementacao de um
extensive programa de formacao envolvendo seis zinistfrios,a
realizar-se nos periodo 1994/98; c) na implemertacao do
PAV,cuja concretizacao so espera para 1994/95, e d) na
realizcaco de um programa de treino dirigido especificamente
ao participantes no PAV.
III.2. Gostao Bcondmica
o reforco da capacidade de formulacao da politica
econ6mica e de analise do seu impacto possibilita ao Estado
adequar  os  instrumentos  de  politica  e  ajusta-los  as
necessidades   efectivas   da   economia   e   dos   agentes
econ6micos,reforcando a capacidade de dialoqo e concertacao
com as parceiros sociais.
Os objectivos especifoos desta componente do programa de
reforma sao os sequintes:
.Reestruturacao do sistema estatistico nacional por
forma  a  assegurar  as  informacoes  necessarias  X  gestao
econ6mica do Estado e dos agentes sconomicos
.Reforco  da  capacidade  de  formulacao  de  politica
economica e de andlise de impacto da Direccao Geral do
Planeamento.
.Melhoria da capacidade de coordenacao da ajuda, de
gestao da divida p%Ablica e da mobilizacao de recursos
financeiros internos
.4elhoria da comunicacao da politica economica   e
das cemunicacoes intra-governamentais.
A   eleboracao   do   III   Plano   Nacional   de
Desenvolvimento   constituiu   um   momento   importante   de
identificacao de potencialidades e limitacoes.Procedeu-se &
revisao do sistema de planeamento e deu-se inicio & preparacao
do primeiro Proqama Plurianual de Investimentos Pdlblicos
(PPIP).Foi coupletada a analise e publicacao do Recenceamento
Geral da Populacao * estabelecido um novo indice de precos no
consuridar.
No ambito da reforma preve-se a realizacao das seguintes
aceoes,entre  outros:a)criacao  do  Instituto  Nacional  de
Estatistica con un estatuto de maier independencia em relacao
ao  Governo;b)recuperacao  dos  atrasos  na  preparacao  e
publicacao  das  contas  nacionais;  c)revisao  da  base  e
reformulacao da metodoloqia das ceontas nacionais;od)realizacao
de inqueritos sectoriais especificeos;e)formacao de curta e
longa duraco dos quadros da Estatistica;f) eonclusao do PPIP
1994/96;q)estabelecimento de un fundo de pre-investimento;
h)elaboraecao de un manual de planeamento;i)formacao de quadros
na area do planeamento.:j)dotacao da departamentos eeon6micos
eom equipamentos e materiais necessarios.
III.3. Gbstao do Patriu6nio Pfblico
-43 -



ANNU 
Policy Leun
Page 5 of 13
Esta  area  da  actividade  governamental  carece  de  uma
rapida  intervencao  com vista  ao aumento da ef iciencia na
utilizacao dos recursos piblicos e a melhoria global da gestao
do patrimonio do Estado.A base legislativa da reforma j& se
encontra praticamente elaborada.
No quadro do processo de reforma,prevem-se algumas accoes
de fundo,a sequir sumarizadas:a)a compilacao e actualizacao de
toda     a     legislacao     quo      regula     as     compras
pOblicas,1993/94;b)treino e reciclagem de quadros dos diversos
departamentos    governamentais    ligados    a   gestao    do
patrimdnio:c)concepcao  e  implementacao  de  um  plano  de
informatizacao do processo de compras e de gestao patrizonial.
111.4. Reforma juridico-legal
A transformacao dos sistemas legal e judicial beneficiara
do esforco global de reforma da funcao pfblica,na medida em
que os funcion4rios que integram o sistema estarao mais
capacitados e sensibilizados para as necessidades reais da
sociedade civil e mais motivados pelas melhorias introduzidas
na   gestao   dos   recursos   humanos   da   administracao.Em
contrapartida,um  sistema  legal  e  judicial  simplificado  e
facilitador das actividades economicas privadas introduz una
nova dinamica nas relacoes entre o Estado e o sector privado e
reforca as garantias e a confianca dos agentes econ6micos.
Entre os objectivos desta componente do programa de
reforma destacam-se os seguintes:
.Criacao de un ambiente legal propicio ao incremento da
actividade econ6mica,e de un ambiente institucional que
favoreca o desenvolvimento dos nesocios,por configurar un
modelo organizacional e ur modo de operar que responda com
oficiencia as necessidades dos agentes econdmicos.
.Institucionalizacao de procedimentos e de orgaos que
veiculem,nas decisoes sobre conflitos de interesse dos agentes
econ6micos,a   imagen   de   rapidez,seriedade,ponderacao   e
qualidade.
.Estabelecimento de un subsistema de not-ariado e registo
que assegure a legalidade dos neg6cios e confira sequranca e
certeza as partes nas transaccoes.
.Capacitaceao institucional do Minist4rio da Justica e
Trabalho,por forma a estar apto a conceber e acompanhar a
execucao das medidas que se inscrevem no ambito da reforma
legislativa
A accao do Governo no dominio da Justica centrou-se
principalmente na reforma legislativa,tendo sido revistos o
c6digo do Processo Penal,o Registo Comercial,a legislacao da
fadilia;foi criada a Policia Judiciaria e iniciada a revisao
ds leis do trabalho e das sociedades e do c6digo penal.No
dominio da administracao judiciaria e dos registos e notariado
foram adoptadas medidas visando dotar as estruturas com as
meios materiais e humanos indispensaveis & elevacao da Justica
ao nivel das exigencias dos cidadeos.
-44 -



ANNEXI
Policy Lete
Page 6 of 13
No ambito do processo de reforma,estao previstas as
seguintes accoes principais:a)conclusao da revisao do regime
juridico das relacoes de trabalho;b)revisao da lei das
sociedades;c)revisao da legislacao processual;d)revisao da
legislacao dos registos e notariado;e)especializacao das
instancias judiciais;f)modernizacao dos sistemas de registo e
notariado;g)criacao do centro de formacao judicial: h)formacao
de   magistrados   e   outros   juristas;i)desenvolvimento   da
informacao juridica.
III.5. Descentralizacao e reforco dos Hunicipios
Uma administracao local suficientemente capacitada,estara
melhor  preparada  para  assumir  as  responsabilidades  do
desenvolvirento local e mais sensibilizada para as exigencias
do desenvolvimento global do pais.Podera ainda imprimir maior
profundidade e eficacia ao relacionamento com o poder central
e com os agentes econdmicos privados.
Os objectivos da reforma nesta area sao as seguintes:
.Aprofundar o processo de descentralizacao e aproximar as
comunidades dos centros de decisao.
.Aumentar a eficiencia na utilizacao de recursos e a
capacidade de gestao dos municipios.
.Melhorar a articulacao entre os niveis central e
municipal do poder.
.Reforcar  a  capacidade  institucional  de  todos  os
municipios e aumentar a eficiencia administrativa dos orqaos
municipais.
A descentralizacao tem merecido do Governo uma atencao
inuito particular,apesar das imensas dificuldades decorrentes
da novidade deste tema na politica nacional.Destacam-se as
sequintes accoes :a)organizacao e realizacao das primeiras
eleicoes autarquicas democraticas na hist6ria do pais,em que
participaram os partidos politicos e qrupos de cidadaos
organizados livremente;b)o reforco substancial dos recursos
transferidos para os orgaos municipais,que desde 1990 foram
multiplicados  por  2,6  vezes;c)transferencia  ofectiva  e
negociacao    para   transferencia,de    competencias,recursos
humanos,materiais e financeiros da admuinistracao central para
a    administraco    local    nos    dominios    das    Obras
Pd1blicas,Cultura,Transportes   Torrestres,Comdrio,Educacao   e
Recursos  Hidricos;*d)organizacao  de  accoes  de  formacao  e
capacitacao dos eleitos municipais.
No aubito da reforma estao previstas as seguintes
accoes:a)Desenvolvimento das  linhas mestras do processo de
doscentralizacao e conclusao do processo de transferencia de
responsabilidades e competencias; b)concepcao e implementacao
de us nova sistema de planeamento,orcarentacao e contabilidade
das camaras municipais ;c)revisao da lei de financas locais e
identificacao do recursos adicionais dos municipios con vista
a  aumentar  a  sua  independencia  em  relacao  ao  poder
central;d)Desenvolvirmento  e  implementacao  de  un plano  de
- 45 -



ANNXL
Policy Letter
Page 7 of 13
accoes para a criacao dos Gabinetes de Apoio Tecnico aos
municipios;e)dotacao dos municipios com um minimo de recursos
materiais    e    equipamentos    necessdrios        as    suas
actividades;f)concepcao  e  implementacao de um programa  de
formacao dos eleitos municipais e dos funcionarios da
administracao local em areas como a gestao municipal,financas
e contabilidade, avaliacao de projectos,organizacao e gestao
de recursos humanos.
IV. Questoes institucionais-
O Governo atribui a maior importancia ao sucesso do
programa de Reforma Institucional e Capacitacao do Sector
Poblico.Por isso considera necessario un sistema eficaz  e
eficiente de gestao do programa,que assegure a sua atempada
implementacao e adequada coordenacao.Para o efeito,o Governo
criara por via legislativa uma Comissao de Coordenacao da
Reforma do Sector Pd1blico (RAIMB),co-dirigido pelos Ministro
de Estado da Coordenacao Economica e Ministro da Administracao
Pblica e Assuntos Parlamentares, e que integrara os gestores
das   componentes   do   projecto   (PCM),o,  coordenador   do
projecto(PC)  e  outras  entidades  dos  sectores  piblico    e
privado.A Comissao acompanhara todo o processo de reforma e
apoiara o Governo na definicao do ritmo e da direccao da
reforma.
o Governo criara,tambem por via legislativa,uma Unidade
de Coordenacao do Projecto(PCU) que desenvolvera e coordenara
a accao dos diversos aspectos do programa.
A gestao operaciqoBl de cada componente estard a cargo de
cada Ninist4rio sectorial que para o efeito,designara um
gestor  de  componente  de  projecto,responsavel  pelo  bom
andamento do programa no respectivo sector.
V. Conclusao
O  programa  de Reforma  Institucional  da  Administracao
Pilica e consistente cor o Programs do Governo e apoiard o
Governo na reestruturacao de um sector vital,cuja dinamica
condiciona o sucesso de toda o programa de reformas economicas
e a propria estrat6gia de desenvolvimento do pais.
O programa integra a modernizacao global da gestao,dos
mrtodos e processos e contribuira para una melhor capacitacao
tanto da administracao central como da administracao local
para o desempenho das suas funcoes proprias,reforcando deste
modo a participacao das comunidades e do pdblico na formulacao
e implementacao de politicas que lhes dizem respeito
0 Ministro da C   rdenacao Econ6mica
Jo    Tomrs Wah-non de C. Veiga
Praia,17 de Novembro 1993
- 46 -



ANNEX I
Policy Letter
Page 8 of 13
UNOFFICIAL ENGLISH TRANSLATION
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
BRIEF STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT POLICY
I.    INTRODUCTION
The Government's Program, approved by the National Assembly, identifies modernization and capacity
building of Public Administration as one of the key axes of the governmental action. This fundamental option
emanates from a clear perception that the Public Administration is not neutral, capable of either constituting
a factor blocking or promoting development. In order that it transform itself into a factor promoting
development, the Cape Verdean public administration's capacity needs to the built in technical and behavioral
terms, in so that it can contribute positively to the implementation of a global economic and social reform
program able to lead the country to another level of economic and social development.
That is the "raison d'etre' of the Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Program of Public
Administration, among whose general objectives are:
-   Modernization of Public Administration, by transforming its organizations, strengthening its
technical capacity and valorizing its human resources in order to render it capable of supporting
the country's development process;
-  Enhancement of the capacity to formulate, manage, analyze and communicate public policies,
particularly economic policy, through a better capacity building of governmental services in the
economic area;
-  Improvement in the utilization of public resources through the creation of transparent and efficient
management systems of public property and resources;
-  Revision and modernization of the legal system together with the system of justice, with a view
to create a favorable environment for private investment, business confidence, and entrepreneurial
activity in general and to ensure good governance;
- Strengthening of democracy and of popular participation in the development process through
capacity building of Local Municipal Governments as well as consolidation of their autonomy.
II.   REFORM CONTEfX
The Government's economic development program is articulated around some explicitly formulated,
key lines of action, which may be synthesized as follows: a) dynamic and complete insertion of Cape Verde
into the world economy; b) reduction of State role as a direct economic agent in the productive sector; c)
recognition of the key role of the private sector as the engine of growth in the medium term, and of the
leading role of market forces; d) opening to external investmnent; and e) poverty reduction and protection of
the environment.
- 47 -



ANNEX I
Policy Letter
Page 9 of 13
Ibis new orientation challenges past policies and practices and collides directly with the ways in which
existing structures and agencies operate in the country, particularly in the public sector, which were designed
to provide support to an inward looking developmental policy, where the State commanded the economy.
Structural reforms already started by the Government, with support of the World Bank and other
development partners, comprises the following main areas of intervention: a) restructuring of the public
enterprise sector; b) economic liberalization and private sector development; c) financial sector reform; d)
refbrm of the education and training sector; e) infrastructure development; f) public administration institutional
reform; and f) shared responsibility for resource management between the central Government and the various
islands, due to the archipelago nature of the country.
Overall, the reforms under way are aimed at creation of a favorable environment for investment and
private economic activity. Specifically, this is to be accomplished through restructuring and slimming down
of the public enterprises sector, revision of the State's role in the economy, development of market forces,
increased competition, financial system liberalization and diversification of economic financing instruments,
human resource capacity building as well as the creation of structures judged indispensable to the integration
of domestic market and the insertion of Cape Verde into the world economy. The effectiveness and success
of structural reforms is highly dependent on the implementation capacity of the Public Administration itself,
which does not find itself sufficiently well prepared to meet the challenge posed by the new strategy.
Cape Verdean Public Administration reveals characteristics of a tradition-bound organization,
somewhat introverted, overly legalistic, heavy, in a general manner insufficiently trained, and often not
sensitive enough to broader societal changes. Gauging its action from a rational perspective these traits tend
to act as a real barrier to organizational development. These characteristics compel the administration to
function in ritual manner which transforms its organization into a not very effective machine, overlooking the
basic values and objectives at all administrative activity. In addition to the above, Cape Verdean Public
Administration also faces shortage of some technical and material resources to adequately perform its duties.
Obviously, an administration of this kind could constitute a major barrier to economic reforms as well
as the realization of the Government's development program. Therefore, its modernization and capacity
building are paramount and immediate in order that it can positively respond to the demands of a global
reform process.
II.   SPECIIIC OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS
mIll. Civil Sewvce
Civil Service modemization and capacity building will contribute to an administration that is better
prepared to meet the needs of the general public and of economic agents, more attentive to the specific needs
of its clientele' and outward looking towards the society to which it belongs, facilitating the processes of
change in all spheres of economic and social life.
The specific objectives of the Civil Service reform are the following:
-   development of a system of human resources planning and management that facilitates a policy
of personnel mobility, according to structural and specific public service needs;
- 48 -



ANNEX I
Policy letter
Page 1v of 13
implementation of a broad training program in order to Increase civil servants' technical skills
and adapt their capacity and attitudes to the real needs of an efficient public service;
- reduction in size of the Civil Service towards more adequate levels, compatible with the new State
role, productivity increase, quality improvement of service delivery and motivation of civil
servants.
Important actions have already been taken, in a gradual but systematic way. Thus, a sensitization
campaign has been launched, aiming at informing and raising the awareness of both civil servants and the
public for the need and urgency of the reform; new personnel management instruments have been adopted,
with satisfactory results, namely the new Position, Career and Salary Plan (PCCS), and personnel career
mobility process instruments within administration and regulamentation of examination to earn promotion.
A national bureaucratic simplification plan was developed and is now being implemented in more difficult
areas of the public administration and the general public interface. These are in the areas of customs, taxation
and the office of public notary. Concomitantly, new hiring to the Civil Service has been frozen since January
1993, except for technical personnel, teachers and medical personnel with a view to stabilize the civil service
force. The main elements of the Voluntary Departure Program (PAV) were defined and discussed in the
Social Consultative Council.
Actions with greater impact foreseen in the reform program consist of: a) implementation of a system
of human resources planning and administration, which will involve enhancing the existing data base,
preparation and implementation of human resources performance appraisal instruments and career planning
and identification of training needs, to be carried out from 1994 on; b) preparation and implementation of an
extensive training program involving various Ministries beginning with six, to be carried out in the period of
1994198; c) implementation of the Voluntary Departure Program (PAV), expected to take place in 1994/95;
and d) implementation of a training program specifically directed towards PAV participants.
11.2. Economic Management
The enhancement of the capacity to formulate economic policy and the analysis of its impact permits
the Government to better configure its policy instruments and adjust them to the real needs of the economy
while enhancing the capacity to dialogue and consult with economic agents and social partners.
The specific objectives of this component of the reform program are the following:
- restructuring of the national accounting and statistical system in order to ensure information
needed for managing the economy by State and by economic agents;
-  strengthening of the capacity to formulate economic policy and undertake impact analysis by the
General Directorate of Planning;
-   irmproviemernt of the capacity to coordinate foreign aid, to manage public debt, and to mobilize
internal financial resources;
-   improvement of communication in the areas of economic policy and of intra-governmental
communications.
The preparation of the III National Development Plan was an important focal point to identify
potentis and limitations. The planning system was revised and the first Multi-Annual Public Investment
- 49 -



ANNEX I
Policy Letter
Page 11 of 13
Program (PIP) is being developed. The analysis and publication of the General Population Census has been
completed and a new consumer price index was established.
Within the sphere of reforms, the following partial list of actions are foreseen: a) creation of the
National Statistics Institute, with by-laws giving more independence from the Government; b) timely
preparation and publication of national accounts; c) revision of the national accounts basis and methodology;
d) undertaking of specific sectoral surveys; e) long and short-term training of Statistics staff; f) conclusion
of the Multi-Annual Public Investment Program for 199419f> g) establishment of a pre-investment fund; b)
preparation of a planning manual; i) technical staff training in the area of planning; and j) providing economic
departments with necessary equipment and materials.
11.3. Public Property Management
This area of govemmental activity needs immediate attention in order to increase efficiency in public
resources utilization and overall improvement of State property management. The legislative base of this
reform is under preparation and almost complete.
The leading reform actions foreseen are summarized as follow: a) compilation and updating of all
legislation regulating public procurement, 1993/94; b) training of personnel of the various government
Departments related to public property management and procurement; c) design and implementation of a plan
to computerize the procurement process and property management.
11.4. Legal Reform
The changes to be introduced in the legal and judicial system will benefit from the overall effort of
the civil service reform as a result of the fact that the staff in the system will be better trained and sensitized
to the real needs of the civil society and more motivated by the improvements introduced in the human
resources management within the Administration. In return, a more simplified legal and judicial system,
which facilitates private sector activities will introduce a new dynamism in the relations between the State and
the private sector, and enhancing the guarantees and the confidence of economic agents.
Among the objectives of this component of the reform program, the following are emphasized:
-   creation of a legal environment that is favorable to Increasing economic activity as well as an
institutional environment that favors business development, by designing an efficient
organizational and operating model that efficiently responds to the needs of economic agents;
-   institutionalization of procedures and decision making bodies that ensure expediency, seriousness,
judiciousness and quality, in the decisions affecting economic agents' interest;
-   establishment of a notary public and registry sub-system that assures business legality and grants
security and confidence to the transacting parties;
-   institutional capacity building of the Ministry of Justice and Labor, in order to conceptualize and
monitor the execution of policy measures foreseen in the legislative reform package.
Government actions in the area of Justice is principally centered on legislative reform. Some of the
actions already undertaken include the revision of the Penal Procedural Code, the Commercial Registry, family
legislation, the creation of the Judiciary Police, initiation of the revision of the Labor Code, now underway,
- Sn -



ANNEX I
Policy Letter
Page 12 of 13
along with the law of corporations and the Penal Code.  In the area of judiciary administration and
administration of the registry and offices of the notary public, measures have been adopted with a view to
providing the services with material and human resources indispensable to elevate Justice to the level of the
citizens' demands.
Within the reform process, the following main actions are foreseen: a) conclusion of the revision of
the Labor Code; b) revision of the Commercial and Company Code; c) revision of the legislative procedures;
d) revision of the legislation of registry and offices of the notary; e) specialization of judicial bodies; f)
modernization of registry and notary systems; g) creation of the center for judicial training; h) training of
magistrates and other legal personnel; and i) development of legal information.
m.s. Decentralization and Local Government Enhancement
A well endowed local administration will be better prepared to assume the responsibilities of local
development and more sensitized to contributing to the overall development of the country. At the samne time,
a stronger local administration will be able to relate more effectively with the central administration as well
as with private economic agents.
Ihe objectives of the reform in this area are the following:
-   deepen the decentralization process and bring local communities closer to decision centers;
-   increase efficiency in the use of resources and management capacity of municipalities;
-   improve articulation between the central and local Governments;
- strengthen institutional capacity of all municipalities and increase administrative efficiency of
municipal bodies;
Decentralization has deserved a particular attention of the Government, despite the many difficulties
faced by this new subject matter in national policy. The following actions have been undertaken: a)
organization and carrying out of the first democratic local government elections in the history of the country,
in which political parties and groups of citizens participated freely (1991); b) a substantial increase of the
funds transferred to municipal bodies, which have been multiplied by a factor of 2.6 since 1990; c) effective
transfer and negotiation for transfer of authority, human, material and financial resources from the central to
the local administrations, in the areas of public works, culture, land transportation, commerce, education, and
water resources; d) organization of training activities and capacity building of the locally elected officials.
The following reform actions are anticipated: a) further development of key directives of the
decentralization process and conclusion of the process of transfer of responsibility and competencies; b)
design and implementation of a new planning, budgeting and accounting system of municipal governments;
c) revision of the law of local finances and identification of additional municipal resources aimed at increasing
their independence on the central government; d) development and implementation of an action plan for the
creation of offices for technical support to municipalities; e) providing municipalities with minimum resources
In terms of materials and equipment, needed to carry out their activities; f) design and implementation of a
training program for locally elected officials and for civil servants working in local administrations, in such
areas as municipal management, finances and accounting, project appraisal, human resources organization and
management.
- 51 -



ANNEX I
Policy Letter
Page 13 of 13
IV    ORGANIZATIONAL AND INSIITUTIONAL ISSUES
'he Government assigns the greatest importance to the success of the institutional reform and capacity
building program of the public sector. As such, it considers necessary an effective and efficient management
system of the program, which will assure its timely implementation and adequate coordination. For that
purpose, the Government wIll create, via legislation, a Public Sector Reform Advisory and Implementation
Monitoring Board (RAIMB), co-directed by the Minister of State of Economic Coordination and the Minister
Public Administration and Parliamentary Affairs. This Board will include component managers (PCMs), and
a project coordinator (PC) of the Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project to be supported by the
World Bank, and representatives of other public and private sector entities. The Board will monitor the whole
reform process and will support the Government in defining the pace and the direction of the reform.
The Government will also create, by legislative means, a Project Coordinadon Unit (PCU) which will
help develop and coordinate the actions of the various aspects of the program.
The operational management of each component will be under the auspices of each sectoral Ministry.
Each Minstry, will designate a project component manager, responsible for the successful implementation of
the program in the respective sector.
V   CONCLUSION
The public sector reform and capacity building program is consistent with the Government's Program
and will support the Government in the restructuring of a vital sector, whose dynamism is a precondition to
the success of the overall economic reform program and the country's overall development strategy.
The program encompasses modernization of management, methods and processes and will contribute
towards a better capacity of both the central and the local administration. Such a program will enable the
central and local administrations to better perform their respective functions, thus enhancing community and
public participation in the development and implementation of policies.
(Signed)
The Minister of State for Economic Coordination
Jose Tomas Wahnon de C. Veiga
Praia, November 17, 1993.



ANNEX 2
A Historical Perspective
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
CAPE VERDE: A HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE^
1.           In the year 1456, a Portuguese sailor named Diego Gomes came upon an uninhabited
archipelago off the west coast of Africa, adjacent to the Cape of Verde. The strategic location of the ten
islands of the archipelago relative to the west coast of Africa, along with the existence of excellent ports
among the islands made them very attractive to the Portuguese for purposes of shipping and trade within the
continent of Africa.
2.           Portugal sent to the Cape Verde Islands many of its and other politically dissident citizens to
inhabit the islands by mixing with West Africans as Portugal participated in the trade of slaves. Out of this
blend of strong willed, diverse people evolved the Cape Verdean population - a creole population for the most
part, with a wide variety of dialects of their language. Because of their location off West Africa relative to
the trade winds, the Cape Verde Islands were central to the European exploration of the continent of Africa.
Cape Verdeans navigated some of the ships that made historic journeys to explore the coasts of Africa and
the rest of the world.
3.           Located in the Sahel region of Africa and victim of its dry winds, Cape Verde has throughout
its history suffered extensive periods of drought and famine, which caused tremendous suffering, pestilence
and death. Between the late 18th century and mid 19th century, well over 100,000 Cape Verdeans died of
starvation caused by three major droughts. As much as 44% of the entire population was lost during the
worst of these droughts. During the turn of the century, as many as 20,000 to 30,000 Cape Verdeans would
die in a given year due to the devastation of the drought.
4.           As a result of this suffering and the difficulty of earning a living in the islands, an estimated
700,000 Cape Verdeans emigrated to the United States, Europe and other countries of Africa during the early
and middle years of the 20th century. But for the exceptional navigating skills of the Cape Verdean sailors,
this massive migration of people would have been impossible. Through many generations, Cape Verdean
emigres have continued to be very loyal to the homeland. This is evidenced by remittances and other links
forged by Cape Verdean emigrant communities.
5.           The strength of the Cape Verdean culture - a strong work ethic and respect for others,
allowed Cape Verdeans who emigrated to establish even during the most difficult economic times of the 20th
century. In the U.S. for example, Cape Verdeans established successful and productive communities in
Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut. During the 1950's, Cape Verdeans began to relocate in other
parts of the United States, mostly California. Today there are over 500,000 Cape Verdeans in the United
States, many of whom have reached pinnacles of businesses, professions or political office.
- 53 -
Main Source: The Foundation of Cabo Verde, 1993.



ANNEX 2
A Historical Perspective
Page 2 of 2
6.           Cape Verdeans, led by Amilcar Cabral, gained Independence from Portugal on July 5, 1975,
ending 515 years of colonial nrle. On June 30, 1975 the Party for the Independence of Guinea-Bissau and
Cape Verde (PAIGC, later PAICV) was the only political group to run candidates for the first general
election, and Aristides Pereira and Pedro Pires, heroes in the struggle for independence, became President
and Prime Minister, respecdvely.
7.           In January of 1991, Cape Verde held its first multi-party democratic election artl. became one
of the few African countries to establish a democratic government peacefully. The election was won by the
Movement for Democracy paty (MPD), of a liberal bent, anL. Carlos Veiga becane the country's Prime
Minister. In February, 1991 Antonio Manuel Mascarenhas Monteiro was elected President of Cape Verde.
- 54 -



Full nme                                   AcbtIvIt                               1.4..                     tthoct  lhd.
____ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___                                                                                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _      * 1al    owneish
PURttC EnTEnramS
1 EMPA                          Empaes Pubtica de Abestdemeco              Impott & tie of basi psoducis         Vin. of Commewce. tndustky  Toustlm   t      000%
2 ENACOI.                        Em.po  Necnoa de Comtbu.h.            Impon & dItibuton of peiolbum psoducta    Mlh. ol Coamnwce. Industry  Twisdm           tO8.0%
3 AA                      Empare. ea ctna de Aeftpodon * Segwa     ee AArpor .uttiy                                Min. ot hnkstauctuo & Tafenspot             00.0%
4 CTT                          Espesa Pubi3ca die C0cal. a Telecom             Poot adWeleeom trly                 Min. of tc.seuu"cwt  &T.anspod             10001k
5 TACV                          *Tanapo.te Aueos do Ceab Vode .AMbe                                               Mti. of lnlatro ucte & Tian" pod            100A 01k 
6 ENAPOa                    Emp_set. cltonk    d  IAdmic"tweo do. Pdoc              Pod euth.liy                   Uh.olkSo rdaieucwe * hanspit                    ; 100T0%
7 ARCA VERDE                Caqm  flacAgma deavgw A4cce Vorde    frifer-ItAd tweubl & p Fsenowe st*pPk             Ukt of tChellSwetlure  Tla t 1renoo os .0
a COTU                     Coupe.. de  do..t doe Teanpe Meilmo.               OearIc btlat shippin                Min. of h*nstnudlula & Tsansport           100%
9 ANV                               Agenwa Hclonale Vlageao                   Ttvieu &custom  agancy            MUi. at Commece. Indusby & lownl              100.4%
tO ELECTRA                     Empresa PubIc. de Ebclacldd d  Agum             Water and Etedicy uniiy           MkI. ot Comaesce. lndusy 4 Touti bm          100.0%
It EUPROfAC                  Empss  aclH_t do Piodulas I'smmaceutlcos       Import & taed o phmeam,caud           Min. oft coa mace. Indusb,y ltowibrt         1o01%
t2 SONACon                Bo. Neaclonel de Coen. * Itpeacao do Equ         tmiport nd mantonuno of vehicles       Mon. of ComaccA. Indusity 6 Towisin          oos 0%
t     13 CAOUAl                        Empa.s Pullce d f  bstao HNaval             Ownerbip of eldpysad acddeies         mii. of Commece. Indhisgly & 1o  s0a 100.4%
ULi    *4 MAC                        Empres Publtc de Mabeel dsb COnstiuca.         Uamdclwbsg Of Geme  blokS           Urn. of Commerce. Indouy & Towlsm            00.%4    EA
Ul    1S ONAVE                             Otkm. NOval do 8. Vicwl                  Repkopate*c & wood Lbots            lAin. 01 Commerco. Indu6by SIowism                       EA00%
t O ENAVI                          Enpesa Mactnal de AvhuSwe                         Po""liym                 Min. oflbtw..I.. Aoriluww & Purad Anan          100I0S      t
t1 fAP                        Em,_.e PubIc de fmAnto Agm-Pecsmo              Prodctbtns rdioa atmal ted       Mis eof l lt tse. AGOWkullt A NRatAnmtun        tOO 0%     til
to A_ LOPEZ                     E.p.a. Ago-tndu.o  AoU         to epe        Banana pnln nd pig lium           kIn, Of f IshetrIs. Agllcdlreto & lsra AhricdiOn  100.01S
tS PESCAVE                         Em.p.e Cabowsdn do Pecc-                        hnduIla tlag               Min. e ft 1`taas, sAgiuluu  A Owal An H lman     too 0%
20 INTERASE                    Emp.se de Canarb de Pnadh do Mr mmt                  _nalna markl  of OIh      Min. of fislmufea. Ag,lulte S t herlAiatmn       1000%      0
2t TRANSCOR                Em,_. 4d Transpodr ......do.di a   a.             Bua tOen pod In Pls & M hdob           mhi. of httebuchume & trapo                0*
tlXEO COMPANIES
I CAAVE                        Ealalakos Naval. EdeCatlo Verdi. SARI      SWL  ,.kb (ants CASUAR llclels                                                      810%       0
2 METALCAVE                     matabmco. do Cb VWs. dea.                 Ahnluim m produdi & ffe furnitrae                                                    801 k
.t MACSOUL                          MaGsobt di Cabo Vids. da                    Produston at cuAd  tsS                                                        4.0%
; WOAVE                            moegr de Cab.Word. SL                            Oalf 0n                                                                   8t0%      h 8
2 HOTELMAR                    Soehd.e Hollb do CaB V.41.. H                            Mold                                  Sl                                 .0%
I TASACOSs do Conbidsand                                  Verde. SAR.         MenUfkcladqngef algero1.,     0uto.wrnttytob 3"w**aNlk ftsb_^AQ                 5 0%       hI
4 CONCHAVE                    S... COOn. 1So01acee CoWNc  V.d4. 4.  r     -1..4ph sdp$tgofpelesu produts                            40.0SF
a CEUBS                   See. Cbo_S_d=  de CV *  Rd*.1 enl.e, SARL    1wey * puln d           u  ddf "t tS                        h.1%
8 FAM                          fabdia 4de Maaeado C   Verde. UAIL        .       Prodct n d ps                                                                32.0%oIs
7 CADETUR                    boledde Cabowidlow 4e Twka,. SBA.                     Tvel ag*ay                                                                 30.01 X
8 SCAGAZ          Sbe. nd"l                    d d e _AR SIR.              a"" a" ace*yl Pd- p.odha  3cl&
* MOSASEA                           Cwana....      . Mem.be. SAIL                 Gamet fac                                                                   233%
to WiTA                          Soobdsd.ku Seib 11d Tlills, SAIL           Pod"" of pabc and "or""                                                            211k
II t OTEl ATLANlCO       I____________________                ____ t__                  Mote                 -
I.esae.:shalom                                                                                                                       l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~~~ w  |



ANNE 3
The  lic sear  (Fecb and F1gr)
Page 2 of 4
ECONOMIC SECrOR             NAMES OF PEa AND MDMD COMPANIEI KEY DATA (1989)
E. Ioymsn     t Revenuec    Peofit beoe
Tax*
Agriculture and agrointdutry  Envi: luslo Lopez                                 364          3.S         0.2
Fishing
hIebase; Pecave                                    216          6.8          OA
Mafacung
Cabmar, Cabnava; Coda; Fama; Macsobil; Metalcavc;  1.036        28.8        -1.7
Mowe; Moraber; Onave; Sit, Sodapz; Sonacor, Tabaco
Water and elecuiay          Ebcua
261         6.5          0.5
Constuedon                 Mac
183         0.2        .0.8
Comnmere                    Empa; npVtofbo; &naco), Fap
1.403        88.5         1.3
Tourism                     Hotdnmar Hotel Alazico
125         1.7         -0.04
Transpotation               Anv; Asa; Arca Vetde; CaMT; Conchave; Enapor; TACV;
Ttanscor                                          2.098         43.2        -1.7
Commuincatioas              CIT
584         12.9         2.5
-Fues in ruions USS equivalent.
CIAmFSICATIOT   OF CIVIL SEVAITS                        _usa             Perce _tage
____________________________________________________an avafilsble date
"Auxiliar" (Cleaners, Office Messensers. etc..)                               3.355          30.046
"op.rariou (Blue-collar workers & foremen)                                      736           6.5°9
Admifnistratfoa (Office Staff. Cashfers. etc. .)                               474           4.27X
"TechnicoS (Staff with High School level education & Unit Chiefs)             1.444          12.93°
iPreventao e Fiseatizagao *   rnspecou  PateiceSenh   Pailt  Sitaffh            653           5.8SX
Inspetors.  etc..)
mArtes C raficO s (TV & Radfo   staff Piers       e     tc..)          __        80           0.nx
nDiptomtico" (Emibassadors & Embassy oersonne)                                   37           0.33X 
"Docentell (Teachers, Schootmasters4 etc .........                                     .    ...... )  _3,713  33.25X
laNritimo * de Farotagem* tNarbour llaster, Ship-pilots, LSghthouse             49           0.44X
keepers,  etc .....) 
sgTechnico Aduaeirwfr   (Customs Of ffcers)   __                                 49           0.644X
Ujudiciarfou 8 uOfictais de Justician (Magistrates, Judicifary                  17            1.41X
personnel)__
"Reaistros e do Noterio" (Archivists, Notary Pubtic. etc..)                      47           0.42
winspeceo de Finano4sa" (overment & Tax Auditors)                                82           O.?3X
fDirigente e ChefIa Operecionalt (Supervisors to Top Level Civil                182           1.63X
servants)
"de Quadro Es aecietl (Executive Assistants & Advisors)                                ____0.96X
Data not available                                                                4
in1s TOTALAn 1                   I ~       Y d                           1   7           100.00X
ource: H nistry of Pubtic Administration, Cape Vora
- 56 -



TUhe ubic Secto (Feat nod llgmu)
Pap 3 of 4
AGE PROFILE OI CIVI SERVANTS                            Number              P
an rcorded data
Low dum 20 yam                                                                 31              0.44%
20_to_29y_am                                                                 2,019            2 __34%
30 to 29 yon                                                                 3,060            42.96%
40to 49 year                                                                 1,192            16.73%
_SO to  _ _ye__6___                                                            5                76%
60 to 69 yers                                                                 215              3.02%
Mom      _      _f_70yam_                                                       46             0.65%
F Ageded rAt "4049
GRAND      _________TOTAL_________                                          11,172            100.0011
Some: Mi1ab of Public Admtlon. C:pe Verde
SrATUS IN PUBIC  DMNISTION                                Number              Pet4Mlp
Conrmd CFI Serma ()                                                            2.119           18.97%
Civ Sebvants an Probaton (s")                                                  2,240           20.05%
CMvd Sevant witot budea posn                                                    540             4.83%
Eployees under < I yeau onmt                                                   2,082           18.64%
Emplyees under I yer casu                                                      1,456           13.03%
Ewlye  undew fd term conasc                                                    2,73            24.43%
TOTAL CIVIL SERVANTS PROPER                                                    4,899           43.85%
TOTAL PUBLIC SERV CE CONTRAC EMPLOYEES                                         6,23            S6.15%
GRAND TOTAL                                                                   11,172           100.0011
S : Ministry of Publc Adezlutatloo, Cap Vede
' i. moe d5a S ye s   oriqy in cil sevce
i.e.       . th  S years! seoty oc   srvIc
- 57 -



The Publ Sedelr (Tab #ai IlgmO
Pape 4 of 4
CAPE VERD: UMCIPALC OVUNMMS
SrAPFO INPORMATION
Mua1ci*d'Jee      pmuen        Sbcod          UrdMn       Wlatr &      Counteed
PRfACIAZ                     32              6    6                    0 8414
TARRAFJAL                    0               I           CA t                      500          200
SANTA CRUZ                    9              4           0              5           A            is
SANTA CAT1^A                 22              7           6             12          100          141
SAO VINCEN                   9f             1           100             0          240          447
PAUL                         11              6           0              0           32           49
PORT NOVO                    17              9           4             14           36           80
RMERRA OCANDE                14              8           S             11           30           68
SAO FLP!                      8              4           2             22                        36
MOSTEIEOS                     s              2           rn            as           as            2
SAO NICOLAU                  24              4           10            20          tu            18
SAL                          40              1          23              0           a4           64
BOA VISTA                    G&              I           VA           ca            as            I
MAIO                         14              2           4              3           as           23
BRAVA                        ts              4           urI .a                     as            4
TOTAL                217             70          160            S7         1238         2041
PR:AA. VICENT              128             17         106             0         1 040        1 291
=_                                                                      - V__d..
Source: Mialty cPbo dmutuio, Cap Verde.
* ~- 58-



Civil Service Reform
Page I of 20
REPUBUC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Civil SWcice Refmonnad MWoieriaion
1.    BACKGROUND AND ISSUES
nhe Civil Service in Cape Verde is well-rganized, hiard-working and respected; yet it is far from
reaching its potential in teras of efficiency and productivity. There are four principal constraints to a
more efficient and productive Civil Service: (i) overstaffing, especially at the lower ranb; (it) an acute
shortage of technical, administative and managerial skills; (iii) a traditional, control-oriented personnel
management system lacking the capacity to devise and implement human resource management and
development strategies that address the needs of the reforming and decentralizing public sector; and (iv)
Inadequate provision for the facilities, equipment and other supporting Inputs that civil servants need to
be productive on the job.
Unlike the case of many other Sub-Sabaran African countries, the impetus for reform is not
dramatic fiscal pressure. hbis represents a special opportunity to retool the Civil Service with more
modern instruments of human resource management, which will enable it to fulfill a new service-oriented
mission in support of the State as facilitator rather than as manager of economic growth.
Cost-containment in Cape Verde is not an end in itself, which could undermine capacity-building, but an
abiding concen in the larger effort to raise efficiency and pay for a more adaptive and skilled Civil
Service. This effort requires additional resources to be generated pardy by timming excess staff, hiving
off services better performed by the private sector and municipalities, selling or liquidating public
enepries already on the auction block, reorganizing service delivery, expanding the revenue base
through reform of the tax system, already underway, and promoting a burgeoning private sector.
(a) Instutional Enironment for Civil Sece Reform
ITe experience of Civil Service Reform Projects In most of Sub-Sabaran Africa has cleady
demonstrated that the implementation of technical measures to improve the effectiveness and efficiency
of the Public Administration do not produce significant and sustainable results if undertaken in a non-
conducive govermental environment.
For this reason, a detailed assessment of the institutional enviromnent for civil service reform,
including key govenance issues, was conducted in Cape Verde. The results, which are presented in
Annex 4-A provide strong evidence that the envionment is highly conducive to the implementation of
reforms designed to modernize the system for managing and developing human resources in the public
sector.
- 59 -



ANE4
Civil Service Reform
Page 2 of 20
Ob) Smutre              tion of the Public Administratign Sector
The structure of the Goveroment comprises the Office of the Prime Minister which includes the
department for youth and social promotion, and 13 Ministries. In addition, there are tS municipalities
supervised by the Ministry of Intal Affairs. The relative size of the various organizational units
comprising the legislative, executive and judiciary branches of central and local governments Is presented
below. The size of the Ministries of Education and of Health reflects how much attention these two
sectors have consistently received from all governments since independence.
ORGANII-ONAL DSOTUTION OF OM          ATumbe                       ,      rentage
(a of Febr   19131                                         far oen"
Nadonal Assenmbly                                                      77
President's Office                                                     56
Attonwy Germr Office                                                   52 
Prime Mhnster's Office (also Includes Youth & Sports. Internal Affairs.  354           4.0%
Pubic AdInIdstraion. ImmtIagron and Conmmnties Abroedl
Jusdte nd Labor                                                       321              3.7%
Justie Courts                                                         173              2.0%
Forign Affairs                                                        214              2.59%
InduWy, Comwerce & Tourism                                            117              1.3%
Defence                                                               122              1.4%
FRnance & Fanrdng                                                     572              6.6%
Agdrufure & FIhedes                                                   778              9.0%
Heath                                                               1.272             14.69%
Education                                                           4,217             48.4%
Infrasbtuue & Tanmport                                                523              6.0%
Infomaton & Culture                                                    40              0.5%
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT PROPER                                           8.703            100.0%6
Autonomo govenrment services                                        1.089
Looal Govrmewmn                                                     1,180
DOat not available                                                      6
GRANDTOTAL                                                         11.172
urce: Ministry of Pu     Admn    on, Cape verde.
he o      tional stucture of the 13 minsies Is  ilar and inludes usualy the Cabinet of the
Minister and a Secretary of State (n five Ministries) who ovetsees the work of the Ministry. The
Secretary of State is aistbd by one or more Dhre    General(s) in  bage of departments, and by



ANNEX 4
Civil Service Reform
Page 3 of 20
Directors who manage units. Each ministry, except Economic Cooperation, has a Director of
Administrative Services. The department of Administrative Services is responsible for personnel
management, finance, facilities and procurement.
To respond more effectively to the changing economic and social situation in the country, the
structure of the Government was changed in March 1993. The Ministers of Justice and Labor, and
Finance and Planning, were elevated to the ranks of Ministers of State, with the latter assuming the
responsibility of a new Ministry of Economic Coordination.
(c) Profile of the Civil Service
S        For the size of its population, Cape Verde's Civil Service is one of the largest in Sub-
Saharan Africa: 2.8 civil servants for every 100 inhabitants compared, for example, with 0.6 in Mali,
0.5 in Niger, and 0.9 in Senegal. In 1992, the total wage bill of the public administration amounted to
C.V. Escudos 2,388 million (approximately US$ 36.2 million), or 52 percent of total recurrent
expenditures.
In the decade immediately following Cape Verde's independence in 1975, civil service
employment expanded at an average rate of less than 2% annually, much slower than the amual growth
of the economy (6%?) and the population (2.5%?) over the same period. From 1985 to 1990, however,
the government, which direcdy controlled and managed most sectors of the economy, loss control over
the payroll. Employment grew at 9% a year - almost double the GDP growth rate - and the ranks of
the Civil Service swelled from 7,800 to close to 11,300. Most of this uncontrolled growth was
concentrated in the lower-paying positions, and much of it occurred in the final two politically-charged
years during the run-up to the first ever multi-party elections. (See Charts I & 2 in Annex 4-B).
6S1ICORfTY IN PUUJC ADMINISTRATION            Number         Percetge
on recorded data
Less than 5 years                                            5,512             52.4%
S to 9 yeas_                                                 2,083              19.6%
1 0 to 14 years                                              1,348             12.8%
15 to 19 years                                                903               8.6%
20 to 25 years                                                405               3.8%
More than 25 years                                            298               2.8%
Date of entry unknown                                         643
TOTAL                                                       11.172             100.0%
ource: Ministry of Public Adminiistration, Cape Verde.



ANNEX-4
Civil Service Reform
Page 4 of 20
The newly-elected government in 1991 came to power on a platform of rolling back the role of
the State in the economy to make room for private-sector-led growth. Inheriting an inflated civil service,
the government immediately froze recruitment for all but the most essential categories of staff, pending
a review of the impact of its market-friendly policies on the public sector and a better understanding of
the strengths and weaknesses of the civil service. Several steps were taken to reinvigorate the manpower
control system including the development of a computerized personnel system in the Ministry of Public
Administration, which is tightly linked to the payroll system in the Ministry of Finance, and the
publication of all approved positions in the Official Gazette.
These measures have proved effective. Since 1990, the government has achieved, mostly through
natural attrition, a modest reduction in the size of the Civil Service, which now stands at about 11,200
employees. Having reinforced the system of manpower controls, the government is now in a position
to introduce deeper reforms. In the next phase of reform, the government intends to bring down the size
of the civil service in line with the new role of the State and to improve the fit between personnel and
the State's skill requirements.
Pay Trends. Unlike the pattern found in many Sub-Saharan African countries, real wages have
kept pace with inflation, and the pay structure has become somewhat less compressed. In January 1989,
with the annual consumer price index rising 4.4 percent over the previous twelve months, the
Government granted a 17 percent across-the-board pay increase for all but high-level managers, whose
salaries were increased by 17 to 28 percent. This was followed by another 17 percent increase in 1991,
and a further adjustment in 1992 owing to a regrading exercise. Whereas the before-tax ratio of the base
pay of a manager in Grade A to that of an unskilled worker in Grade U was 4.1:1 in 1987, that ratio had
improved to 5.1:1 by 1992 (IMP, 1993). If the salaries of director-generals are included, the
compression ratio stands at about 7.1:1.
The size of the civil service wage bill is less an issue than the share of budgetary resources
allocated to the facilities, equipment and other goods and services civil servants need to be productive.
Pay increases, combined with the rapid rise in employment of unskilled workers in the run-up to the
multi-party elections, contributed to a rising wage bill, which represented 51.9 percent of recurrent
expenditures in 1992, compared with 43.5 percent in 1988. In 1992, the total wage bill of the central
government amounted to C.V. Escudos 2388 million (approximately US$ 36.2 million), or 52 percent
of total recurrent expenditures, and 7.5 percent of GDP. The increase in the wage bill as a share of
recurrent expenditure has been offset largely by decreases in the share of transfers to public enterprises
and local government, and interest payments. At the same time, outlays on goods and services have not
improved much, falling as a share of recurrent expenditure from 7.4 percent in 1988 to 6.3 percent in
1992, although they are expected to rise again to 7.5 percent in 1993.
Positions are graded and paid on the basis of well-defined points for job content and
responsibility, and the salary structure, published for all to see in the Official Gazette, is free from the
distortions of excessive fringe benefit.
Oualifieation Pronie. The problem of overstaffing in the Civil Service is compounded by an
employment structure that Is heavily skewed toward employees with minimal qualifications. Of the
11,172 civil service employees, 3,355 persons, or one-tird of the total (43 percent if excluding teachers),
- 62 -



ANNEX 4
Civil Service Reform
Page 5 of 20
were office and service employees of low professional qualification. A high proportion of those are in
the 'servente" category (i.e. cleaners, office messengers, and such) which, by itself, groups more than
10 percent of all civil service emp!oyees. Another 737 persons, or 6.5 percent (10 percent if excluding
teachers) were blue-collar worke.'s. Excluding the Ministry of Education, only 1,625 civil servants, or
13 percent of the total (20 pecent excluding teachers) were in civil service grades requiring a level of
education of high school or above. (See Chart 3 in Annex 4-B).
CLASSIFICATION OF CIIL SERVANTS                       Number          Percentage
on evaiable data
'Auxiliar' (Cleaners, Office Messengers, etc..)                           3,355              30.0%
0Operanio' (Blue-coller wotkers & foremen)                                 736                6.6%
'Admlnistrativo (Office Staff, Cashiers, etc.)                             477                4.3%
'Techdoo' (Staff with High School level education & Unit ChIefs)          1,444              12.9%
'Preven9ao, Fisalizagao e Inspeogic' (Policemen, Penal Staff, Inspeotors,  653                5.8%
etc..)
'Artes Greficas' (TV & Radio staff, Printshop workers, etc..)               80                0.7%
*Diplomatioo' (Embassadors & Embassy personnel)                             37                0.3%
'Docente' (Teachers, Schoolnasters, etc..)                                3,713              33.4%
'Marltino e de Farolagerr' (Herbour Matter, Ship-pilots, Ughthouse keepers,  49               0.4%
ete..)
'Technico Aduaniroe (Customs Officers)                                      49                0.4%
Judlolarl & Oflciais de Justicl (Magistrate., Judiciary personnel)         157                1.4%
'Registros e do Notario' (Archivists, Notary Public, etc..)                 47                0.4%
lnspecqio de Finanqas' (Government & Tax Auditors)                          82                0.7%
'Didgente e Chefia Operacionsl' (Supervisors to Top Level Civil Servants)  182                 1.7%
'do Quadro Especial' (Executive Assistants & Advisors)                     107                 1.0%
Dat not available                                                            4
TOTAL                                                                    11,172             100.0%
ource: Ministry of Public Administration, Cape Verde
Of the 5,507 recruitments completed in the last five years in the public administration, 1,691
persons, or 30 percent of the total, were blue- and white-collar workers of the lowest civil service
classification. Another 2,508 persons, or 45 percent, were integrated in the civil service as teachers, but
close to half that number in the classification open to those possessing only the lowest mium
qualification required to teach at prinary school level. Only 670 of the new civil servants, or 12 percent,
belonged to the various classification of the civil service requiring a minimum of high school-level
education.



ANNEXA
Civil Service Reform
Page 6 of 20
As a consequence, the recent inflation of its size actually contributed to decrease the average level
of qualification of public servants, just when the new economic policy of the government will require a
significant improvement in professionalism, both in technical and managerial tems, of the civil service.
(See Chart 4 in Annex 4-B).
LEVEL OF EDUCATION OF PUULIC SERVANTS               Number               Percentage
on evaltable data
No more than basio literacy                                          65                     0.Q%
4 to 5 years Primary                                              3.199                    29.0%
6 y. Primary to 1 y. Secondary (7 years of schooling)             4.010                    30.3%
2 to 4 years Secondary (S to 12 years of schooling)               1,253                    11.4%
5 years Secondary (11 years of schooling)                          943                     8.8%
Completion of High School (I 2 years of schooling)                  169                     1.5%
Bachelor's degree                                                   657                     6.0%
Master's degree or above                                            25                      0.2%
Techrical & Professional Education (Less than 12 yeas of            701                     6.4%
schooling)__                                             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Data  unavaIlable                                                   IS0O  ______________________5
TOTAL                                                            11.172                   100.0%
,ource: Ministry of Public Administration, Cape Verd e.
Age, Distribtion. The civil service of Cape Verde is young. 2,050 people, or 29 percent of those
for which age data is available, are of less than 29 years of age. Another 3,060, or 43 percent, are of
between 30 and 39 years of age. Although the mandatory retirement age in Cape Verde is 65 years (with
an option to retire at 60 years of age for those with 34 years in the civil service), 46 persons of over 70
years of age were still employed by the civil service in March 1993, either because they occupied an
essential position for which no qualified replacement could yet be found and hired, or because they
belonged to one of the lowest income categories and their contract was renewed at their own request. (See
Chart 5 in Annex 4-B).



ANNX-4
Civil Service Reform
Page 7 of 20
AGE PROFILE OF CIVIL SERVANT               NumhWa             P
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   . _ _ _ _ _ _ _   mon   vsoo d d     d ntaX
Loss than 20 Vows                                             31                   0.4%
20 to 29 yVa                                                2,019                 28.3%
3Oto 39 years                                               3.080                 43.0%
40 to 49 yemts                                              1,192                 16.7%
SO to 59 yvte                                                So60                  7.9%
60 to 9 yeers                                                215                   3.0%
More than 70 years                                           4U                    0.7%
Age not reoorded                                            4049
TOTAL                                                      11,172                 100.0%
Source: Ministry of Public Admiistration
Gender Distrbuton.
Women and men are more or less equally represented in the Public Administon in Cape
Verde, with respectively 46 and 54 percent of the total civil servants. While women are under-epresed
in, or totally absent from, certain grades, this does not reflect a deliberate discAminatory policy but rather
the nature of the jobs associated with the grade (bluecollar for instance). Further, an analysis by grade
shows that Cape Verde is fairly advanced by any standard in promoting women to managerial positions.
Women account for slightly less than 50 percent of the middle management positions ("Technico"), 25
percent of the top civil sevat ("DirigenteW) and 50 percent of the Cabinet positions ("De Quadro
Especial"). (See Chart 6 in Anmex 4-B).



ANNEX4
Civil Service Reform
Page 8 of 20
GEDER DISTftBUTION OF CIVI SERVANTS                   Pergonte         Percntag     -
Women             Men
|Auxiliar' Cleanrts. Office Messengers, to..)                            S7.6%        42.4%
0Operario (Blue-collar wot.ke & foremen)                                 4.0%         96.0%
wAdmnstuatvoe (Office Staff. Cashiers. tc..                             47.6%         52.2%
|Technico' (Staff with High School level education & Unit Chiefs)       48.4%         53.0%
*1)revenqao. Fsczgis * Inspecqog (Policemen. Penal Staff, Inspoctors,     3.8%        96.2%
etc..)__                                                             _ _ _  _ _
'Artes Graficas' (TV & Radio staff, Printahop workers, etc..)            27.8%        72.2%
ODiplomdatco (nEmbassados & Embassy personnel)                           23.1%        76.9%
WDcoents* (Teachers, Schoolmasters. etc..)                               54.6%        45.5%
Mari " timo de Farolgoem' (Harbour Master. Ship-pilots, Ughthouse keepers,  0.0%      100.0%
ec..)
Teohfioo Aduaneiro (Custo_m Officers)                                    4.1%         95.9%
wJudiciario & *Ofloias de Justioia' (Magistrates. Judiciary personnel)   14.6%        85.9%
iRegistros e do Notarie (Archivists, Notary Public. etc..)               67.1%        42.9%
-Inspeoilo de Fnanaee (Government & Tax Auditors)                       31.8%         68.2%
uOidgente e Chefla Operaoional (Supervisors to Top Leve Civil Servants)  24.7%        75.3%
'do Quadro Especial* (Executive Assistants & Advisors to Ministers)     48.1%         51.9%
TOTAL                                                                   45.7%          64.3%
Source: Ministry of Public Administration, Cape Verde.
Geogrpical Distribution.
Slightly less than 60 percent of all civil servants work in the island of Santiago. lbis percentage
is large but not disproportionate, as the island accounts for 51 percent of the total population of Cape
Verde, and is the location of the capital city, Praia. In most of the other islands, the proportion of civil
servants is roughly in line with their share of the total population. (See Chart 7 in Annex 4-B). Ihis
teffects the policy of deconcenwaion of essential central government services, such as education, health
and civil works, which has been purs':d of long, due to the scattered and isolated nature of the islands.
In two islands (S. Antao and Fogo), the proportion of civil servants is much lower than their share of the
population. Ihis appears to be mainly due to the fact that these two islands have the largest number of
projects and technical assistance funded by bilateral donors, as a number of services which are provided
by the deconcentrated units of central government ministries in other islands are provided through these
projects in S. Antao and Fogo.
- 66 -



Civil Service Reform
Page 9 of 20
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRISUTION OF CIVMY SERVANTS        % of PoWudin         a ovil
S. Vicente                                                         15.0%          15.9%
S. Anteo                                                           12.9%           8.8%
Sal                                                                 2.3%           2.8%
Boa VIsta                                                           1.0%           1.3%
S. maclau                                                           4.0%           3.4%
Sandago Oooadon of capital odty)                                   51.3%          59.0%
Mdao                                                                1.5%           1.5%
ogo                                                                 9.9%           6.1%
Brava                                                               2.1%           1.3%
:urae: Mant  of Pubia AdmnIdstratIon, Cape Verdse
Stabs of Personnel. Out of 11,172 public administration employees on the payroll, only 1,649
(15%) have full civil servant stats, as characterized by an indefinite duration contract and full benefits
and protection under the civil service status. Another 2,249 (20%), i.e. those with less than 5 years
seniority, were not yet confirmed as civil servants, although enjoying all the benefits of civil servant
status, including almost total employment protection. In addition, 478 full civil servants (4%) assumed
top management position in the public administraion, under a two-year renewable term. Finally, 542 civil
sens (either confirmed or not) (5%) did not fill a budgetary position.
The remaining 6,277 employees (56%) are not civil servants proper. They work under variods
foms of contract for the public administration and usually do not enjoy all of the benefits accruing from
a civil service status. Of these, 2,735 (24%), mostly at middle- and top-management levels, and in
education, are employed under a renewable fixed duration contract of usually two years or more. In
addition, 1,458 persons (13% of the total), mosty blue-ollar workers and office employees, work under
a one year renewable contract, and another 2,084 persons (18.5%) under a six-month to one year
renewable contract. (See Chart 8 in Annex 4-B).
However, all contractu  employees of the Public Administration, whatever the duration of their
fiaed-term contract, 'de facto' enjoy almost complete job security. Except for major breach of discipline,
there is no recent record of a contract not being automatically renewed at expiry.
- A7 -



ANNEX-4
Civfl Service Reform
Page 10 of 20
STATUS IN PtWUC ADMINISTRATION                     Numbe                Percentaef
Confirmed Civil Servants (^)                                        2.119                    19.0%
CIh Servwnt on Probation (3 )                                       2.240                    20.1%
Clvi# Servants without budgetwy position                             540                      4.8%
Employee under <   year contract                                    2.082                    18.6%
Employee under 1 year oontract                                      1,458                    13.0%
Employees undet fixed term contract                                 2,736                    24.6%
TOTAL CIVIL SERVANTS PROPER                                         4.899                    43.9%
TOTAL PUBUC SERVICE CONTRACT EMPLOYEES                              6.273                    60.2%
GRAND TOTAL                                                        11.172                   100.0%
Aroe RMisW   of Public Adminrstration. cape Ve
() l.e. more than 5 years' seniodty In oivI service
(") I.e. leos than 6 years' seniordty In civil service
2.  OBJECrIE OF TE GOVERNMNT
The objectves of the Governmet are tree-fold: (a) reduction of the size of the civil sevice to
levels which are both financially sustinable and compatible with the redesigned role of the State in the
economy, and to increase the productivity of the civil servants through elimination of overstaffing; (b)
implementation of improved buman resoureplanningand managementaytm= to promote and organize
vertical and horizontal mobility of the personnel, in direct relation with the short- and long-term
requirements and with the priorities of the various public services and orgaiztional units in response
to their new role; and, (c) implementation of a comprehensive                   to adapt civil servants'
technical experdse and attides tO the new roles they are expected to play, and tO the requirements of
a truly public service-oriented administration.
MM I   ming to the Challenge at a Modem AdmbnistratIon
The Govemment of Cape Verde I the malor employer in the country. and plays a lading roe in setting wages.
determining employment conditiorw and enforcing the labor code. However, this role Is changing gedually as the
Govermnent Is moving slowly towards clvii service reform and prvatzation of its publio enterpfises.
The public administration Is excessiwvely lr  by any standard, with 28 ciii servants per 1000 citizens. In spite of
tWs age bureaucracy, thert is an acute dontage of adequately trained professional staff able to rWepond to a new vision
of thto role of the public administration In societ. Below thm level of Directors, who  e competent In most cases, tho
shortage of managers end speciaiists Is particularly svero.
The main Issues faoing the administration are: 41 overstaffed civil service, particuarlvy In the lower echelons; ai7
abseneo of career paths and suesWsion plans for the civii servants; Oil) limit on-the-job training; tiv) inadequate
organztna structurm of some  Ministris; v) compbex adminIstrative procedu  leading to deays in declelonrnalklng
(v defetive information sharing procedures an anttitudes; and, (vti) shortage of modem office equipment and ponnl
rained In its use.



ANNEXA4
Civil Service Reform
Page 11 of 20
3. THE RETRENCHMENT PROGRAM
To reach the first objective of rationalization of the size of the civil service, the following
instruments, in this order of priority, are being considered by government: (i) voluntary departure
program (VDP), (ii) early retirement and (iii) termination of contract with compensation.
The objectives of the Government are to significantly reduce the number of civil servants in the
lowest category of Public Administration which is, by far, the most overstaffed. However, this category
also regroups the most vulnerable groups, i.e. those with only the minimum level of literacy, almost no
professional qualifications, and already low levels of income. Their present average net monthly salary
is between CV Esc. 8,200 (US$105) and CV Esc. 15,000 (US$190).
To all extent possible, the Goverrment wants the departures to be voluntary. For this purpose,
it intends to offer an attractive package to provide incentive enough to the potential beneficiaries to leave
a secure job and look for employment opportunities. It will also support demand-driven training and
retraining schemes to facilitate redeployment. Although Government will finance the cost of training/
retraining programs, it will rely primarily on private sector institutions and NGOs for their
implementation. Finally, depending on the actual participation rate in the Voluntary Departure Program
(VDP), Government will encourage the creation by former civil servants of small and micro-enterprises
to which essential services could be contracted out.
Government is keenly aware of the challenge it faces in the implementing the program.
Employment prospects in the formal sector are likely to remain limited until the new economic policy
produces significant results in term of new local and foreign investments and job creation. However,
while not particularly large or buoyant by Sub-Saharan African standards, there are indications that the
informal sector will be able to absorb a fair number of retrenched staff. Its job creation potential,
however, should not be overestimated.
TMe vulnerability of the target groups, and the risks associated with their ability to properly
manage a one-time and, by their standard, large payment on departure, is of serious concern to the
Government. Accordingly, it intends to include in the VDP's incentive package a "safety net' element.
The package offered to potential beneficiaries would combine a "lump-sum" at the time of departure with
monthly payments over a period of time. However, the level and duration of the monthly payments will
be calculated in such a way as to: (i) ensure that the beneficiaries are motivated to immediately and
actively prospect for new job opportunities, while (ii) providing them with a guaranteed level of income
adequate to meet basic subsistence needs during the transition period.
Based on various hypotheses regarding the number of civil servants who might take advantage
of the program and the package which might be offered, the cost of the program has been estimated at
between US$ 2.5 million for 1,000 departures, or 30 percent of the target group, with the least generous
package, and US$ 9.0 million, for 1,700 departures, or 50 percent of the target group, with a most
generous package. The present payroll cost of the target group amounts to US$ 4.9 million annually, and
the initia investment would be recovered from savings in between 3 and 6.5 years. The internal rate of
return has been calculated at between 17 and 29 percent.



ANnIX 4
Civil Service Reform
Page 12 of 20
OapglwG                  M _Outi  WeY'min                Owaten of topwIx boa                                     Cea
in twgst                       S                     mniony P"Wa                    in monthw of              RISS mtUiooI
Of il  fy h" yVn                                                                  lntial salaw
_ 0%                         46%                           3                                                             2.6
l00 pernfiS 
12                                3.3
4                          83.t
.1                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 S.6 
12                                3.9
5           6                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.6
4.0
12                                4A
58%                           3                          a                                 3.1
a                                 356
12                                3.9
4                          a                                 3.8
*                                4.3
12                                4.6
6                          6                                 4.
9                                 6.0
12                                5.3
60%                          45%                           3                          6                                 4.2
1?0perom9                                                                                                                   4*9
12                                5.5
4                          6                                 6.2
12                                OA
5                   6~~~-                             6.1
S                                6.7
12                                7.8
59%                  ~~~3                         6                                 5.2
12                                6.6
4                          6                                  .4
a                       ~~~~~~~~~7.1
12                                7.7
B                 r                _ _  , 9.3
1290



ANNEX4
Civil Service Reform
Page 13 of 20
Proect Description: Rofrenchment ENgrm
WitQ Comonment. The project will assist the Goveranent through financing for (i) the final
design of an inrplementadon strategy for the Voluntary Departure Program (US$25,000), and (ii) VDP
progra  implnon, including training and retraining schemes (estimaed between US$6 and 8
million).
Consultants will conduct a study to assist the Government finalize its Yolun    D=Mto
PrQgram strategy. The consultants will: (i) evaluate the responsiveness of the target group to various types
of incentive packages, with a view to identifying the least cost/best result combination; (i) review the
potentW supply of jobs existing in the formal and informal sectors for the categories of personnel targeted
under the program; (iii identify the type of training to be offered to potential beneficiaries to prepare
them for the existing and emerging job opportunities in the private sector; (iv) explore the potential for
creation by retrenched staff of small and micro-enterprises, and identify the type of assistance that might
be offered to facilitate their start-up (including contracting-out services previously delivered by
Government); and (v) design the details of the program including the level and type of the final package
to be offered, criteria for participation in the program, detailed costs, and program implementation
procedures and monitoring/control mechanisms. The Terms of Reference for this study are presented in
Annex 4-C. The Ministry of Public Administration will also evaluate the cost of an ealy retirement
s£m  and develop an implementation strategy for the scheme. A simulation model for costing of the
VDP will be used to decide on the compensation package to be offered, and evaluate the amount of
financing required.
Esiimated Cost. The consultants will be able to take advantage of the computerized cost
simulation model already developed with Bank assistance. The level of effort has been estimated at 4
person-months, and its total cost is not expected to exceed US$ 25,000, including travel within Cape
Verde.
Conditions. 'he Government submitted its draft retrenchment implementation strategy,
including both VDP and early retirement scheme thus meeting one of the conditions for Board
Presentation. Agreement was also reached during negotiations on the details of the retrenchment
program, including training/retraining for departees and the total financing to be included under the
project.
4. MANAGEMENT OF HUMAN RESOURCES IN PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Alt'hough systems and procedures of personnel "management' in the Civil Service in Cape
Verde are fairly advanced by Sub-Saharan Afican standards, they still remain basically static instruments
better suited to admining rather than to managing the human resources of the public administration.



ANX4
Civil Service Reform
Page 14 of 20
BOX 2  Moderiniz   Civ Srvioe: At th Cutting Edge In Sub-Seheran Africa
Cape Verde Is following the footsteps of OECD governments who are making customer feedback and the
participation of front-line employees In problem-solving key ingredients In serice and productivity improvement
programs. The Civil Service is "istening to Its oustomers,  the public service users, through cerefully-deigned surveys.
It is soliciting ideas from rank-and-file workers by posting in the workplace 'Suggestion Boxes.* which are opened
personally by the Minister of Pubrio Admoinistration in the presence of witnesses. In addition points of direct contact
with the public are also being remodeled to make them more accessible and friendly.
On Its own Iritietive, the Ministry of Public Administration IMPA) designed a questionnaire which will be
administered throughout the archipelago In September 1993 to a random sample of about 400 Cape Verdians. To
ensure meaningful statistical results, and to sharpen the focus of the questions, the MPA pre-tested the questionnaire
with a group of 38 people in the capital, Praia. The anonymity of respondents Is being guarded and survey questions
ae free from bias against criticism of the bureaueracy. The first question in the trial-run, for example, asked
respondents to characterize the time in which the bureaucracy responds to requests: 68 percent replied "excessiveo,
21 percent "normal," and 1 1 percent had no opinion. Referring to the public service bureaucracies they have the most
contact with, only 16 percent thought the services were 'good,' 24 percent 'bad," and 61 percent 'reasonable.'
In a separate question indicative of the shortage of skilled personnel, only eight respondents thought the bureaucrats
they dealt with were competent, and nine respondents said these officials had little knowledge of the function to
which they were assigned.
if the pre-test is any guide. the authorities can take heart in the fact that 76 percent of the respondents reported
Rules of Svice The basic rules of public service employment with regards (i) classification and
grading, (ii) compensation, and (iii) horizontal and vertical mobility of personnel were upgraded in 1992,
to make them simpler, more flexible and more transparent (Decreto-Lei No. 86/92, and 87/92 of July
16, 1992). The number of classification categories was reduced, compensation was reviewed, and a
tsting system was introduced to regulate promotions. However, much remains to be done to ensure an
adequate supply of qualified personnel through recruitment and training, and better management of
existing resources through organizational planning and career development.
Human Resource Information Syste. The basic instrument for controlling employment and
managing personnel is a comprehensive and well-maintained computerized data base covering all civil
servants. Besides providing the means for identifying each employee, information such as budgetary
position, geographical location, classification and contractual status, seniority, age, or basic education can
be retrieved in real time by authorized users. Housed in the Ministry of Public Administration, this multi-
dimensional data base can be used to document the profile of the civil service from the level of work units
to ministries to the entire central government. Recently, the identification of each employee, with his/her
position in the civil service was published in the Official Journal, and this register was linked to the
payroll system. Not only is the data base an excellent tool for strengthening pay and employment
policymaking, but it serves to check against "ghost workers* - a common problem  in developing
countries but one not detected in Cape Verde - and other irregularities.
OrganizationRal RIPIning. Ibe organization chart and description of roles and responsibilities of
all Ministries and Government Agencies, and their constituent units, are published in the Official Gazette
when a modification occurs. The Ministry of Public Administration maintains a proper record of all the
various *cadres organiques'. However, graphical organization charts documenting all the positions, their
budget number, and the incumbents, are not systematically available. Neither the internal structure, nor
- 7 1 -



ANNEX.
Civil Service Reform
Page 15 of 20
the staffing levels, of the Ministries and Government Agencies are based on a thorough assessment of
their past or emerging needs, supported by a well-defined methodology and by standards of comparison
In such areas as productivity measurement, spans of control, or documentation of qualification profiles
fbr the positions.
Job Descripins. Job descriptions for all job categories existing in the civil service have been
prepared and are regularly updated, when required. It is clear, however, that these documents are
prepared for the purpose of grading jobs. In their present fbrm, they cannot properly support a human
resource management system. If they document, in broad and generic terms, the roles and responsibilities
of each job category, they do not provide any position-specific detail. Further, the quWification profUe
attached to each job description mentions only the minimum level of education required for a specific job
category. It does not document personal aptitude and skills, specialized training, or type of experience
required for various positions.
Penrel Evaluation. Personnel evaluation of a sort is regularly and transparently conducted in
the civil service. Standard forms including well documented criteria are used, and the result of the
evaluation is reviewed by the evaluee who has a right to appeal to the level immediately above his/her
supervisor in case of disagreement. A minimum level of performance, as reported in the evaluation
system, is required for promotion to a higher step within the same grade. Promotion from one grade to
another is based on the results of standard tests administered within each Ministry. The present evaluation
system, however, is primarily designed to assess personal traits (e.g., discipline and assiduity) rather than
results achieved and the strengths and weaknesses of a particular incumbent in a given position. As a
result, It is a crude instrument for career planning and for the identification of individual tra:iing needs.
Project Description: Human Resources Management in the Civil-Service
Pect Compe. The project will assist the Ministry of Public Administration, in its role as
manager of the human resources of the civil service on behalf of Government or individual Ministries,
with the design and implementation of modem human resources management systems for the civil service.
The Govermnent has identified ortanization and manpower planning as the most critical area to be
addressed under the project, as the changing role of the State requires a significant adaptation of the civil
service. Accordingly, a methodology and the instruments conducive to quantitative and qualitative analysis
of the present and forecasted demand and supply of personnel in public administration are essential to
provide the data required for the development of comprehensive strategies and action-plans in the areas
of recruitment, training, productivity improvement, career and succession plans, redeployment and
alternative means of delivering services.
Short-term technical assistance frem personnel management specialists will be financed under the
project to: (i) assist the Ministry of Public Administration with the design and/or adaptation of
instruments and methods for organization design, human resources evaluation, career anc succession
planning, and training needs assessments; Cii) recommend the selection of one of the many well-designed
software packages which exist on the market to manage organization and human resource planning and
contmol; (ii) develop an acdon-plan for the implementation of the new instruments and methods; and, (v)
provide In-house training in the use of the new instruments for the staff of the Ministry of Public
Administration and for pronnel offics In the Mistries and other Goverment Agencies. Recipien



ANX A
Civil Service Reform
Page 16 of 20
of this training would, in turn, train supervisors and managers throughout the central government. Ithe
Terms of Reference of the assistance are provided in Annex 4-D.
EstimatedLC. The level of effort has been estimated at 2 person-months for the design of the
required instruments, and 2 person-months for the training component for a total cost of US$80,000,
including the purchase of a standard software package.
S. CIVIL SERVICE TRAING PROGRAM
Although civil sevants enjoy a good reputation dating back to the colonial period, when Cape
Verdians were frequently seconded to administrative positions in various Porntguese colonies, the
efficiency and effectiveness of the Civil Service today is severely constrained by a shortage of
administrative, technical, professional and managerial skills. Moreover, as noted above, uncontrolled
growth in government employment in the 1985-90 period diluted the average skill level of civil servants.
Only 12 percent of the 5,507 employees hired over the past five years occupy positions requiring at least
a secondary school education.
Technical/Professinal C=kp  With Bank assistance, an assessment was made of the technical
and professional capacity of civil servants in the six ministries included in the civil service reform
component: Ministries of Education and Sports; Fishery, Agriculture and Rural Development; Health;
Infraructure and Transport; Public Administration; and Tourism, Industry and Commerce. The level
of technical and professional skills is relatively low in these ministries. The proportion of staff who have
attended professional or university level education is less than nine percent. While the computerized
personnel information system does not contain details on the specific professional education of civil
servants in relation to the area in which they are working (e.g. agricultural economist or irrigaton
engineer in the Ministry of Fishery, Agriculture and Rural Development), information collected in
bierviews with personnel managers in the line ministries indicates that less than two percent of those civil
servants who have professional or university education, graduated in a technical/professional field related
to their work.
The poor fit between the professional and technical jobs civil servants hold and the formal
education they have received is partly explained by the fact that Cape Verde does not have a university
because of the small size of the university-age cohort. The country has had to rely on foreign
scholarships which have not produced the number and type of professionals required in the public sector
because of aurition, brain drain, and ineffective coordination and management. In addition, the Institute
for Professional and Administrative Training (IFAP), which was established by the Government in 1982
for the purpose of providing professional training, has not been able to develop programs which
corresponded to the skldl needs in the line minitries. IFAP has not had management with the vision and
the analytical capacity to determine current and future requirements for technical and professional skills
In the Government and to prepare and offer programs which would respond to that need.
Existdn and Planned Programs. The Government has begun to address the need for mid- and
higherlevel relevant professional skills. The skills development and training is being done in the context
of feign-aided development projects executed by the line ministries. For example, staff of the Ministry
of Education and Sports are receiving training in education-specific skills under the Bank-supported



ANNEXA
Civil Service Reform
Page 17 of 20
Primary Education Upgrading Project (Cr. 1853-V). This training will be continued and expanded in
a proposed follow-up project. Similarly, the management staff of the Ministry of Infrastucture and
Transport will receive training in relevant skills under the recently signed Transport Infrastructure Project
(Cr.2466CV). The staff of the Labor Department of the Ministry of Justice and Labor will be receiving
professional training under the Proposed Professional Education Support Project. In addition, the
Misries of Public Administration and Internal Administration have on-going arrangements with their
sister ministries in Portugal for professional staff training.
To ensurw: the effectiveness of this on-going professional training of line ministry staff, two issues
- coordination and evaluation - need to be addressed There Is currently no system in place which
allows the periodic monitoring and evaluation of the impact of this training to determine first if the
training is effective and staff are assigned to the pobs for which they were trained, and second if the
professional skills level in the line ministries is reaching the required level. The Government is,
however, planning to establish a national training and employment committee under the Proposed
Professional Education Support Project and one of the tasks of this committee would be to monitor and
evaluate professional education and scholarship training.
In view of the planned and existing support for professional skills trainiing, the Government
inends to focus the training under the civil service reform component on the development of
administrative skills suited to a modern service-oriented civil service. Thus, with the exception of
training for economic planning, statistics, budgeting and accounting, and the judiciary - which is
supported under separate components - professional training of civil servants will not be undertaken in
the Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project.
Administrative Canacitv. According to the above-mentioned training needs assessment, civil
servants in the six line ministries have relatively low levels of education. Approximately 25 percent have
completed primary school (six years of schooling), but more than 30 percent have less than primary.
Primary education, however, is not sufficient for the general administrative tasks these civil servants have
to do. It is particularly insufficient in the area of communications: speaking and writing in Portuguese.
Only two percent of the staff have completed high school (twelve years of schooling) and only
19 percent have had some years of secondary schooling. A significant proportion of the civil servants
with some or complete high school education are filling supervisory positions but their education is
inadequate for the planning, budgeting, accounting and record-keeping tasks they have to do in these
positions. As a consequence, accounting standards are low and most line ministries face problems in
balancing budgets, keeping track of expenditures, organizing work and meeting dead lines.
Approximately nine percent of the civil servants have the equivalent of a bachelor degree or
above. These civil servants are mostly employed as departmental managers (digente). The university
level education of the managers is generally good but few have had specialized administrative or
management training. Most managers consequently have weak project and personnel managemeat skills.
The limited capacity of managers to effectively organize their departments, and mobilize and motivate
their staff, is one of the reasons for the relatively low productivity in the Government despite high levels
of overing.



ANNEX 4
Civil Service Reform
Page 18 of 20
The above skill deficiencies were confirmed in interviews with personnel managers in the line
ministries. In addition, the personnel managers noted that several ministries are introducing computers
for planning, budget and word processing purposes but few employees have had training in computer
skills. Managers are now faced with the need to train their staff in informatics skills from data entry and
word processing to data-base and project management.
Administrative Training Plan. The Government has proposed a training plan for three levels of
administrative staff in the line ministries: managers, supervisors and administrative support personnel.
The plan proposes training in communications and computer-related skills for administrative support staff
and first-line supervisors, and training in project management, budget and accounting and personnel
management for supervisors and managers.
The proposed training would be done locally at the Center for Administrative Training and
Development (CENFA), which was established in 1984 for the purpose of raising the administrative
capacity of civil servants. CENFA already offers a set of basic administrative training programs, taught
by civil servants, but the Government proposes to adjust the program offerings to tailor them better to
the skill deficiencies of administrative staff. IFAP also offers a number of relevant training programs
(e.g., English language, typing and secretarial skills) but their programs also need to be revamped to be
more in line with the government's skill needs.
The details of the proposed training plan are shown in Annex 9 (Modernization of the Civil
Service). The training appears to be relevant and affordable and would improve the efficiency and
productivity of the civil servants if properly executed. CENFA and IFAP will require short-term
advisory services to be able to develop and conduct this kind of training. However, not all training needs
to be delivered by the two institutions. A significant portion could be offered by private proprietary
training centers, particularly in the areas of computer-related skills and project management.
The Government has agreed to prepare a strategy and action plan for the civil service training
program with a timetable for courses to be offered during the first year of the project. It has also agreed
to name a high-level official in the MPA's Human Resource Directorate as the coordinator of all civil
service training in management, professional, technical, and admininstrative skill areas that cut across
ministries. It is expected that this official will require short-term advisory services (4-6 person-months)
since there is at present no one responsible for the training function in the MPA. The MPA's training
coordinator will work closely with the personnel management specialists provided under the Human
Resources Management component to develop a medium- and long-term strategy for to strengthen the
training coordination and management function in the MPA and to forge tight links between training,
promotion and career development. Since developing the training function within the MPA will take
time, it is anticipated that the MPA may seek to create an advisory committee, comprising members of
the training delivery institutions, the private sector and relevant ministries, to advise it on the
development of standards for curriculum content, testing and evaluation, certification and placement and
monitoring.
Tralninf and Sunport for the Voluntary Departure Program. The size of the civil service has
grown dramatically in recent years (para. 2.7), especially in the lower-skill categories, and now exceeds
the requirements for staff in most line ministries. The excess staff are primarily found in the lower



ANNEX 4
Civil Service Reform
Page 19 of 20
ranks of the civil service and they generally have low levels of education. The majority have not
completed primary school. To bring the staff levels in line with the requirements, the Government
intends to offer a Voluntary Departure Program (VDP) to reduce the number of lower-level staff in three
categories - auwilar, operarlo, adinbsratdo - by roughly 1,700, or 50 percent of all the employees
in those categories. An early retirement option may also be offered and involuntary termination of
contract with benefits is being considered only as a last resort. The civil servants who opt for the VDP
would receive a lump sum payment and monthly subsistence payments for up to three years.
In addition to the monetary incentive package, the government is considering offering VDP
participants one or more of four possible training and support options: (a) a primary education completion
package; (b) a lower-secondary education completion package; (c) a one year subsidized employment and
on-the-job training package; and (d) a business advisory package for qualifying candidates.
The implementation and financing of the VDP program would be assisted under the project and
consultants would be recruited to develop the stratey and work out the details of the various packages.
The broad outlines for the training and support packages would be as follows: a provision of up to a
maximum of three years of primary education for those who have not completed primary, and up to three
years of secondary for those who have completed primary. An estimated, 1,000 civil servants are
expected to qualify and apply for the first package and about 300 for the second. Both primary and
secondary completion programs would be offered after regular school hours, taught by regular and
qualified school teachers on a voluntary basis in existing schools all over the country. The curriculum
would be the standard one and so will examinations and tests. Participating civil servants would pay
small monthly contributions which would be refimdable at the end of a successfully completed school
year.
The subsidized employment option would be available to civil servants who have been able
themselves to find an employer who is witling to employ them on a minimum salary and provide on-the-
job training in return for the monthly VDP payment. The employment would have to be bona-fide,
governed by a contract guaranteeing at least twelve months of continuous employment and on-the-job
training of at least five hours per week. Adherence to contract terms would be subject to inspection by
specially appointed inspectors.
The business advisory package would be available to civil servants who are able to produce a
business plan that meets minimum standards of viability, affordability and sustainability. Civil servants
whose business plan meets those stadards could elect to receive specified (minimal) levels of assistance,
support and training fom business counselors - ideally recruited on a voluntary basis from the business
community - in three areas: marketing, basic finance and book-keeping for small businesses. Civil
servants with qualifying business plans would be allowed to convert the monthly payment portion of theit
VDP package into a block grant for the start-up of their businesses.



ANNEX-4
Civil Service Reform
Page 20 of 20
Project Description: Civil Service Trainine
Project Component. To strengthen the administrative skills and capacity of civil servants in the
participating line ministries and assist the civil servants who would opt for the Voluntary Departure
Program, the training under this component would include:
(a) For the Ministry of Education and Sports, five local training programs for: 18 managers and
supervisors in planning, budgeting and accounting and word processing; eight administrators and
inspectors in informatics and supervision; and, for 36 support staff in building maintenance.
(b) For the Ministry of Fishery, Agriculture and Rural Development, local training programs for:
36 managers in planning, HRD and project management; 48 supervisors in informatics and
management of agriculture and public works projects; and, 180 administrative staff in
informatics, communications, and accounting.
(c) For the Ministry of Health, local training for: 24 managers in budgeting, HRD and Project
management and a seminar in Policies and financing of National Health programs; 84 supervisors
in maintenance, and accounting; and, 48 administrators in informatics, and communications.
(d) For the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport Fical training for 24 administrative staff in
HRD management, and Communications skills.
(e) For the Ministry of Public Administration local training for: 4 managers in HRD and Project
Management; 8 supervisors in HRD Management, and public administration management; and
for 6 administrators in informatics, and communications.
(f) For the Ministry of Tourism, Industry and Commerce training for: 6 managers in Project and
HRD Management and a National Workshop in Tourism Promotion; 12 supervisors in Project
Administration, and Communication Skills; and 12 administrators in informatics, and
communications.
(g) For civil servants in the Voluntary Departure Program education and training for; 1,000 in
basic education; for 300 in lower secondary education; for 300 in on-the-job training as part of
subsidized employment. In addition, an estimated 200 may make use of the business advisory
program.
The bulk of the proposed training Is available from private proprietary training centers and from
modified courses at IFAP and CENFA. Training would be offered in the evening after work.
Responsibility for coordinating the training and developing annual training plans for the civil service
would lie with the Training Coordinator in the MPA's Human Resource Directorate.
Egimated Costs (See Annex 4-F)



AN A9iESSM  OF THE E!QIR0MENT FOR CMVIL SERVICE REFORM IN CAPE VERDE
PO     F eUIE SFUNCTIN             SYMPTOMS               tSSm N C.V. tUPPORTING EVINCe
Ptdmna  Roe of Stame:                                             No           Colonizaton of Cape Verdo took pace more than 500 years ago on mostly
uninhbited ilands. Institutios amd govrnmnt svsten hae dowly
Chi  Sonbe ser'in  as an     -  Moden^ governance and                          evolved dwilng this lotg period and thewe is eidence that they have been
intument ot powr wielded       pubic administration                            lrwgly intemaized by the civil society as a result of centurie of comnon
by the ling ete, rar then      sstems superImposed on                          history.
l oriented to the prowson of   traditiona Institutions end
service nd i drvn by            anaepment systems, end
de _elome-t goas.              larey seeen a dsen by the
civil society
- Purpose of Gearenment       Used to be, major    Aftt ndopendence. Govetnment embarked on an inward-looing. wefare
gensay perceved as being    change in oulook    state-type economic strategy. Unsuetalabt of this nstatey was
prdimal the transfer of         recently        recognized in the lato 80 and population votd massively in the firt
weaith (rather then                             demnocatic elections for a new prorawn relying on private sector as the
facklItating wealth creation)                   main engine of growth, end a redefined rote of the State as pdimnary the
facilitator of creation of wealth-genering pdvato econoxic activity.
Cientdeim anfd patronage           No           No evidence of patronage and ciNenelisn in the allocation of the limited
an Issu in resource                             resources. Furthermore, Cape Verde is embarked on a poicy of
elocation                                       decontraization of a wide range of resposbities end powers to locai
governments, based on a fully tranpsret and democratic electoral
process. The notion of ruting elite' is deary totally alen In a country of
less than 400,000 inhabitants, largely reated to one another through
extended family des land where the officid car of a Mriister of State is a
_______________  Volkswagen 1).
* Procedures, structures and       Partially      In the Constitution, the basic objective of the public admWnstradon is
trairing In civil service  Civil servants do not   defined as the prornotion of public interest, under the principles of justide.
emphasizing custodial and   have a 'punitivea    transparency and imnpartiality. Indeed, public servants in Cape Verde are
punitive obectives, as       attitude and are    reasonably quality-conscious. and there is little. it any. evidence of abuse
opposod to delivery of      moderately quality-   of power in ther dealing with the general public. Quality o service,
service                    conscious. However.  including health care and education, is good. However, a lage number of
they tend to focus on   Civil Servants are nore control- then facilitation-oriented, especially with
control rather than on  regards the pronotion of private business. This reflects the all-pervasive  0
timeliness and    role played by the State in all facets of economic and socal life until
efficiency in service-  recently, end a certain ingrained suspicon of free-matket philosophy end
delvery        mechanisms. Adjustment to a tedefined role ot the State In the context of    j  o
a more open society will require training, a different stlie of ledership in l
pubric admrinistration units, and probably new rerces in key positions.
.                                               ,        .                                                   S4, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



tOSL DYSPUNCTION                  SYMPTOMS                ISStE IN C.V.7                          SUPPORIN  EVIDENCE
Pubfi¢ AeeountebAnv:                                              No           Cape Verde was the first Afriean country to successfully evolve from a
one-party rerm. to a mult-party democracy. The party which had rled
Lesisature not capable of m)   Single-party syatem. or                         the country since indpendence bowed to the results of the elections and
provding oversight of         mruti-party without                              peaeefuNy left power. Denocratie pluralism Is enshrined in the new
governmentd activites and of   evidence of dtemrance                           Constitution which was approved by 213 of the Members of Parliament
(ii) reflecting the public                                                     (inctuding among the opposition). The opposition is well represented both
interest.                    - Legal provisions ensuring                       at the national and local government's levels. It even controls some
dominance of party-in                           municipalities. The hiohest fudiciary body, the Supreme Court. is modeled
power over executive,                           atong the US Supreme Court and its members. oneo appointed for af., are
leglative end |udiciary                         independent from the Executive or Legslative. The "Tribunal des Contae
bodies                                          (equivalent to the Auditor Generl's Office) hes been recently reorganized
end strengthened. It reponts to the Nationd Assenbly n is bdependent
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  from    the  Executive.
C-
ia
1Or
W' v



POSSIBLE DYSFUNCTION              SYMiPTOMS               ISSUE IN C.V.?                          SUPPORllNG EVIDENCE
Public Accountability                                             No           in the Constitution, issues regring admirnistrative oversight, end
(Continued)                   Legislature functoning as                        decisions on tho major ecoromio, social and cultural policy options are the
legigdetive drafting service'                   exclusive dornain of the National Assembly. Parliament has shown that it
In tho sense that, in                           can and will exercise its prerogatives. Recent examples demonstrates that
practico, It only puts final                    MPs have been able to play a very reel and important role In debating,
touches upon laws                               occasionallRy introducing anendmonts and voting on major pieces of
originating from tho                            legislation, such as the Privatization Program, the new Foreign Investment
adrinistration                                  Code, a wide-ranging modernization of personnel management procodures
in the civil service, the Notional Davelopment Plan, the Citizenship Act, the
- BudOget presented by                            Environment Protection Bii. etc... The r*o of Parliament is expected to
administration In such                          I ncrease even further as more MPs are organizing their professional life so
form and technicality as to                     as to be able to alt in Priament fuil-dno during the sesions.
niVinnke opportunities for
legislativo control                             The prparation, approval by Parliament ond irplenentetion of the Budget
are regulated by the 'General State Budget Framework Law'. tt specifies,
* Letre cut-off from, or                          in particulat, tho level of detail and tining of presentation by Governrment
depondent on buteaucrcV                         of the proposed budget to Parliament. Expenditutes are presented In
tfor, access to critical                                                               reasonable detail, in both the operating and capital expendlitures
(financilD information                          categories. The operating expediitures are broken down by UTnistry, and
essential to the exercise of                    within each Ministry by department, arW ate further btoken down by both
legisteive oversight                            nature and by econonic and functional categories. Debt service is doady
expressed in the draft budget, end the coiing for State borrowing in the
fiscal year Is explicitly specified in the proposal subrnitted by governrnot.
The capital oxpenditure section Is detailed in en onnex describing each
project, the approprietion for each, together with the sources of funding.
The draft budget Is also acconpanded by a report explaining end justifying
the options proposed by Government. The Budget is presented no less
then 40 days before the debato in Parliament, giving the Budget Review
Comnittee of the Nationa Assemrbly time to study it, and posent its
opinions during the Plenery Session.
The legiladtive system is desgned and operates in such o way as to exert a
reel and meaningful role with regards control of government actions,
particulady whete the buLdget Is concertned. The power lectuasly exercTs*rf
of the Parliamontary Committees to call upon mermbers of Government to
explin options, clarifV date end justify proposals. the pub1ic debate of the  L
draft budget, its submission within reasonable notice, the publication of its
broad lines before the debate, the inspections perforned by an A"dit Coutt
Independent of the executive (Tribunal des Contasl to ensure rigorous
compliance with the provisions of the Budget Act. all are reasonable
guarantees of check and balance between the legislative end t  executive    a
In the manogement of public mesources.



POSSIBL DYSFUNCTt                 SYMPTOMS                ISSUE INI C.V. 7                        SUPPORTING EVIENCE
"b  Accoun i                                                      No           The peaty which came to power as a result of the nationsl elections. based
(Co ;mmd                       Ruling party supponedJ                          on univrseal nd socret ballot, in 1990 received support fom more then 60
linked mainly to wealthyl                       percent of the whole populAtion. Furher, a recently pished analysis of
powerful and opposition                         the resuts of the Mudiipa eiectione hed in iecember 1991 ceary
paty mainly to disaffected                      demonsrattes that no single party can be identified to e specific group of
nd  mpecuno                                     the population, based either on age, gender, geographical distribution, ot
InteJgentsiathassee                             socio-profesdonei ffiliation.
- Labor urions linked to ruing       No           Under the previous one-party reghe, thero was only one authoizted babof
partylgovnent nd                                undon. However, there is no evidence that tbii labot union and its aders
Indirectly controlled                           over acted as the obsetive accormplice of the rules and the public
acomplice of                                    administrason In the pursuit of obectIves detramael to the interests of is
odmitisttation                                  nembers. In fact, the Lbor Cod is extrmy protective of the workers
and employees end Its provisions weo upheld by the Courts. In addition,
while self-emnployment is the rule In agricdture, the average sze of
industdia and service enterprises remains etadl enough to minimize the
reasons for nd ogreatly facilitate amicable intend tesoltion of. potentiad
labof conficts. Al this essned potential linkages between trede-unionsm
and the administration.
When the one-party regime was aboshod, the establishnwent of trade
unons becanm free. The present government is conducting a revision of
the Labot Code to make It more responsve to the needs of pivate sector
developmntt. Thi process, as wea as the implernenton of the public
entetprise reform program, are being conductod in consulttion with labor
representatives, as government seeks the understanding enw adhesion of
labor with respect to Ie economic refomn program.
Rule ogt L,:                                                      No           Civil Law to governed by the Civi Code of 1966 Iwhicb was approved
before Cape Verde acceded to independence and is stili in effect in
Weekc, goverrnwnt-infkaenced   Laws nd ules largely                            Portugal. with certain amendmwnts), Criminel Law to governed by the Penal
end unreiable legal and        copied from alien mnodels                       Code of 1866, and Business Law by the Code of 1905.
Judiciary sytem not capabl                                                     1VWMe eil this legal system has been inherited rorm the formwe colonil"
of checking abes of power                                                      power, It Is not peceived, howeve, as e11n' by the ctvi society for the
and aditratn conficts.                                                         saen besic reason as given above (see Patrimonl Role of Staot).
The reason why Cape Verde is currontly In the process of reising a lergo
number of its laws Is because the laws are outdated and badlV adapted to
modern Dle or business practices, and to the nees for bal suppot of a
dynamic private seetor development, and not beceuse there Is widespread
distrust in the legal system in civil society.



POSSISLE DYSFUWCTION              SYMPTOMS                ISSUE iN C.V. ?                         SUPPORTIW   EVIDCE
RPtb of Lgw:                - Judicil careers directly         Partialy        Magistrates rer pan of the cii soevice and. as such, their career
ICondtuid)                     bureucratic or hoevly                           opportunities could in theory be manipulated for political or other reseons.
dependent on the                                There Is no evidence that this happens, however. The rules of pronotion
bureauceay                                      and trensfer of eD public servants are cleary defied (Decree-Law 86092 on
Staffing, Careers nd Salery Plan) and appear to be transperently
mplemrented. Reepect for the judiciary bodies Is extremly high In Cape
Verde, and tampering wAth careers of magistrates would probably result in
vwy hgh political cost. Government otficials have Hlae or no influence
over the appointuent of office-holders to the Supreme Court of the State.
the ordinary cours, and the Audit Court.
Further, the Nadonal Assemby has a Committee on Consitutional and
Judicial Affairs which, itter a. recees and examines complaints and
petidons  Winst public administration, an is empowered to otder
inquiries.
- Fom  laws not widely               No           A the faws are reproduced in the Offidal Gazette which Is published every
pubiized and understood                         week without fail, and widly available. There is no reason to think that
by public                                       understanding of the laws emong the g   public is tess developed in
Ca  Verde than in developed countdes,. or instance. inponrtnt pioces of
osegisation are widely commented upon and deboted in the tree pess, as
evidenced in the case of tho Pdvetizatioon Progrn for instance. Lawyers
services are widely available to the population at affordable costs. Tdis
nd other Court proceedings are open to the pubic. and there is evidence
ofs dgnIfIcant attendance.
- Sherp devation botween             No           Cape Verdeans hmve a weD-deserved reputation as law-abiding citizens,
formal law and practce                           nd Cape Verde Is remarkably cdme-tfree. Non-ompliance with the laws is
the exception to the niul. Social pressure In a smel conmmnity were
Evidence of widespread                          everybody knows everybody probaby plays a roie In this regards.
* lorts by pubiic to find                                                                      L
creative ways of voiding                        Tax evasion Is not unknown, but the results of the recent overhaul of the
onorwcemanw                                     tax code point out to the fact that tax evasion wes mere the result of a
reaction eginst the perceived InadedqacV of the tax systemr thn. e
________________        _ deliberate end wall-ingrained atttude vis-a-vis the lw.
- N eesay resources for              NO           Financial and hunmn resourcs available to the Midstry of Justic are
i    oplemeaon of laws ard                      adequate for e proper operation of the udhicry system partcuary in the1
rule unavaiabe                                  areas of Civil end Criminal Law. However, verv few, It any, Mastratos s
trained h business law. Government i committed to increase and improve
the resources requited for an efficient impention of the egO  business
framework.
Resources avaie to the tinistry of Finace to implement and control the
respeot of the fiscal end ustom  lws  d reaons re daso adequate In   uA
ewertise and nurnbr, end instnces of unethical prctedces whie difficult    Pk
to asses are unquestonably far Ifrem rempent.                      w



P0683E DYSRUCTION   |YMPTOMS                          | 18U   IN C.V. ?                            SUPPORYS -EVIENCE
Rule o La:                                                        No           Polidta offce-holders do not eceive tax exemptions, nor any other benefit
fContinued)                    Government officiaols nd                        then those attachwd to their office, or grade in the civil service tand they
civi servats granted                             re dealdy spelled out in the Budget votod by Pedarlaent). Unt 199 1.
abtary dghts end                                goVOrrdernt officiais and civil servants did not pay income tax a caryovwe
exemptions fomn the Rule of                     from colonial time), but tWs privilege has now been abolished.
LOW
The government has no real power to block cofptiance with the dedsio
- Power of Govenment to                           of the Courts of Law. Moreor, the Constitution cldedy establishes that
undermine court decisions                      judicial docisions prevaii ovwr a othrs. Experience has shown that. in
_________________________   _________________________  _____________ __   practice, such  decisons  are  respected.
PoICV ADSCiNo                                                                  In face of decliing economic peformance starting in the late 1980,. the
government adopted an entirely revised economic policy based on an
Weak and equifocal poicy    - 8ureaocy etng                                    outward-looking strotegy designed to integrate Caps Vorde into the word
capacity, as authotity and     capacity to roech timely                        economy and to cooperate more actively at the teoiona bvel. in spite of a
effective control a            agroeemnt on basic policies                     candid acknowledgement of the hardships the transition might ceuse In the
disconnected.                                                                  short-tertm it larety succeeded in building up a large consensus in secety
- Buresucracy weak in terms                       and the bureauctrcy alike vie-a-vis those policies. Shordy theredter. t
of power to impose                              began, with noticeable success, the complex process of revamping the
affective control to ensure                     policy and tegultory framework, building capacity for econonic
Implementation of policies                     rmnagemen t, restructuding and nmodemiing the public sector. and
Improving the legal environrment for business and civil society alike.
- Ability of top officials to    Somewhat         The bureaucracy in Cape Verde is characterized by an excessive nuner of
achieve efficient ouput                         overwhainrigiy diligent and herd-working civ servants at the lower
limited by bureawuatic                          echelons, an adequate number of largely poody-trained and somewhat
powers (of procrastination)                     passive nmiddle-managrs, and an inadequate number of, typicaly.
wielded by subordinates                         extremely well traied and highly dedicated top mnaogers. The deficiencies
of middle maneaenent put an oxcessive butden on a limited numer of top
- A few Individuals at the top                    civil setvants who. generally, cannot rely on their subordinates to give
called upon to make a range                     them much support in the development of policies. and need to bo closely
of decison raquiring almost                     supervised to ensure a proper and speedy irnplemtentaion of these polices.
superhuman sils, work                                                                                                 CM
habits and etbics7
- Brerts and lg                      No           There is ttle, if any, evidence of patronep. due to an ingrainerd espect0
expers intepreting iaws/                        for the law In civil society, and to the oxerise of public check and
tequlto  the way they                          balances by both an activ free press and en Independent and weld-
see Ait to accomnmodate                         egarded Judiciary. The openness of Cape Verde's society, due to size and
their psonal interests or                       extensive ramification of family tios, would also deeer bureaucrats from  , . 
that of their lients and                        these unetticd practces.o
.__ __         ._ _  proteges                                                                                                           w __>



POSS631 DYSFUNCTION               SYMPTOMS                1S6UE IN C.V. ?                         SUPPORTING EVIDENCE
CentrlzationlConegntradon:                                        No           After independence in 1975. Cape Vardean society became State-
dominated following the installation of a One-party regime. As a resut, eiva
Authority and decision-making                                                  society wee not able to organize itself independently, or to form interest
powers for service provlsonl    - Non-existence of                             groups abie to participate in the policy debate. This has been entirely
deiivery distant and          Independent intrest groups                       reversed following the ftee elections of the eaty 90s, snd today various
untesponsive to benefIcidIes.  (consumer organizadon,                         interest gfoups are well-established, dynamic and effective. The different
professional associations,                      professions have formed associations to pronoto/defend their interests,
research groups) ready and                      workers are now free to creato and adhere to various trade-unions, and the
able to contribute to policy                    private economic operators are more active in paricipating in the socio-
dobate                                          economic poiey dialogue. Private environmental protection groups have
also recendy appeared. However, there is not as yet any organized
consumnr group.
- Evidence of msuse of               No           Public resources have traditionally been managed in a prudent, if not
publio resourees                                aways effective, rnennor in Cape Verde. There is no record of sefious
.ases of rnisoppropdation of public funds by private individuals, and aln
known cases of inpropriety have been either administratively sanctioned.
or prosecutod in Court. The recent strenothening of the Audit Court, with
ao                                                                                       inctease in status of its mrtnbers and complete mnsagement autonomy
%A                                                                                       vis-a-vis the Executive. wii contibute to maintain a high degree of
_  ________________     financial discipline on the pan of public officials and civil servants.
- National and Local choces          No           Fundaetnntal econormic options are debated in the Nationa Assemnbly,
of programs and budget                          Including with regards the Nattonal Developrent Plan. and Regional
deisions clouded in                             Projects. Whie most of the tachnieal work is pertormed by the Directorate
secrecy                                         General of Planning In the hirnistry of Economic Coordination, eentral
government has demonstrated Its commitment to transparency, and has
- Constituents lacking                            activeV encouraged an active participation of professional groups and
independent and regular                         representatives of local governments in the process The nove towards
source of information on                        decentralization is also indicatve of a desire to give end-users a greater seay
policies, implmenttion of                      in prograns design and nmore effective control on their ectual
program  and costieneft                         implementation.
of tesults achieved                             The presentation/debate on soci-economnie priorities, end individual
development projects, organized recendy by Government in the context of
tho Donors' Round Table in Caep Verde was open to the public, and widely
covered in the Iree press. More recently, Government has launched a  0
series of Semniners to present to, and discuss with, various audience its
Public Enterprise Reform and Privadzation progran.
.   ,            gWl.v e



POSSIBE DYSFUNCTION               SYMPTOMS                ISSUE IN C.V. ?                        SUPPORTIWG EVlDENCE
CeorraizetlortiConc.ntratlon:    - Absonce of nstruments    Somewhat         Few mchisms haw so far been formally introduced to aglow
(Continud)                    designed to adow                                conotituonts to ptovide their feedback on the quality of services received.
baficiades/clientsAsers of                     However, the Miristry of Public Adtinistration is gradully remodeling an
services to express their                      offinte where ciil servants are in direct contact with the public to mprove
needs ond provWe feeldback                     accnsibIlity. and Suggesdon Boxes hv beon st up near a number of
on the qutalty of serices                      of firsa After compilation and asaysis a report is prepared for the
roceived                                       atsnmon of the Minister himself.
Clivl servants ad public enterptise managers and  oVoe  aro cdos
enoagh to the population to enure that they canot offord to turn a deaf
oer to complnts about the quality of the seice thoy perform.
Feedbeck is dso provided in the freo pross which is vry actie in Cape
Veal o.
E   Itv L ,SLo*om                                                No           Ther, is no poditical inteferenco in the operation of the tax and customs
zstionft:                                                                     adeinistraton. The tax system is for from perfet but the govmmnent Is
kiphnemnting a wide-ranging refortm Iwith the assistance of th tMFI.
ReressVend M        uint    - Tibuta  and tegressivw                          Recwnly incomr tax exerption of the civil sronts was abhed end civi
of the tax and cutoms code    txotion systnm based                            servants are now subject to the sme tsat coda as the gerdal public
and ad_ilnistration.          pdrnwly on hoavy reliance                       staries of the lower income groups ware adjustod to maintain the same
on indirect taxation rathor                    lev6, of take-home pay).
i                                       than direct taxation
Given the level of income, the main source of govertnnnt rovene is
T lax exemptdon and evasion                      provided by customs duties. but bsic products re mostly oewmpt.
throuoh political influence                    Government is also using food aid proceeds sold at merket rate to finonce
ond tterfonco by the elite                     civa works projects (mainly toad building/meintenance and reforestation)
whkih provide en income to thousands of the poore Cape Verdesns evety
* Increasing social end                          yer.
income gap between rich
an poor                                        The ap betwoen rich end poor is relativaly narotw in Cap Verde. and the  o
tax tegime actually contributes to reduce, tathe than Increase, it.
'4,
It P



P0681.E DYSFUNCMION              SYMPTOMS               ISSUE IN C.V.                           SUPPORTING EVIDENtCE
Fairness and Economic                                           No           In the past, budgetary authoization end appropriation did not always
Rationality in Resource                                                     reflect the relative econornic priorities of the progranm. This is still the cease
Allecation:                *3udgoety a4thorization and                      to some lirited extent. However, this did not tettect the relative powers of
appoprIadot torfecting the                    the bureaucratic elite, or origOinate in bureaucratic compeddon for favors
Resource ailocatdn not bosed  reladve powers of the                         from the rulers, but was a direct result of a largely Oonors-depsndent
on economic and finnciandl   bureaucraetic lite more than                    budgetary process. Io the absence of a strong central coordination and
critera costibeneflt).       the relative eeonomic                           economic evatuation unit in government, Ministdos tended to develop their
pdorties of the pogramns                       own prvilegod reationships with this or that Doror Agency to secure
financing of their pet' programs, end In many instances endorsed the
- Competiton for favore fom                      Donor's own agnda. Addidonally, in their bid to secure the maxmum level
the ruler to obtain                            of concessionary aid possible, governments, in the past, has not beon very
resources a Ceotrml pdoit of                  forthcomrin in promodng Donor coordiation.
intraebureauratic poditioe,
reslidng In lack of                            To toreedy this problem, a Ministry of State for Economic Coordination has
coordinadon between                            recently been created, and the policy hs changed towards less projects
agencies                                       (and add if need be. but better protects. The new goverment is now
trying to convince ael Donors to operato accoring to this new approach,
and within Capo Verde's own economni and socia agenda end vson of
prioities.
* Evidence of enpire bulling     Sornewhat       Horizontat comrunications between Ministdes, prtdiulady with regards
and duplicadons of efforts/                    foreign aid, have often been Inadequate and have indeed rsulted in
programsAilits In                              duplicadon of efforts and wasto of resouwces. The Government has
bureaucracy                                   recently been reorganized to provide, under the laderhip of two Ministers
of Stste, a hitghw degree of coordindton. At the higher echeons of the
bureaucracy, there is evidence of increasing team-spidt, and
acknowledgernent that persona end bureaucratic privileges nust be set
aside to achieve the chllengingi, and oem twy saled, developmenm
objectives of Cape Verdo. Th. attitude, howevwe, is slow to trukl down
the lower echelons of the bureaucrecy.
* Annual eash outlays by            No           The Budget Is clealy documented and submtted to Parlaet for
Treasury delinkod from                         approval. The Minister of Fnance is required to provide the MPs with all
annual budgoet, la                             explanations they deem necessary and jstify Wis budget in person In
overn hidden under                             Pa%rmet The whoe process is entirely transparent and budget discipline
oryptie line iten                              is strctly enforced In Cpe Verde.                                   8
...  .   ._.                                                                                            §~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
lii$



POS 3  DYSFUNCTION               SYMPTOMS               ISSUE IN C.V.?                          StWPORTING EVIDNCIC
Buaucc Iqtesst Groups:                                           No           In the paest, public enterprises and not pdvate entroprenours. were
capitaliz  on mXonopolies end ent iuaton. The government is now
uowrerI stelfserrilea                                                         pU- sing a new economic policy which rely on an outward-otiented, wodd
bumatraucr   hntomw. cre -V SWeXtivo tnpulstlon of                            meutett-ntegrated, private soctor as the main angina of economic gowth.
obstdces to competiive        the formad rules and                            and recoriAzes that this cannot be aohieved f the dometc private saaer
pdvate sector development.    rogutions to approriate or                      were to operate as a reatsoker. As pat of his poliey. it has eniminsted
reduce weath of averag                         the pubtic monopoly on inot trade, and opened th mrket to
entrepreneur                                   comnetition. It Is also pursuing a policy of pdvate provision of public
services, such ts In road minteae and chvil works, based on
- Entrepreneurs capitalizing                      competitive procurement processes. As part of its privaaon program,
on their easy accss to                        some naturl rmonopoles, such as the teWcommuniation ait wil be
ens ad privees                                 privatized through International co_petitv bidding. While ft itends to
creato a lgal nd regatoryt onvironment conducive to the developmnt of
domesdc and foreign private ctdiAties. govwement exhibits no Intenton to
give any spocial pivieges to the private ector which would be detrientl
to its objedve of economic efficiency.
- Widspred lck of                   No            While the Comnmec  Code and the busines lestio   e outdated end
confidnce on the pet of                        do not meed the needs of mnoder-day buiness acaes, and a numbr of
entrepreneurs in the                           other texts touch as the egidsition govring nota  , and the
enforceabilt of agreemnts                      comnpanies' and propet regiters) are unduly complex and rigd, the
end orments                                    budiciary systen is wel regarded for the ethics of Its numbers. As such.
entmreprenurs, if they deplore the present inradaptation of the legal system
* High costs and                                 end the slowness of the Courts, we neverthess confdent that they
unr_easabl ddelv In                            oporate in an enironment which uphods tho rule of law, and in which
enforcing lws and                              contractual arranoements can be enforced. Government gves high prioft
agreemnts botween pdvate                       to the reforn of the legal end the adaptation of the judiiy system to
p-                                             the neods of busines  ctivties, and the Ministy of Justice Is activly
,___ __ _ __ __ _  _ __ __ __ _ __ _  __ _ __ __I  involirn the pdvate sector In the   evision process.
PL
B
0X



POOSSUL YII|NClOU                 SYMPTOMS               IMSU IN C.V.?                           JUPPORTING EV ICE
S02111 itetodg Of ODMWW                                    no           In th process of design of nea *CF'    Service Staffing, Coe. ad
Saldois, Plan' leIlton.m crtiwn unethca situatons woe brough to ligh
Obotv practcs prodng                                                         In th administration, spacly th existence of acme lom_ of oiod
Illegitkmat source of       - b Anlpdt  of ffrcad                             conpenaIon payments, pWartlga,fy With rearS eXPense aCWct
cowpensation.                 bnfit by hlg4vd dv                              padding. t was recognied howewe that tis last practice was maid dt
sevnt, (tmob as expene                         residt of totaly unreullo lbeis of per din, rothr tn of deliberate
ooount padng, fr*nt                            a pts o defraud. Fr intnce, lenot  of missin were treq
and ofton unncsay                              inflted beyond their actud duration, In oer to recover the red cost of
overse tipe, extra py for                      trl ond other expens. Accordigy, travel and subsene per diem
conitte service,                               wer rewevalud under tho new  gIoWd and other nme es Iodtce
coan&~s   or othe                              to eliminate thos   uons whero ciil serv   my fel justified to
fictitious *ov' te, eta ...                    resort to Iea proacies.
The compensaton sytem for plbc emploes, inldn senior staff end
politil oppointes, is now  asfyand {*faty spele out in th now Law.
Evything to do wth bnefit and expess is regulated and contld  by
the Directote genrl of Budoet end ny benoefit nt prove for by Law
I                                                                                                 . is cknsply not accepted by the Dirtoate Gene. T     Is no pssibiy of
0c                                                                                       mIpuaon without actie invomnt or knowledge of a lag nu ber
%O                                                                                      of pople at varous lveb of th hienrchy. This would b easily
I_______________________  ________________  discovered and woud  expose tho pespetators to the full rior of tho Low.
Politicians and bureaucrat        No           The publi procureme  sstewm In Cape Verde has been found to be
usin  the Stat to reword                       resonly trnparent. As for as it is possible to asss, politicians nd
thems  and ther                                bureacts do not sonn to use their podtion to enrch thselves d llgy
supporrs with lIrae                            or unfedy. t is i   that, shod this w    to happen, it woudd be widely
jobs, contracts, publi                         reported In the free press.
monopole and grut
White publi administration Is none too effcden d evidence points out to
_____________________  _____________ _othe fact     it hI remediably coruptionfrtee.
- Sifcat nmbwr of non-              No           ThM gonting of loas bv th fhin l systemic goveed by cdtea that
pedformin loons fron                           procludes spegil favos for hoders of pOitiec offices, or usingn bfnco e:
publi banks owed by high-                      to obtain pretere   treatnt. Even  does not point out to the
lenve poians and                               existence of ay significant loan to pdvate individuals or busiss  which
bureucrats, their buines                        was alowed to trm, and rma  nonpoming becae that Individual of
accomplices and other                          busWss wes well connected to the adnstration (xblc enterpises.
supporters                                     however, are at th orfgn f motu of th ext  largo nonefomIn
loane). Once agin, It I likel that such a dsation wotdd be wel
publicized In the freo pres.
. . _,                                                                               .  .                 gQ >~H



P01311DVWWOCIION                  SYMPTOMS              1NU"8  a4 C.V. ?                         SUPPOINEVICE
Likage beqen Rewd and                                            No           C   serants In Cape Vorde be" amost conto edo bie oto if not 'd
Pgdfosmmn:                                                                    fure job eurity. end the post recowd shows unequivocaly thet dinisad
(mm office, and prosecution, bW  atwas been based on grose breach of
-rom pPerfomanceo not       - DIss  frm  fic                                  dClins1 an no for poliiG raons.
nmesured nd recognized, and   disrace and prosectidon
indihdual labor iputs         sencton aganst disbloyty                        Howew, shortly befote the denocataic eledtions of 1990, a number of
unrewarded. Pay and gading    rather then non-                                members of the then ruling oneat were inteogrted In the cvil senic.
ssten disconnected ftro,      performance                                     mosdy In the lower categode. After the elections, Parliamew adopted a
and unhupportv of.                                                            new egisation to eogulste caesers, promotions and sadles in the Cv
perfotmne,                                                                    sorvice, with a view of tneldrn the whote process immune to poItic
influence.
Prormotions in the chi servce ere now regtlated by low, n  wre based on
a fully transparent conpetiive mecanism reting on 'concours-. All
positions in the cvi servico are budgeted, and there is litde, iN any.
potential for manipueation Isuch as creation of a high leve podtion to
which a staff could be appointed by political fi.at.
0                                    - Absence of job descriptions       Yes           Job descriptions exist for all types of position in the chii service. However.
and documentaon of                             they tend to be faidry general, and do not spol out tho ectities to be
individua objectives and                       petforned, nor the expectod outputs. Further these Job descriptions, if
expected outputs                               they identiy the minimum level of fornal education required to occupy the
positon, do not detail the Ideal qualificadon profile for the incumbent.
ncluding such aspects cs previous experience. type of education. or
personality attributes.
Lnkae between Roward aned   - Lack of perfortmence              Yes           An evaluaton system of some sort is used In the civil sevce, eand there is
Perforance: evaluadon system                                                  a link between evaluation and compensation in tho salary system. Civl
(Continued)                                                                   servants with a series of negative evaluations cannot move fromn one level
- Absence of provision fo                        to anothoe wihin their grade, and consoquently w*ll not chn gelay
rewarding perfotmance and                      zone. However, experienco shows that most, it not all. civil servants move
merit In ornpensotion                          regularly frorn one salay zone to the next.
system
The present evaluation system is prinarily dosigned to assess the ettitudo
at work, rather than to evaluate the resuttc achieved. an idektify the
strengths and weAknesses of  particular incuwbent in a given poition. As
a result, it does not provide tho kind of information required for caeer  
planning and to the Idficadtion of individual training neds.
Govemnment Intends to Wnoduce a new evaluaton system to mae r
performanco, as on key element in the introduction oft coprehense _g
humen resoure menaget system provding te kind of Infomatonit
required for socession plannn, traindn, relocation ond rcutment l
second phae. govrwnm  pans to rewWe the sy systen to Inrodce      _
meenw form of compensation bad on mawk.



Civil Svic Reform (Governance)
Page 13 of 13
1X a
&Iilt"il.       S. .i t0W ,aDi
[C}!t11l$1ES   0
-        _ 9I  -
ma   II                  I  I~~~~~~~~~~
ill     1    "1? I~i II' I  I91



EVOLUTION OF THE NUMBER OF CML SERVANTS
11,300         11,400          11,172
10,600
7,800
7,200
0            6,800
H-                      - 1-            -- 1-
1976      t     980           1985            1989           1990     .     .. 1992         1993 M



SENIORITY OF EMPLOYEES IN PUBUC ADMINISTRATION
More than 25 years      2.8%
20 to 25 years        3.8%
15 to 19 years                8.6%
10 to 14 years                         12.%
5 to 9 years                                    19.6%
Less than 5 years                                             i                                     E52.4%
40
eS 



FUNCTIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIVIL SERVANTS
-d Owadro Especal (ExecutIhe Assistants &     1.0%
Adviors to Mniters)
'Dlgente e Chefi Operacbnd- iSupervirs           1.t%
& Top level Ch Sernos) _
ln ipeco de F n         uc audit & tax    0.7%
nspectrs                   _
*Reitros edr Notwl  (Alhiviss, Notary    0.4%
'Adla    & Ofclas de Jusc             1'4%
Imag&strates,  dicy personnel     _     4
*TecImco Adwuano (Customs OflIes         0.4%
'Maitkno a de Farobagem  (Hadbow Master.    04%
Ship-piots,  htuse keepers. etc.) 
Docente (Teachers. Sdmates, etc.                                                                                                                             33.2%
'Dslonati'o (Etbassadors & Embssy staf)l   0.3%
,Aes Gralbas  (TV & Badio staff, Pdmshop        0.7%
worlketB
'Pevenpao, FhpaIlzago e  spc*             -           -     .8%
(Pcemen, Pea Staff, Iupectors, etc..) +
'Tech*oo fStalf whh Hboh Schood bvd                                                  2  9
educatin & Ut Chblsl              .                    .                     12.9%
'Adffgst;atlvo (Office Stsff. Ce rs, etc..l                4.3%                                                                                                                '
'Opgrafb' lMue-olar workers h fo               -                0,B6% 
'Auxilrw' (Cleaners, Olffi  Messerners, etc..l                                                                                                       30.0%
Ope ¢ (Elie-coMa woers   rem6.6%00
--.-.~~~~~~~~~w -                    .



ANE  4!B
Civil Service Reform (Figures)
Page 4 of 8
U.
~0
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
5~~~~~~9



AGE DISTRIBUTION OF CIVIL SER'ANTS
More than 70 years   0.6%
60 to 69 years        3.0%
50 to 59 years                   7.9%
40 to 49 years                                        1%.79
30 to 39 years                                                                                                       43.0
20 to 29 years                                         -                       .28.3%
Less than 20 years   0.4%
a



GENDER DISTRIBUTION OF CIVIL SERVANTS
'do  uadro Fspeciaq (Executive Assisttants &    __
Adviso tiisto rstiW
'Dirieffe .... I (Top Lvl CvSerd C s)i                                   ms                                   
*Inspecao...' IPublic aucttors & Tax                                                     ..                             -           .
Inspectols_
'Registros... -Archivists, Notary Public)                                                                       _________________            _
^Judiciario...' IMagiasates. Judiciary
personnel)                -LL l                              _         _   __                                                   -          .
*Technkco Aduaneiao' ICustoms Officers)     _
'Marinimo .... (-1atbour Master. Ship-pilots,    *   .  _   .... _  _                              .
Lgh:tiotise keepets, etc....l
'Docente' (Teachets. Schoodnastets. etc..l                                                                      --,
'Diplometico' (Embassadors & Embassy staff)
'Auses Gralicas- ITV & Radio, Ptinishop    l                                     _                                                        ..
wotkets)                 ,]l
wokO5)-           -------.----'.-...----. .-.- ..                      ..         .         . 
'Pevengao...^ (PoNcomen, Penal Staff, etc..l
'Technico' Istaf v wt mn. High Schoot    r      __ _                     .       _I
educattot & Unit Chiefs)                                                                    :-L __. - -..i: .
'Administrativo' (Cleks, Cashiers, etc..)    ..                                   _                                                      .
'Opera- IBlue-collar workers & foremenl        _      _                                                                                                                | _ _
Auxiliar (Cleanets, Office Messengers, etc..)______________   -_______                                                    ..                    .      ! 
0%                             25%                            50%                            75%                            100%
0  WMNO0    VjMEI



GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF CMIL SERVANTS
80.0%
50.0%
40.0%   .-
30.0%
20.0%
10.0%
0.0%
S. VIkent   S. Antao      S         Boa Vita    S. mlcoaw    Santlap       Malo        rOo         Erava        Ca
% Civil Servants    '   % Population



STATUS OF EMPLOYEES IN PUBUC ADMINISTRATION
Ernpl. wl fixed term contract                                                                                                                            24 .544%
Empl. with I yeal contiact                                                                     1  .0%
Empi. wil,t < I yea contract                                                                                                  18.6%
"0
C. Servants wlou.t budgetary posiion       4.89
C. Seivants on Probation (I.e. c 5 years'                                                                                                       20.1%
senioritV)
Confimted Civil Servants (i.e. > 6 years'                                                                                                 19.0%
seonioity)                                                                                                                    90
C 



Civil Service Reform (CORs)
Page l of 3
REPMUBLC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACfTY WUILDING PROJECT
CmL SERVICE REFORM COMPONENT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE
DESIGND OF  Yl VI,UgS  DEPARTURE PROG;;
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE
The Goverment of Cape Verde intends to reduce the size and modify the stfing mix of the civil
service to levels which are financially sustainable, more productive, and compatible with the new role
of the State in the economy.
To the extent possible, Government wants the staffing reduction to be voluntary. For this purpose,
i intends to offer a compensation package sufficiently attractive tD induce potential beneficiaries to leave
seure jobs, and look for employment opportunities outside he public sector. It is also considering
accopng   measures such as support for demand-driven tainig and retraining schemes, and for the
creation of small and micrc 4aterprise by former civil servans, to facilitate redeployment.
'Me Ministry of Public Adminion is preparing a detailed strategy for the implementation of a
Vo1unv Departure - _ gnm (VDP) targeting the three lowest categories of personnel of the public
administration (Auxiliar', "Operario' and uAdministrativo'). Financial resources permitting, the
objective is to induce the departure of rouglly 1,700 staff in these three categories. A computer
simuation model has already been developed to cost the VDP, based on alternative packages and numbers
Of departees.
The role of the consultant will be to test the responsiveness of the target group to various possible
compensaton packages and, through an inthe-field survey, to identify the accompanying measures which
might facitlitate reentry into the labor market of personnel in the target groups.
TASKS OF THE ICONSULTANT
lhe consultant wil:
- Meet with the MPA task force charged with planning the desigp of the VDP to become
thoroughly acquaied with the rationale for the program, Its objectives, the various packages
proposed by government and the simulation model used to cost them, and all other relevant
InformLtion;
- Build and pre-test a questionnaire designed to evaluate the responsiveness of the target group(s)
to different types and levels of incentive packages Oump-sum, monthly payments, targeted
training, or any combination);
- 100 -



Civil Service Refonn
Page 2 of 3
- Build and pre-test a questionnaire designed to evaluate the responsiveness of the target
group(s) to different types and levels of incentive packages (lump-sum, monthly
payments, trget  traing, or any combination);
- Select a representative sample of personnel in the target group, and conduct interviews,
based on the above questionnaire;
- Prepare basic education and skills profile of the personnel in the target groups;
- Assess, through a field survey, potential demand in the fornal and informal sectors for
the type of personnel targeted under the program;
- Analyze the result of both the interviews and the labor market survey, with a view to:
 identifying the least cost/best result combination of monetary and non-monetary
incentives required to convince the number of employees targeted under the program to
voluntarily leave public administration;
* evaluating the potential for retrenched staff to set-up small and micro-enterprises, and
identiying the type of advisory and training assistance which might be offered to
facditate their start-up;
* recommending the tpe of training to be offered to potential beneficiaries to prepare them
best for existing and emerging job opportunities in the private sector;-
-Assist the Ministry of Public Administation with the prepation of the details of the
VDP progam, including the level and type of the final financial and training package
that the Ministry should recommend to the government, the criteria for participation in
the program, the deailed costs, and the program implementation procedures and
monitoringlcontrol mechanisms.
DURATION OF THE ASSIGNMENT
The level of effort for this assignment is estimated at 2 person-months. It will require some
travel within Cape Verde to test the labor market.
QUALICATIONS REQUIRED
ITe study will be conducted by local consultant(s) selected under IDA's procurement procedures.
ITe consultant(s) must have strong quantitative analysis skills.
- 101 -



ANNE 4-C
Civil Service Reform
Page 3 of 3
Prior practical experience is mnndatory in:
- the sampling and design of interview questionnares,
- the conduct/supervision of intemews in the field, and in
- the conduct of trang needs assessment.
Ihe consutant(s) must have prior experience in technical, professional and/or vocational
trining, and be thoroughly familiar with the formal and informal labor market in Cape Verde.
- 102 -



ANNEX 4-D
Civil Service Reform (TORs)
Page 1 of 2
REPUC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBUC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM COMPONENT
TERMS OF REFEIUNCE FOR THE DESIGN
AND IMILEMEWAIK0N OF- A HUMAN RESOUIWE MANAG5;ESSTME
OBJECTIVE OF TIE ASSIGNMENT
Although systems and procedures of personnel *managemento in the Civil Service in Cape Verde
are fairly advanced by Sub-Saharan African standards, they still remain basically static instruments better
suited to administering rather than to managing and developing the human resources of the public
administration.
As part of the broad objective of modernizing management of the civil service, the Government of
Cape Verde has identified organization and manpower planning as a critical area to be addressed. The
changing role of the State requires a significant adaptation of the civil service, both In terms of functions
and structure, and in terms of the necessary human qualifications.
Accordingly, a methodology and instruments conducive to quantitative and qualitative analysis of
the present and forecasted demand and supply of personnel in public administration are essential to
provide the data required for the development of comprehensive strategies and action-plans in the areas
of: (i) recruitment, (ii) training, (iii) productivity improvement, (iv) career and succession plans, (v)
redeployment and (vi) alternative sources of service.
TASKS OF THE CONSULTANT
The Consultant will assist the Ministry of Public Administration (MPA), in its role as manager of
the human resources of the civil service, with the design and implementation of modern human resources
management systems to foster an adequately match between the demand and supply of personnel, and to
identify actions to be taken to fill the gap, if any.
Specifically, the consultant will:
Phas  :
- assist the Ministry of Public Administration with the design and/or adaption of instrun.ents and
methods in the areas of ogization dein & manpower planning, pmsnnel evauaton, caree
and succession planning, and training needs  sessment
- recommend the selection of one of the PC software packages which exist on the market to
manage organization and human resource planning and control;
- 103 -



ANNEX -1)
Civil Service Reform (TORs)
Page 2 of 2
- develop a titne-bound action-plan, including annual milestones, to implement the new instruments
and methods of human resource management in the civil service; and,
Phase 2;
- provide in-house practical training, including hands-on workshops, in the use of the new
instruments to the staff of the Ministry of Public Administration, personnel officers in the
Ministries and other Government Agencies. Tley, in turn, would train supervisors and managers
throughout the Public Administration;
- assist the MPA develop and deliver briefing sessions for the top management team in each
Ministry, to explain the new system, and build commitment for implementation; and
- act as a catalyst, in close collaboration with the MPA, for Ministries to launch organizational and
management reviews, guided by the objectives and priorities of the government public serctor
reform program.
DURATION OF THE ASSIGNMET
The level of effort is estimated at 2 person-months for each phase of the assignment.
QUALIFICATIONS REQUIRD
The assignment calls for a Personnel Management Specialist, with at least 10 years experience in the
field. The specialist should have a high degree of fluency in Portuguese and/or French.
The consultant must have had direct line management experience as Director of Personnel, preferably for
a large private company. Ideally, the consultant will also have experience in managing personnel in public
sector organizalons.
Tne consultant must have a good klowledge of existing personnel management software packages for
micro-computers.
Proven ability and experience of the consultant in training personnel management officers is required.
- 104 -



HUMAN RESOURCES PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM
HUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOP
CAPACITY BULDNG
STRATEGIES
IDEN TIFICA TION OF PRESENT AND FU TURE NEEDS                            C        &
FOR PERSONNEL                                        SUCCESSION PLAWN
(Vertical Mob>i
SmDTITp" each                                  TRANSFERS OETWEEN
_*AWSuv uemit                                      UNITS
OERN"IOM OF                                                       (Horizontal Mobility)
TM PA" OF TM  OROAWATION  RESOURCESESUflCE
TRANBNG &
~~IALiTATrtIa- Omadflcagho  ~RETRAINING
OisU _w _   h_                   l           \        STRATEGIES
STRATEGY    J
EVALUATJJON Of
EXISTING RESOURCES
_~~~~flsi* C*Wr            IEvaluation Methodology)  _hAt ofr E VAkAd.n
. . _.
s#T0



ANNEX4w
Civil Service Refom
(Cosas)
Page 1 of I
GOVERNEaT OF CAPE VERDE
PUDIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Civil Service Reforn Camo=squ
SHORT.fTRM  ADVISORY SERVICES. EQUiMENT AND TRAINNG
AR_AS                                    ACTIONS                        P.sonadant           Unit Coat      ToWl Coui
.                            tPe0)        l~~~~~~~~~~~~fussTOO)  (ussoQo)
1. ADVISORYSERVICES
SU&Oipot fr 8t DOespg Oflhe VoIuntWh,Doefwe P'am
Local Caerl  ResotUes                                               2               48
- Tral a Misellanous Expenss                                        NU                               2
Design a Impl_mnton of Human Rores Mansement Sytm
enernttonal Contg Resoces                                            4              20S             so!
tEQUHIMENTf
ComputerEqulpment e ACsCdS obrUW ewa  de Oados-                     WA                              40
Computedafti  of t  Hum  ResoUre ManaM met System                   NI_                             40
subtotal             80
. TRAINING
Desig & De&"wE of Traiin Pmgaum (hoUselecteMh?shtes                 NiA                            120
Rebat"u,~OfV0DOap~t.                                                NI _____                       3601
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  TO TA L   _ _ _ _ _ __O A_
-106-



Civi Service Reform
(Performance Indicator)
Page I of 2
REPUBLC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACItf BUILDING PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
FOR THIIIE c SL RIEFORS COMONENST
L    Indcators of Pro}ee Impltatie
1. Public annoumcement of the Voluntary Departure Program (VDP), including the details of the
proposed package, by April 1994.
2. Design/adaptation of tie new evaluation system for middle and top civil serants completed by July
194.
3. Data-base of the professional (technical and managerial) strengths and weaknesses, and need for
training, of all middle and top managers in Public Adminon, based on the results of the new
evaluation system, completed by Mardh 1995.
4.  All  int(d                 of system, acquisition of hardwe and software, training of a core
of users) required for implementing the new human esource management system in the civil service
available by June 1995.
S. Implementation/normalization of detailed career paths Oist and sequence of positions a candidate
should ideally have occupied) and succession plans (roster of potentia candidates) identified for each
middle and top management position in Public Admistration by July 1995 as well as career plans
repared for all civil servants at the following levels: *Technico-, "Judiciario e Oficiais de Justicia",
InspecPo de Fmanas? , and Dirigente e Chefia Operaclonal' by Deceber 1995.
6. 3-year roluing master plan for the taining of civil servants finalized by October 1994.
7. Training planned for eah year of the project completed by year-end.
IL  IqdifrtoIW ot Aditevement of ProLect's ObWecdves:
8.  Objective of mnmber of voluntary depres in target groups achieved.
9. As an indication of the adequacy of the retrainig scheme, by 1997 a minimum of 400 voluntary
departees will have found employment in the formal and informal sector.
- 107 -



AN=E 4-G
Civil Service Reform
(Prformance Indicators)
Page 2 of 2
10. Public Ad    ion Users srvey conducted in each year of the project demonsttes a marked
improvement in consumer satsfaction with civil servants' knowledge of their tsks, and service-rin
attitude compared to survey results of previous year.
I1. Improvement in the average yearly evaluation scoring of the middle and top civil servants of each
Ministy demonstrates positive impact of training andlor more adequate staf   thankS to the human
resource management system.
12. Reduction in tumover rate of middle and top civil servants an indication of improved motivation.
13. Reduction in the time required to identify, select and appoint a suitable candidate to middle and top
management positions an indication of quality of human resource management database.
- 108 -



ANNEX I
Decentralization
Page 1 of t8
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBIC SECTOR REFORM & CAPACITY BUIING PROJECT
DECENTRALlZATION AND MNCIPAL SFRENGTHNIN
1. BACKGROUND
(a) Historical Evolution
The first local administrative units ("freguesias") were established soon after the colonizaion of
Cape Verde in 1462. At the local level, administrative responsibilities were then exercised by the
religious authority of the parish. In the course of colonial times, religious and administrative
responsibilities were separated.  Local adminstrative authority became vested in the 'Conseihs'
managed by locally elected "Camaras Municipais' (Municipal Councils) which had some degree of
autonomy from the central government in the management of local affairs.
Shordy after independence, the local administrative structure inherited from colonial times was
reorganized and local representaivity abolished in favor of a highly centralized one-party government
system. All members of the newly created local administrative entities ("Deliberative Council* and
"Administrative Secretariat%, both headed by a "Delegate for Internal Administration") were directly
appointed by Central Government. Tbe role and source of legitimacy of the "Delegate for Iternal
Administration", who alone possessed real exective power and authority in local affairs, was recognized
filly when his tite was changed to "Government Delegate".
At the same time, Central Government starWd assuming an ever growing role in all facets of
economic and social life and, with the geographical dispersion of the population of Cape Verde,
representation of central government ministries were established in the local districts. Existence of the
two parallel structures proved to be a source of conflicts at the local level. Deconcened unis of
central ministries soon gained power over the local administrative structures, as they received and
managed far larger human, physical and financial resources. lbis situation led, in most cases, to a
gradual withering away of the influence and activity of the local administve structures which,
notwithstanding the fact that they spoke on behf of central government, were also providing a bouom-up
channel of communication between the population and the Govermment on local issues and concems.
Decentralization of a wide range of local power; and responsibilities to the Municipalities,
managed by locally elected representatives and executives, figured prominently in the program of the
party which came to power as a result of the first multi-party democratic electoral process in Cape Verde.
Following the presidential and legislative elections at the beginning of 1991, democratic Municipal were
held for the fst time since Independence on December 15, 1991. The elections through universal and
secret ballot created: (i) a municipal assembly in each district, whose members are elected by proportional
representation; and (ii) a city council, whose members, including the mayor, are elected on the basis of
the majority of the vote. The whole process elicited an immensely positive response from the population.
- 109 -



ANNEX S
Decentralization
Page 2 of 18
(b)Policy Framework for Decentaization
The objectives of Cape Verdes decentralization policy are essentially five-fold: (i) to enable
access to political and economic decision-makers for a majority of Cape Verdians; (ii) to increase direct
popular participation in programs directed to meet "basic needs"; (ii) t abolisb the parallelism between
Central and local government units at the municipal level, especially vis-a-vis the functional areas tageted
for decentralization by Decree, Law 52-A/90 (health & sanitation, urban infrastructure, social services,
etc.); (iv) to restcture the allocation of resources and increase the efficiency of resource utilization; and
(v) to Improve managerial and admnstrative efficiency by providing for flexible adaptation to unique
circumstances which, in different locations, might affect development efforts in diffaent ways.
Cape Verde's decentralization efforts are consistent with its overall economic reform program.
An important feature of that broader policy framework are principles concerning the changing roles and
responsibilities of the Government of Cape Verde (GOCV) and the expanding role of the private sector
(both in the sense of private commercial enrepreneurship and voluntary community initiatives). Ihe
fundamental instional aspect of Cape Verde's overall economic policy framework is that the public
sector is shiftig from altempts to control economic bebavior through inappropriate (market-adverse)
regulation andlor through direct and dominant participation in the production of goods and services to
the more limited role of providing an enabling environment for private sector economic development and
competition, thus improving economic efficiency and promoting sustainable growth. This requires the
public sector to limit and reorient its role to: (i) establishing appropriate policies and regulations for the
efficient and effective operation of market mechanim; CH) developing human resources; fiii) faciing
the construction and maintenance of appropriate physical infrastrucure; and (iv) facilitating the provision
of appropriate (i.e. demand-driven & quality) services.
Cape Verde's economic policy framework provides implicit criteria for evaluating the appropriate
role of Govermnent in the economy. Ihus, while the GOCV is responsible for financig 'public* goods
an services, it need not be directly involved in the actual production of the goods and services it
finances. From a pracdcal perspective, 'publice goods and services are understood to be those which
are deemed to be high priority for economic growth and public welfare, which the private sector cannot
reasonably be expected to provide in sufficient quandty (and at an affordable costs). Distinguishing
between financing and producing public goods and services help to identify those functions which ought
to be reassigned to the private setor. t also helps to assess the potential impact of alternative
assignments of functions to local governments to achieve economic policy objectives.
(c) Igal F:ramewvork for DecentI&WaoU
Title IV of the recendy adopted Constitution provides the framework for the new decentralized
political and administrative organization of the State. It enshrines the creation and staus of the
Municipalities as autonomous public entities, representative of the local population for prosecution of
loeal interests. The constitution also creates a Regional Affahirs Council which must be consudted prior
to the approval by the National Assembly, or the Government, of legislation or regulations having an
iVpact on the Municipalities, including regading local finances and the national and regional development
plans. The Consiuton stresses the need to promote solidarity among municipalities, and to reduce, as
far as possible, the regional imbalances in national development. It also recognizes that Municipalities
are entitled to receive technological, material and human support to carry out their responsibilities.
- 110 -



ANNEX-
Decentralization
Page 3 of 18
The Constitution clearly spells out the respective areas of responsibility, and the authority of the
legislative, executive and judiciary branches of govermment and recognizes the principles of separation
and intdependency of powers. The Govemment is the supreme agency of Public Administration,
which defines, leads and execute general internal and exteral policies, and is responsible before the
National Assembly (N.A.). Members of the N.A. are elected for a S year's mandate, and the N.A. has
exclusive competence in areas such as the electoral laws, issues of sovereignty, and the Municipal Base
Law. With regards local goverment, only the N.A. can legislate on issues such as the creadon or
modification of Municipalides, on the electoral process, on the organization of decentralized government
units, and on taxation.
Government, through the Council of Miister, can legislate on issues regarding its own
organization and modus operandi, and pass decree-laws in affairs not exclusively reserved to N.A., or
on issues for which it has received a special legislative mandate from the N.A. (implementation of the
privatization program for instance). Government Members (Ministers and State Secretanes) are
competent to exercise administrative and executive functions within their Mmistries.
The Judiciary is organized in a Supreme Court (along the US model), Courts of First Instance,
Tribunal de Contas (equivalent to the Auditor's General). In addition there are other courts such as a
Military Court and Fiscal and Customs Courts.
Subsequent to the Presidential and Legislative elections of 1990, Decree-Law n° 52-A/90 of July
$, 1990 (Legislagao Autrquica), built upon the framework for decentralization defined in the Municipal
Basic Law (Law ne 471111/89) passed in 1989, but never actually implemented. It created the Municipal
Assemblies (Assemblela Municipal) as the legislative branch of local govermnent, and the Municipal
Council (Camara Municipal) headed by a Mayor (Presidente da Cfmara Municipal), as the executive
branch of local government. his law also defined the role and responsibilities of the Municipalities with
regards: (i) their power to legislate in domains which are not of the Central Government or N.A.'s
spheres of competence, (ii) their local regulatory powers; (iii) their executive powers; Civ) their
patimonial, fiscal, fmancW and administradve powers; (v) their power to approve local developmen
plans and to participate in the elaboration and implementation of national development plans; (vi) their
power to define and execute local development projects; (vii) their power to establish, within the
franework of the Law, incentives and other mechanisms susceptible to attract investments and human
resources required for the development of the Municipality; (vii) their power to run or to supervise the
activities of public services (such as water and electricity supply) within the Municipalities; and, (viii)
their power to establish relations of cooperation with other.domestic or foreign Municipalities.
(d) Relationships between Centrl & Local Goveune
Bfflgiol Planning. The Ministry of State for Economic Coordination (Ministerio de Estado e
da Coordenaclo Economica) is responsible, inter alia, for the preparation and coordination of the
implementation of the National Development Plan. The role of Municipalities in the design of the
regional development plans is recognized by Law. However, very few of them are equipped to
constructively dialogue with the Directorate General of Planning (Direc;1o Geral de Planeamento) on this
issues.
- tt1 -



ANNE 5
Decentralization
Page 4 of 18
Financial and Fiscal Control. The General Inspection of Finance (InspecCio Geral de Finan;as -
IGF) in the Miisy of Finance is the centu   orgaism of fiscal and financial contol. Among other
fimcions, k controls the paimonial and fiancial management of the Municipalities, including those of
the municipal services, municipalized enterprises and municipal associations. This control is exercised
by the Admsrative Public Sector inspection (Inspec;Io do Sector pdblico Administrativo - ISPA). In
addition to financial control, the Court of Accounts ("Tribunal das Contas') audits and certify the
accounts of the Local Governments.
P.,rsonnel Management. The Ministry of Public Administration and Parliamentary Affairs
(Mi ostro da Administraglo Pdblica e Assuntos Parlamentares), through the Directorate General of
Public Administration (Direcgo Geral da Administracao Pdblica), manages the civil service. For the
time being, a single employmett statute covers all civil servants, whether they work in central or local
adminitrtons.
While Decree-Law 52-A/190 provides the legal background for decentralization, the acua transfer
of responsibilities and powers from the Central Government requires a series of "D6cres d'Application"
(Regulations). These will be issued gradually in the context of agreements between central ministries and
municipalities defining the extent and modalities of transfer of fnancial and human resources. This
process is essential to ensure that Municipalities are indeed equipped to handle their new responsibilities,
and take over the provision of services from the deconcenuated agencies of central ministries in an
orderly and effective manner.
Role of Ministry of Inte_na Affar. On behalf of Government, the Ministry for Iternal
Adminstraion (MIA) is in charge of assisting the local and centr government units concerned organize
the transfer of fimctions and resources from deconcenrated agencies of central Ministries to the
Municipalities, and of supervising the timely implementtion of decentralization. However, much remains
tD be done to ensure that the process is conducted in an orderly manner with due regards to the financial
and human capacity of the Municipalities to face their new responsibilities. In particular, the Directorate-
Genea for Local Administion (Direcogeral da AdministragUo Local) in the MIA is responsible for
the evaluation, coordination and promotion of those measures conducive to the reinforcement of local
adminio, and the strengthening of the relationships between Central and Local Administration, and
between Municipalities themselves.
The MIA also exercises an 'adminstrative tutelle' on the Municipalities, as it must ensure that
local governments act within the powers they are granted by Law. The definition of "tutelle" is not too
clear, however, and de facto, some municipalities still wait for approval from central government on
certain major decisions Cm the areas of municipal budget and investmens plans, for instance).
(e) l l Ognztn of LocalG ne
Officials of local governments are elected for four years, by direct, secret and universal ballot
out of plurinominal lists. Municipal Assemblies have between 13 (m small municipalities with less than
10.000 inhabitants), and 21 members (for those who have up than 30.000 inhabins). Municipal
Council, inluding the Mayor, range from S to 9 members.
- 112 -



ANNE% S
Deceallzation
Page 5 of 18
Legpslative branch. As the legislative branch of local government, the Municipal Assembly
debates on all but day-to-day issues affecting the Municipality, and control the activities of the Council
which is the executive branch. Municipal Assembly are required by Law to meet at least twice a year,
in February to review the Accouns and Annual Report of the Council, and in November to approve the
Budget and Plan of activity for the next year. The Assembly is free to organize additional meetings, as
required. Decisions are taken at the majority of the vote, assuming that a quorum is reached. lhe
Municipal Assembly reviews, and votes on, all proposals submitted by the Council regarding the
organization of municipal services, the municipal investment and operating budget, the program of
activities and services to be provided by the Municipality, and the staffiong.
Exeuiyve branch. 'he Municipal Council is an executive collegial organism headed by the
Mayor, which organizes and supervises the execution of local government responsibilities (pelouros).
It meets twice a month, and can only deliberate with the majority of its members present. Municipal
Councils look over: the organization and management of municipal services, finances, planning, ubansm
and construction, and local regulations within the mandate received from the Municipa Assembly. 'Me
Mayor has day-to-day authority to manage the municipal services, and to run the municipal
administaion.
Municipalities have finacial and patrimonial autonomy, i.e. power to approve and execute
budgets, to levy local taxes (within the general Fiscal Law passed by the N.A.), to realize investments
(although the coordination mechanisms between Local and Central Adminisions with regards local
investment are not yet clearly established) and to borrow (although this last issue is not yet propedy
defined). Municipalities can decide to operate industrial or commercial activities (water supply; electrica
energy production and distnbution; passenger and freight transport; workshops),- or to contract out the
provision of these services to private enterprises.
*1 Retadonhip betw Ieenloa ,eovenmn and their Constients
Loca organs of government have clearly demonstrated their commitment to public participation
in local affais, and to the transparec of their actions. It is clear that most locally elected officials have
been extmely concerned to provide the maximum information possible to the general public on local
afiirs, and have gone to great length to make themselves available to their constituents. Meetings of the
Municipal Assemblies are usually open to all, and the public is encouraged to intervene for questions and
aoswers sessions, most mayors reserve at least two half-days a week to meet, on an individual basis, with
private citizens, socio-economic groups (formers, fishermen, traders, etc) are encouraged to meet with
the Municipal Councit on a regular basis, and a number of information builetins are now published
regularly by the Municipalities, notwithstanding severely limited resources.
In addition, some municipalities are themselves engage: in a process of deconcentration, as they
are responding positively to, or in some cases actively encouraging, the creation of infra-mumcipal
organisms with the objective to ensure active and voluntary cidzens' participation in public activities, and
to bring local adminuration cdoser to the population it serves.
- 113 -



ANNWIK
Decentraization
Page 6 of 18
(g) Relationshipe with Donor Agencies. NO0s.
Municipalities have been 'adopted  by Bilater  Donor Agencies and NGOs that direct their
financial, material and  hical support to local projects. Government intends to centrally coordinate
these actions to Improve resource allocadon within national priorides. This coordination should be
realized in an administrative flexible way, to avoid bureaucratic red tape, and not deprive local
populations of projects of proven effectiveness.
2. ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED
(a) Financial Issues
Sources of Revenue
Cape Verdian municipalities are financed by differt sources of income, both collected by te
Local Goveruments or transferred by Central GovemenL  'Me so called 'municipalized taxes' are
actually collected by the Central Govemrnment, through Its regional agencies, but automadcally transferred
to the local ones, on a monthly basis. The reason for this Is that they were formerly Ceit .I Government
taxes that were passed on to the municipalities after the elections, tO give thew .-me financial
Independence, but since the local governments do not have the capacity to levy these X& s, they are stll
being collected by the local agencies of the Dlregao Geral de Contribuicoes e Impostos - DGCI, of the
Finance Ministry. In 1992 there were 7 of them: Local Development Tax, Urban Property Tax, Rural
Property Tax, Poperty Transfer Tax, Car Registron Tax, Fire lnsurance Tax and the Sugar Cane
Production Tax. In 1993 the tax on sugar cane ceased to exist with the creation of the Industri Tax at
the Central Goverment level. This should reduce the revenues for some municipalides, specily Ribeira
Grande and Paul, in the Island of Santo Antao, where sugar cane is an iaportant crop. On the other
hand, a Tourism Tax is being created, at the Central Govermnt level, and 30% of its revenues should
be saed with the municipalities in which they wil be collected.
The income from the municipalized taxes, according to 1992 budget figures, accounted for 11%
of the total municipal revenues, or 14% of their recurrent revenues. They were specially importat oly
to the large municipalities like Praia (24% of total and 27% of recurrent) and Sao Vicente (21% of total
and 26% of recurent renes).
At the municipal level a large number of charges, duties, fees and fines are collected, resulting
from local regulaions, grand licenses, registtions, etc. Among them are charges on the occupation
and use of space on markets and fairs; use of public  ahous and butchery; authorizaton for the
use of public space, street vendor, and use of commercial publicity space; burial, grave and tomb use in
mmuicipal cemeteries; commercia licensing in general; grant of legal authorization for private occpation
of public domain, due to constuction work and building use. Also grouped in this revenue category are
the charges for the rendering of some public services by municipal organisms and workers. The revenues
from the above, in 1992, accounted for 10% of total municipal revenues, or 13% of their recurrent
revenues.
- 114 -



ANNEX-S
Decentaization
Page 7 of 18
Another Important item of locally collected revenue refes to patrimonial inoome. Under this
category are grouped the revenues fom interest, dividends, profits, and ren. The income fxm
dividends and property rents are usually the most significant items, and this caegory of revenue is
specily important for the municipalities of Prala, Sao Vicente and Sal - these three municipalities alone
account for 84% of the total patrnidal revenue. For the 15 municipalities as a whole they accoun for
6% of tW  revenues or 7% of the recutrent ones.
The transfer revenes are essentially received from the Central Govemment through the Fuiancial
Assistance Fund (FAP), and only on an eventual and marginal basis from other sources such as foreign
aid and remittances. They correspond to almost 23% of the total revenues or over 28% of the recurrent
ones.
The present FAF structue was established by the Local Finance Law (Decree-Law N-101-0190)
and has corresponded since then to 6% of the total net tax revenue of the Central Govenment, that is,
not including the revenues from the municipalized taxes. The amouns foreseen in each year's budget
are guaraneed to be transferred, but if the tax revenue goes beyond that, the municipalities receive more,
in accordance to what was actually collected and in the same proportion as previously established. Ibis
riterium  has created some problems for the Central Govenment since the municipalities receive every
month 1112 oftheir FAF quota, and in some months the amoun that is actally collected runs below that,
and the loca govenments demand their budgetary quota, but in the monfts t  revenues are higher, they
want to receive the proportind distribution.
The distrbution crkeria of the FAP among the 15 municipalities are very objective, aldwuglh they
may change from one year to the other as part of the budgetary amangements that are approved by the
National Assembly.
'Me distribution criteria in 1992 was: 60% equally distbuted to each municipalIt, 20%
cording to population; 5% according to area; 3% inversely proportional to the revenues of the
municipalized taxes; 3% acoording to an isolation index ta benefitted only the 6 more distant
municipalities, considering Prala, Sao Vicente and Sal as refrence; and 9% as a coWect  index to
prevent municipalities from losing revemne in comparin with the previous year. For 1993 the
distrution criterium changed and became: 50% equitable; 30% according tO population; 5% according
to area; 5% proportionally to the share of young population (under 14) in each munIcipality; 5%
according to the number of parishes in each municipality; and 5% for the correction index. Although
objective criteria are used to distribute the FAF among the municipalities, changes should not be as
frequent as they have been, since it is an important revenue source for the smaller municipalities that have
to be more stable to allow a better programming and budgeting. Besides that, objective rules can not
change frequently, otherwise they will lose their objecdvity.
The most important source of revenue for the municipalities as a whole are the service charges,
e-Tring to the vaious services provided by the loca authorities. Among them, the water and electricity
services are the most important ones, except in Sao Vicente, Praia and Sal where they are rendered by
a public enterprise (ELECTRA). The other services are related to paking lots, cemeteries, makets and
fairs, use of public machinery and equipment, and compensation for services rendered to the public or
to government agencies. Since the plan of acounts presentv in use Is not very clear, some of the above
service charges, except for the case of water and electricr services, can also be regsterd in the
- 115 -



DecentralIztiou
Page 8 of 18
category of duties, fees and fines. Tibs revenue item accoutted for 24% of the total municipal revenues
In 1992, or 30% of the recuren revenAues.
Abe sum of the above and other miscellaneous revenues correspond to the recurrent revenues that,
according to the available budget figures for 1992, amount to over 80% of total revenues, for the 15
municipalities altogether. Of this recurrent revenues, 58% is locally collected and the remaining 42%
correspond to transfers, essentially from the FAF or the municipalized taxes.
'he capital revenies derive from the sale of investment goods such as properties, equipment,
machines, vehicles or animals; capital transfers ftom the Central Govermment; revenues from financial
assets; or loans and other credit operations. For the municipality of Mosteiros the significant item of
capital revenue relates to capital ansfers, since it was newly created, in the case of Praia the revenue
f*om financial assets is significant, although roughly 50% of the income comes from the sale of real
estate, and in Santa Cruz the capital revenue derives almost exclusively from loans. Otherwise, the most
Imta  source of capital revenue, by far, comes from the sale of real estate by the local authorities.
On average, the capital revenues accounted for 19% of the overall revenues, of which 64% corresponds
to the sale of real estate. Althougb, on average, for the 15 municipalities the revenmes from the sale of
rd  ete accouted for 12% of total revenues, high values were observed for Santa Catarina (44%),
Tarf  (18%) and Sao Vicente (17%). These are proportionally high amounts that are not Ukely to
withstand for too long, as the stock of municipal land properties wfll diminish.
From the available budgetary inormation for 1992, formal borrowing does not seem to be a
sWficant item for the inancing of local goverments, since in that year only Santa Cruz and Maio relied
on them, and the total debt revenue corresponded to only 2% of the total revenues of the 15
mnicipalities as a whole.
Information on the level and structue of the revenues of the 15 Municipalities in Cape Verde,
Including tasfers from cent  government, is presented in Aonex 5-A.
Muidpal Expenditres
For the sake of analysis the genera administrative expenditures, whenever possible, were
separated from those relaed to urban services and works, and from the water and electricity services,
since the last two are specific activities that are very important for most Cape Verdian municipalities.
Ibis was done from the budgetary figures dtat are classified by agencies and economic categories, since
there is no functional classification of epditures at the local level in Cape Verde. Since the iternal
organization of the mudcipalities is not necessaily alike, the grouping of the expenditures in these 3
categories was a difficult task. Only the expenditwes unequivocally related to water or electricity were
grouped under one category, the same being done wi the ones related to urbm planning, services and
works. AU the others were oonsidered as general adminion expenditures, which compises not only
the purely  minisatve actions but also those in the fields of social promotiou, education, tourism,
ral devdopme, etc.
For the 1S municipalities as a whole, the general administration (GA) accoun  for 74% of total
expenditures, urban services and works (USW) for II% and water and electricity services (WES) for
15%. Of the rrent expendibures, 71% correspond to GA, 10% to USW, and 19% to WES. As for
- 116 -



ANN
Decentralization
Page 9 of 18
capital expenditures, 8.% are done by GA, 12% by USW and 7% by WES. As a whole, recument
expenditures correspond to 68% of total expenditures, of which 40% to wages and 28% to other recurrent
expenditures. Capital expenditures, therefore, account for 32% of total expenditures. This should be
considered a good performance index in any economy, but what stands out is the fact that USW and WES
account for only 19% of the capital expenditures. In the case of WES, one possible explanation is the
fact that most of the production and distribution services in Praia, Sao Vicente and Sal are not locally
provided. Besides, drilling of wells and major water impounding are done by Central Govermnent
agencies, thus leaving the municipalities mainly with maintenance activities. A similar situation should
be occurring with the electricity services, with the municipalities spending mairdy on maintenance and
fuel.
Wage bills are proportionally higher in the larger municipalities of Praia and Sao Vicente, while
at the same time investments are significandy lower.
Ihe above mentioned figures for the 15 municipalities as a whole indicate that the expenditure
structure is adequae, in the sense that the budgetary commitment with the wage bill is low (40%) and
the capital expenditures, that mostly correspond to investments are high (32%).
The service charges esdmated to have been collected in 1992 (CV Esc. 241 million) roughly
cover the overall costs of the Urban Services and Works and of the Water and Electricity Services (CV
Esc. 253 million. This does not necessarily means that these activities do not run on deficit, since there
are many different service charges besides the ones that specifically correspond to these services.
Nevertheless, it indicates an overall cost-recovery policy.
It can also be observed that the locally collected revenues corresponding to Duties, Fees and
Fines; to Patrimonial Income, and to the various Service Charges amount to CV Esc. 400 million which
rougbly corresponds to the overall wage bill of CV Esc. 397 million. In a cetain way, that leaves the
tansfer revenues and the municipalized taxes, that are not actually collected by the municipalities, to
cover the costs corresponding to the other recurrent expenditures, as well as for the investnems, since
the capital revenues of CV Esc. 190 million are significandy lower than the capital expenditures (CV Esc.
311 mUlion).
Information on the level and structure of expenditures of the 15 Municipalities in Cape Verde is
presented in Annex 5-:
Dependency and Suffciency
There has been a significant growth in the transfers from the central to local goverments in the
last three years. In 1992 the municipalized taxes and PAF transfers grew 37% if compared to the
transfers made in 1991, and there was a 33% increase from 1992 to 1993, 15.2% in the municipalized
taxes and 42.1% in the FAF, compounding a 82% increase in two years. The municipality of Pal
obtained an increase in its transfer revenue of only 47% as compared to Praia at received 115%. ITis
was essentially due to the changes in the distribution criteria of the FAF. A comparison of the transfers
in 1992 and 1993 is presented in Annex 5-C.
- 117 -



Decentralization
Page 10 of 18
The municipalized taxes account for roughly one third of these transfers and probably will not
increase significanty in the fte if they continue to be collected by the Central Government as they are
now. The reason for this is the fact that the Central Governuent has the burden of collecting these taxes
but receives no benefit from them, except a very small (0.5%) service commission.
ITe Financial Assistance Fund - FAF transfers presently correspond to 6% of the central
governmeat tax revenue, not considering the municipalized taxes. Although it is not a higb percentage,
it is very difficult to believe that the Central Government will be willing to significantly increase this
amount, unless new responsibilities are transferred to the municipalities.
The financial dependency of the municipalities on the central goverment is appareny not so
high, since for the 15 municipalities as a whole the municipalized taxes and transfer revenues correspond
to roughly 40% of their recurent revenues, although in the case of some municipalities such as Paul this
Is close to 70%.
This dependency is not larger because, If in one hand, the central govermnen transfers are not
so high (only 6% of its net tax revenes), on the other, the locally collected revenues are also low, which
brings up the question of sufficiency of funds for the financing of the local governments.
The average annual per capita recurrent revenue for the 15 Cape Verdian municipalities amount
to CV Esc. 2,305, that corresponds to approximately US$ 30, a very low value, considering that it is
only 4% of the country's per capita income (US$ 750). That revenue is ceraiy not enough to allow
the municipalides to finance all the services they legally should provide.
When new responsibilities ane passed on from the Centrl Govemment to the municipalities,
according to what is established in the country's legal fam=ework, there wM be a great increase in the
financing needs of the local governments th, for some time, can only be addressed by the increase of
tasfers. These additional transfers, however, will probably be limited to the present cost of the
deconceonated services presently rendered by the Central Government. In the future, the financing of
the improvement of the locally rendered services can only rely on the increase of the municipal fiscal
To increase locally ^ollected revenues it is first necessary to build up the managerial capacity at
the municipal level and that dtnands time and investments in training, technical assistance and equipmenL
The poliical will of the loca autites is also very important to achieve this, since it is always easier
to depend on the Central Governuent, and put all the blames on it for not having enough revenues, than
to tax their own contuents, neigbs that in small communities lmow each other by the name. The
results should not be  pected in the short run.    mus be undtersood that the improvement in the
municipal managerW  capacity is not onty needed to increase the local fiscal effort, but will be essental
for efficiently managing the significanty Increased trsfered funds that should follow  the
decentalization process.
AcoomXlailty and Efficdency
Increased local fisad effrt has the benefit of reducing the municipal dependency on central
govemment decidons that are often taken without considering the real local needs and constraints.
- 118 -



ANNE D
Decentrization
Page 11 of Is
Conversely it will increase the responsibilities towards the local constituents. That shall give more
political autonomy to the municipalities and increase the interest of the local population in directly or
indirecdy participatLg in government decisions, which leads to increased accountability and efficiency
in the allocation of public money.
For that purpose it is necessary to have adequate planning and budgeting instuments with
sufficient transparency to permit social control, as well as adequate monitoring and auditing of the ffscal
process - both revenues and expenditures. That means that they should be simple enough to permit the
average citizen to visualize where the money is coming from and where it is going, but also clear and
precise to enable for adequate auditing.
In the present situation the municipalities must submit yearly their budget proposals to the
Ministry of Internal Administration to be pre-approved, and very frequently they are inadequately
prepared and have to suffer several corrections. The plan of accounts presendy used does not help in
making the public accounts more transparent and provide almost no information on the local goverment
programs, projects and activities. In fact the only break-down given is according to the municipal organic
displacement (cabinets, agencies, servicesetc.) and economic categories of expenditures (salaries,
materis, equipment, interests, etc.). There is no cost accounting, so it is not possible to verify the unit
cost of the various services provided. The same, of course, holds for the balance sheets. Ma means
that formal auditing can be made but no adequate control and monitoring of the efficient use of public
money.
The Ministry Of tration provides help and orientation only in the preparation of
the budget, to assure that it is presented in the form determined by law. It makes no further follow-p
of the budget execution. The local government accounts, like the budget, are approved by the Municipal
Assembly in open hearings, where the public is allowed and can make questions and proposals about
them. After the approval, the balance sheets are sent to the capital, together with all the supportig
documens, to be audited and approved by the Accounts Court. This Court has a very formal and
legalistic approach in the auditing process but does not have the mas in terms of human resources,
facilities and equipment to perform a thorough audit. The lack of adequate reguations on various
subjects such as public contatng also impairs their activities. The recenty created Inspecao Gera de
Finansas, a finance inspecting agency of the Minstry of Finance, has the responsibilities for int
control and could, according to the law, inspect the municipal finances. Presently this is not happening,
although they collaborate wih the Accounts Court in other matters.
The newly elected mayors (Presidents of the Municipal Chambers) are also making an effort to
make their administrations more transparent to the public. They all hold public heaings with their
constitents at least twice a week; fix accounts, fmiancl reslts, bidding documents, reports, etc., in
bulletin boards in the City Hall; and most of the municipalities are now publishing a short bulletin, on
a monthly or quarterly basis, with infibrmation on their administration.
It is understood that in the decentralization process, that only now is begining to take place, the
services dtat are presenty rendered by the various deconcentrated agencies of the Central Goverment,
located in the municipalities, will be handed over together with their respective failities, equipment and
budgets. It is not clear yet how the personnel will be transferred, if it will be compulsory or not That
is the policy line presendy in course for the transfer of the Social Promotion serices, although no
- 119 -



AN=X i
Decentralization
Page 12 of 18
*Protocole d'Accord' has yet been signed with any municipality. Tbe signature of a "Protocol d'Accord-
with each municipality for the transfer of each service, establishing the physical and financial basis of the
tasction should be the procedure followed for the other services to be decentlized, to avoid the bad
experience of the first decetalization attempt made by the Ministry of Infrastucture and Transportaton.
This means that if everything goes as planned, the municipalities should not have, in a first moment, a
significant increase in their financing requirements, since the corresponding budgetary transfers fom the
Central Government should address this question.
One of the virtues of decentraization is that local decision-making, due to the proximity of the
direct beneficiaries, is usually more efficient. But on the other hand, this proximity will result In new
demands for the improvement in both quality and quantity of services rendered to the local population,
that a better and more efficient management alone will not be able to address, creating the necessity for
additional financial resources.
The only reliable source of additional financing that will ensure that, with the decetralizadon,
the locally provided services will be significantly improved, shall come from the increase in the municipal
fiscal effort
In a fist step the municipalities should be able to collect by themselves the municipalized taxes,
specially the Urban and the Rura Property Taxes. According to municipal officis the ptoblem wih
these taxes are not the rates but the assessment of the property value (tax base), besides the factthat many
of them are not registered and pay no taxes at all. According to technical advisors in the municipality
of Santa Cruz, for instance, it is estimated that the revenues from these two taxes can increase more than
ten fold, if a correct aessment of the property value is made. According to them, at the present moment
there are properties paying only CV Esc. 80 per year, a "ridiculouso amount in their opinion, given its
size and probable value. In 1992, the foreseen revenue with the Urban Property Tax in the budget of
Santa Cruz was of CV Esc. 1.6 million, only 3.5% of the recurrent revenues. Finally, a strong argument
presented by several municipal authorities is that only themselves have the necessary information to make
adequate assessment of the property values and the knowledge of the existing properies. All building
activides should receive licenses from the municipaliy and for that a small description of the project must
be presented and, futhberm, the water and electricity services, usually provided by them, is also a
good source of information on the existence of properties.
The Property Transfer Tax (SISA) wfll probably need cges in the legislation to be more
adequately collected. Since there are no First Class Notary's Office in every municipality (only in the
lager ones) most of the property transfers can not be controlled by the smaller municipalities, and when
the taxes are collected are usually in favor of the municipality where the Notary is located, and not
necessay the property.
It was observed the relatively high revenues provided by the several existing service charges,
duties and fees, dtat constitute a good indicator of the cost-recovery efforts of the local govemn.
Their large number, though, suggests that there might be excessive bureaucracy that could hamper private
economic activity. As soon as revenues from broader-based taxes increase, it will be most convenient
if a thorough review of the existig harges, duties and fees is made to reduce their number and review
and standardize their values, to mitigate the obstacles to private business and avoid excessive tax burden.
- 120 -



ANNE"
Deoentrailizdon
Page 13 of 18
(b) 
Mbe lack of adequawe staffiDg at the municipal level is a known issue that since 1990 has been
addressed by the Govenment of Cape Verde hough two Decree-Laws to facilite and flnancy
stimulate the mobility of central government civil servants in working in the mnicipalities or t be
tranferred to them. T'e first one, enacted in 1990, presented a package of provisions to sdtmulate cidv
servants to serve In posts located in the municipatides other than the capital, such as automadc one post
promodon and pay increase and priority for spouse reallocadon, if also a civil serant  Te second one,
enactd a£ter the mwicipal elections, establishes a framework for the transference, on a pennanet or
seconded basis, of cental govnment civil servants to the municipal governments themseves, witb the
same stmulating provisions. The result is that it is always more convenient for a central pvermet
chi  servnt stationed in a municipal government, on a seconded basis, to remain with his original ties,
inad of becoming a municipal civil servan, since there will be no finacial gains.
The geneal statutory regulations for the civil servants are the same at both levels. Altough they
ae now two different categories, they have the same classifications and wage leves, which makls eati
the tmnrence possibities.
Even so, the difficulties for properly staffing both the deconcent_ted servces ad municipal
govem   ts are great. The smaller municipalities, other than Praia and Sao Vicente, have ltle to offe
both ir pofessional terms and prvate Iffe comfort, which the financial inceatives may not be enough to
offae.
For the techicians and qualiffied personnel the availability of proper housing condidons and
adequate work environment are conditions as important as wage levels. Both of these conditions ae
usualy nonexisting in the small municipalities.
The municipal governments permanent staff or cadres are usually small, and their staffig needs
are complemented by contracted workers, on an eventual or permanent basis, seconded central
pvenment officials, that benefit from the above mentioned financial incentives, and foreign adviso
From the Mistry of  enal  nisa ion alone there are 70 of their technical staff members
seconded to local govemmens at an anu  cost of CV Esc. 13.1 million. According to the law, tho
Contal Goverment should be reimbursed for their wage-bill, although apparently this is not the currt
pracce.
In the municipality of Sso Vicente, for Instmce, the local staff is composed of 196 cWv servants
(cadres), 240 contacted workas on a permanent basis and 11 seconded officials from the Minisy of
Internal Adminaton. In Porto Novo there are 35 civil servats (cadres), 9 seconded officials from
Mk, 36 contracd workers on a permnent basis and 6 part-time contracted technicians, of which I s
an nginewr, I architect, 1 topographer, 2 designers and I electricity techmician. Out of Porto No
cadres only 2 staff members concluded their primary education, and most of the others only studied up
to the 2nd gadel That means tha al th technical support available comes from seconded offas and
part-time hired staff.
- 121 -



ASBX
Decentlization
Page 14 of 1-
Although there is no complete data on the municipalities staffing, both in teras of number and
level of formal education or training skldls, their needs of more qualified personnel are high, according
to what was said by all mayors during the visits to a s4mple of municipalities.
Since for most municipalites their core of civil servants is relatively small and their financil
means are tght, taning has been supply-driven, in the sense that their only alternative is when
oppornities of free or low cost training arise.
Another Issue that was raised during the interviews wh the mayors was the result of the
decenalization process conducted by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transportation, in which
relatively large number of (contracted) workers were transferred to the municipalities. Although they do
not belong to the municipal cadres, there was an increase in the overall staffing, and most of these
workers are not qualified and belong to relatively high age brackets. The engineers and most of the
qualified personnel previously working in these services returned to their headquarters in the capital.
Since most of the workers were contacted in their places of origin, the mayors are reluctant to fire them
due to the social (and political) problems this might create. In fact, according to the mayors, it is a
cunt practice not to fire the workers contracted on a pemnanent basis, although since they are not civil
servants this could be more easily done.
According to the interviews with the mayors, the only way to tackle the problem of insufficient
qualified personnel is to provide financial incentives, adequate housing and workplace environment, which
involves proper facilities, equipment and training opportunities.
(c) Issues of FaWilities and Equipment
The December 1991 elections brought to power, for the first time in the history of Cape Verde,
elected mayors that since 1992 are facing the enormous challenge of governing in an envion_m   of
srcity of all means. The revenues are not adequate to render the services that the local population
demands from them, the staffig is frequently not sufficient and certinly lacks the skills that are
necessay for performing their duties. When it comes to the materia means, the situation is not differeat.
For most of the municipalities, specially the smaller ones, there is not even enough space in the public
buildings to hold-the minimum staff needed, not to say about the adequacy of the avaiable facilities.
Except in the case of the larger municipalities of Praia and Sao Vicente, in which the needs are
not so dramatic, all the others are severely ill-equipped. The municipalities of Sao Filipe and Boa Vista,
for instance, do not have a single photocopy machine, and have to use (and pay for) the machine of the
local office of the Bank of Cape Verde. Computers are nonexisting in more than half of the
municipalities, although all of them, wth the exception of Santa Cruz already have facsimile machines.
The few Items of office machines that are available has usually resulted from donations from NOOs and
other interationd donors. After all, for a municipality like Paul, buying a simple computer system (USS
4,000) would result in the commitment of 4% of the total investment budget for 1992 (US$ 100,000).
Even so, it is amazing the effort tx the smaller municipalities make to maximize the use of what
they have, and through improvisation try to compensate their shortfalls, delivering the best services that
are possible. During the field visis it was witnessed their improvising abilities for tuning out a
- 122 -



Decenalization
Page 15 of 18
Dmnicipal bulletin, as wel1 as tbe spiri of cooperation existing between neighbor municipalities, t   share
the use of their scarce equipment.
Vehicles are also Insufficient in all municipalities. In Boa Vista, for instance, with a population
of 3,516 Inhabitants, an area of 620 square kilometers and almost 100 km of roads, 70% in bad
conditions, the municipality has only two light 4 wheel-drive vehicles for all its services.
I A  _UM rPAIY CAM VOWWN
The Udolity of Sn Falpe is situated in the idand of Fo0, 70 nmles frorn the sland of Sanigo where th
capa Preis, Is lated. a   r in shpe. Fog is the only volcanc isln in Cape Verde, *nd ume.s contduuy ex
from the bm of th   t. Te WInd coves 184 squar niss end Is peopled by $4,000 inhabItans., of which 314 ae
pat of the murticlty of Son Felipe.
Agiculture on th ferile  opes of the volcano s the main acty. Rain water is scar, and most of the land is
Inrgted frm deep wes tapping the aquifer. Usay. vegetable and frit producton covers the need of the landers end
gmeneat a dsnficnt surplus sold In othr Isands. A small crop of high quelity coffee, and whits wira is also produced.
Trnpotaton to and fom th iand hav bean pariculary difficult and  pensie sine both the port and the
landing stip. we  heavily damed in 1990. At prsent ony helioopters can sen"Moothe bislandand weven the emia Inter-
Iland vessels hv to anchor In unprotetd waters naer the shore to unload ther cargo. weather pemItt. IDA ard
coe _ndcr ae finang the rebuilding of the pert of Fogo under the recety apprved Infrastruct  Projec
Educatio facIities In Fogo do not go beyond the fist two Yer of s*eondary school (9 vea  In total) and there is
no technical or pofessional school. Children psuing higher level ducaion haw to leave the island. or go abroad, sedom
retumrn to settl back.
The munolplsty employs 134 persons, less than 10 percent of which have completed secondary shool. Only 32
are pema     municipal employees. ight of those, and an additonal 4 civIl servn  seconded ftm central government
work In general adminIratIon, 2 In utban sevices and works, nd 22 in water and electricity servics. The remaInder
ae contrast workers, most of which without professonal qualifications, empioyed In civi wodk, water dbution,
garbageo ollectIn. and such. Available exprise in project evaluaton and In urban planning is all but nonexistent. ad
it Is vey lmted In personnl, financial and materil nmaagement, es well as in the areas of municipal legsation and
reoguatons.
Wokin condtor ae poorn the city hl whi  esthetaly remaraitbbe I old and office spae is both camped
an unpraclce even simple offic equipmet and furnite    citic shorg  and there isa complete lack of basio
dcomaumened
In 1112 recurre  revwue mounted to 60 miaon CV Escudos (approximately US$ 800,000), of which service
chpf for wr nd el hoticitdiIbution rpresetd CV iso. 19 million, and transfom central goverment Cv Ego.
18.5    n Capitalee amounted to CV Ec. 1 milon. Total expenditus In the en year amounted to CV Eso.
7 nmiion (or about US$32 per capit) of which wags represd 36 percnt tewr reurrmt oxpendir  40 percen.
ed hIesent 24 prcent Geneira administrtve expenditur  of the mncpaty consumed approximately 53 percent
of the tind pating nd investmnt budgt, we and  ectity aerWoes 33 percent, end urban sve end works
14 percent.
Even esential equipment lik  garbae collection truck, water transportg   vehiles and
ambulancs ae in shotfl. Some municipalities have only one or two water trucks to ddiver water in
dozns of loclities that are toally dependent on this kind of waer disibon. 'he result is that in
- 123 -



ANNE A
Page 16 of 18
cera locities in the mWcWity of Porto Novo, for instance, people have to walk 12 Km to obtin
war. lhat is also the usua walking distance for childreo to go to school in many places due to the lack
oftafnortaio  Severl municipalities do not have a single garbage colleng truck, althou sanitation
Is a major and tradiional municipal responsibility.
Itere have been requests for fire fighting equipment (a municipal responsibility), athoug wit
the excepdon of Pral, Sao Vicente and Sal the fire departments are stll not organized. Besides that,
costs for the equipmen that was requested are very high and shall commit a significan sha
of the munWc   budgets, in detriment of higher priority expenditures.
It is understood that when the municipalities take over new responsibilities from the Central
Govermen, at least the equipment and facilities presenty in the hands of the deconcen senrices
operatig in each municipality will also be transfe red. Toat is the minimmn necessary, but probably will
so be nowuOh, since the needs are by far too large.
The main poin that should be addressed In respec to equipment requbieme   and the
program, is that there is a minimum of equipmen that will be essendal for the vaius
actions t wi  be necessay in the fields of trning, reorganzaton of locd i o, local fica
icrease, etc. Whout a minimu  level of equipment in the hands of the municipalities andUor at
thi servie. ce.e whole progrm wM be jeopardized.
3. PROJECT DECPTION
The projec covers sevea  actions in order to pemit the muniiides to effiietly and
efiectivly take hold of not only their present responsibilities but the new ones that wil follow In tho
mework of the present political power division, set forth in the Consdtion, in which the
mcipaities are responsible for all that is related tO local population needs.
Griven the fact that the municipalities are in a severe shortage of means of al natures, it Is
necsay to gradualy buid their institudonal, manageri  and financial capacit, acording to a
cowdor  d plan, set forth in phases, that can permit the nesary susnabilky in the fc     Pdorities,
as wel as their sequencing, must be  tablished in order to ensure the capaciqy bulchng process.
Tbe spport program for decalization should establish actions both at municipal and centr
govrmen levels. The ibur field of action are: a) Instuional Buiding; b) Admi    o  and
_uqemwi; c) Hman Rsources; and d)  terna  Organization.
ntitukna Buildting involves three sets of actions: a) the establishment of guidelines for the
dcenization process; b) the strengthening of municipal associations to assure a Ujdcr mg W ta
thou  a dsang basis will allow for a raional and economically sound use of the scarcedy avalle
tehnial sUppo0t and equipment, with the creation of intermuncipal tenical support offices MSOs);
ad c) spport for the intra-municipal decoetron, that can permit a closer conact betwe  th
municpa auhrities and the populaion of the various villages and/or cIzens' groups, local community
ssocitions, etc.
- 124 -



Decentralization
Page 17 of 18
Administration and Management involves the following three areas: a) planning and budgeting
systms, i order to assure the needed tansparency and accountability for the scal control and
monitorng of the fiscal process; b) fiscal effort, in order to assure the susnabiity of the
decenrization process and the financing of improved locally rendered services, involving the difent
means to increase locally collected revenues; and c) purchasing procedures, in order to obtain unit cost
reduction and effective expenditure controls.
Human Resources involves 3 areas: a) provide the municipalities with staffing in accordance to
their new responsibilities, and the viable actions that can be taken to attract and retain qualified personnel;
b) training of the existing staff and the future cadres at different levels and in various areas, in accordance
to a comprehensive program; and c) establishment of human resources management procedures to permit
the adequate use of one of their scarcest resources and to assure its permanent development.
Internal Organizaton involves 2 areas: a) organic restructring to permit the most adequate means
of organizing the various municipal activities, that could eventually be autonomous services or privately
contracted ones; b) material means to ensure that proper equipment and vehicles will be available, in a
minimum quantity, to the local authorities for the implementation of the proposed structures, systems and
aoos.
4.  PROJECT COMPONENTS & COSTING
(a) Action-Program and Timetable for Implementation
The Project objectives and design take into account the issues and needs to provide support to
local capacity building and human resources development. Strengthening the municipalities will be sough
hough an array of measures according to a four year time coordinated plan. The summarized project
components and cost estimates are given below, as well as presented in Annex V.
(b) Toeuc; Assistance and Studiess
Four man areas where technical assistance and studies should be concentrated to ensure the
necessary sustainability in the future are: Institutional building; administration and management; human
resources; and inernal organization. For institutional building and human resources the project will fund
consultants to prepare specialized studies. Technical assistance will be provided to all municipalities to
help them implement management systems and procedures in planning and budgeting; local tax collection;
and purchasing techniques. The draft terms of reference for the studies and the technical assistance are
prented in Annex 5-D, and the estimaed cost amouns to US$ 718,000.
(c) Trining En
The training program is designed to train about 150 people in management, organization,
computes and operaonal activities related to the municipal responsibilities. Some wDIl receive fonnal
taining in specialized institutions in Cape Verde such as CENFA, others will be trained in the
municipalities themselves in locally held courses, but the majority will receive on-the-job training throu
the tchnical assisance provided under the project
- 125 -



ANNE
DecenStraization
Page is of is
To oranize and implement the taining progam tehncal asstce given by tain  advisor
wll be provided. T'e draft terms of reference for this component is prsented in Annex S-E, with oost
esdtim  totalling USS 470,000.
(d) FiDmm
To establish and strengthen te proposed structures, systems and actions, the project includes
inwvestmes to purhase equipment (computers, printers, copiers. other office machines and fihrlwre,
topography instruments, vehicles, etc.) at an esmed cost amounting to US$ 1,608,000. The draft list
of equipment requirements is presented in Annex S-F.
- 126-



CE VEDE MUNIPAL GOVEnI-M
1992 REVEW
06901 -approx. C.V.Esc.S8
________wx                                                                 C*PITAI fntIWNS                         2014
JmcIMLfU        mUNCIP. w. 6s8             PA"".         7A8F.  I  URIA             011*%          tOTA            Rw.          Om           auom          tOTAl.        8 8EC6
TAXES       S f,ES       fiSYlilE      MUftSE       aFAaEa                          2.t22T    ESTATWE         ,______                   CAPITAL 57    ____
PR"M                    166820       407*789       185.080      223,118     1,124.900        8,220        UK16           20040              0       Ia? 624      347.024      2.184.0)
lAFrA)                   2,402        85.901        3 .         213.731      329.119       119.822          12,20        l.70               a         9,670       168.2s       1 'tO.
SANTA CTaF               2171         3.40t 1M                  249.28       301.65         48.412         670,               1       250.794       164.915      48s.n7       1.M.29
s&WA CAtAIIA             63.49       10t.O?) |         47       190.a0       284,247       251.66          9056,06t      735.26             0        tO,. t       748.48       8.600.
S7oV3tCul,E 306,461                  27*83         3            2.8121      1t "             ?,709        t.I,           209.0              a        38.299       289.        1.470.
PAIL                     2S.200       31.837          04)       ISOM4         8.101         29.903         32               204                       3.826        4.t21        318.)
OMO VO 3t04,t1                        83.247        42.647       MM730        038*97         9.644         4724             ,204            0         7.982        27.87        600.
*         EN5MMAOUAO             63,104       2.75          20.62       2341.20       247,631        MG,M1          821.20       1t1129             a        tt1.253      122.           63.5
N        64068986,SOfE1                         61.370       10.912      27.444        2900221      tn7,020                        39.0000                   l98.s9        23?.         1.1t4.091
UOS06so                  24.074       35.24          1.132      126.370       19.008          288          1.               516             a         4.2 7494                  260.1
SAOItCOUM                48.844       54.235         A.82       104.081       1 32         10t1,4           679.2        s828               0        22.7l        too.08        as,
881                     05,4          34.12       40D78         342.02        84.08          1.47? 6|.8                                     0         8.95        12 n4.074    .0)2
0V VISTA                 19.679        6.220        11.471      166.901       93.331        75.26          075             4.412                      ,170t       t&It           78.10
MAI0                     16.228       2084             87       167,6)        MASS1         37.074         402            24.26        44A11          7.943        1.a          *?09.
ESAVA                    19.72s       24.225          u6        179.412      128,810 |       0)            327.74          3.0a                       6.107        8.11        227.03
TOrt:    _       t,87641    31.4n7.344       6.401       3.26.4       3.s43.362      642,s88       16          _ i7ns            294.012      7s          1,74.3        4.46s.2
NAIAIIVICSNti           8.2          48.3%        37.2%         17ea.% 15.4%1              4.s%            34.          212            01          2             22.            2.e
BOMMNCES" Wdat  UOdWp MIll... MUak9u6lI. Ml AIIbf Pi..I
.  I   ,  _  .  v , S , . , w . = . . .~~3o 



CAPE VER  MUNCIPAL GOVNWMENTS
192 STRUCTURE OF REVENUES
___________      n   -      S       -_  -f_a T I rvES                                   CAPITALT OEVE8ES
_tE8 |PALIT3IU     MUUWC3.    OUIESf.fiS      PATtM.       7RAMF.       SlRAVC!        OTtDR          TOTAL          REAL          Of9T         OTIER        TOTrA
TAXIES       A fNES      tlEVEfE      REVNUWS       CDIGARES                    f ECURRENT      ESTATE                                   CAPITAL
PAIA                     24.2%         12.9%         5.1%         10.2%        25.6%         0.3i          es.,             6.0%         0.0%          4.7%         l.0O
TARRADA                   132%          &.5          22%         21.1%         32.6         11.1%            so,4         to.$%          0.0%         0.6%         04%
SANTA CRU                 3.3%          3.3%         0.0%        22.6%         27.8%         4.0%            61.7          0%          23.1%         16.2%        32. n
SANTA CATAAl              3.11S%        6.2%         0.0%         12.1%        17.2%        15.6%            64.8%        44.5%          0.0%         0.6%         4.2%
SAO VCEnE                20.9S         1t.8%          .1%        1t.t%         11.1%         2.6%            60.2%         17.0%         0.            2.7$        19.7
PAR                       9.2%         10.0%         4.0%        49.41%       1t.5%          9..% 697%                      0.1%         0.0%          3.2%         1%
tlO        POR7TNV7o                  7.0%        10.6%         6.5%         35.t%        31.4%          1.7% |4.4                     4.1%         0.0%          3.6%         0.6
RMOIRA ORANDE             6.6%         27.4%         2.2%        24.5%         28.2%         t.t%             M0 91.t%                   0.0%          1.2%        12.0
SAOfl                     a,3%          5.68%        tOA         24.8%         25.4%        16.5%            78.5           3.6%         0.0%         t8.0%        2t.5%
MOSTEVIOS                 9.6%          6.5%         0.4%        48.7%          *.6%         0.I%            69.7          0.2%          0.0S        30.1%         30.3
SAO ^M AU                 0.6%          7.9%         0.5%        27.0%         26.8%         tS.9%           64.6         M2.2           0.0%          3.3%        15.5%
SAu                       1E4%          3.4%        32.%         32.9%          5.3%         0.1% |7.7%                    11.7%         0.0%         0.6%        1t-3%
BOA VSTA                  S.3#          1.4%         3.0%        44.1%         24.7%|        19.9%           98.4           t.2%         0.0S         0.6%           .6
MAIO                      3.2%          6.4%         0.0%         39.2%        27.6%         7.7% |4.1%                   56.%           9.2%         1.7%         to.S
BRVA                      5.9%          6.2%         0.2%        46.0%         32.6%         7.8%            97.9          0.6%          0.0%          1.3%    :     .3%
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g j.



CAPE VERDE MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENTS
1992 TRANSFERS AND REVENUES
TOTAL AND PER CAPITA FIGURES
REVENUES UN U88                  PER CAPITA  VENUES IN US$
MUNICIPAUTlES   POPULATION     TOTAL    MUNICPALIZED      FAF         TOTAL    MUNICIPALIZED     FAF
___________ __   REVENUE  TAXES                   REVENUE       TAXES
ARAIA                 83,57     3,164,049      5i5,471      261,024          3             7
TAWRAFAL              25.49      1,010,496      27.809      209.7             40            1
SANTA CRUZ            25,98      1,086,293      29,279      204.07           42             1
SANTA CATARINA        41,66      1,650,538     115,574      190,24           40             3
SAO VICENTE           51.74      1,470,588     304.015      245.67            28            6
PAUL                   8,20       316.176       32,235      167.05            39           4           2
PORTO NOVO            15          500.000       41,265      171.98           33            3            1 
RIBEIRA GRANDE        21,109      943,578       76,191      201,51           45            4            1
SAO FILIPE            25,49      1,104,091      66.426      181,974          43            3
MOSTEIROS              8,49       280,129       22,632      134,83           33            3           1
SAO NICOLAU           13,907      685.302       38,279      181.91           49            3           1
SAL                    7,        1,012,676      69,794      149,84           128           9           19
BOA VISTA              3,51       378,182       27,544      156,19          108            8           44
MAIO                    ,06S      479,140       15,897      162,68           95            3           3
BRAVA                  7,10       387.940       18,132      174.874          66            3           25
TOTAUAVERAGF         344,341    14,469,238   1470644    2,793,92r            42            4           8
SOURCES: MurCES:t      , Mi h" of Finace



CAPE VERDE MUJICIPAL GOVERNMENTS
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL TRANSFERS
DUSTRIBUTON OF THE FIIANCIAL ASSISTANCE FUND IFAF) - 1993
VaUe In US$
MINIICIPAMIT*S   C09 drdy hx  306   _ f a bsedon  ba4ed on   6% based on Nbe  6% bsaed on Ntw  6% as Cons  |  TOTAt
a ago*.        PqpStb          Awn        of Youn Peole     of Padabs         Inex     |   1993
PRAIA                  132.353       289,100        t8.100          48,729          32,021       .            620,30
TARRAFA.               t32.353       88.1t          10.078          14,082          12J809         7.36        265.67
SANTA CRUZ             132,353        89,824         7.412          1S,961 t28S09                  14,7       279.04
SANTA CATARU4A         132,363       144.137        13,601          23,666          12.809                    326.46
SAO VICENTE            132.353       178.99         11t,289         2B,144           0,404         29.41       386.57
W                             PAUL                   132363        28.372          2.690           4,922           8.404        14,7        189,45
PORTO NMVO             132.363        62.193        25,913           8,719           12.809        22.059      254.84
R#I#RA GRAfDE          132,363        73.019         8,390          11,688          25,616         10.294      281,26
SAO MlAN               132,363        88,794        19,410          16,994          19,210                     275.78
MDSTEIROS              132.353        28.826         4.219           5,193           6.404         2.941       179.93
SAO tNCOC4At           132.353        48.107        19,202           7,455          12,809          7.35       227.34
SAL                    132,363        27,341        10.722           4,401           6.404                     181t,22
BOA ViSTA              132.353        12.162        30.778           1,826          12,809         11.76      201,69
MAIO                   132.363        17.528        13.353           3,010           0.404        35.2        207.94
SUAVA                  132,353        24,584         3.326           4,138          12.08"        42.64       219.85
TOTAL           1.985.291     1,191.178       198,62          198.29           198.529       19852|   3,970.5
SOtRCE: ArdsUbyo of ine



CAPE VErnE W2MNAL GO\1ERNMITS
i19  EXP _IDUE
Vakage bIUS*
GENAL AO STAATIO                             U_OM SEICM S ANo WORKS            WATE AgW ECTACTY SRCE8                    TOTAL WICIbAL OXPWITUftS
111010AICAIIS         EtIUU                         CAPITAL___
WAGaES     OWAt                    DEWES7MT  OEST  OitEa   WAGES      OT7ER     CArITAL      WAGES       OTIER      CAfITAL     WAGES       O aER      CAr1A       GRAM
-NSC        rPAYMENT       -EC--t                                                - flEC   tH     -I-tE-Witit                                   TOTAL
Pr"                1.249.2E0    972.40?    252.0        43.125                 172.279     85.221       6.674     307,.0o     103.235      22,059    1.t2w4   1.110.663       23.937   3.164.0o4
TARAWAL             222.403     202.35     2309        101.260       6.61      4SS06       t0.371         731      62.385     IS6.235      It.029    220.594     330.967     3S9.942   1.0I0.4
SATWACUIZ            11.495     126.132    341.176           a O4.302                           0     251.7        99.294      21.644      47.09      Inl.6t     147.67|   640.000       92.6
SAMA CATARIA        393.524     142.956    75.375        3.324       9.55       32.353     29,559           a      64.32      tS3,182      s12       510.409     356.676     784,453   1.6s0.s
SC VICENTE           12.637     230.76     229,644           0      35.        312.059     65,200      75.00            a          0                 624.69      295.954     349.936   1.470.s6
-A     PAUA                 114.044     03.362     105.662          0       2.             0           0                       0           0                 114.044      93.362     10850      316.17
,      IOitTONOVO          l13.25       93.3       120.56,                  7.64       1.2             0                   45,799     6t.02       I0.2"      217.061     144.390     13S.S29    90,10
ARIA GRANDE         12.065      1066.66    $46146           0       1,         32.24         1,029                 37,935      69.294                1911.315    257.019     495.2749    943.57m
SAOPFIUE            271.296     279.160     33.056          0       10.65        9.334     25.441      66.27       99.71s     136.029     130.992    400.337     440.651     263.103   1.104.091
MOSTEIIoS            66,221     49.615      82,353          0                       0           0                  19.956      24,406      36.800     69.176      73.000     IN8.963    280.12
SAO ICOIUJ          1S7,743      s69.31     41,441           0      15.2        31.324     10,336     144,11       67,25s      96.912      29.412    266.316     496.761     232.26      6615.362
SAL                 316,221     160.629    4261             0        5,697      39.426      2.041                  20,147      30.862      2,208     376.794     200.653     436.229   1.012.67t
ODA VISTA           131.2st     ss.|4    2t,906             0        t.61         960          56|        216     S5,191       66.191      t2m       197,432     IU4.731      36.019     376.18
MAIO                121529      9s.$91     159.23I      11.7I5       4.674       1,06s      5.24                   15.412      33.362      7,35      145.555     137.357     1:2.226    479,,4
MRAVA               167.476     122.63S     92.971          0        4.65           0           0                      0           0                 167.4  |     22.636      97.s24    3S7.93
TAL    4,013,463   2916    3.4$1.322       159.42_4    116.47      Boo,95      166.30     560.666     69541'1    933.36      32.         .727.736   4,01,I727   4.616.2*18  14396.191
PaAMS.VIcOITS       43.9%       40.t          t        27J.1                   56.1       63.06%t      144        344%                _   86         44A%        34.6A       14.7%_   23.32
S0tJRCE WS" et dtN   Attia uIropyidwomf_t"*d"
1i13
- 131 -



.
CAPE VERDE MNICIPAL OOVEIIMEM
STRUCTURE OF EXPENDItUR   IN 1992
,A AtTtt                 _IvANE StV  6AMW S                               WATER ANiD ReCTS9CTV 5BVa|         TOTAL MWICAL UPINOMIS
aNNmAII,ums           ulcwumm                     CAPIAL
WAGES    ONOL    ItMEI    031                OTt#lt     WANE        OTWIR    CAITAL       WAGES       OTHSR     CAPITAL     WACES       oTHEa      CAPTAiL
__________                            PAYIISIGI                        RECIMEIT                          UCINIPAIAT                        NECuNINT
PUAIA               29.5%       20.3%       L.0s       8.4%       0            A%        1.8%       0.2         0.7%       3.2%       O.T%       54.7%      3.1.%       10.2
TANAFIAL            22.0%      f0te        23.7%      10.0%       0.7         4.6% $       0%       0.1         6.2%      11.7%        1.1%      31.7%      32.|%    21.1
SATA Ca               I2%       12.5% |     4.7%       00%        0. O.6%               0.0        25.6       10.1%       2.2%        4.6       less        15.0%      61.1
SANTA CATASA        23.J%       IRY        4.9%        4.2%                   SA6 2M.    t.6%       0.t         L.t%      11.1%       0.04       30.9%      21.1%       47.5
6SAb7VICt            t.90%      16,7%      t6          0.0%        2.4       21.2%       4.4%        S.1%       0.0%       0.0%        OM.0      16.%        20.1%      238%
PA                  36.1%       21.6%      $3.1%       0.0#        0.9        0.0%       0.         0.0%        0. O"      0.%        O          36.1%      31.%        M4.4
FpOmOwVO            30.7%       16.1% |     4.t%        0%         1.8.       3.6%       0.0%       0. Ot        .2%      12.2%        2.1t      43.4%      2B.9%       27.7
mIRAORANO            12J1%      18.6%      SI.%%       0.0% S      1J         3.4S       0.1%        0 O.0%                7.3%                  20.3%       27.2A      621
IAOW1                24.0%      25.3%       3.0%       0.0         tM.        3.6%       2.3%       S.O         B.1%      12.3%      It.         36.3%      29.9%       236
mosIemO              24.4%      87.3%      334%       0SAM         0.0        0.0%       0.0%       0.0%        I.A%       6.7%       82.1A      38.1%       26.1%      4a.1%
S" IIOtA              2.0%      13A%        6.3%       0.0%        2.2        *.S%         1%      21.0t        #.O%      14,11%       4.A       37.4%      2S.7%       32.9%
Sa                   31.2% |     15%       42.%        00%         0..O       3.%9       0.3%       0.Ot        2.0%       3.S        0.2        37.1%      190.%      43.1
OA V TA             34.7%       26.16       t.0%      0o.o        0.4%        0.3%       0.2%       0.1        84.6%      84.8%       3.2        49.6%      40.8%       9.1
mAI3 258%                       26         31          2.%         I          2.2%       11         0            2%        70S          6.       312%       2B.7%      40.1
NsAVA               42.2        386%       24.0%       O.Ot        t.         0.0                                                0               42O2%      38.6%      2sl
-      -------                                                                                   ~l
iii



CAPE VERDE MUNICIPAL GOVERNMEJTS
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT BUDGETARY TRANSFERS -1992 & 1993
Valtues q US$
|   _    __     1 9 9 2                                1 9 9 3                                V %YAR. 93192
MtNICIPAUTIES  MUNtCPALIE        FAF         TOTAL      UNICPAUZED      FAF          TOTAL    MUNCIPALIZED      FAF         TOTAL
TAXES                 I                TAXES                                   TAXES
PRAIA                 585.471      261.024      846,49       874.706      520.303     1,196,009        15.2%        99.3%        41.2%
TAfRRAFAL              27,.09      209.790      237.59        32,044      265.671       297.715        15.2%        26.0%        26.3%
SANTA CRUZ             29.279      204.074      233,3S        33,897       273.064      306,951       16.8%         33.8%        31.5%
SANTA CATARINA        115.574      190,243      305,81       133,176       326,465      469,641        16.2%        71.6%        60.3
SAO VICENTE           304,016      246,67       549.08       360,353      386,678       736,931       16.2%         67.2%        34.0
t          PAUL                   32,236      167,066      199,29        37,147       189,463      226,6          16.2%        13.4%        13.7
PORtO NOVO             41,265      171,982      213.24        47,659      254,046       301,           16.3%        47.7%        41.4%
IA         R1SEIFA GRANDE         76,191      201,616       277,70        87,794      261,259      349,05         15.2%        29.6%         26.7%
SAO FILIPE             66,426      181 .974     248.4         76,544       276,762      352.30         16.2%        51.5%        41.8%
MOSTEIROS              22,632      134.835      167.4         26,088       179,935      206.02         16.3%        33.4%        30.8
SAO NICOLAU            38,279      181.910      220,1         44,103       227,349      271,451        16.2%        25.0%        23.3%
SAL                    69.794      149,694      219.686       80.426      181,222      261.64         16.2%        20.9%         19.1%
BOA VISTA              27,544      156,196      183,74        32.206      201,893      233,89         16.9%        29.1%         27.3%
MAIO                   15,897      162,681      178.57        18,324      207,943       226.26        16.3%         27.8%        26.7% 
BRAVA                  18,132      174,874      193,00        20,338      219.857       240,19        12.2%        25.7%         24.4%
TOTAL          1,470,544    2.793.92_                  1,694.706    3,970.588    5,6t5,294        16.2%        42,1%        32.8%
SOURCE: MNstIs of FIance                                                                                                                                   ..,
*        lii



ANNO 5-1)
Decentralization
(rO1s)
Page I of 14
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACrfY BUILDING PROJECr
Decentralization Component
TERMS OF REFERENCE
ESTABLSHMENT OF GUIDELINES FOR THE TRANSFER
TO MUNICPALrTl
OF DECONCENTRATED SERVICES OF CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE
Ihe promotion and strengthening of modem democratic local powers has lately become a
cornerstone of the socio-economic development strategy of the government. 'Me decentralization process
stared in eanest in 1991 with the first multi-party municipal elections, and the passing of a Law which
spels out the municipal responsibilities and powers. However, much remains to be done to implement
the provision of this law and, in particua, to ensure an orderly transfer of responsibilides and resources
from central to local governments.
The Ministry of Inunal Affairs has initiated discussions with representatives of municipal
governments for the transfer of some tasks which have traditionally been assumed by central government
line Ministries, such as social promotion, basic health, road maintenance, etc. However, the
municipalities have suffered a bad experience in the first attempt at decentralization, as they took over
new responsibilities without an adequate transfer of human, physical and financial resources. It is now
recognized th, pror to any further transfer, a general framework for the decentralization process must
bejoiny designed by the central and local govermments. This framework would establish the principles,
modalities, resources and timetable for action.
The purpose of this study is to document this framework in close collaboration with the Ministy
of Intenal Affairs and the Ministry of State for Economic Coordination (which mcludes the Finance
Ministry and the Planning Department), with the line Ministries concerned, and with representatives of
the municipalities.
TASKS OF TBE CONSULTANT
Tbe Consultant will assist the Ministry of Intemal Affairs and the Municipalities with the design
of standard procedures aimed at organizing in an orderly manner the transfer to the Municipalities of
acdvites which are presendy assumed, and resources controlled, by deconcentrated services of the central
govement.
- 134 -



ANNEX5S-D
Decentraization
(ros)
Page 2 of 14
Specifically, the consultant will:
-  evuate which acivitiesreources should be transferred to which Municipality In priority, based
on an assessment of the Municipalities' management capabilities;
- prepare a time-bound acdon plan for the orderly and firuitfil decentralization of responsibilities
and resources;
- recommend the procedure leading to the signature of a rPmocole d'Accord' beween the
Municipalities and the central government Ministries for the transfer of the latter's deconcentrated
activities, with a view of ensuring that the Municipalities receive the human, physical and
financial resources required to assume their now responsibilities;
-  document the format of a stadd "Protocole d'Accord'; and
- conduct a training seminar for representatives of central and local governments on the issue of
decentralization of deconcentrated services, and private provision of public services.
D:URATION OF TIM ASSIGNMENT
The level of effort is esdmated at 2 person-months.
QUAIFIUCATIONS REQUIRD
The assignment calls for a Specialist in Municipal Msnagement, with at least 10 years of experience in
the field. 'he specialist must have a high degree of fluency in Portuguese.
The consultant must have some direct line management experience in tie organization and delivery of
municipal services, preferably in the fields of civil works, and/or basic health services.
Exposure to experiences of private provision of public services, and faniarity with contrtng-out
arrangements would be an additional advantage.
- 135 -



Decentralizadon
C(ORs)
Page 3 of 14
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PtBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
plgoalitationCopne
TERMS OF REPERENCE
TECHICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE CREATION
OF AN llfl9:hmUNIcPaL TXEC}AL&M SPPR OMCE
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE
The Central A      ion believes it is necessary to creae four agencies of the Ministry of
Iernal Affirs that would deliver services to four groups of Municipalities.
The assignment has the objective to assess the necessary conditions for the creation of inter-
micia Technic  Support Office(s) TSO) that will permit the radonal use of scarce technical and
human resources by small Municipalities.
The assignment would be conducted in close coUaboration with the Mayors and municipal
managers (Vereadors) of the small Municipalities, and with representatives of the Ministry of Intrnal
Affaim.
TASKS OF THE CONSULTANT
JeM  1: Identificatfon of the TSO's O   Dnizaon Setup
Durig the course of the assigmnent, the consultant will determine wbat are the necesary
conditions for having these lSOs controlled by the Municipalities themselves, what are the options for
the lines of subordinadon so that the TSO become hierarchically dependent of the Municipalities they
service, what is the real number of TSO hat are needed; where they should be located and which
Muncipaities sbould they serve; what functions should they perfom; what are the needs in tenms of
human resources and equipment; what operatng costs are likely and what are the alteraves for
fnancing.
DURATION OF THE ASSIGNMENT
The level of effort is estimated at 12 person-months.
- 136 -



ANNEXS-D
Decentizado
Page 4 of 14
QUALICATIONS REQURE3D
Mbe assignmet calls for:
- one itenaonal expert witi a speciaty in Municipal Management, and at least 10 years of
experience In the field. Tbis consultant must have worked for a municipality in a top
mIanagment position, preftrably in the urban planning and civil works sectors. He must have
a thorough knowledge of the adminisation and finacial management of municipal government.
- one local expert, with a university degree in economics and/or finacial managemeLt The
consutat mtst be thorougtly fmiliar with economic and fincial prject evauaton teiques.
Prior experience with urban planning would be an advantage.
All SeiaS must be fluent in Portuguese.
- 137 -



ANN ER *
Decentralzation
CTORs)
Page 5 of 14
REPUBIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUIBUC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACrFY BEU!DING PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECNICAL ASSISTANCE
FOR OIRGANMIUSION DE! RZI&IRAMUCPAL DE C ENT RAIZATION
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE
The purpose of the assigmnent is to assist one or two Municipality organie the taking over by
local oe .6  groups of some municipal responsibilities.
Ihe assigmnt would be demand-driven, i.e. the Municipalities would have to be willing to
6enourage empowment of lo  citzens' groups in the delivery of some municipal sevices, and would
ae to request assice to organize 1his process on their own initiative.
The conutan would work in dose collaboration with the Mayors and the municipal officers
(Vereado), with represives of local groups and, where apopriate, with NGOs.
TASKS OF THE CONSULTANr
Specifically, the coultant will:
-  help in the identificati  of te terrItorial divisions (villages, hamlets, etc..) in whicb to promote
the deconcentraton of municipal responsibilities;
-  assist in the identificaton of the seviceslacdons to be deconcented, and establish priorities;
-  help draw up local goverunamt reglations to implement the deconcention, incluting ransfer
of some municipal revene, and promotion of cost-sharing schemes;
assit the loca groups duing the statup phase, where needed, organize themselves for efficient
deliy of sewricos.
- 138 -



ANNE 5-D
- Decentraization
CrORS)
Page 6 of 14
DURATION OF THE ASSIGNMEN
lhe level of eflort Is esdma   at 3 person-months.
QUALIFICATIONS REQUIRED
The assignment calls for a loca expe wit at leas five yeas of experaece in organiztn and
adminiaion of local govem , and emive direct experence of wrk* with local commtnity
associations, citizens grMups and similar organ ons.
- 139 -



Decentralization
(TORs)
Page 7 of 14
REPUBIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUIIING PROJECr
DegnjztiMon CoMMent
TERMS OF REFERBNCE
TECHNCAL ASSISTANCE
Mg IZRVMQ REZVN&MlIAZATN
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE
Mia objective of the assignment is to assist the Municipalities develop and start implementing an
acion-ln for gradually inreasng local revenue mobilization while tai;ng into account the local
condition in Cape Verde. (For insace, local prperty taxes are at present collected on behalf of the
Municipalities by the Ministry of Finan  As central governmeat provides the service for free, it was
found that liltle effots were made to ensure that properties were assessed at their real value, or that all
xistg properties were taxed).
TASKS OF THE CONSULTANT
Specifically, the consultans will:
-  identify and evaluate the altenatives for increasing the locally collected revenue;
-  doment the procedures which should be followed to update and maintain a new land/property
regise  and an economic actvity register to pennit the correct assessment of property values and
economic activties for axaion purposes;
-   vauate the technical, financial and human resources required to complete and guarantee the proper
of these regiers in each municipality and prepare a time-bound action plan for
-  prepae, orgnize and deliver a program of on-the-job training of municipal staff in the methodology
of      at i _-' nbonance of property and economic acdvity registers, in the context of the review
of these regiters In one Municipality which would be used as a piot case.
DURAlTON OF THE ASSIGNMENT
'Me levd of effort is esimated at 12 person-months.
- 140 -



,ANNEX.9SD
(rOR$)
Page 8 of 14
QUALIFICATIONS REQUI
The asignment calls for:
-  one international specialist with at least 10 years' experience in local government fface and
taxation. The consultant should have managed the revenue collection unit in a municipality or, at a
minimum, have been responsible for local taxation in a Mistry of Finance;
- one local economist, with experience in public finanoe and taxation;
-  one local propert assessor/urban plannertgeographer with experience in topography.
Fluency in Portuguese is required.
- 141 -



Decentralization
(TORs)
Page 9 of 14
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUIDING PROJECT
QeceSWtizaon Copiope
TERM OF REFEIENCE
TECHNCAL ASSLSTANCE
Di ACC02MmN AND  tQN
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE
Ihe objecve ofte assignment is () to provide in-thfeld assismce to the Municipalides to set up
propriat accounng, bookkeeping and auditing procedur, and (ii) to provide on-the-job tainig  to
municipal staff concned tD ensure reliable and transparent fcial management in local governments.
TASKS OF THE CONSULTANT
Spefically, the consul  will:
-  assist the Municipalities in organizing their bookkeeping and maintng their acoounting records;
-  prepare an Accountg Manu  for use in the Municipalities;
-  develop recommendations for the sdection, and assist in the Imple tn, of a standard
omputerized accountig and finnci mangemen package in all Municipalities;
document the basic auditing procedures to be used in the Municipalities in an Auditing Manual;
- provide on-the-job training to the municipal staff concerned with accounting, financial management
and auditing;
- provide technical support to the accounting units of Municipalities upon request.
In the couse of the assigment, the consultant will liaise closely with the Ministry of Finance alSPeCo
Gera de Finanwas) and with the Tribunal dos Contos'.
DURATION OF TME ASSIGNMENT
The level of effort is estimted at 10 person-months.
- 142 -



Decentraization
(rORs)
Page 10 of 14
QUALIFICATIONS REQUIRED
lbe technical assistance to each Municipality would be provided by chartered accounnts/auditors
tdrough one or several local audit firm(s).
- 143 -



ANNEX S-D
Decentralization
(TORs)
Page 11 of 14
REPBIJC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBUC SEC:TOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
lXwctizuaton Qmponent
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN
WRNAIMMRE PLANNING AND IMPEMENTATION
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE
Decentalization entails signiicant additional costs to the Municipalides which, at the national level,
will not be completely offset, at least initia1ly, by a parallel decrease In centr government savings. In
an economy such as Cape Verde, is makes it  all the more necesay t    ensure that the municipalities
maage, ther resources with maximum effectiveness and efficiency.
Municipal investm  Is at an early stage of development, but will increase with decentralization. At
pret,   those municipalities where it exiss at all, the investment planning horizon is one-year, and
there appeas to be some confusion betweea capita investment costs, operation costs and maince
coss.
Investment planning for services cannot be separated fom technical and economic evaluation of
alternatives. Increasingly, municipalities will be responsible for new rather than for on-going projects,
and it will be necesary for them to ensure that new projects and services are provided in the most cost-
effective manner.
In the fture, municipalities should bN equipped to:
- consider alternative technical solutions to detenmine the most cost-effective solutions;
- consider phasing of alternatives to avoid overdimensioned projects and conserve scarce resources;
-  include full costs, paticularly depreciaion, in the analyses of projects; and
-  evauate the financial and economic retun of altenadves.
Whie such analyses are cleary necessay for large projects, even in smaller municipalities technical
and eonomic evaluation are essential. The impact of infrastructure investmen on municipal budgets are
prportionally high regardless of municipality size, and the need to ensure *value for money is equally
Impora to small as well as to larger municipalities.
- "44 -



ANNE 5-D
Decentralization
(TORS)
Page 12 of 14
TASKS OF THE CONSULTANT
Specifically, the Consultant wil:
-  help desip a chart of accounts that will permit better control of expenditues;
- help introduce a program budgeting system that will pernit the expenditures to be classified, recorded
and monitored by programs, projects and activities;
- identify the administrative procedures required to implenent the new system;
-  prepae an action-plan for computerization of the plaming and budgeting process in the
Municipalities;
-  design and document a simple step-by-tep methodology for investment project appraisal,
programming and implementtion control;
- prepare a training package on the above methodology, with use of practical examples and case
stdies;
- organize and deliver the seminar to a group of municipal officers (Vereadors) and to members of the
ter-Municipal technical Support Unit MSO) on (i) the new planning and budgeting procedures, and
on (i) project appraisal methodology.
'he assigment will be conducted in close collaboration with the Ministry of Internal Affas and with
the General Budget Office (Diesao Geral de Oroame).
DURATION OF THE ASSIGNMENT
'Me level of effort is estimated at 2 person-months.
QUALIFlCATIONS REQUIRED
The assignment calls for an expert in project appraisal, with at least five years experience in economic
and financial evaluation of investment projects.
Prior responsibility wih the planning and technical/financial control of investment projects in a
municipality would be a disdnct advantage.
The consultant must demonsra that he/she has successfully prepared and delivered training coures in
the subject.
Fluency Ir Poituguese Is manaory.
- 145 -



'I iS i 18  Siilgi1   1     
t | § .    -S{ |{Et |t 
I'l 1IJti                    jI t }   
g    X  x  !@o6  00jjiIhI§



ANNE--
Decentratzo
(rORf
Page 14 of 14
-  provide in-the-field support to the Municipalities, as appropiate in the implementation of the system,
and use of the procurement methods.
DURATION OF THE ASSIGNMENT
The level of effort is estimated at 3 person-months.
QUALIFICATIONS REQUIRED
The asignment calls for an expert with at least 10 years experience in procurement of goods and servicos.
Thorougb familiarity with all type of procurement methods: limited competive bidding, shopping,
inatonal tendeting, etc.. is required
Prior management of a unit in charge of public procurement and asset management would be a disti
advantage.
Tbe consultant must demonsae that helshe has successfully prepared and delivered tailning couses in
the subject.
Fluency in Portuguese is mandaory.
- 147 -



DecentraIzation
(Training of Municipa offcas)
Page I of 2
1ULIUC OF CAPE VE
PUBLiC SWEOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUIHDING PROJECT
DOWmIztion componen
SZORTFORt =lCOOttDlNATION OF THE TRAINIG OF bJM1fRA OmFF1CES
In light of the impotance which the Cape Verdean authorities, at the Central and Municipal
levels, attach to the ihprovemen of municipal civil service productivity, support will be provided to
achieve the itroduction of an effectively coordinated functional taing effort with the objective of
secure the optimum utilization of existng training resources and institutions on the most cost effective
basis. Speciflaclly:
(a) the consutas will review all pre-service and in-service training courses, short and long tem,
to ensure tiat  ainng b closely dircted to meet the functiona  t     needs of municipal
officers, and civil servants in the Ministry of Intnal Administon, at all levels;
(b) they wll examine the traig  component of approved Schemes of Sevice to ensue that trang
pogram afre designed to respond to the training needs of specialized cadres, as deied in the
Scheme of Sevtice;
(c) they wDi review the opeaion of existing training inmitons, such as but not limited to CENFA
ad IFAP, with a view to ensurig that thei training programs are responsive to the needs of the
municipal civil service, including the taining of staff to ffll lnown and anticipated vacancies and
the upgrading of serving staff to perform at higher levels;
(d) esy wil assist in the adaption of exisdng courses, or the development of new ones, to the
needs of the municipal officers;
(e) they will examine the above mentioned training institutions witb a view to eiminatin possible
ovelaps and duplications of trainig effots, and of enuring the optimum utilization of taining
resours, personnel, equipme  and finance;
(f) they wil review the arrangements for deemiing the types of taining programs offered by
individua Iitutions with a view to enswing that they respond to municipal ci  service staff
training priories. In this connection, they will examine the need for improved Waing
coordination by the estabishment of some form of Central Traing Advisoy Body through
which the Mayors and other officers in cbarge of organion and human resource management
in the MuncWpiis might evaluate ihe effectiveness of rinig and recommend measures
desiged to improve the quality and relevance of the training effort;
- 148 -



ANNEX -E
Deceftralization
Crraining of Munidpal officials)
Page 2 of 2
(g) they will develop appropriate evaluation methodologies to measure the results of the training
effort;
(h) they will advise on the allocation and utlization of external resources for advanced taining,
either in-country or abroad;
- 149 -



-   -          P  P  P    ~~~~~~~~- ..A 
0~~?   -         0    0    -S
.               .                        . ..  . 
I~~~~~~ g 



ANNE 5-F
Decentralization
(Costs)
Page 2 of 2
GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACTY BUIWLDING PROJECT
Decentralzain C=one
EQUIPMENT
PURPOSE                                TYPE OF EQUIPMENT                         TOTAL
(USS' 000)
1. Equipment of TSOs              -Office Fumiture & Equipment                                        351
-Topographic Equipment                                              801
-Computers and Accessories                                          60
-Vehicles                                                           60
2Z
2. Equipment of all Municipalities  j Office Furniture                                                110
(desks, chairs, bookshelves, cabinets; etc..)
Computers & Accessories                                           230
(MiuAo-C0Mputers, pnntes, sofwares, etc...)
Other Office Equipment                                            130
j (Typewfters, xerox machines, stenca machines, etc...)
-4 WD Ught vehicles (2 per Municipality)                          540
Submal             iD1=
;3. Training Equipment            - Training Equipment                                                  5
(over-headprojectors, whieboasis, etc ... )
SubtTTAL
__________         _    _     __ TOA                                            IZ           I1



ANNEX S-G
Decentralization
(Prformance Indicators)
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
PROJEC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
FOR TH ECNATOCMP
I.    Indicatons of 1eet lmpiaimenon
(a)    Availability of Equipment:
1.    All 15 Mlunicipalities equipped with the basic office equipment provided under the project
by September 1994.
2.    All Vehicles financed under the project available in every Municipality by December 1994.
(b)    Compledon of Studies:
3.    Study of the prooess of transfer to Municipalities of deconced services of the central
goveDm   t (standard conten of the *Protocole d'Accord" & negotating nrles and procedures) completed
by March 1995.
4.    Desig  of improved Plamung, Budgedtg and Accouuting/Boolckeeping systems for local
government completed by June 1995.
5.    Above systm  operational in each Municipality by Deember 1995.
6.    Evaluation of the potential for increased local tax revenues in each Municipality completed
by Dember 199.
7.    Development of recommendations on the internal organization of each Municipality available by
1996.
8.    Detailed action-plan for the creation of an Inter-Municipal Technical Suppot Office MSO)
completed by December 1994.
9.    Idenification of the quantive and qualiative human resources needs of every Municipality
completed by March 1995.
(c)    Pr}gre  In franhur
10. Training needs assessment for each Municipality completed by March 1995.
11.   Compledon and implementation of the organizaion and desig of training sessions for municipal
staff, including detailed training material, in the following subject:
- 152 -



Performan( c ndatr)
Page 2 of 2
-     Muoicipal mament, by May t995,
-      dManagement of Municipal enrprises and autonomous services, by July 1995
-     promotion of small and micro-enterprises and contracting-out of public savices, by
Sep_ember 1995,
-     Public finance and accountng by December 1995,
-     Organiation and human resources manaement, by March 1996,
Invesmen project evaluation, by June 1996,
-     Public administration legislation, by September 1996.
12. Training of at least 2 municipal managers (Vereadors) in each Municipality in:
-     Municipal management, by May 1995,
-     Management of Municipal enterprises and autonomous services, by July 1995,
-     promotion of small and mico-enterprises and contracing-out of public services, by
Septmbe 199.
-     Public finance and accounting, by December 1995,
-     Organization and buman resoures management, by March 1996,
-     Investment project evaluation, by June 1996,
-     Public administidon legislation, by September 1996.
IL    Indiators of Achievement of Prolect's Obiectives:
13.   Obteton of the formal agreement of a sufficient number of Municipalities conceened wit the
actlolan1for the creation of TSO, and of their pledge to share the fnancing of its retwr
xpediue, by September 99.
14.   Budget of each Municipaliy concened includes the Mlunicipalit's share of the ISO's recurrent
cos from fiscal year 1996.
15.   CompletIon of the stafing of the lSO wit at least the minimum levd of professional and support
staff required, by Jume V96.
16. All Municipal investment projects above an amount of C.V. Esc. 10 mnllion, either self-financed,
or financed with assistance of central govement or donor agencies, having undetae  a proper
ecoommic evauadon. (To take effect afber TSOs are operational)
17.   Landiproperty, and eonomic acdvity registrars completed in each Municipality, by July 1996.
18.   Revw/updaot of proprty tax base completed In each Municipality, by Septembe 1997.
19. AlI Municipal acounms contue to be found adequate by the OTribunal das Contas'.
- 153 -



ANNffi6
nsttutonal Dv.
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACrrY BUILDING PROJECT
EN2TIllOALDEVELOMN: SIMAT-EGY TO) INCREAS E lMIC PARTWIPATIO
1.           The Government of Cape Verde (GOCV) is responding to two recent developments: first,
the need to rest  the economy in the face of a slowing of economic growth, growing budget deficits and
increasing inflation; and second, mounting pressures to accelerate the demo ion process which
began with the 1990 elections. To deal with the increasingly complex economic environment, worsenig
balance of tade and etal debt, the GOCV has embarked on a strategy to buid a much stronger, but
more focussed, markt-faciitating public sector. The strategy rests on two pillars. On the one hand, it
sees to Wm     the capacity of the Goverment in economic and fiscal management coupled with a
progam to moderne public administion and Improve the legal euviraonent for private business; and
on the other hand, to reduce the role of the Goverment in the economy and foster private sector led
investment and growth. To deal with the demand for faster democratzation and public participation, the
GOCV has began a proces of delegating more power and responsibilitiesto the municipal govenments,
and has initiated effrts to strengthen the capacity of the press to better inform the public about
government policies and programs to raise the awareness and involvement of the public in Government,
and to make the Government more accountable to the people by reporting on policy decisions and the
performane of government programs.
_Mp a Eoonomic ad ial Manant an Moernizina Pbic Adminilstration
2.           The Government of Cape Verde has achieved high levels of economic growth through
pdent economic and fiscal management and public investments. In addition, it has made subsial
iwsnes      in the social sectors which have resulted in levels of education, health and social services well
above the average in the Africa region. Much of the economic gowth was led by public investmenss
since the private sector is small and laking in entrepreneurial capacity and capital or assets for
borrowing. 'Me relafively small role and limited initative and capacity of the private sector led the
Govermet to crate an ndtetventonist   exeive public adminiton to manage the economy and
public investments, develop infucture and provide social services. It provided the rationale for the
cion of 36 public sector etrprises in power, water, and telecommunication utilities, light
_1,CU        ship building, food production and processing, and markime and air traspor
3.           Atpresent, the publicsector, includingpublic enteprises employs more than 19,000 civil
serVas. Tne machinery of goverment comprises thirteen ministries, two responsible for economic,
financi and fisca affais, and the others for defense, infrastructure, utlities, agriculture and fishery,
commerce and industries, and health, education, culture and sports. These ministries also mage the
36 public sector enterprises.
4.           Pagry to cope with the management requirements of this large public sector, and pardy
for political reasons, the number of civil servce in the Governmet minstries grew dramatically over the
- 154 -



ANINEX 6
Institutional D&v.
Page 2 of 4
1985-90 period, increasing fom 7,800 to 11,300 employees. Growth bas been concentrated in the lower
echelons ofgoverment: office staff and support workers with low educational qualifications. Only 1.2%
of the civil sevans have completed secondary school or twelve years of schooling, and less than 5%
have completed undergraduate univesity education, or 17-18 years of schooling. University trained
manager, tecbnical and professional staff are in short supply. Consequently, the capacity of the civil
service to manage the economy and the large public sector is weak
S.           The weaknesses in the public administration have recently become more apparent in the
face of a deteriorating economic performance, declining public investments and demand for maritime and
transport services, and worsening performance of the public enterprises. Faced with this situation, the
Goverment has felt it necessary to undertake a comprehensive program to improve the quality of its
economic and fiscal management, the efficiency of the public administration and the privatization of
public sector enterprises. Specifically, the Govermnent has embarked on a program to refom the
ministries responsible for economic and fiscal planning and management and has created a new ministry
to oversee and coordinate economic policy and development, the Ministry for Economic Coordination.
It has also reorganized the Ministry of Finance and is in the process of strengthening the capacity of the
planmng, budgeting and statistics departments of that ministry.
6.           In addition, the Government has prepared a plan to modernize the sectoral ministries
through a reform of public administration that focuses on retrenching excess lower-level staff, improving
personnel management, and training civil servants. Moreover, in 1992, the Government launched a
program to privatize public sector enterprises with assistance from the IMA-supported Privatization and
Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2377-CV.
7.           The privaizaon project will help expand the private sector through the purchase of
public sector enterprises and assets by private entrepreneurs. To facilitate this process and to promote
private sector investments and grwth, the Government is also reforming the regulatory environment for
business. T'e reforms will streamline labor legislation and simplify regulations for entry and exit of
businesse. The development of the private sector will be further assisted by the establishment of a
commercW banking system and financial market for trading treasury notes, and eventually stocks and
bonds.
8.           The plans and proposals for improving economic management, reforming the civU service
and improving the legal and judicW system, are in various stages of preparation or completion. The
quality of the proposals is very good. Ihe statistical data base is weak and needs tD be improved and new
mechanms for coordinatmg and monitoring economic development programs and external assistance
need to be developed. Finally, the planning and execution of the reform program require support and
commitment from political parties, parliament and civil servants. To deepen and broaden this
commitment the Government has begun a program to improve relations with the press and give it better
access to infomation on the reform program so that the Government can reach a wider audience and
facilitate public discussion and scrutiny from constiencies and the public at large. Plans are also
underway to assist the print (newspapers) and electronic media (radio and television) in getting easier
access to Govenument officials and infmation, and in acquiring modern printing and broadcastng
tecbnologes.
- 155 -



ANNES 
Institutional Dev.
Page 3 of 4
Re=nding to the Demand for Accelerated Democratization
9.           Cape Verde has been at the forefront of Africa's political transition in the 1990s. hne
1991 elections brought victory for the opposithon party in races for the Presidency, National Assembly
and municipal councils. The political scene now comprises parties formerly in the opposition, the party
that ruled from independence until the recent elections, and several independent political groupings. The
transition of power was peaceful and the program of opening up the economy, which was relaunched by
the new Government, is taking place within a frame-work of constructive dialogue and debate, with the
active participation of the press.
10.          The new Government came into power on a platform of economic reform, employment
generation, a reduced role for the Government, delegation of power to local Government, and the
fostering of private initiative and enterprise. The economic reform program has is off to a sound start
and is expected to be sustained by the efforts to strengthen economic management, modernize public
administration, privatize public enterprises, promote private sector development and improve the legal
and judicial system. Increased public and private investments in infrastructure and social services, and
more generally, the promotion of private sector investment and growth are expected to generate real
growth in employment.
11.          A program for decentralizing government functions and services to the municipalities has
been prepared by the Ministry of Internal Administration. It calls for more equitable distribution of
resources to municipalities on the basis of transparent criteria. It envisages a much greater role for
municipalities in the development and maintenance of utilities and infrastructure and the provision of
social services. However, the capacity of the municipalities to manage economic and socW development
was seriously affected by the political transition when the appointed presidents and members of muicipal
councils were replaced by elected ones who owe their positions less to technical merit than political skill.
Also, prior to the elections, municipal staff played only minor roles, with virtually all government
functions and services managed and controlled by the central administration. Tbe municipalities thus are
sorely lacking in the human and material resources to take on the larger role and responsibilities presently
envisaged for them under the decentralization plan.
12.          The Goverment is keenly aware of these weaknesses. It has begun to identify the needs
for stngening the municipalities through a process of consultation and discussion. Several of the
larger municipalides have already prepared comprehensive proposals regarding their new roles and the
resources and capacity building required. The analysis of the proposals is underway and plans for the
allocation of resources and for the recruitment and training of municipal staff are being developed.
13.          In the process of decentizing functions and services, and transfrming the role of the
municipalities, two issues are of special concern to the Government: (i) reladons between the
municipalities and the central administration; and (ii) the relations between the municipalities and the
various groups and constituencies in the communities. For that reason the decentralization plan contains
proposals to develop common procedures for fiscal and financial functions and social services delivery
to ensure the efficient exchange of information and adequate provision for monitoring and auditing.
14.          At the same time, the municipalities must be responsive in their new roles to local
political forces and meet the needs of local communities: The Government believes that regional
economic and social development must be driven by grass-roots participation in the identificadon of
priorities and the formulation of social and economic policies and programs. The Government is
- 156 -



ANNE
Institotil Dev.
Page 4 of 4
therfore encouragn  the muwicipalities to foster local associaons and organizatons that develop
community self-help programs and define local projects catering to the needs of the poor and less
privileged groups in the society, particularly women and youth.
15.           To generate grea  communit participation in public afirs, the Government plans to
encourage municipalities to develop stronger ties with the press. More frequent press briefings, greater
access to information and assistance-with strengthening the capacity of the press to report on community
affairs are being discussed with the municipalities.
- 15? -



ANNEX 7
Lega and ludici
Page I of 4
EUBIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBIIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUIDING PROJECT
LRGAL ANAD MNE
L INTRODUCTION
1.    The Governmets insttutional devdopmt and public sector modizato  program focusseS
broadly on the legal and judicial context In addion to emphaizing reorms which mot directly affec
busess and commercial   vity. Prepaon of the leg  and judicial component was carried out under
h active leader    of the Minister of Justice himself. A coordian  _MMIe headed by the Diector
Genl of the Deatnt of Sudes, Legiaon, Documentation and Inforation  (GEDI), and
comprisingMinistry of Justice offcils, judges, prae legal practioner and a U.S.4-ased NRCV lawYe
providig assistn  on a voluntary basis to thfe Mnistry of Justde, paed te  project and would be
iwolved in its supervisin  Preparation of the corpone  begm in eanest on the basis of a deoted
docment prepard by the coordiat    committee. Ihe paper reviewed the main shortcomig and
w    es  of the l    and judicial system, ad in pua those aspects thereof tha had a dire  impact
upo busss and commercial transactions, and proposed specfic acons (includi  estimates of Ikely
Csts) to address those weaknss  and to modemize the System  To complement the prqparon work of
the Ministry of Justie staff and tD contribe a solid groundwork to the proposed project, under the
Pitizatn TA Pwoect (Cr. 2377-CV), the Govemen commioned a study of the legal and juicial
bsine  eviomnem in Cape Verde. The study examined the legl and judicia famework for CVpe
Verde, from a busie perpective, and kientified issues that need to be addressed. The results of te study
s wel as the detailed objecdves of the proposed project component were discussed in a series of mina
of lawyes and other in         officials thereby providing to Government frer feedback on the
component
IL EXISrJNG SITUATION
A) 
2.                    . The Commercial Code dates back to the 19th century. It was inrd  from
thc Poa_t       colonial era and, is outdad and illsuited to serve the needs of moderda busies
actvit. The law goveg companies is also contained inthe Code and, fr simil reasons, has hady
evolved duingth past ceny. The Code needs to be reid a a matt of urgenc, so do te procedutes
ta it embodes wih regtd to fte  tblishme  of companies.
3.                     Labor legislation is of relavely rocent origin; but, like the Commdc   Code,
it isouotdtd in many respe. It was conceived in an era when coCern for woe' rights fa ouweigh
any desir for growth and development  Like the CoImmrcial Code, the exist   labor legislation is
rga   as a poteni obstce to developme    he legislaon as a whole is complex and r-undestod
so are the prov     thereof which relate to dismissal and sevea   pay. The Govnment has recognized
these dfio    of the Code and has undertk   an ointermediate revison of the Code. hi revision,
completed in De     1993, was aimed at removing the most fgant restrictive provisions such as dtose
- 158 -



Legd and Judicial
Page 2 of 4
an fxed-tm contacts, which were practically inapplicable. The follow-up and overall revisions would
be supported under the proposed project.
4.   QOer Legislaji  Prvsions. Provisions contained in a number of other legislative texts have also
been cited as possible obstacles to growth and developmen. These are the Code of Civil l;edue and
the leisation gwanig notarial acts, and the companies' and property registers, aUl of which are
cnsidered as Important tools of economic development. The Code of Civil Procedure is reatvely old and
outdated, as are the procedures that it prescribes. The legislative provisions governing notarial acts, as well
as those reating to the companies' and property regsters, are unduly complex and rigid, and have the effect
of delaying and comlicating coerci and business transactions.
B) u3le   btigna
S.    The Ministry of Justice and Labor shares responsibility for the administration of the justice system
with the Procazez Gdnkad or PGs Office and the tribunals. The Ministry of Justice consists of four main
Directorates, including one Directorate which is responsible for studies, legislative drafting, documntation
and informadon (DGELDI) and another which is responsible for notaia services and companies, property
and other registries (DORN). The other two Directorates, which are responsible for judicial matters and
priso services, respectively, are not relevant fbr preseot purposes and are not discussed any futher herein.
6.        L      DGELDI has overl responsibility to udertak law reform, and to provide advice and
iance generally to all other Govement Mnistres on legislative proposals. In practice, for lack of
adequate capacity, it has never been in a position to fillly perform this role. I is headed by a Director-
Geneal, who unfi recently, was assisted by a couple of junior lawyers, none of whom had any paricular
eertise in the legislative drafting process, for which DGEIDI was created in the fir plae. Also, most
of the legal officers of the Ministry of Justice were degree holders, without any post-graduate professional
qualification. Accordingly, their stats is somewhat lower than that of magisa; so are their wages and
beneft. Due to budgetary constrain, they opeate in tight and difficult conditions. They are poorly paid
nd r-epped to perfom the critical responsibilities that are vested in them. Not surprisgly, it has
proved difficult to retain staff in the Diretorate on a regular basis. Most of them simply left for better and
more lucradve prospects or contined to work on a part-ime basis. The Government bas recendy taken
swps to strengthen the capacity of DGELDI, by assiging more lawyers and experienced magistres. The
Govrment bas also began to address the problem of high rate of staff wnover in the Ministry of Justice
as a whole and, in paricular, vwthin DGELDL Magiate can now be redeployed from the dti s and
the PGs Office to ftll up posions or to perform tasks wifhin DGELDL  Under the proposed project,
DGELDI would be provided with appropriate materials and equipment to be in a position to discbarge its
functions (para 3.1.2).
7.     BGRMI. DGRNI has eclusive responsibility for the provision of notarial services to the public at
large. It has responsiblityto authenticate business    actions, including thoserelating to the incorporaion
of companies. The Directorate doubles up as the companies and property register. It is also responsible
for civil status acts and for the pwvion of personal identifcation cards.
8.    Because DGRM  performs all its services manually, not surprisingly, it constitutes a major
bottleneck for business and other tasactions. Notwithstanding the brave attempts by its personnel to
expedite the procssing of transactions, unavoidably, there are delays both in the provision of notaral
services and in the subsequent process of regisraion. Irrespective of any attempt to streamline the process
- 159 -



Leg and Judicial
Page 3 of 4
of establishment of companies, there is a dear need to computeize the sysm  and, thereby, achieve
substatal gains in the processing time for business activities.
9.    Iibuna&. 'he courts' system consists of an appellate jursfsiction and a jurisdiction of first
instauce. lhe Supreme Court exercies appellate jurisdiction, whist fir instance jurisdiction belongs by
and large to the regional and sub-regional courts. In Prala, as in Sao Vicente and Santa Cawina, there are
separate judges for civil and crimina cases. In all other courts of first instance, the same judge is
competent to hear and dispose of all cases, civil and crimial alike. There is preselly no spWcialized
jurisditdon for commercial or indusial cases.
10.   Judges as a rule are not properly trained, particuarly for commercial and business law cases. They
are poorly paid and generally ill-equipped to perform their functions. As other Government employees,
ihey have experienced the harsh realities of drastic cuts in Govemment budget. Although their conditions
are marginally better than those of legal officers of the Ministry of Justice, many continue to leave for the
bar and other more lucrative prospects.
mL TE PROPOSED PROJECT
A) Law Risn
11.   Annex 9 presents in matrix fom, the major activities to be undern under the proposed project,
the  cted outcomes and the timing targets. The Government has decided to proceed with a full-scale
revision of its commercial and labor legislation, and other related legislation, which have a direct impact
upon commercial and business activities in the couny. To this end, it has been taking major steps to
strengthen the capacity of the DGELDI to undertake law reform and to provide advice and guidance to other
Government Ministries on legislative proposals.
12.   Thus, under the Project DGELDI will be provided with appropriate materias and equipm    that
it requires to be in a position to discharge its functions. Speciaized short-term advisory services wil be
made avalable to DGELDID as and when needed, to help supevie the legsative draftng activities, and
to tra DGELDI legal staff.
13.   To ensure continuity in the legislative reorm process, the Government has take measures to
contain the high rate of staff turnover in the Miniy of Justice as a whole and, in parar, within
DGELDL Magistra  can now be redeployed from the tribunais and the PG*s Office to fill up posiins
or to perform specific tasks within DGELDI. In order to enhance the caeer prospects of legal officers of
the Ministry of Justice, the Govermment will, under the prqject (see training). take measures (e.g. ameig
rules governing the recitment of magistrates, localy-sponsored training programs combining practical
traing and courses at the Center for Judicial Training to be cated) to allow  them to qualify as
magsraes otherwise than by havig to follow a profsional tning program in Portugal. Other means
of atacting competent legal staff to occupy key positons in the Miistry of Justice would also be reiewed.
14.   In order to supervise the process of revision of the various pieces of legislation, the ooordinat
commttee has been expanded to include a wide cross-section of busies representatives, business law
experts, labor unions, employers and other interested officials. Ihe expanded committee's purpose is to
help review draft strategy papers and legislative proposals, as and when they are submitted to it by
DGELDI; the committee will not be exptd to draft or iniiae legislation.
- 160 -



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ If[HI!i~~~~~~~~~~~~S
J}j i. ii ifTL4    ~I      I I!i'TI!r



ANNFX3 &-
Economic Mngm
Ze~omuiao System)
Page  of I
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORtM AND CAPACITY BUIDING PROJECT
E£CONOMIC    NAE
ACTIVIrY BRIEF/TERMS OF RUNCE
IMPlnONEM OF AN ELEMMMNI COI9MMINI asTI
Ihe objective of this sub-component is t faciie a smooth flow of nomato among key
pe l_   in the ministries and govement agencies.
Aecviies wil include:   ) the idetification/procurement Cm collaboratio  with Cr!) of
aproriat uneworking sobins; () the identicatdon(procurement of neworking solutions; (Ii tho
;I of Office Mail software; and (iii) the training of end-users.
Emir BZUM ANDDUIRA1TONOF ASSIGMEN
The leve of eff  required to complete the study leading to the kid ntficaton of pro   tecnical
solutons.  awalre), and to train the end-users in tfie use of the Office Mall software Is
esmate d at 6  rso. ITis would indlude 2 monts by an biatonal specia d consutat,
and 4 peo      mths of local consultants (3 p-m of computer speciai and 1 p-m of teleication
speiaist), for a toal co of about US$60,000. Taining would be conducted in-house by dte local
computer specialist, upon avaiabity of the equipment and is included in th estimate of time above.
Softwa    eesing fo 200 users of Office Mal is estmad at US$20,000, ad ntworkig
eqipmt for 200 us is emated at US$60,000.
- 162 -



(Shred-Ino Dab DM)
Pae I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLC SECIOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BULDING PROJECT
DEIGN OF A MASTER-PLANAEMS OF REFERENCE
FOR-THE CBF0Q OF A SHARtED RMNFRMATIO DATA-JUnE
TIo objective of the assignment is to develop an acton-plan for the Imp_ of a
so ZR MteffyOdata-bu  of economic inlbrnadon and statistcs which could be share  mng MInstre
ad gonm  Wag    encies, as appoprat.
T    OF THE CONTANT
m study wll Iclude
--    te identficaon of information needs at te  - and Ine-M    ia leives;
-     the ld      o f exising nomai, its location, ts accessisbilt   s elve and
reiabity, eg.;
-     the denficao of the level of effort requred to mre  thereliabt yand combflit
of existing relevant inmatn, and tO co}lect new information;
thdevelopment of detailed rdationsregardingthcomputrand 
equimet, as well as the systems and procedures, roquired for the estblishmut and
m _bumm  of ingrd   data bas  to provide plans and dewit
adequa  md dmely d;Irinfom;
-h fdendficaon and csting of th techni le and equimet required to creat
and mainti adcntad   on-ine informain ing sysem, inludingd cost of
dedgning and building-up the databases, and the cot of training end-users; nd,
-     the development of a time-bound action-plm for imple   .
IMm level of eirt Is estimated at 20 pesons-months, over a perod of S calenda monms.
- 163 -



ANNEX 8*
Economic Manaeme
(Shared-nfo Data Base)
Page 2 of 2
OUALPCATIONS RKUI
The level of effort to complete the study is estimated at 12 persons-months of specialized
inteatonal expetise, and 8 persons-monfts of local experts, as follows:
-      8 p ersos-monts of innatonal and 5 persons-months of local infnnaton
-gpcialigg and stadstiu;
-      3 persons-months of intenational and 2 peson-months of local cmpe mpecialit; and
-      1 person-month of internaional and I person-monuth of local (tele)ommnicatio
- 164 -



diii I i 
Pu      -      41          *Ifiit
I  flw                *8

0
Al
-
0          a
.1                 I*i1I       be
jo0.iJ.o iw           I                     A
rJL      kji04 
U.  I               S             1
Pu,    I  jj      
Ii                              I's                i.
 I §131!
w
I       fillIP  b                             .1:':
 ii
'4                                ri8 A



Ecnmi
Page 2 of 7
S.    lhe DWP has not, however, prared annual plans, nor has it monithe caig economic
and social situation on an actie, ongoing basis, or prepared etmates of the prical  nomic
vaables (money supply, budget outcome, etc.) to evaluate =nua economic performance.
6.    IheDOGP is well staffed and does ot suffer fromhigh uno lib o  er de m. ithasxabout
20 specialists, including consultats, with good qualifications and expeienc   his saticoy sitation
can be attributed to the high motivaton of the technical staff, who regad themselves as an dite group;
career prospects are good, ad tee is wcs to  eal trang and to post-grdua  taning. Computer
resources raviable, however, are still insufficient
7.    The Budget r rate DO) imtervenes direcdy i economic plannh2gby pring and eet
the state budgeL From 1992 an fft has been made to iegrte the public inm  plan     Into a
siwle budget stum  that would contai both current  ditre and capiall expenditure. This process
Is not yet complete, and the linkges between the budget and the Plan ae not yet optmal.
S.    The Public Finanmce D ore   GFP) peforms esay execuating fnctions. In this capacity
It holds all ihe data reding fianal excuton of the PIP, althugh at present only as regards projects
anced dtrugh the Treasury. Ihe DGFP needs to extend its audit role to monitor project-rdaed
9.    The Sectr  Studies and Planing Offices (GEPs) are tecdnical planing units in the minitries
whose task is to prepae and oversee the execudn of the Plan and the investmae pram  In the pert
sector, acorto the methodolo     guidelines issued by the central planning agecy (DOP). Executon
of investment projec Is the responbility of the vaiou Dretrt, who may execu  thm diety or
idrcy.
10.   The Bank of Cape Verde eecutes the couy's moetary and echange rt policy. t has a very
actve Studies Department, although the linkge between monetary and exhge rate policies and the Plan
pears somewhat deficient.
11.   Maiftion  =WM
 prepaaion of the PND suffes from a lack of sistical informaion as weil as difficulties in
modelig the econamy (ifmaon deficiencies in many cases sify not an absence of data
but a faiure to request k or to properly organize its circulation);
* prepwarationof the PIP, has sfred from abse  of a consist_t tnt of projects financed
from differet sourcv, and the fac t  decisimag on projects i8 not centalized;
* the ob has difficulty recrting and retainig qualed personnel;
* there is no tradition of coordination among depa rcoats
milstrieslclank of Cape Verde;
tere is a shortage of computer tesources which particulaly affects day to day planning and
managemet Crrs, budget, sectora GPs);
- 166 -



AS=E g-C
Ecnomic Mngement
MPanning)
Page 3 of 7
* there are significan gaps in cue  stistcs;
* some essenal f in   In cutm          o         managemant are not being peformed
(monitoring of economic developments, weak definition of anual         objectives.
* there is a lack of sophisticated methodologies in top-level units;
* tee is a need for traing, particularly at intermediate and professional levels;
* the operation of line services-statistics, budget, Treasury, sectoral GEPs, etc.-is bampere
in some cases by a lack of staff and shortages of equipment and management tools.
IL   fQ1ERQ  OBJECTE1S
12.   Me final objective of the project is to strengthen the tehnical capacity of the
mE mistieddpam    that are most involved in economic analysis, decisions and execuo: the Mnistry
of Eonmic Coordinabon, the Ministry of Finance and the planning units in the sectoral ministries.
13.   MIhs goal will be achieved gadually, by measures in the hllowing areas:
* iVng the skills of staf engaged in economic policy acution and enouragi their
capcity for iniiatve;
- improving organladonal structures and strengthening coordiaton withi the administration
- imving mnageme   strmen, speicaly as regards comut  equipment and software;
- improving mmagement of human resources to creat the conditions for stable teams,
pacularly at higher skill levels.
C.  MAlII& QECRWI ACIUIV
14.   Main actvites, expected Impacts and mig targets are deaed In matrix form in Anne 9.
Essendal terms of r _ef    for principal specific a s are detailed in the folowing acdons.
- 167 -



Ewnomic Managem
Page 4 of 7
D. OF             REFERECE FOR R
AMTION1:                 MODUMAND  M0N G ON N
A                                  A simple macroeconomic consistency modd has been prepared,
but has not yet been assimiated into the plannig system as a standard to for conomic modeling and the
testing of economic scenarios. This siuation is attrbutable to a number of factors: non-availabilityof data;
lack of material resourcs; lack of raining of staff; poor com a   between the depame  involved;
lack of appreion of the contribuion such a model can make to economic planiAg and to the avoidance
of poile problems.
DESCRJEflN: To lear diferent kinds of macroecnomic models; their construction, maagem  and
ppcabilty to the eonomy of Cape Verde
I&BglYS):  Four higher-level staff of the Plamning Directore with good background in mathematics.
staisics andlor comometics.
E6ON1QL: 4 weeks.
LQCAflQON: Washington, Lisbon, Dakar.
AM   2: ECONOMICMODELING AND MONORlNG (CONSULTANCYrANDwoKH
BACKGROU       D    1 AM    OBZI S: As for Acdon 1, to which this is comple y.
DES°lN: Mission by epriced mac  economist to CapeVerde approximely s months aft
Acton 1, to consult wh national plamning expr on application of economic frcast  and monioig
metods, and to organz a participatory workhop to examie te application of the model and, whene
ocessary, improve and update it
TARG3S: All dpartments ivolved in economic plang and monit    at the national level (D)E,
DEP8, CDID, Central Bak, etc.).
flUB6flQN:  45 days inpt by the consul
11QN:  Direction-Gweneal of P_ming, Praia, Cae Verde.
ACTION 3Q: WRSO QS PR    ELANG AND
N          Dh AND OBlECIIVES: 'Me stndard of ptojec prartion and  aluaton Is very unen,
and  largely controLed by doors rather than by the national planning sysm   his situatIon also makes
I very had to monitor projects on a consistent basis through the PIP. lhe ultmfate objective Is to enrme
more efficient use of all resources avaiable for natona deveopn, including donor funding.
- 168 -



.014
I  j                 I
*JJJ  ii                                           S
alt                  8U        ft
ut                        gii
j           !JI   hI                 J!i ij
e.8&[jb; 1ii I
ii             *'J jS4
9=                             A'         oj
@ hO
f      jI.
is.        I
&1.*d liii
00                             9;
M                         I            
E                                                   '-4U
12                             8                  08
03(11                    Ui
Eu                        NIH II I      iii



ANNEX Ku
Econic 
Page 6 of 7
TA&B:   Two technica staff from the CDID.
DIfflAO]QN:  14 days.
QC6310Q: Centa Planning Deprment, and Studies and lntal Planig Office, tsbok.
&C A                     mm  OF NATIONL 5            UMETA: AND RMOUM&
BACIGROUN  AN   OBM lV1:As for Actio S.
DDCZa1Qt: ldlusln by hh4evel do              don spec la ito survey the     m x}s d
ministries, In collboration wit a speciist from the CDID, and design and propose a methodology for
tie orgaion and       _        of this normaon.
TAR E15:   lhe CDID.
flI3URIDN:  24 days for consta for prepation of report; 12 days six months lt Ir asisce in
Iniplementatio.
LOCATION: CDID, Pal, Cape Verde.
A:fO   fzQMEMMEM&M OF BDU=r EXON3D   MG/EOSUUM
BA&CEM         Ae OBIEt3: lho present budgedtg exercise  exremely laboious and subject
to human error. The objectve of the project would be to improve budget-management software ad
sy-.
RDBflQN: In conjuncton with DGO sta, a sbort-tenm cosutant would desg ad install softwe
to moitor  aecto of the stat budget (or alteaively, upgade exsting software). Six months later
belsie woud mae a secn visit to monitor application, sort out any problems, and conduct firther
trai . h  coutamt profie would be syst    analyst with a background in the area of public
accountg ad  referably) econo /iieflnancial trinig.
TAR=iS: The DOO.
DUBhIIQ1: 40 days for consultant for ini minlon; 12 days for follow-up mission. implementaion.
4LONflQI: DGO, Prala, Cape Verde.
- 170 -



ANt C
Econic Maaemn
(Planning)
Page 7 of 7
ACION 7: EABORAMION OF A PLANNN( MANUAL FOR CAPE VEtDE
:                                 TAe nathre and objectives of economic planning in Cape Verde
bhe changed considerably over the last decade from soviet-yle cental planning, to a liberal concept of
uategic planning and monitoring of an essentially private-sector economy. A new manual of planning is
nedd to provide a common point of reference for all the participants in the new structre. computerie
Ma ecords.
DESCRIP:nQI~. Two local consultants, and one short-term senior inteiatonal consultant wl examine
a   best practices in the light of the instttional structures and policies of Cape Verde, and will draw
up a dsort m     on the key elements of economic and social planning in Cape Verde.
I&AI=:   DOP and all other planning structum.
DIUA=hQ: 10 months (S peson-mohs input by local coltants; 2 person-months by expatiat
consultant.
L1hf1QZ:  Directorate Geneal of Planing.
- 171 -



ANNEX 9--A
1. Time Bound Monitoring and Performance Indicators (Charts)
2. Agreed Monitoring and Performance Indicator3 (Tables)
- 172 -



IMM OF MY FRO*CT ACUVAIR
FWMCOMPOWN                            r. _994                 -  -__                        _
1121314151617?8|911i1:IstQ2n   3rdQ   Q, IstQ2ndQ33rdQ.dih
Edmsm(dsdtooolMdtMqPvai
* bm*g VDP0*d*wmP
0-*  **fw.tG9e  ft  -- qpbnwdsb
E                                       04W WO9 m1_c toC id  o e D.cbt
lRSl_ Wi______________I- _
S      t     U~       IL8m                                 1 11-ainn
jtaOiD1.1aIb.T6th 4ctitw (_4lUmlc Wz1 afln&t qv ioomei
* iu~megpsoomns 1,g 1
1aUl~~~~~~~~13                                                                                            iig
_14ftet Mbore*   ch I                                                 _ E, noowa
2 SbdSre K4I#WvC
A   hM1ncr_dmdMnmdec_                                            __ _mum
_ 173-t



- MOP KEY POJCTACTVME
uc"un,p Ecrbt3ycn
NOOf~~~~~19                     f        99                19
QW3veaw)
_.________ .___.___.___.___.___.___.________ SE V4233486171013                          lstQ.2ndQ3rdQ.141hQ I,stQ2ndQrdQj4IQ.h
C-1  PIQM:OF"otC -
swepof4ub   h enomI R,dw  lckc nI u1g lon                                                        . .
2 E_ __          _ _ __l_C_                                              -     _I$                             __ _ _
a Aco bft kw    _onOd _t i,Dtk
C4     .C. _
I *AponchtofMPF
I  aU 
J                                I                                                -dA  _
2 Ai 1opW _1)t
1ed  w  pncodae dhptwan n Fi                                    I
4 MomRuh   N Es*mnlcrpbmb -e -)                                                            =
ftt*ftf i*UPM ndWMOWba9*dlCft(MMI MOF. sEQ 
ai FA R0 01  M*o own     -m
174                                                           AD



TINM    OF KEY PROJECT ACMIIES
st 3 yeas)
PROJUCT COMPOt4NT5                            199            1994         1         1996                 1996
i 3    12T3T4T67181911011 ll12lst. 2ndQ.13rd-QTi4hq. lsQ.12ndQ 3dQ.4thQ.
I __otw~eNolanihwbdMa9o                                                                   -                -
9111wB d bash nd meNtdobW  used to poduce N0btWnal Accountsh
Pioductlonod 1989 & 1990 accounts 
Pnoiclnof 1991 & 1992acooounts
J O       ne_dw_pmdCacqx _iyf Nmi
* _dCSbrlW
C* e#*-obtdnk'g
6I I
-s       Extra                                 ' h*s
D
$   gfo stSb&A on*MNkyndtMSs
C* O,MiN Kmod,edcrsoaufe gfO'Conmu*ciuf maiMs     r-
t,n  M   acae     tom  Me midW   _IrbdSA'dfqu
.                l         .          l          ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~ . .. ..f._ . . . . .n
oszvp        *tcsi$eSs



i-   WA lA______________-    =] 
}  i~~~~~ I It I       Si1g 
1 WX~~~



<Mii 1111
.~~~~~~~~~~~B



ANNE9-A
Ageed Moitonag & Perfonnne Indicsot
Pap6eof It
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUIC SECWR REOIRM AND CAPACITY UIWILING PROJECT
c.apoaem Ecom Mlls
Majo Acite                                      Expdt  Impad                        Thu_ Tumps
A. SOCAL AND ECONOMIC POUCY
1. Campu_g  to inform th public about the     Complet knowledge by the population, economic    Staited November
Public Sewor Reform and Cpty Building          agnts  d  Stituticns about the nawuro,objectives  1993 (Civ Service);
PrOsa                                          and beneft of the Program.                        tie rest at the ads
by Apdl 1994 (and
continuous
throughout the
project).
runely aNd symatic handlig of economic           December 1994 -
1.1. Ibplement and s itrengthe nuclus systems   questions by the media.                       end-1996
xwn_bke for aecoomic isse in the soci
commuationOson (th media).                     Incared transparec  in th managemet of
coonomic affais.
2. TSaIg of 40 joumalists in dieret lveb    Bedr tained jourts in economic subjes;              3nl quirlr of 1994,
And A"ls Of social  _   -: ustion    c do                                                        199S and 1996
pbic and priwaft mdciL                         luc   es to specialixe in econo_ic subjes;
Eonanced capacty of the media to tt   economic
queo  whethr they am dometic or
intemtonal ImpWov  capaciy to folow, analyze
nW ctique the economic polcy of th country
3.  q4Ime                                      Irwsed and unproved capacy to handle
inform n flows raivc   to the nationl an
kwodtowou        _        iankbrcwg compftrbmdon in  _izfuldowl o;onomics.                       Dec 1994- J*
pubUe md pt4ft media pudcWkdy dr" to                                                             199S
tho t _-  of eeonojO hu.I
I. RUlCTMONIC COMMUNICWTION                    Swooth flow of iAormaion among key penonnel in   October 1994
SYSM                                           thde mi ies and govennt agencies. Suport to
rapid dacoshiondag. _
C. ACTN MM  FOR SHARED                         Bas for implment   of  onwomic infrmtion          Deam         MS
IFORNM ON DATA                                 and statis   prvidg soam point of rforeoe for
dthe Govennt



ANNEX ".
Agrced Monitng & Perfmance bdIcto
Pare? of 11
REPUC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBUC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Compemat  Econowic Man _m_t/Plam               Dicorate
Mar Activiti                                   Expected Impact                     ITalg TV"
1. n      qepaan of Roam PIP.                 Support to aid coordination;                     lot Quartw 1994
wi:h adopn frot
Discipline in the manageme  of public resours;  ApI 1994 (aew
consultaon ith
lnead paricipation of all concaned in the       donor).
decision pocaes;
Improve monitoring of executon of projects.
I  Pr2e.lnvtese  Fund (PM                     Improve local crpc  to ideaf and formulte        1994-1996
Creation of a  echudevicet fit                                                                 Jan-May 1994
p-    de'veopment (Gal itrumnt)
Ideatify studies and pjec  whose peaaon
could be finaneod from the PIP.                Encoumge nadonal (tesident or not) competeies in
the developmet of projects;
Creation of a portfolo of projects differetiad   1994&1996
according to thdr stau. of development;
Prpar the Natia Ennaml Asion Plan              RnSforc anacloperabonal uping for
(NEAP)                                        environmental _ac                                 Apil 30, 1994
3. T ing                                       steghenig the capacity and continued updating   Start 3rd quuter
of sil for staff in the plaing sytem            1994
Traliing for saff inolvd in tie plg sym
in Cap" Verdc. (A total of 30 staff at these two  Encouagenteato promote uanig of tains
4. EqIpmet                                     Modendton of the Panning System klading to       1994-1996
pmved _ffic y 19-



AKNEXI9A
Agreed Monitoring & Perfonnmae idicators
Pagea of it
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBUC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACiTY BUILDING PROJECT
Conponeot Publc Fiace
Major Actvs                                    Expected Impa.                      Timing Target
1. PUBLIC DEBT MANAGEMENT
. Sofwar program                           Co   of Debt Managemt system and                Sptember 1994 -
. T1a_ning/Installation                    efficient monitoring reporting on debt evolution.  June 1995
. Prparaionof the Debt lnsumen
U AID COORDINATION
Etablish Poceds and Execution               Coorinated Aid Financing and Patrona          Mach 199S
Circ  (MCE, MOPmeasury), SEC               Management
final baeficiay)                        . Maximid benefits from Enxmal Aid
|     FINANCIAL MARKET
(reasy Blls)
. Study to expnd system to pubL;c         Geater mobiizaton of local resources            April 1994
. Organize mechanisms and maAa                                                             199411995
- 180



ANNEX 9-A
Ageed Monitoring & Performance Indicators
Pagc 9 of 11
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBUC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BILDING PROJECT
Component:            g  of Ecwomc Magement Capacity (Statistks)
Major Actis                                         Expecd Rels              Tiing Targets
I. INSTITUTIONAL
Establishment of a Ntional Institute of Sttistics                   Betlcr Organization and Production   June 1994 to June
of statistics.                    1995
Solid support for po1icy analysis.
11. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1.1 Production of Accounts                                         More currern and solid analytica
* 1989 and 1990 accounts                                       base                              June 1995
* 1991 and 1992 accounts                                                                         4th qtr 1996
1.2 Review of Basis and Methodology of National Accounts
* Diagnosis and finalization of Work Plan                                                        October 1994
Specic Suveys (Agriuue LvestocFishery, etc.)                                                     Start May 1995
m. DEVELOPMENT OF DEMOGRAPHIC AND SOCIAL STATISTICS                   Extension of the nge of avalable   1994-1998
demographic and social statistics
Folbow-up of UNFPA assistance.
Lumpsum budget allocaion to extend fte analysis of
swuey data from the genaal census (population and
housing).
Emigainmigration sstics.
Consruction of data bae  for social a dvities.
IV PUBLICATnONS
Development capaciy for pubL;cation.                               Fast prw.uction of publication and    May 1995
documents
V. TRAINING
On-the-job tainig (ad hoc wofthops and seminars).
Etnl long-term training.                                                                              1994-1997
Exesl short-erm training.                                                                             1994-1998
In-country trainig (miteded for goverunent officials
within the naional framework).                                                                       1994-1998
VI. EQUPMENT                                                          Effective surveys and santistica  end-1994 - 1997
activities
- 161 -



ANNEXIA
Agreed Monitoring & Performance Iicors
Pag 10 of 11
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Compoeset  Leal Framewok and Judidal Reform
Major Actviu                                  Expeced Impact                       Timing Targe1 s
1. LEGISLATtVE REFORM                       Improved legislative envionment for private    Intermodiate Reform -
sector developmet and good governance.         Dec. 1993. Conclusion of
Reform - December 1994;
a) Renove most flaat distortions);             with a fust review of its
1. Labor legislation                     b) Attract foreign investrent;                 evolution by mid-199S, to
c) Reduoe labor disputes;                      be fotlowed by quaterly
d) Create new work posts                        eviw  from 4th quarler
1995 onwards.
a) Crete aew commercial venturs;
b) Reduce time nceay to constte                Conclusion of global
2. Commercial legislation                commercial ventums;                            refom - end 1994. First
c) Reduwe financial charges with the constition    practical effects to be fet
of co _mer   ventures.                         six mnths after the law
d) Inese  in the number of ventaues oonstu     comes into effecL
to appear in statiica data every six months.
a) Revise Notarial, Propty and Commercial
Codes;                                         Conclusion of revisions
b) Reduce fonnalities in the constitlon of     until Decaiber 1994.
3. Registry and Notarial legislation      commercial venures;                            Approval of Law - Sep
c) Reduce registration charges (e.g. for deeds);  1995 after the
4) CoLlect sttical data on registered ventues;    effectvas of the
e) Speed up notary, pperty and commercial     legislation. Review of the
registration proceduses.                       resuls obtined -
September 1996
a) Reduce backlog of pending civil cases.
* CivillCommerial cses to be decided six      December 1996.
months after effeativeness of fte legislaton
4. Civil Prooedura legislation
U. SPECIALIZATION OF COURTS                 a) Icease in the response capacity of the       Creation c' specialized
tribunals;                                     tribunals - from the end of
b) Speed up procedural process;                judical year 1995/1996.
c) Creation of tibunal with seciaiation.       Review of resuls in th
last quarter of 1997.
Computerization - end
a) Computized notay, property and              1995. The fist evaluation
m. MODERNIZATON OP TE NOTARY                como cia registry                              of results - end 1996.
AND                                         b) Inrase in response rte to rquests for
REGISTRY SYSTEM                        serfices in (a);
c) Inrease in the constitution of commracial
ventures.
- 182-



ii        t           *E         8tilt
{i .      i"* 11    l    i
..,.I   .J               o.   .9,,_. ,



ANNEXI 9-
GLOBAL PROGRAM TARGETS AND KEY ACTVITE
- 18-



ANNEX 
Deftiled Global Prgram Tares
and Key Activies
Page I of 16
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Compoent: Moddernzation of the Civil Sevice
Major Activkies                              Expeced Impadt                    Tiing Targes
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM.                       Revised Policies and legislation to
modemize the civil service.
1. Rtrenuchment Program
(a) Approval by the Council of Minsters of the    Bfficiency and effectiveness of civil service  November 1993
drft Voluntary Departu  Program (VDP).                                                    (Done)
(b) Discussion by Civil Consultative Council
(Conseiho de Concerta9io Social)            Acceptance by society.
Novemnber 1M3
(c) Approval by the National  sembly of the                                               (Done)
Regulatory Dec  for the VDP
December 1993
(d) Preparation of terms of reference for surveys
to evaluate the inpact of different incentive                                             NovembertDecember
packages. ident  the targetd popultion and the                                            1993.
potential retaining needs necessa$y to enter the
labor market.
1.1  i Public amounoemcntof the Volunty    Infonnation and mobilization of the public   (i) November 1993
Depatur Prgram (VDP), (ii) including the    conerning the VDP program.                    (ii)April 1994
details of the proposed package.
1.2 Pepartion and finalizaion of sureys to:   Idenfication of most aPPropriate incentive  December 1993-
packages;                                    January 1994
* evaluate the impact of possible incentive  Idenification and evaluation of the potential for the
packages;                                   creation of small and micro- enterprises (type of
assistance and trainin, necessary);
* ident  target populadon;                  rcommendation of type of training to prepar
target population for eisting and emerging work
* identf possible reinegation of target     opportunities in the private sector.
population into formal and informal sector.
1.3 Analysis of the su  of te survey
February 1994
1.4  petionalization of a detaled VDP       ationalition and ful cmploymet for civil    January-March 1994
includin: the financing package and taiig to    servants; reduction of public sector wage bill;
be reommended to the Government for approva,  inproved confitions of work which should lead to
criteria for participation in the VDP, cots,  imptoved productivity and a better qualified public
implementation procedures, mechanisms for   svice
monitring and conrol.                        _
-185'-



Dee Glba Program Targt
and Key Activtie
Pap 2 of 16
1.44. Ealy retirment progam (exppeed to                                                  Apr 1_4D,         i
cor 400 o    servants).                                                                      1995
IA1.42 Rtrenhment pror,m/ compensation                                                   April 1994-DecetMb
moaiis(epected to cover 600 civI servants)                                              1995
1.43. Contnuato ofthe rernchmet
progm for th rest of the civil sevice (tpeted                                                Apri 1994-Dember
to cover appox. 1.000cvil sn ).                                                              199S
2. Rdrainlng VDP contingent
2.1. Basic Ekmenty Tring                    Ex-civil svants (V)P contingent) provided with    Ftom 1995 onwards
(a-o  1,000)                                  mar-etable oldis
2. Batio Comp om           Triing                                                          From 1995-onwads
(about 300)
23. On the job trainig                                                                     Fron 1995-owards
3. S_eegt    the Human Reer
mmogatm SyseNdTraift-                                                                        July 1994
3.1. Assess ad evalua existing creria and
methods used to desin organirAl and st
plns, eauton cteria for saff, career paths       Inentor and anlysi of exshtn critr and
aH d need for taing.                          methodology.
3.2. Defintion of  ure necesy to           * Acion plan related to idenkifed needs.       July 1994
enab  the Human Raourcs Mangemnt Sym
to answer to modan deeopmnt needs.
Appora,critera for Human Resource
l _ ____________________                      tManagemen in the Public Administration.
33 Implem    measures in 3.2. abov         Peron    with ncessay capabilities to mainai   lst quare 1995
thdou:                                        and devlop the sym.                            onwars
* Acquistbin of equipmt and reled          Detailed career paths and successin pns
materalsh                                    identifies for ech m&iddl and top managemt
* Tain  in Human Resouce Managemet         position in Public Adminsration
and othr speeific aras m various ministries in
confomty Wth the Th   Plan aMtac    (a total
374 public sor employe)
* Explaatoy  Seons on the proposed Human   Psonnd informed/mobilized concerning the new
Resouces Manageen (HR    sytem to Senior    HRM systm.                                       3rd quater 1995
staff in ah minity.
3.4. Traiing Seminas in:                                                                  mid-1994-mid 1995
* Poject M;sanqaet   Public Admin.
Management, Comput   and Communication
skills as show  in the attac    Tabk.
3.5. Impat evaluat
Evaluation of the reevanoo and usefulne of the  1995-1997
system as Imipleented andhor any neessr
186 _



Publc Sector Reform and Capacity Buildhig Project
Trainng Plan
TLEs                             _          . AH A                        ,     t _ l T
_dI        .mj ._.  c5 !6 D "                                         5         '4 '__    .5 k64   ' X I95  '96  94  ls  1 96  _94  '9   96
~~~~~~~~~~6
Ad      _ _&O          im_m            8 4Mhs 
Ace                              2__b ,          -   12                                          -         _              __ _   -  -
HRD(A_m.                 2_ a2b                                     4                    6          6                    L!
-S _  M_                 -   4                                                                          _ 2  4  l.
Pxd*ln4mvg.urjMw                    24 '4                                                              "
,   S-40 2      -    -.4 '                       24 __               _    -    -
l eaAmctf4brmMic.uu,.                   24K*       -     -    -     -    -    -     -    -    -    -    -    _    -       24
-4(
Pig" Lon for _ D m W_ _  ..a....  ........24 .. 2 --             -     --              -      4 __ __       -    -    -_-        -     -
PWsGMQBNWWHC*    I Mog                  2x4d                                                  4__  __4_
Tw    dw.                                        -    --s  6  I       -    -    -    - _
A&WrAb".    114- -s                  6 _     _       24 __                 2                         12      -
KMtMft!avAwadftoma      janiNsuii     9r 101Asm              12       -     -    -    -      24 _                             4           
WcrAMmii&DVADMMWg   A&Pbkmd           6 4               24 __       6     __                     -      1       4_ ~ - -                  
DUdMATAkgwA3qIutmismm.   SWWsAot.     60 4ghuA                                          60
Toal                       -         65          _      70   46  20    4          24        36   12   421   12  _      132  132  24 
- 187-                                                                 ^  ig



ANNE& 2
Deailed Global Program Targes
kad Key Actvti
Pae 4 of 16
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Component Dee         eoaiatin and Munial Stregthin
Mor Activites                                  Expeced Impact                      Th|    Targes
1. EQUIPMENT                                  All Municipalities are w) equipped to aRy Ou     Sep 1994 - Dec 194
i funcions in a satisfaory manner.
2. STUDIES                                     Assisnce in die implementation of measures
rgrding the decenrization.
Specifiction of acdon plans for the eation of                                                  Deoember 1994
Teahnial Assistance offices CSO) for grouPs of   Beter municipl openatiol capabiies.
municipalities.
Qualitive an quantitative donficatio of                                                        March 1995
necessay human resources for each Municity.
Study of the process of deconowenatng sries
of the Centa Govermnt t the Municipalities,                                                    March 199S
which includes the Protocol Ageeme  and ules   Faster provision of services to the populabion
and      ns of n     a
Desig and implmet a system of budget
planning and accounting for disticts in each  Essential  mns furnished to ensum t_npary    By December 1995
Municiply.                                    and faster resus in the fiscal process. Necessary
elemn  provided to effectvely control
expaendkures.
Evalution of the potenal for increa  in local
tax revenues in each Municipality.                                                             December 1995
Devlop reommenation for inl                   Better define the means of organization of the   December 1996
organition in each Municipay.                 varous municipal activities includig the
hmlmntaion of structw, syfstms and proposed
actions.
3. TRAINING                                   EqUipd municipa staff to enable them to respond    March 1996
to eque  and prepa  the condio  so that now
Training rns assessment for each Municipslt   agent ane qualified to enter either into the
municipalty or elsewher
Mun     tes provided with qalified pesonnel
(vereadores) to assume  e new funtions which sre   March 1996
Complete desigp ad implement training sesins    to be transfered. Age   stimulate to reain in the
for Municipal staff iclui some mata in the   service of the muniipality.
following arnas:
* Munipal mnamet                                                                                ay 199
* Ma _tnagen  of municipal enteprise and                                                      July 1995
au-on       services
* Prmotion of small service enterprises and                                                   Septeber 1995
provision of public services
* PubIt finan  and Aoounting                                                                  December 1995
* Peonwne management and organizaiou                                                          March 1996
* AWnalysis of investmeLt pjects                                                              June 1996
* Pub¢ adminstrtion and legislation                                                      .   Sepmber 1996
-188-



Deo"le GIo"a Progm Targus
and Key Adlee
FPeS of 16
M*r Actvti                                   Espae  ItPA                       limn  Tares
Taining of at lamst two municipal managms
[v"CadorsI in each Municipality in the area of:
* municipal _maname
*  managemet of municipal entprie and                                                     May 199S
autoonus sewnvix                                                                          July 1995
* promotion of small sevice enrprises and
publi services                                                                             September 1995
* Public finances and Accounig
* Personnel nuuagement and organization                                                   Dcmber I9
* Analysis of investment project                                                          March 1996
* Public administration and lgslation                                                     June 1996
S.pember 1996
lIdietor of Achie    t of Pobek t Obleelh
1.     Obtention of the formal agreement of a sufficient number of Munipaitie concemod with the acion-plan for the cration of SO, nd
of their pledge to share the financing of its recurrent expenditus, by September 1995.
2.      Budget of each Municipality concerned includes the Munipsuty's share of the TSO's reaume co0 from fiscd year 1996
3.      Completion of the saffing of the TSO wfit at ea tbe minimm lavel of profesa ad support saff requid, by June 1996.
4.      AUl Municipal investment pjecs above an amount of C.V. Es.. 10 million, er self financed, or finaneod dith asistan  of oetral
govermnt or donor agencies, having undeaken a poper enomic evalaon (To ukeffect   TSOs ar operational
S.      Landlpropaty. and eonomic acdvity rstum completed in ach Munipiy, by July 19
6.      Reviewlupdat of prperty tax base completd i eah Muiipalty, by September 1997.
7.      Al Municipal accounts continue to be found deque by the -Tibunal dus Contas.
- 189-



Iii}      '}i jill ff      !S f 
X]   i ]E}     iii   11111    i i 11.1
r I J.             Ij  |1 ,il iw  li 
ii    _'1 .11.... 
| |  ]     j Ii11          'II
0} t0_  H~~~~Ii



i |1 ii            I  .  Iir    |                  I                31
Iy    I 1            I             i' i'f
E    4  1      4                                              | # i 
I                   WI.           ti~~~~~



Dsiled Giche Ptg     T4rps
and Key AsitivI
Pap 8 of 16
I   qled lapaII                                                     Is
Majo AethWes                                  EXPec  td uapac                    Ining Taeab
3. Drft Pn_8s Maul                           Harmoniation of planning methodologies;        4th Qasr of 1994
Mobillaslon of sua indhidu  ud                                                              (Novenbe)
inatluttional abilis to sehotively  teagra th Otegationa of the various leeb  of PbmLanig
useobn diet  isting methodologies to the     maeonomic, sectol and rgional;
Planing exeraism adapted to the count's
sllsien                                      Intsgrationtabrorjtion of the various themes
(popuation, povety, enionmet) in the plaing
dltig ad publican of the Manal               exaeise;
Development of a process of reflection and
adaptaton of economic theory and tenques
to country  alty;
Str_ngthen the cradibiWy of the Plang exerise in
Cape Verde wih mod   economic _mageent
tool consistent with development options and
toonf 6
rpation of the basis for the 4th NDP,
Develop a loc  capeaty for satc planng.
4. TrainIg
-Sort and log-m Training for staff of au      t hening the capacty and continued updaig      Staut 3rd Quauter of
dawtment of h Geel O    Etoate of            of OMlls for stff in the planng system;         1994 and continue
Plmni                                                                                        1995-1996
Improve economic mament throug saff
Trainn for saff involved in the plaing sysem   spoiazton;
in Cap Verl. (A tal of 30 sdf at thee two
eel).                                        * Enoougemeo t to promote tainig of trais;
* Direct incentives for staff;
* Imroved produ ;
(a) Inte4ed cop s    fa      r the DOP       (a) Speed up and fclite infmain manat   As a result of the
wih regular publion of documents and Wrepors  study of the
on the PIP and the ecuto of the NDP,           informtion Sy
to be adopted. 1995
Univesle th us of compues in thoe paning   Opationa managem   of the Proje  datbank;
Modenization of the planning system lading to
impwoved efficincy;                           PFrom 3td Quarte of
1994-1995
FacRiitte exchange of infoirmaton with Cape
Vede's devepmen parte.
b) Stre_ghn  DMP whb o       equipmen which    (b) Gratr moby of stffto make uswe
s  1Acn                                      coac and fa           dialogu and coordao,     3rd Quarter of 1994
especially at thde rgko   planning level on th
WIsand of Santisago.                           _     ,,
- 192 -



ANNEX9-D
DeldGlo"a ProgiSs Targets
and Key ActvtesW
Pag 9 of 16
REPUIJC OF CAPE VERDE
PUIIC SECTOR REFORI AND CAPACirY BUILDING PROJECT
Component Strngtming of Economic Manageat CApty (Satistics)
Major Activities                            Expected Remslts          Timing Targs
1. INSTITUTIONAL
Establishment of a National Institute of Statistics  Creation of the Institute        Jun 94Jun 95
II NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
. I.1 Prodaau  of Ao-ounts
Production of 1989 and 1990 Accounts              1989 & 1990 fial accounts, base    June 1995
year 1980
slaion of daa collection equipment                Catching-up on back-log an the
production of 1989 and 1990 accounts
Multiple Quesltonnaire - intensive survey of
* Natiaoal Accounts and Industrial Statistis
A Nationas team (with technical   June 1995
Composition of a permanent nationl team for       assiae) to produce natiod
'national acoounu                                accounts
Ptoduction of 1991 and 1992 Accounts:
* U7tilzton of the new qustionnaire and
reonintion of data collection
* Intsve data analysis                                                               3rd quarter 1995
b   Fmnaizaion of povisial acounts methodology for:                                  3rd quart 1995
. 1991 Provisional accounts                                                       4th quarter 1996
* 1992 Povisioal acots                                                            4th quarter 1996
* Summy and losing of 1991 acoounts
* Summry and closing of 1992 accounts
P    _jwfio of 1993 and 1994 aoonts                                                  Sept   1996
Follow-up with the prduction of Accoun  for 1993,  Reglar productio of accounts and
1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997:                     catcingep, by end of period, on
major initial back-log
* 1993 and 1994 provisional aunts                193 & 1994 prvional accoua         3rd quuW  1996
*1993 and 1994 final accountS                    1993 & 1994 final accouts         1st quarer 1997
*1995 projections                                1995 projections                   April 1997
* 1995 and 1996 provisional acouts               1995 & 1996 provision acc rat      2nd quarter 1997
*1995 and 1996 final accounts                    1995 & 1996 final acounts          1st quate 1998
* 1997 psoectiom                                 1997 projecdons                    Aprl 1998
_ 193 -



Desied  lobal Progam Targes
and Key Activities
Pagp 10 of 16
M2 Revion of Basi and Methodo         of Nationa
Accoutts
Diagnosis and Finalization of Work Plan                                              October 1994
Revisio of the nomenlature by type of activity in                                    November 1994
line with CMTI classification
Analysis of Hohold Budget Consumption            Basic results and r-examination of  January 1995
SuMvoy (1988/89)                              cemain ratios and coefficients
Detnnaton of methodological consequencs for
Nationa Accounts, and modification of
-OPt Programs
Analysis of the Gneal Populaion Cansus           Basic results and re-exa8miaion of  February 1995
certain ratios and coefficients
Analysis of th com odity baskets for the Consumer   Revision of standard mark-ups    April 1995
Pree uinx (IPC) and for External Trade to estimate
approximate mrkups for all sectors, and to create
COMEmT working file
Methodologcal modification and mview of computer
programs                                           ___
Specific Surveys:
A. Survey Plining                                                                      Stea May 1995
B. Geneal ceus of projects and survey alysis       Original exhaustive informafion on  October 1996
for the Natonal Acounts:                         projects
* Prepaation and Trining of Survey staff                                            October 1996
* Data collecdon                                                                    December 1996
e Daft cleaning
* CodingDoat tabulation                                                             Februauy 1997
* Prepartion of the analysis methodology for the  Development of methodology to     March/April 1997
State lvetment Program, and witinog of series  analyz the Public Investment
of dtaa analysis popn                         Progm  (SNA version)
C. Agriculore, Livestock, Fishery                                                      June 1995
* AgricdlWa Suvy                                Economic survey results an
* Modificaon of tehnical coefficients and ratios  Agriculre and Fishery             May/June 1995
* Exploitation of data for sectorJ evaluation and  Modificadon of standard evaluation  September 1995
for constuction of intermedite dat            criteria
D. Inom   SeOtor (natioal acoounts purposes only) for   Availality of economic data on the    Nov/Dec 1995
foliowing activitw  trade, tmnspoi, services,    infoal sector and its weight in the
micro-enterpris, and artisal producs            national economy
Modification or updadng of standard    Oct/Nov 1995
coefficiet used in the etimation of
-secutol and in_tmediate tables
- 194 -



Ddaid Global Progm TarVU
and Key Activities
Pag 11 of 16
* Definit  of sample basis, makng use of                                           October 1995
aayzed sources: EBC, cens, etc
* Prepation/questiotumaresltraining of suvey staff                                 Nov/Dec 1995
* Da collection                                                                    Jan/Feb 1996
* Data ceesg and tansfer to National Acconts                                       March 1996
* Formats fo data eatryldata enty and quali.y                                      Apil 1996
ool-
* Daa tbuladon                                                                    June 1996
* Modiicatien of the methdolog ad the
inrediate files-COMBUS, IDICE and
COMmX
* Re-writing programs for data use                                                 Septenber 1996
E. Survey on Buildings & Public Wods and Housing   Otiginal survey results on Building &   Apnl/May 1996
(for use in National Accounts, Industrial and   Public Worss and Housing for the
Informal Statistics)                            needs of both the National Accounts
and Industrial Statistics
 Preparston/basic survey/taining of survey staff                                  May 1996
* Field work                                                                      July 1996
* Tabulatiov/Analysis/Prepaation of Metodology                                     September 1996
3 Modification of acounting mwdhodology and
re-writing of d"a files                                                          October 1996
F. Review of nomencltre (-Griles de pasage)        New claifications wbich meet the   Nov/Dec 1996
between 0GE/Nationl Accounts and PIP/National   rqinemnt of the Summary Naional
Accounts                                        Accounts (SNA)
G. Finaliaon of chnges in dte ac tg base and       New Nationa Acounts metbodology   Febnray 1997
preparto of new methodology                     and new base year
* Modification of data files
H. Recalculation of series                                                            September 1997
1. Complemetr activities and inpt 
m GENERAL STATITCS                                    Produedon of indusiad and sectora   Before Dec 1995
Establishment of a natonal tm                      stics on a rgua basis
* Maintenance of price statistcs ad calculation of the
Consumer Price Index (IPC)
Maintnance of extera trade statists
* Mangement of EUROTRACE for statistical analysis
of the extral te
Orgnization of Annual Setorid Survey of enterprises in
indsy, trade, and services
Organiation of a six-monthly economic prospects
srvey of large eaternises
Comprehensive anaysis of Household Budget
Consumptio Survey
Coordinaion of statst   activities      |                   ._                                     _
- 195 -



ANN13X s
etaild obal Prasma Taqps
and Key Aotiva
Page 12 of 16
Consus for ihe establishment of tade and idustry   Naonal fist of enteprises and a
*Preparai                                          genel data on economic acvities
* Collection of data
* Data leanzr
*Coding
* Dat tabulaton
Collrti  eforts in conductig the ionndal
sect  surey
Medium-term programmng of surveys required for
statistical purposes
* Census of trade and indusi enterprises
* Ib ad sector swrvey (geeal ifomon,
possibility of linking to National Accounts)
* Employment Survey
Support for the DOE Sunrey
Management of official sistiecal survey of enpiss  _
V DEVELOPMENT OF DEMOGRAXIC AND SOCIAL    Extension of the range of available              1994-1998
SrATISTICS                                          demographic and social statistics
Follow-up of UNPPA assisbutce
Lunipsum budget allocato to extend the analysis of
survey daa from the general census (population and
Eniigrationlmmgmion statistics
| Constructio  of d..A base for social activities  -_.
V CONSUMPTION BUDGET SURVEY
Organiation of the Second EBC in Cape Verde in 96/97                                   1996-1997
VI ADMISTRATION
Support for the ami sative and financia
management                                        Creation of a General Secretuiat for   Februay 1995
Executive Secetay                                  the institute
Labmy, data bank
VII PUBLICATIONS
Suport for publication                             Fast prodon of publications and    May 1995
documents
VM REGIONALJZAT.ON
Take into acscon the gonal dimenson in the         Estabishment of operationl regiol    4th quarter 1996
inf ation collctdon exerises and data analysis:    offices
e Basihne Survey, Plannig Dept, snd the Stae OGE
Joist establishmt, with tie Directorate Geneal of
Planning, of a regional offices at the main islands
DC TRAINING
On-thejob traing (ad boc workhops and seminars)                                       1994-1997
Extal lg-tm taining                                                                   1994-1998
Extemal sortiem tainig
In-coungtry tain  (inWded for goverment officials
width  to naiona frmnework)                                                           1994-1998
X   EQUIPMEN  AN  MATERALS                             Effective surves and staticd       end-1994 - 1997
activities
-196 -



Ddatsd 0gAb. rogram Turco
Fa 3d 16
REPUILIC OF CAM VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY DIJULDING PROJECT
Couponutt Puablc Fbnne
M8jor Actidis                             Expeced bIpat                   Timig Trget
1. PUBIC DEBT MANAGEMENT
. Software program                    Compti         of Debt M_gment ystem        eptemb  1994 -
. Tmuining/Iaataliation               and efficient moitoing reporing on debt    Jnl  1995
. Ppaan of the Debt  _trmt            evolution
U AMD COORDINATION
.Wa   Prcedures and Execution        . Coodiatd Aid Financmg and Proial   March 1995
Cimi (MCE, MOF(raswy), SEC            Managment
final beneficiary)                 . Maximid benefits fiar  Extenal Aid       _
IM FINANCLAL MARKET
(roa iy Bills)
. Study to expnd system to publc    | Greater mobiization of local resour        April 1994
Or *  izo meebaisms and market    |1994/199S
- 197-



ANNMCiXS
Detaied Goa Pgs Tar
and Key Aoil
PAP 14 of 16
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACiTY BUlING PROJECT
Componet: Legal Fmework and judicial Reform
MR Aclvit                                 Expaetd Impact                  Thlg Tages
L LEGISATIVE REFORM:
Intemdiate
1. Labor legislaon                    a) Remove most flagrant distotions);        Re.orm - Dec.
b) Atltact foreign investment;             1993
c) Reduce labor disputes;                  Conclusio of
d) ncease fixed term contracts;            Reform -
e) Cea  new work posts                     December 1994;
with a first review
of its evolution by
mid-1995, to be
folowed by
quartery reviews
fiom 4th qut
1995 onwards.
2. Commeci  legislation                a) Create new commeril ventures;
b) Reduce time neceary to costdtute        Conclusron of
commercial veantu,                         global reform    -
c) Reduce financial chges with the         end 1994.   e
constition of commerci venumres,           first pracical
d) Increase in the mber of ventures        effects to be ft
con0stitued to appoar in sisticas  data every  six mth after
six months.                                the law comes into
effect.
3. Ciil P     _ocedul eglaion          a) Reduce backog of pendig civil cases.
CivilCon,mecia
cases to be decided
six mnmth after
effectiveness of the
legislaion -
December 1996.
4. Regsy and Notana legiston           a) Revise Notanial, Ptperty and Commercial    Conclusion of
Codw.                                      rvisions unti
b) Reduce fonnalities in the constituion of  December 1994.
commeIa  venures;                          Approval of Law -
c) Reduc regisation chages (e.g. for doeds);  Sep 1995 after the
d) Collect statistical data on registered  effectiveness of the
ventue;                                     egon.
e) Speed up notay, prp    and commercial    Review of the
region procedue                            reuts obtained -
Sepeber 1996
-198 _



eled Gloal Prom Targets
and F.V, Aotivties
Page 15 of 16
Major Acdvl6u                             Expected IMPa. _ _in|                g Targes
U. JUDICLAL INFORMATION:
1. udiclW Publici                     Publicstion of LAw Review by Mi stry of     Fust publicaion-
Justice on a rgulr badss                   December 1994.
elnorm   in number of publications;        Review of results
.1_reased public aw    ucon    to          obtaied -
D_eeber 1995
2. law Lary                            a) I1a  in number of avalable leg          Setig up libaaq
eferne books                               4th Quaer of
b) Icea  in number of usere                1994.
Aquiion of lgd
virefe    boobs
and equipment -
Ist qwter 1994.
Review. by
Sepmnber 1995,
the awnbers of
use
Holding
m. IN-STuTIONAL DEvELOPMENT              a) nuas intho quotiy and quality of the    confroces and
FOR THE                                  rponses to nimes;                           sembs every si
MSNIRY OF JUSnICE                    b) Reua semns and conrenes                  manth satig
c) Stabit for MOI stfI,                    duoing the seoond
d) Piqoie  coneIved and/or eecuted by      balf of 1994.
DGELD                                      Evalatin, Oct
e) Statistica inoat  on prge  of           1996, of points (a)
pceadu! pce.                               - (e).
Ceaton of
a)    so in de respon capacity of tbe      speiized
IV. SPEBCALIZATON OF COURTS              triunal,                                    tnlunals - fiom
b) Speed up pocedual proess;               the end of judicial
c) Crton of tribunas with specziions.    year 199511996.
Review of reslts
in the last quar
of 1997.
a) Conputid notary, propety nd             end 1995. The
comm_ rcial egisry;                        fist evaluatioa of
V. MODERNIZATION OF THE                  b) Incraase in rsmn rae to reques for         uts - eand 1996.
NOTARY AND             RE30STRY          seWacs in (a);
SYSTEM                                   c) lEa in t COD  of co_
ventaue                                    Continuous
traii - 3rd
a) Traiig ciod out;                        quartr 1994
b) Creao of Judica Trinig Cenr (CMJ.  onwards Seting
up CFJ by the end
VL PROFESSIONAL TRAINING AND                                                         of 1995.
SEIAZATION



ANNEX 9.B
Detaid Global Progwam Tages
and Key Actvities
Pap 16 of 16
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Component: Publie Fianc/Public Ptownent Systm
Major Activities                          Expeced .Inpat                   Timing Targes
DIMPOVMENT OF PUBLIC
PROCUREMENT
Modemiation of legal and technical          Stat 1993
(a)        and update eitg legisatn       orntunl mechnsm  of the process of          Complete update -
wi&ch tegltes public prtchasi.            public procuremet (New Law).                Dec 1994
(@) Training and refresher coures for the  Strengthening agencies to coetly apply     3rd quarter 1994 -
eotities involved in the process of puchasing  relevant legislation and to implement an  end 1995
and distibution of materal and equipment at  efficient magement informaton system.
tlb depautmental levd. (40 staff from
admisbaistve depatets of GOCV)
(a) Desig and implementation of a
co_puterization plan for the process of   Accountability for purchases;               Design - end 1994
collectve purcses and comptrizton of    Minimize the costs of the biddinj process
tb  ys em                                 Imprve the quality of goods purchased             o n    -
Simplification and speeding up of the bidding    end 1995
process
Transp cy in public resource management
I20 -.



ANNEXA10
nsdtudotal Arrngoit
Page I Of I
REPUBUC OF CAM VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECr
CO0RDINAInON gmERUC IIJR
tw-            i o              tME OF $TAEI  
.II
I  lANDUSTOF                 _OF UINISIEROIrPWkIC                 |     SER OF
_ Io"           I                              . 
BOARD             II  oumAum  
s---t-'-J !                                       ,_ 
I  I ' 
,,4. ,,,_*,*-~~~.i .................... *._ .. _w... . ..___....  _-_..... 
-G~- j_i                                 __P-IIc I
fta1uM -   !
_d ;
-201-



ANMNLU
Role of the Project Coordintat
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUIBLC SECrOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
ROLE AND RESPONSEBHITIFS
Th 7e role of Project CDoordinator (PC) is geneally to ensur that the various components of the
Proect are implemented in a timely, coordinated, and coherent maimer with the objectve of meetin the
stated objective of the project at a rapid pace. To enable ft to fulfill this objective, the PC will
specifcaly undertake the folowing actions:
d deine, on an annual basis, a program and a schedule for implementation of the various
component  of the Project, including the targets and the ways of monitorig
-  ensure that all the comiponents are carred out in an action-oriented manner;
c emur that the Project Components Managers maintain up-to-date records regarding the
status Of implmenato of their component of the Project with a view to faciitating
problem-solving, and preparing quartedly progress reports and making them available on
atlmely maner totheinszitutions involved in the Project, as well astol]DA. The
Project Component Managers wil be responsible to prepare quarterly and other reports
for submission to the PC for coordination; and
-  review, on a quarterly basis, the status of implementaton of the Project with a view to
adopting corrective measure if necessary, and bringing to the attention of the RAIM
and IDA any problem/issues arising therefrom which may impede, in a substantial.
manner, the imlmnainof the Project.
2.    Under the oabdminstatv supervision of the Minster of Sotat for Economic Coordination the
Project Coordintor (PC) is the Secrtary of the Reform Advisory and ImlmnainMonitoring Board
(RAIMB). In this regard, the Project Coordinato will:
-  develop and animate the coordination mechanims and procedurm required for a timey
implementation of all components of the Public Sectr Reform and Capacity Building
program of the Government;
-  regularly monitor the progress achieved under the various comiponents, and report, as
necessary, to RAIMB on issues having an impact on the achievement of the objectives
of the program; and
-  recommend to RAIME any course of action likely to facilitate the achievement of the
objectives.
- 202-



ANEXM 
Role of the Project Coordinator
Page 2 of 2
3.    Ihe project Coordinator also centaizes and maintains the Information base on the stus of the
iplementtion of the Public Sector Rebrm and Capacity Buiding program, in addition to beng
responsible for all admintive funedons related to the project. In this rpect, the responsibilities of
the Project Coordinator will:
-     undertake centrally, for all components of the project, the procuement, disbursement,
acoouning and auditing activities, in line with the guidelines and requirements of IDA-
financed projects;
-     define procedures to ensure: (i) an adequate coordination of the programs and action
plans of the various units involved in the project, such that all actions bear the approval
of appropriate levels and authorities as applicable; (ii) that the program is Implemented
to schedule;
-     define reporting procedures and formats for communication by the various units of the
informaton regarding the implementation of the project, such as detailed work programs,
progress report, financial data and other supporting documents; and
-     consolidate and communicate this bimation In such a format and at such irvals as
may be agreed upon with IDA for the purpose of supervision of the project.
- 203-



ANNE 12
Role of Project Component Managers
Page 1 of I
REPUBIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
OF THE PROJECT COMPONENT MANAGERS
1.   eTh role of the Project Component Managers (PCMs) is generally to ensure that, each in hisher
own sector, the actions required to achieve the objectives of the Public Sector Reform and Capacity
Building program of the government are carried out in an orderly and timely manner.
2.    Under the direct supervision of his/her Minister, each PCM will specifically undertake the
following actions:
-     on an annual basis, prepare and submit to the Reform Advisory and Implementation
Monitoring Board (RAIMB), for review and approval, a time-bound action program for
the implementation of the various actions included in the program in hisher sphere of
responibility;
-     forward, in a timely mamer, all request for procurement of goods and services required
for the implementation of the action-program agreed for his/her component to the Project
Coordinator (PC), in line with the financing available under the PSRCB project or other
sources;
-     monitor the quality and timeliness of the work performed under his/her component, both
by civil servats and by outside experts;
-     organize and dbair meetings, as needed, with all persons in charge of taking acdon under
his/her component of the program;
-     report, as appropriate, to his/her Minister on the progress of his/her component of the
program, and on any implementaion issue which cannot be dealt with at his/her level;
-     participate in the meetings of RAIMB, and bring to its attention any problem/issues
which may impede, in a substantial maimer, the timely achievement of the objectives of
his/her level;
-     mainain complete and up-to-date records on the status of implementation of hislher
component of the program; and
-     prepare quarterly progress reports and forward them to the Project Coordinator, in the
format and by the date prescribed by the PC.
-204 -



ANNB 13
Role of the RAIMB
Page  of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBUC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACffY BUIDING PROJECT
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE
AEFRX       W =IOR A NDP IEMbiT  ANTIUOBN BOR M B3m  
1.    The Government of Cape Verde (GOCV) intends to create a Reform  Advisory and
Implementation Board (RAIMB) to provide a high level advisory group to the Miister of State for
Economic Coordination and the Minister of Public Administration in the context of the Implemenion
of the government's Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building progam.
2.    The RAIMB wUIl consist of the Minister of State for Economic Coordination as Chairman, the
Minister of Public Administration as co-Chairman, the Project Coordinator (PC), as Secretay, the Project
Component Managers (PCMs), and such representatives of the public and private sector selected on the
basis of thek high tecnica competence and experience as the Government may wish to appoint on this
Board.
3..  The RAIMB will be responsible for advising the Chairmen and, through them, the Govmnnt,
on all actions required to ensure a successful and timely implementation of the Public Sector Reform and
Capacity Building program of the Government in pursuit of the following broad objectives:
reform and moderization of the civil service, through the implementation of (i) an
improved human resource planning and management sysm, (ii) a voluntary departre
program, and (iii) a comprehensive training program directed at managers, admnistrtr
and support staff in public administration;
development andlor creation of the capacity to participate in economic policy-making and
to manage local affairs through a program of decatralization and municipal
strengthening;
-     support and improvement of economic management capacity through: (i) resttuing
of the national accounts and establishment of a multi-year rolling investment program,
(hi) strengthening the capabiities in economic policy analysis, external debt and public
finance management, and aid coordination, (>il) improvement in the conication af
economic policy, Civ) development of modem  it-govmen  comicao
nfrmation and decision systems;
-     reform and modernization of the legal and judiciary systems tough (i) revision of ihe
commercial and labor legisladon, ii3 specialized training in business law for
Ciii3 establishment of specialized jurisdiction to dispose of commercial disputes, (iv)
strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Justice to draft, revise and update legislaton
on a routine basis, and (v) technical modernizadon of the judiciary, including through
computerizion; and
_ 205 _



ANNEX 13
Role of the RAB
Page 2 of 2
improvement the maageme  of public assets and reform public procurement througb
(0) selective reson of the legislation, ()iatng of tcical staff in dhe of public
pouman and asset management, and (iiD c uizaton.
4.    Acordingly, the role and responsibilites of the members of the RAIMB will be:
to provide guidance to the Miisters of Ste of Economic Coordination and of Justice
and Labor on the dieto  and pace of the overall progam, and on the prposed
measure and priorides of each component, as stated in the Project Component managers'
yearly or quarterly action-plans;
to review the implementation progess achieved in each component, and to advise the
Miistes of Stte on changes to be introduced, if needed, to ensure effectiveness,
efficiency and timeliness in program implementation; and
to prepae and submk to the Ministers of Stateregular reports on the degree of
achievement of the objectves of the program, and to recommend adjustment, if
necessary.
- 2U6 -



ANNEX-14
Supervision Plan
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECr
SUlPERVISION PLANV 
1.    IDA SUPERVISION  INPUT
The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs for review
of progress reports, procurement, and audit actions, correspondence, etc. It is also in addition to the
supervision time being provided to the Privatization TA Project (Cr. 2377-V), which is closely linked
to civil service, decentrization and legal reforms components in particular.
2.    BORROfflm!S CONTRIBUTIMN TO SU-PERVISION
(a)    Progress reports will be submitted by the Ministry of Economic Coordination no later
tan 30 days after the end of eah of the following quarters: March 31, June 30, September 30, and an
annual report will be prepared for each calendar year of project execution and furnished within two
moonths of that year end (pars. 3.10 SAR).
(b)   The progress reports should cover all aspects of project execution;
(c)   The progress reports will be prepared on the basis of the periodic assessments on project
implementation submitted by Project Component Managers in each of the agencies
involved in the project;
(d)   Anmual audits of the project accounts will be submitted no later than June 30 of each
year; and
(e)    The Project Coordination Unit will be responsible for coordinating IDA supervision
missions.
3.    ANNUAL PR,OGRESS REV
Not lat than October 31, 1994 and thereafter, not later than October 31 of each subsequent year,
the Borrower and IDA would undertake a joint review of the Project or as the case may be not later than
October 31, 1996, a mid-term review, during which they snall exchange views generally on all mattes
relating to the project and the peformance by the Borrower, and in particular review (J) progress
achieved during the curren year, and (i) the proposed budget and work program for the coming year
including (a) a statement of monitable objectives and a program of activities to be undertaken to achieve
those objectives, and (1) detaied budgets and financing plans, including a schedule of proposed
procuement cont   to be financed by the credit, and training plans. The Quarterly Progress Reports
shall serve as the basis for the Annual Progress Review.
207-



ANN= I4
Supervision Plan
Page 2 of 2
4.   BANK SUPERVION IBM  M  KX ACDEl
Appimate   Activity                        Expected Skl                                          Staff input
Dat        Reqirmenqt                    (Stf.eek)
02/94        Supevision Misn               TM. Publi Administr&tion Specialit, Lawyer            9.0
Economist, PSM Offi0 , Financial  bumot
Specialist, Disbursemet Officer, Tgani
Specialist, Municipal Specis
094          Review TORs for expes         TM, PSM Ofheer, Iawer P_orent Spoilst                 4.0
Nan Samies, apprve           Trng  Specalit
oontc
0694         Supevion Mission              TM, PSM Officer, Civil Sevic Specist, Lawyer          5.0
08194        Review of Ptogress rpot       TM, Piancial Anayst                                   2.0
Review of Audit reports
10/94        Supervision Mission           TM, Civi Service Spec, PSM Officer,                   5.0
Annual Review                 economist Training Specialt, Municipal
Specakis
02195        Review of Progress repos      TM, PSM Officer, Lawya                                3.0
02195        Superision Mision             TM, PSM Officer                                       2.0
03/95        Review of Studies, Commens    TM, PSM Ofnioer, Lawyer                               3.0
on Acion Plans
06/95        Supavon Mision                TM, PSM Officer, Lawyer, Ecotnist                     6.0
TIraig Speialist
10195        Supervsin Misdon              TM, PSM Offc                                          4.0
Annual Review
12/95        Review of Studies, Commen     TM, PSM Offic. Lawyer. Tining Speciali                4.0
on Plans
03196        Supevidon Mision              TM, Economist                                         4.0
07196        Supervision Mission           TM                                                    3.0
10196        Mid-Tera Review               1M, PSM Offier, Lawyer, Trainig Specaist,             6.0
Fconowist, Municipal Specialist, Projecs Advi
02/97        Supervision Mission           TM                                                    2.0
-208 



ANNE" 1
List of Documents in the File
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMEN-TS IN PROJECT F1LE
Onening up of Small Economy - An Agenda for the 1990s, Country Economic Report, June 11, 1993.
Staff Appraisal Report - Privatization Technical Assistance Project, Republic of Cape Verde, May 14,
1992.
Staff Apraisal Ret - Transport and Infratucture Project, Republic of Cape Verde, February 2, 1993.
Instrumentos de Gestao de Recursos Humanos--l: Plano de Cargos. Carreiras e Salarios lnstrumentos
de Mobilidade, July 16, 1992.
Cnstituicao da Republica de Cabo Verde, Assembleia Nacional, Praia, 1992.
LegislaDgo *oAarguica-4!, Direccao de Serviso de Apoio Ao Processo Eleitoral, October 1991.
Primeiras Eleicaoes Autarguicas Em Cabo Verde, Direcgao de Servicos de Apoio Ao Processo Eleitoral,
1992
Cinco Reista de Administracao Publica, May 1993
Etudo Sobre o Ambiente Legal de Negociaos em Cabo Verde e Sugestoes Para A Melhoria de Mesmo,
June 1993.
Proiet Entreprises Publigues du Can Vert - Aspects Institutionnnels et Ressources Humaines, February
1992
Conference de Table Ronde Pour la R_publique du Cap Vert - Ranport de la Conference, October 6-7,
1992.
Labor Redundancy & Dispiacement Project - Dlebriefing Report, USAID, 1992.
Censos 90 - 2 Recenseamento Geral da Populacao e Habitacao, Direc;ao-Geral de Estatistica, November
1992.
Public Sector Decentralization - Economic Policy and Sector investment Programs Jerry M. Silverman,
November 1992.
_ 209 -



IBRD 15079R1
Rlbe d. Wi9.                                                                                                                   w
-  <  3   if d' SANTO ANTAO                                                     CAPE VERDE
DOU CAP VERr
toO. Ownie.. . ,Q   SAO VICENtE
.84  ---       SANTA LUZIA
R   SAO NICOLAU                                                      t.e.e. tQte' %   SA,
\n                                                                             £~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s. .en
Mapo, ,ants. kords r{ac aY egshof 9 0 orn                                                                       BOA VISTA
Airstri0 s - tenb of ru.noy in mslent (sJO)                                                                                               I 
. Malin Ports                                                                                                                            s  uVb
Parts pwc*p0w
4-   Other POrts
4AL*s Pods
Depth ontouws in wteis
Coav£s d pro;de an mehm
Reefs
Wr cks
Main rads
,%VWe prm4of als
i   National caPitl
Q^sbak dda       Y         ILOMETS ° .         _    p   4p   8l0  40
O   To*ns                          MfttS        .a       20       20
Eleotions in  ns
eftai. h n .s
0 -500~~~             ~                                            SANTIAGOOa                     w
____________________________                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIO
MAURItANIA
CAPIE V"DE       I ~MALI                                                                                           le
I .  11            d.                       Fb". beel~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~il nple.te
LlP                                                                                                                                                                     w-nwj4s,-m0 
ss~lp'                                                                                                                                                           is kr Om H1- 
omi~~j'.                        Seainorm -.-. 0 b o  m
en*hsnd.eMI   MAY .91,



