The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21648
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-2566)
ON A CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.91 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
FOR A PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING CREDIT
JANUARY 24, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =  Cape Verde Escudos (CVE)
US$1 =      70.00 CVE (1/07/1994)
=     116.9175 CVE (6/30/2000)
CVE 1 =     US$0.014286 (1/07/1994)
=    US$0.008553 (6/30/2000)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
ERP         Early Retirement Program
MEC         Ministry of Economic Coordination
OED         Operations Evaluation Department
PC          Project Coordinator
PCM         Project Components Managers
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PER         Public Expenditure Review
PPIP        Pluri-Annual Public Investment Program
PSR         Project Status Report
PSRCB       Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project
RAIMB       Reform Advisory Implementation Monitoring Board
TSO         Technical Support Unit
VDP         Voluntary Departure Program
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  John McIntire
Sector Manager/Director:  Brian Levy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Helene Grandvoinnet



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING CREDIT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  Project Data                                                            1
2.  Principal Performance Ratings                                           1
3.  Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry  2
4.  Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                    8
5.  Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                     13
6.  Sustainability                                                         15
7.  Bank and Borrower Performance                                          16
8.  Lessons Learned                                                        17
9.  Partner Comments                                                       19
10. Additional Information                                                 19
Annex 1.   Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                    20
Annex 2.   Project Costs and Financing                                    23
Annex 3.   Economic Costs and Benefits                                    25
Annex 4.   Bank Inputs                                                    26
Annex 5.   Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components    28
Annex 6.   Ratngs of Bank and Borrower Performance                        29
Annex 7.   List of Supporting Documents                                   30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID:  P000437                       Project Name: Public Sector Reform and
Capacity Building Credit
Team Leader.   Helene Grandvoinnet         TL Unit.     AFTI2
ICR Type.      Core ICR                    Report Date:  January 24, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Public Sector Reform and Capacity     L/C/TFNumber. IDA-2566
Building Credit
Country/Department: CAPE VERDE                                Region: Africa Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: 61 - Institutional Development
KEY DATES
Original         Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/0111993                       Effeciive  05 ' 13/1994    05113i 1994
Appraisal: 03/22/1993                          MTR: 10/01/1996          12/13/1996
Approval: 02/08/1994                         Closing: 12/31/1998       06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementingAgency: |GOVT OF CAPE VERDEIMIN FINANCEIMIN P.A.
Other Partners:
STAFF                   Current                   At Appraisal
IVice President:        Callisto Mada%o           Ed%%ard V.K. Ja)cox
Country Manager:        John McIntire             Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:         Brian Levy                 Jean-Louis Sarbib
Team Leader at ICR:     Helene Grandvoinnet       Emmanuel Mbi
ICR Primary Author:     Helene Grandvoinnet
2.   Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN.=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:      S
Sustainability:   L
Institutional Development Impact:  H
Bank Performance:     S
Borrower Performance:     S
_  QAG (if available)      ICR
Quality at Entry:                          S
Project at Risk at Any Time:  No



- 2 -
3.    Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1   Original Objective:
CONTEXT:
Cape Verde was the first single party state to hold pluralistic elections in the African
subcontinent. The elections, won by the opposition party, the MPD (Movement for
Democracy) in 1991, gave way to an extraordinary momentum for reforms.
In September 1991, a World Bank mission assisted the government in elaborating its
Country Strategy Note. Three areas were given priority, all of which translated into the World
Bank portfolio:
*   cutting down the state (privatization),
*   improving infrastructures,
*   creating an enabling environment for investment and private sector growth
The third priority was the goal of this first Capacity Building and Public Sector Reform
project. It was designed to promote participation, through partnerships within ministries but
also with civil society (for instance, the government insisted on having a component to
provide training on economic issues to the media). The project comprised a very specific
communication strategy to get all stakeholders on board, which contributed to sustaining the
enthusiasm and a pluralistic approach to the challenges of reforms. It took advantage of a
momentum for changes created by the new political situation.
ORIGINAL OBJECTIVE
The principal objective of the project was to support the Government's broader
program to transform and modernize key public institutions, the laws supporting them, and
the personnel staffing them, thereby helping sustain the overall economic and social reform
program which the Government had initiated. The project was to support improvements in
economic policy analysis and management, and in legal, judicial and administrative
environment for investment and for business operations through institutional development and
capacity building in public administration, both at the central and municipal levels.
The government which took office in 1991 was elected on a platform of reforms and
liberalization of the economy. The objectives of the project were crucial for the Cape Verdean
government, to increase effectiveness, efficiency, and transparency in public sector functions
critical to the long-term success of its overall economic and social reform program.
The project's goal of assisting the government in implementing its long-term public
sector institutional development strategy also fit the World Bank's strategy for the country,
and complemented two ongoing initiatives, the privatization technical assistance project (Cr.
2377-CV) and transport and infrastructure modernization (Cr. 2466-CV).
Finally, the project benefited from a set of cumulative opportunities:



- 3 -
* Strong commitment from the government, which had actively participated in the
project design from the outset, had already demonstrated its capacity to pursue
reforms, even when they entailed difficult measures and was fully committed to
transforming the economy from a public sector dominated to one outward-looking
economy. This required fundamental shifts in policies and institutions, which the
government was ready to make.
*   Public support, stirred by a public information campaign on necessary changes to
address a new economic and social environment. Besides, the general public had
accepted the necessity of the privatizations, which cast promising light on its
acceptance of the public sector reform project, presented as a logical complement
to privatization.
*   Increasing support from the business community, which had a clear interest in the
success of the reform, whose implementation would improve the environment for
investment and reduce the time in dealing with bureaucracy and civil courts.
The project, with five main components and 16 sub-components, appears extremely
complex for a first of its kind in the country. The high number of key government agencies
involved,' the geographic dispersion of the country (ten scattered islands) and the time
required for managing and supervising such a project were three points that had to be taken
into account to make sure the project could be satisfactorily implemented.
As shown by the good performance of the Privatization TA project at the date of the
appraisal of this project, the track record of implementation of World Bank projects in Cape
Verde was positive. The objectives were clearly identified at appraisal. Furthermore, the
design of the project took into account its complexity and dealt at the outset with some of the
potential difficulties that could arise. Hence, the public sector reform and capacity building
program translated the government strategy into a series of inter-connected activities, with
detailed goals and outputs. To facilitate the coordination of the different activities, which
involved many actors (many government agencies, the municipalities, the judiciary and the
press), the government appointed Project Component Managers (PCM) for each component
or major sub-component of the project within the respective agencies, prior to negotiations. A
central project coordinator (PC) was also appointed at the Ministry of Economic Coordination
(MEC). A coordinating unit (PCU), led by the PC based at the MEC, was set up to coordinate
with the PCMs and their task forces in each of the agencies involved. A high-level advisory
Board had also been established to oversee the pace and direction of reform implementation
(Reform Advisory Implementation Monitoring Board, RAIMB).
Three risks were identified at appraisal. The risk of resistance of the civil servants was
considered low because of Cape Verdean record of adaptability to modernization, and their
knowledge that they would be given choices to stay, transfer or leave. These assumptions
The Ministries of Public administration, of Internal administration, of Economic Coordination, of Finance -
through the departments of Planning, Statistics, Research, Public Finance and Public assets- of Justice and
Labor, of Communication.



-4 -
proved correct, and there was no significant resistance to the reform from the civil service.
The second identified constraint was a limited capacity for training. Measures were taken to
strengthen the public and private capacity for training, and the ambitious program of training
took place as planned. The third identified constraint, the risk of inadequate coordination in
the implementation of reforms, was mitigated as described above.
The question of capacity for implementation was another potential problem, which
partly explains the delays needed to complete the objectives (end of project delayed by 18
months).
3.2  -Revised Objective:
There has not been any major revision of objectives, and the government commitment
to the project's objectives remained firm during the whole life of the project (and beyond).
However, the mid-term review identified the necessity to redefine the role of the
Reform Advisory Implementation Monitoring Board (RAIMB). The role of the RAIMB in
monitoring the overall reform process, supporting the government in defining the pace and
direction of reforms and advising on key matters, had proved difficult to implement, given the
heavy political agenda of its members. At the mid-term review, it was decided to split the
RAIMB into two boards, at a political level (meetings every 3 months) and at a technical level
(monthly meetings).
3.3   Original Components:
a)    Modernization of the Civil Service:
Responsible agency: Ministry of Public Administration
i) Human resources management: methodology and instruments conducive to
quantitative and qualitative analysis of the present and forecast demand and
supply of personnel in public administration, essential to develop comprehensive
strategies and action plans, redeployment and alternative means of delivering
services.
ii) Civil service training:
* Technical and professional training for the staff of the Ministry of Finance,
Economic Coordination, Communications, Justice, municipalities etc. (supported
under the respective components)
* In several line ministries training in project management, personnel
management, budget and accounting for staff managers and supervisors, in
communication and computer-related skills for administrative support
personnel
iii) Support to the government Retrenchment Program comprising:
* a voluntary departure program (VDP) aimed at reducing the number of lower-
level staff by about 1600



- 5 -
* an early retirement program (ERP) aimed at about 400 civil servants
retraining and assistance to VDP participants to help them reintegrate into the
economy.
b)    Decentralization and municipal strengthening (building local capacity to participate
and to manage):
Responsible agency: Ministry of Internal Administration
i)  Institution building:
* Further detailing, where necessary, of the guidelines for the decentralization
process (e.g. revenue sharing formulae, responsibility for maintenance of
certain public infrastructures, etc. )
* Preparation and implementation of action plans for the establishment, for
groups of municipalities, of inter-municipal Technical Support Offices
(TSOs)
* Equipment,   materials  and  logistical  support  for  intra-municipal
deconcentration
ii) Administration and Management:
Technical assistance to all municipalities,
* to design and implement planning, budgeting and inventory systems
* to evaluate options and develop local fiscal administration and revenue
mobilization capacity
iii) Human Resources Development and Management:
* technical assistance to qualitatively and quantitatively identify necessary staff
for each municipality and to design actions to help attract and retain qualified
personnel
* training needs assessment for each municipality, and training.
iv) Internal organization strengthening:
* assistance for the organization of the various municipal services that could
eventually become autonomous services or be contracted out
* provision of a minimum quantity of basic material support to each
municipality.
c)    Strengthening Economic Management Capacity:
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Economic Coordination, Ministry of Finance
(Departments of Planning, Statistics, Research, Public Finance), Ministry of
Communication
i)  strengthening communications:



- 6 -
Responsible agency: Ministry of Communication
* design and implementation of an electronic communication system for about 200
users
* design a shared computerized information database of economic information and
statistics which could be shared among ministries and government agencies
* improvement in the communication of economic and social policy (strong
emphasis on private and public media)
ii) planning support:
Responsible agency: Department of Planning
*   preparation of a multi-year rolling public investment program (PIP), instrument of
aid coordination
*   establishment of a a pre-investment studies fund (PIF)
*   preparation of a planning manual adapted to Cape Verde's realities
* . training of the staff involved in planning and provision of equipment.
iii) National accounting and statistics system restructuring:
Responsible agency: National Institute of Statistics
*   transformation of the General Directorate of Statistics into an autonomous
institution, the National Institute of Statistics (INE), and training and provision of
equipment and material to this institution
*   organization and gradual processing of the backlog of national accounts (accounts
for 1989-1992 and possibly more), and review of the basis and methodology of
national accounts including specific survey needs
*   development of demographic and social statistics



-7 -
iv) Public finance support:
Responsible agency: Department of Treasury
* computerization of the debt management system, and training of staff involved in
this monitoring
* improvement in aid coordination
* carrying out a feasibility study to increase public resource mobilization (expansion
of the market for treasury bills)
d)    Legal and judicial reform and modernization of the justice system:
Responsible agency: Ministry of Justice and Labor
i) Legislative reform:
* Revision of the Labor code, the Commercial Code, the Registry and Notarial
Legislation, and the Civil Procedural legislation
*   Assistance to the Directorate General of Studies, Legislation and Information
(DGELDI) at the Ministry of Justice to help supervise the legislative drafting
activities (training, computerization)
ii) Specialization of courts: creation of a separate commercial jurisdiction within
each of the regional courts, as well as separate industrial tribunals, through a pilot
exercise in Praia and Mindelo.
iii) Modernization of notary and registry system (DGNRI) (computerization)
iv) Judicial information strengthening, through creation of a law library at the
Ministry of Justice and publication on a regular basis of a Law Review Journal by
the Ministry of Justice
v) Training and specialization: in particular in commercial and business law.
e)    Public Procurement reform:
Responsible agency: Ministry of Finance, Department of Public Assets.
*  training for about 40 staff, short-term advisory services and equipment to help
modernize the Public Procurement and Assets Management Department
(PATRIMONIO) and selected Department of Administrative Services in the
ministries
* selective revision of legislation on procurement
* streamlining and strengthening of institutional procedures to improve public
procurement (consolidation of the regulations into one set of regulations,
clarification of existing regulations and uniform application regardless source of
funding, more realistic threshold for delegations of authorities)



-8 -
3.4   Revised Components:
There was no revision of components during the life of the project.
3.5   Quality at Entry:
The project's design pre-dates many of the quality control mechanisms that have since
been introduced for Bank-financed operations. However, potential risks were accurately
identified at the design stage and implementation was supported by intensive, regular and
frequent supervision by both the Bank and the borrower.
Consistency of the project with the CAS and government priorities.
Capacity building in public administration, both at the central and local levels, had
been identified in the Country Economic Memorandum (June 1993) and in the Country
assistance Strategy paper (March 1993) as the necessary keystones in the consolidation and
acceleration of past and present reforms, and in the passage to a new phase of economic and
social development.
Project objectives were consistent with government priorities for public sector reform,
published in the Official Gazette in August 1991. In 1994, the Government formulated
specific objectives to improve and modernize public administration. These were approved by
the National Assembly, making the public sector reform one of the four pillars of the
government 's Third Development Plan. This, together with opening the country to external
investment and liberalizing the economy, made the private sector the engine of growth while
working towards reducing poverty and protecting the environment.
Compliance with safeguards policies: not applicable for this project.
Quality of the design.
The project was carefully designed, with detailed components and sub-components,
global program targets and activities, and monitoring indicators fully covering the first three
years. Implementation and revision mechanisms were already in place at the beginning. Risks
were accurately identified, and mitigated (strengthening of the public and private capacity for
training, establishment of structures of coordination of the different project components).
4.    Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project design preceded the use of the Logical Framework and systematic use of
measurable indicators.
Measuring the achievement of the objectives is therefore best viewed through the list
of the achievements (however, this is an imperfect measure, see Lessons for further discussion
on this issue).



-9-
Overall, the project has satisfactorily met its objectives, albeit with some delays.
It has had a major impact on the debate on governance issues. Commitment to project
objectives permeated all levels of government as well as the private sector, and the project, a
central piece of the strategy to reform Cape Verde, has strengthened administrative capacity
and created an enabling environment for private sector development. This is a very valuable
asset for the ongoing public sector reforms. The project also improved the country's ability to
make effective use of its human and financial resources. The following improvements have
been achieved.
*   Two-third of the civil servants followed training courses, depending on their
fumctions and field. This strengthening of skills was accompanied by a
strengthening of the local training institution, which will allow further human
resource development in the future.
*   Capacity for planning and monitoring financial resources has been greatly
improved, through the establishment of a National Institute of Statistics, the catch-up
on national accounts backlog, and the development of modern tools for economic
management (Training on the macroeconomics model RMSM-X). Investment can be
more adequately planned and targeted through the Public Investment Program.
Furthermore, a conceptual debate has been initiated on planning, which opened
the way for profound restructuring in the organization of the economy.
*   Revision or drafting of legal texts contributed to a more secure environment for
business, and upheld the rule of law in the country.
*   This institutional development included measures to broaden participation.
Hence, the decentralization program increased the administrative capacity of the
municipalities, which will benefit local government. And training programs for
the press and television encouraged a professional and independent media.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Issues of sequencing or absence of some areas of reform are discussed in the Lessons
section.
a)    Modernizing the civil service: this objective can be rated as satisfactory.
The project has made progress in modernizing the civil service through;
* extensive technical and computer training (see Annex 3, Government ICR).
* a first phase of an Early Retirement Program (427 persons)
* and a successful pilot for voluntary departure of civil servants (311 persons)
Assessment:
Training:



- 10-
During the course of the project, some worries were expressed regarding low
attendance to some training, that have been addressed by the implementing agency through
communications from the PCU to all heads of Ministry agencies to match training schedules
with holidays planning and work programs. Regarding the evaluation of the training, the
January 1999 Supervision mission discussed the need for benchmarks of effectiveness, least-
costs, and benefits. An evaluation is still ongoing. Questionnaires were designed and
distributed after the completion of the training program, after the end of the project (June
2000). The finding of this evaluation will be incorporated in the training program for the
second project.
ERP
The second phase of the ERP never took off. The number of people who benefited
from the program slightly exceeded what was planned in the SAR, and the first phase was
duly evaluated, but the absence of comments from the government on this evaluation in part
prevented the launch of a second phase.  Besides, the impact of the program  was
controversial. As the only criteria for joining was the number of years in the civil service, or
the age of the civil servants, some people volunteered whose skills were essential in their
respective institutions.
VDP
An analysis of the VDP program was completed and published by the Secretary of
State for Public Administration, and retraining of the VDP participants was completed. The
structures are in place for further departures, and have been assessed. But completion of the
Voluntary Departure Program (VDP) has been delayed due to lack of financing (a roundtable
to seek donor support did not achieve results) and because of competing demands for
financing investment and social programs. However, some ministries (foreign affairs,
agriculture, culture) are using the structures designed through the VDP project for
streamlining their staff with their own budget-currently for a total of 109 civil servants.
Even if it was mitigated through information campaigns and interesting retrenchment
packages, laying off civil servants was a difficult task, taking into account the limited
capacity of the economy to create jobs (26% of unemployment in 1996). It was politically
sensitive (the component management was actually moved to the Prime Minister's office).
If this sub-component has met its target outcome - pilot VDP operational and assessed,
as exemplified by the use of the VDP concept by line ministries, due to lack of funding, the
total number of departures remains low. Government's target in 1994 was 1600, which was in
itself rather modest. The evolution of the number of (central) civil servants is as follows: in
1985: 7800, in 1990: 11300, in 1993: 11172, in 1997: 12421. However, the increase in the
latest years is explained by an important increase in the numbers of teachers (from 2550 in
1990-91 to 4769 in 1998-99.
Improving personnel systems and services:
Intensive efforts required for the VDP occurred at the disadvantage of some of the
others activities which were as important for the ultimate goal of a modem civil service, if not



- 11 -
more in the long-term. The project did not focus on improving personnel systems and
services, such as recruitment, organizational planning and career management, described as
the most critical areas to be addressed in the SAR. A proposition from the Minister of
Economic Coordination to study job descriptions, and ways to simplify task was never
pursued.
b)    Decentralization and municipal strengthening: this objective can be rated as
satisfactory.
* New local public finance and budget framework laws were passed in 1998 to
regulate fiscal decentralization and accountability.
* Capacity of the municipalities to manage social and economic programs has been
strengthened with the delegation of revenue generation and financing authority,
accompanied by training (2/3 of the civil servants) and transfer of key civil
servants from central to municipal governments.
* Inter-municipal TSOs (Technical Support Offices) have been set up and
integrate 270 civil servants covering 12 municipalities in S. Antao, Fogo/Brava
and Santiago. Their work has been evaluated. The difficulty of combining support
for municipalities, in particular when they are located in different islands, was
recognized and alternatives solutions taken. Thereafter, Municipal Support
Offices in S. Vicente, Santa Catarina, Sal, Boa Vista, S. Nicolau, Maio and S.
Miguel were strengthened.
* Contacts were initiated with other municipalities in the region and resulted in the
growing involvement of the Canary Islands in all levels of economic activity in
Cape Verde.
The launch of the RAFE (State Administrative and Financial Reform), in particular the
reform to bring the public finance system in line with internationally accepted accounting
standards, competed with one of the planned actions of the PSRCB project. Ongoing actions
to introduce new municipal accounting and registry, budgeting and planning systems were
interrupted after the pilot phase, pending to the introduction of the RAFE.
c)    Strengthening economic management capacity: this objective can be rated as highly
satisfactory, given the design of the operation (see below).
*   A macroeconomics model (RMSM-X) has been installed (its usefulness for
guiding fiscal and financial policies is however limited by the fact that it is
based on a simple set of variables)
*   A management information system for Pluri-annnual Public Investment Program
(PPIP) has been installed.
*   The National Institute of Statistics has been established with a stronger capacity
and mandate to coordinate statistical analysis across government agencies, and
the national accounts have been processed (production of definitive accounts for
1989-1995 and temporary accounts for 1996 and 1997).



- 12 -
*   A legal framework for planning is under preparation to integrate investment and
recurrent budgets at the central and local levels.
*   A debt management system using the Commonwealth Secretariat Debt reporting
System (CD-DRS) was set-up.
* Economic management is now firmly governed by laws, including the law on the
budget preparation process and execution, the public procurement law, the laws
on domestic debt reduction and the related overseas trust fund, the emergency
and economic development fund law, and the protocol regulating currency
convertibility arrangements with Portugal.
The work on redefining the methodology and establishing the new base year for
National Accounts suffered from systematic delays, and was not completed. Delays were in
part due to the volume of work under this component (catch-up on the backlog of accounts)
that may have been underestimated at the time of appraisal. It was also due to a change of
vision in the newly-created Institute of Statistics, and a shift in the ongoing studies, to adopt
1998 and not 1994 as planned as the new base year. This change will allow to take into
account the evolution of the economy during these key years.
Assessment:
The Economic management component did not target budget formulation and budget
execution mechanisms, that could have usefully been incorporated up front. In particular,
enhancing accountability and transparency of the budget planning and execution processes are
important elements of a reform of a public management system (see Lessons for further
discussion on this issue).
d)    Legal and judicial reform and modernization of the justice system: this objective
can be rated as satisfactory.
* In legal and judicial reform and in the modernization of the justice system, the
PSRCBP supported the drafting of new regulations to promote private sector
activities and the training of staff of the Ministry of Justice and the courts in
computers and legal areas (15 magistrates were retrained in Portugal).
*   Different legislation and regulations to promote private sector activities were
drafted, and are at different phases of enactment/enforcement. (Commercial Code
enacted in October 1999, Notary and Registry Code adopted 1999, project of
modification of the Civil Procedural Code to be approved by the government).
*   A pilot Family and Labor Court was created.
*   The law library has been improved (remodeled and equipped/book cataloguing
completed), and a bi-annual Law Review established.
However, the creation of a separate commercial jurisdiction within each of the
regional courts, as well as separate industrial tribunals, as planned in the SAR, did not take
place. This is explained by an ongoing debate on the viability of such specialized courts due
in particular to the inherent capacity constraints of the country. The second project will



- 13 -
address the issue of the creation of a Commercial Court by a pre-feasibility study, to provide a
clear assessment prior to the creation of such a court. Where there was clear and proven need
for a separate court, however, this was done as planned, as for the pilot Family and Labor
Court in Praia.
e)    Public procurement:
This objective can be rated as satisfactory.
All activities under this component were satisfactorily completed, i.e. the enactment of
the legislation on harmonization of the procedures and guarantees of transparency, the
installation of a computerized system to manage public assets, and the training of staff for the
inventory of public assets.
4.3   Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable for this project
4.4   Financial rate of return:
Not applicable for this project
4.5   Institutional development impact:
See 4.
S.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1   Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The legislative and municipal elections held in succession (respectively, December
1995 and January 1996) slowed down decisions, in particular those affecting the politically
sensitive Voluntary Departure Program.
5.2   Factors generally subject to government control:
During the Mid-term review, the World Bank stressed two elements subject to
government control:
*   The RAIMB, the high-level advisory board, could have been more effective in
carrying out the role assigned to it, as its operation proved difficult to materialize.
*   The importance for Component managers to ensure that their staff was more
involved in the execution of the project and to institute a system of back-up so
that in their absence the project would not come to a standstill. During the course
of the project, many component managers were changed, which caused delays
(the legal and judicial component had a succession of four component managers
creating discontinuities, and a change of director at the local training institute in
1999 created delay for the VDP retraining program).



- 14-
Other elements subject to government control were reported in supervisions mission
reports:
*   Commitment of the government to the reforms was not always translated into
adequate funding. In fact, some budget cuts negatively affected the planned
course of the project (for instance a 50% cut in the 1998 operational budget of the
Institute of Employment and Professional Training delayed the VDP program,
and delays in providing the NIS with its full operational budget in 1998.)
*   Cabinet reshuffles also created delays (for instance, reshuffle in the ministry of
Justice caused a delay in the establishment of the Law Library, which was one of
the reasons of the second extension of the project).
*   Implementation was in several cases delayed or even abandoned by an absence of
response from the government to recommendations from the World Bank (for
instance, no response to the need to appoint a local consultant for the RMSX-
system, no comments on the evaluation of ERP which prevented the launching of
its second phase).
5.3   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The change of the Coordinator of the PCU (May 1995) had an initial adverse effect
on the timeliness of implementation.
*   Discrepancies and delays have been a cause of concern in the processing of
contracts submitted to IDA by the PCU.
*   The accounting system's software of the PCU took a long time to be put in place,
and had to be changed during the lifetime of the project because the first version
did not respond well to the requirements of the project (training for the newest
accounting system took place at the beginning of 1999). However, project
accounts were maintained manually during this time and all audit reports were
unqualified. The PCU accounting system has now been thoroughly overhauled
and evaluated as satisfactory by the Africa Region s Financial Management
Specialist, and the new accountant has been trained in its use.
5.4   Costs andfinancing:
Comparison actual cost/original costs:
The only major change has been the rise in the cost for the Pre-investment study
component. This is justified by the fact that this component, once its objectives had been fully
understood, was well-received. Therefore, a higher number of feasibility studies were
required than had been expected (three studies were launched during the course of the project:
a study on the feasibility of creating a self-funding agency for revenue defaulters, a study on
the first phase of the development program of the Island of Boa Vista, and a study on the
creation of the Cape Verdean Agency for Development Planning, Investigation and
Research).



- 15 -
Implementation and disbursement delays:
Many components were implemented with delays, which is explained by various
reasons (complexity of the project, unsatisfactory reports by external consultants, budget cuts,
change of managers, technology changes which rendered obsolete newly acquired
technology).
During the supervision mission of July 1998, it was therefore agreed to postpone the
closing date by a year (end of 1999). A further 6 months extension was agreed upon at the end
of 1999, for reasons beyond the control of the PCU and the PCM: internal restructuring
problems in the training institute (several changes of director), government reshuffle which
slowed down decision-making in the Ministry of Justice, delay in approving the PIF legal
instrument due to legal complexities, and delays in using it due to inexperience of the sector
ministries.
This extension allowed for the completion of all activities, and also for the
continuation of the PCU which was also preparing the follow-up project.
6.    Sustainability
6.1   Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the reforms accomplished so far is likely.
First, reforms accomplished under this project were successful in improving the public
sector capacity. As described above, this project put in place several instruments for better
governance: a macro-economic modeling management system, the structure for voluntary
departure of civil servants, improvements in the press's capacity to cover economic issues,
essential pieces of legislation updated and enacted, and global improvement of public sector
capacity, at the central and also at the local level , through training programs and provision of
necessary material support.
Second, this project was immediately followed by a Second Public Sector Reform and
Capacity Building Project (Cr. 3294-CV), whose development objectives are, given the short
and longer term needs 1) to consolidate and deepen the reforms of the public sector
accomplished under PSRCB in the areas of economic and financial management, regulatory
and legal reforms, and 2) to prepare the next phase of public sector reforms to achieve the
Government's vision of an efficient, productive, and modern public sector.
The institutional arrangements established for the implementation of the project are
functioning efficiently. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which operates under the Vice
Prime Minister's Office, has acquired experience with project implementation, Bank
procedures, financial management, and procurement and reporting requirements. The RAIMB
has been replaced by an inter-sectoral committee comprising the Vice Prime Minister as the
chairman, the Minister of Finance, the PCU coordinator, the Coordinator of Economic
Reforms Program, and selected representatives from the technical ministries and the private
sector.



- 16-
6.2   Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The extension of the first PSRCB project to June 2000 permitted the continuation of
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) before the effectiveness and start-up phase of the second
project (Cr. 3294-CV).
7.    Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1   Lending:
The Bank's performance was satisfactory in identification, which matched closely the
government's needs and commitment to reforms, and the World Bank's strategy for the
country. It was equally satisfactory in preparation and appraisal.
7.2   Supervision:
Supervision missions reports and annual reports show that Bank performance on
supervision has been overall highly satisfactory. The team did not change from identification
to implementation. Supervision missions were held regularly, were well documented and
Project Status Reports were completed and provided realistic assessments of the project's
performance. Appropriate mix of skills was present during supervision missions, and the
frequency of missions was appropriate for the support required. A close working relationship
with the PCU staff was also established.
Collaboration with other donors avoided duplication, and devolved some components
to other donors (the PER for instance, was later financed by the European Union, the
population census by the FNUAP). This translated into the reallocation of saved funds to
other components.



- 17-
7.3   Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the World Bank performance has been satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4   Preparation:
The Borrower has satisfactorily participated in the preparation of the project. Already
at the preparation stage, the different ministries and agencies participated in the design of the
activities for their ministry/agency.
7.5   Government implementation performance:
The Government consistently demonstrated its commitment for the project, and
provided its support for its successful implementation, but not always in a timely manner.
Some delays in the timely deposit of the counterpart funds have been noted (PSR/CPPR).
7.6   Implementing Agency:
The PCU performance was equally satisfactory. The PCU also acquired strong skills
that will be useful for the implementation of the second project.
7.7   Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower performance has been satisfactory.
8.    Lessons Learned
Finding the appropriate balance between best practices and country setting
Current practices stress the benefits of starting by an initial reform of institutions to
increase the likelihood of sustainable efforts in downsizing and capacity building (see OED
report "Civil Service Reform: A Review of World Bank Assistance, 1999").
However, at the outset of this project, the client's demand was clearly for immediate
actions, to take advantage of the extraordinary and pluralistic momentum for changes.
Therefore, the client's way guided the approach, which proved to be successful. Capacity has
now been built, and the country is ready to move forward. This is reflected in the goal of the
second capacity building project: "to prepare the next phase of public sector reform to
achieve the Government's vision of an efficient, productive, and modem public sector".
Government commitment and partnerships fostered by communication strategy are key for
success
The commitment of the govermment for the project never faltered, and support from
opposition parties demonstrated a national consensus on these reforms. A specific
communication strategy helped sustained support for the project. It targeted not only potential



- 18-
resistance pockets (civil servants fearing retrenchment) but also beneficiaries (involvement of
stakeholders in discussing new laws).
Project's complexity is not always a problem if the project is adequately supervised and
flexible in design
The design of this comprehensive project was cost effective in terms of project
preparation, and also justified by the size of the country. Its complexity was not a problem for
implementation, due to a heavy involvement of the world bank team (the team did not change
from appraisal to completion, and fully-staffed missions were held on a regular basis) and of
the counterparts. The regularity and adequacy of the supervision mission helped find
alternatives solutions when needed. Thus adaptability and flexibility were major factors of
success.
Economic management: necessity to address budget formulation and execution and to
emphasize issues of transparency and accountability
The Economic management component of this project comprised several capacity
building activities. However, it did not target budget formulation and budget execution
mechanisms. Though some of the essential elements of a sound public management system
were improved through the project-creation of an independent institute of statistics and
progress in the accounting function of the government-those missing elements might have
been usefully included at the outset.
Some of these issues were picked up in 1998 by the Cape Verdean government,
through a government-led RAFE - Public Finance Management Reform Program. One of the
four main objectives was described as "increase the accountability of the use of public
resources by all public institutions". This program therefore filled in a gap in the reform of the
public management system.
Those issues also received technical assistance from the World Bank through the
Economic Reforms Support Operation, launched in 1997, and described as addressing the
failings in the implementation of the 1993 CAS by incorporating a viable medium-term
economic framework, a multi-year PIP and viable financing plan, and timely public
expenditures review (see ICR, Republic of Cape Verde, Economic Reforns support Operation
Credit, 2000.)
Assessment of the impact of the project
Capacity building efforts must be systematically linked with monitorable performance.
If a monitoring and evaluation system is not established sufficiently early, the absence of
benchmarks will undermine the evaluation of the impact of the project.
The developmental impact of capacity building such as training personnel, providing
computers and other equipment, may be difficult to assess in the short-term. The long-term
impact can only be measured in terms of increased productivity, efficiency and viability of
institutions over many years. However, it is possible and necessary to monitor accuracy and
quality, for instance trough benchmarks of effectiveness, least-costs, and benefits of the
training.



- 19 -
9.    Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Extracts from the Government of Cape Verde's comments (see Fax from H.E. Jose
Ulisses Correia e Silva, Finance Ministry, January 9th, 2001). Weak and strong points have
been jointly identified during the ICR mission. Among the strong points, it was noted that:
the Cape Verdian reality was rightly assessed and integrated in the design of the project; there
has been a permanent support for the project at all levels (World Bank, Government,
Beneficiaries); an adequate supervision allowed to introduce flexibility when needed.
Two main weak points were identified: delays of implementation occurred, which
underlines the necessity to reinforce coordination (essentially through the functioning of the
Supervision Committee); weaknesses were noted in the definition of performance indicators.
(b)    Cofinanciers:
Not applicable for this project.
(c)   Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable for this project.
10.   Additional Information
None



- 20 -
Annex 1.       Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators
IndicatorlMatnx                      Projected in last PSR1           Actual/Latest Estimate
Civil Service Reform: increased      1. intensive public information  1. the number of voluntary
efficiency and effectiveness of civil   campaign on the Voluntary        departure reached 311, of which
service.                                Departure Program                an estimated 95% was able to
2. 309 civil servants participated in  reintegrate the job market
the early retirement program  2. 427 civil servants participated in
3. 3) on-going training and         the early retirement program
strengthening of the local   3.  career paths have been
training capacity               implemented and standardized
4. an annual plan of training has
been put in place, and the
training program provided
training to 663 civil servants (3 B
training courses)
Decentralization/Municipal           1. study on an alternative solution  1. creation and equipment of inter-
Strengthening:                          for inter-municipal Technical    municipal Technical Support
(i) Better municipal operational       support Offices when not         Offices integrating 270 civil
capabilities; and                  appropriate                      servants and covering 12
.. .. 2. traing of the civil servants immunicipalities m S. Antao,
(ii) All municipalities are well equipped  the municipalities           Fogo/Brava and Santiago,
to carry out their functions in a                                2. Increase in the resources directly
satisfactory manner.                                             2. Inr.ei.h esucsdrcl
managed by the municipalities
(from US$ 14.4 millions in 1992
to US$ 26.6 millions in 1999)
3. increase in the number of civil
servants in the municipalities
(from 1200 in 1993 to 2800 in
1998) 4) 383 civil servants
followed training (24 training
courses)
Economic Management:
(i)  enhanced capacity of the media to  Training of joumalists ongoing  12 journalists have been trained in
treat economic questions whether                                 Lisbon for 3 months, and one
they are domestic or international;                             journalist received a grant to study in
Europe for 10 months
(ii)  smooth flow of information among  Study on the electronic mail system  A network links the majority of the
key personnel in the ministries,  completed.                     ministries, and intemet has been
government agencies;                                             introduced in many administrations.



- 21 -
Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in bst PSRI           ActuaVLatest Estimate
Economic Management:
(iii) efficient monitoring of reporting on  Good progress in setting up the debt  Implementation of the Debt
debt evolution;                 management system and related    Management System CS-DRMS in
capacity building                the Department of Treasury; the 103
ongoing projects have been
introduced in the debt monitoring
system
(iv) maximized benefit from External  Equipment acquired for the external  Data on external aid are
Aid;                            aid management system            systematically registered and
integrated into a single management
system
(v)  better organization and regular  National accounts for 1990-92  1. Creation of the autonomous
production of statistics.       produced, national accounts for     National Institute of statistics
1993-1994 in preparation.           (INE)
2. Production of definitive accounts
for 1989-1995 and temporary
accounts for 1996 and 1997 3)
increased access to this
information by users.
Legal Reform:                        Preliminary version of Commercial  Registration of enterprises: from April
code completed and publicly     to September 1999, 99 private
(i) reduced time necessary to constitute  discussed. Preliminary draft of Civil  commercial enterprises and 46
commercial ventures;            Procedural Code completed. Law  commercial enterprises established,
(ii) available statistical data on  library creation study completed.  from October 99 to April 2000,
registered ventures;            First edition of the Law Review  respectively 133 and 83, and from May
published.                      to October, respectively 215 and 56.
(iii) reduced backlog of pending civil
cases; and                                                       The time necessary to constitute
.iv) speeding up notary, property and                              commercial enterprises decreased
-(IV) speeding Up notary, property and                               fo   -1   ast    4huswt
commercial registration procedures                               from 7- 15 days to 24 hours with
reduced cost. The time necessary for
notary, property and commercial
registration procedures went down
from one week to 3 to 4 days.
Public Procurement:                  Legislation approved. New       Enactment of a law to harmonize the
(i) modernization of legal and technical  management information,    procedures and guarantee the
organizational mechanisms of the  monitoring and control system in  transparency of public procurement
process of public procurement;   place.
(ii) accountability for purchases; and
(iii) simplification and speeding up of the
bidding process.
The performance indicators in the first column were established after the mid-term review
mission, to retrofit the project with the new World Bank guidelines.
The second column states the progress at the mid-term review.



- 22 -
Output Indicators:
Indicator/M-atrix         Projected In last PSR       Actua    /Latest Estimate
End of project
The project implementation, as stated in the SAR, was carried out on the basis of
annual work programs for each component and sub-component. These programs detailed the
different steps and timeframes necessary to complete each activity.



- 23 -
Annex 2.     Project Costs and Financing
Table A.      Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Component                            R   t   ActuanLatest Percent of
Estknkt.   flOS     1909     Estmate     Appraisal
Modernization of Civil Service      0.71                       3.49       491.55
Reform
Decentralization & Municipal        2.0                        2.25       112.50
Strengthening
Economic Management Support         1.9                        2.4        126.32
Legal Framework & Judicial Reform   1.75                       1.41        80.57
Public Procurement                  0.34                       0.17        50.00
Operations & Project Implementation  0.84                      3.03       360.71
PPF Refinancing                     0.2
Contingencies                       1.17
Total                     8.91                      12.75
Table B.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurw_t Method (Appiakat Estimate) (lUS mflion)
Ex_~Cdy R
[Co       NCO       Other     N.B.F.     Total
1. Training                                               1.46                 1.46
2. Retraining (Voluntary Departees)                       0.20                 0.20
3. Advisory Services/Studies                              1.65                 1.65
4. Good-s                            3          0.77      0.30          _      4.07
5. Operational Costs                  _  _                0.22                 0.22
6. Public Information Campaign                            0.10                 0.10
7. Pre-Investmnent Studies                                0.20                 0.20
8. PPF Financing           _                              0.20                 0.20
Total Costs                  3          0.77      4.33                 8.10



- 24 -
Annex 2 (cont'd)
Table C.     Project Costs by Component (ActuallLatest Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method (ActuallLatest Estimate)
Expenditure Category                     (US$ Ii-on equ alent)
ICB       NCB       Other   N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Training                                           1.46              1.46
2. Retraining (Voluntary Departees)                   0.41              0.41
3. Advisory Services/Studies                           1.65             1.65
4. Goods                         3         0.77       0.30             4.07
(Equipment/vehicles/fumriture)
5. Operational costs                                  0.92              0.92
6. Pre-Investment Studies                             0.2              0.2
7. PPF Refinancing            _                       0.2              0.2
Total Costs                3        0.77        5.14             8.91
Table D.     Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Projec-t Component      Appraisal Estimate    ActuaULatest     Percent. ofA raisal
L________________________       Bank     Govt.     Bank      Govt      Bank      Govt.
Modermization of Civil Service  0.30      0.41      0.55      2.94    183.3    717.07
ReforI_
Decentralization & Municipal     1.75     0.25      2.12      0.13    121.1     52.00
Strengthening
Economic Management Support      1.65     0.25      2.35      0.00    142.4      0.00
Legal Framework & Judicial       1.55     0.20      1.41      0.00     91.0      0.00
Reformn
Public Procurement              0.26      0.08      0.17      0.00     65.4      0.00
Operations & Project            0.30      0.54      1.43      1.60    476.7    296.30
Implementation
PPF Refinancing                 0.20                    _  _      _ _ 
Contigencies                    0.94      0.23
Total                6.95      1.96      8.03     4.67



- 25 -
Annex 3.    Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable for this project.



- 26 -
Annex 4.      Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
No. Of P,  sn an Apvv
SCazhvw cy,f                                      Ob,,d         PrmneRaf
a ~cn d U, I-FMS, sa)
MonthNw            Count           8poh                 kiNWai           omp-n
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rm 2N!E s 
Identification/Preparation
03/1993                1      Task Team Leader                  S             S
1      Economist
1      Training Specialist
1      Procurement Specialist
1      Private Sector Specialist
Environment Specialist
I      Financial Analyst
I      Lawyer
3      Consultants
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/1993                1      Task Team Leader                  S             S
I      Economist
1      Training Specialist
2      Private Sector Specialist
1      Lawyer
1      Capacity Bldg Specialist
I      Procurement Specialist
Supervision
09/1993                6     Task Team Leader, Private          S            HS
Sector Specialist, consultants
06/94                  5     Task Team Leader, Economist,      HS            HS
Operations Analyst, Operations
Officer, Res. Representative,
Consultant
11/94                  4     Task Team Leader, Economist,      HS            HS
Training Specialist, Operations
Analyst
02/95                  4     Task Team Leader, Economist,      HS            HS
Training Specialist, Operations
Analyst
10/95                  5     Task Team Leader, Economist,      HS            HS
Training Specialist, Projects
Officer, Operations Analyst
06/96                  2    Task Team Leader, Projects Officer  S.           HS



- 27 -
Stageof Prject ycleNo. of Permons and Specialty        PromneRtn
Stage of ProJect Cycle    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Prfomance Ring
mplementation Development
MonthNYear        Count           Specialty             Progress     Objective
Mid-term Review
11196                 7     Task Team Leader, Economist,      S           HS
Projects Officer, Operations
Analyst, Training Specialist,
Operations Officer, Task Team
Assistant
06/97                 3     Task Team Leader, Projects        S           HS
Officer, Task Team Assistant
Annual Review & SPN
12/97                 3     Task Team Leader, Projects        S           HS
Officer, Task Team Assistant
06/98                 3     Task Team Leader, Projects        S           HS
Officer, Task Team Assistant
Annual Review & SPN
11/98                 2     Training Specialist, Projects     S           HS
Officer
05/99                 4     Economist, Training Specialist,   S           HS
Projects Officer, Financial
Management Specialist,
Program Assistant
Annual Review & SPN
11/99                 2     Projects Officer, Program         S           HS
Assistant
05/00                 3     Projects Officer, Financial       S           HS
Management Specialist,
Program Assistant
ICR                        3     Task Team Leader,                 S           HS
Consultant, Program
Assistant
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle      No.       ActualJLatest Estimate
._Stage_of_Project_Cycle       No. Staff weeks            USS (,000)
Identification/Preparation        43.0                    85.0
Appraisal/Negotiation             27.3                    91.8
Supervision                      145.9                   555.0
ICR                                                        0
Total                            216.2                   731.8



- 28 -
Annex 5.    Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=-Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro Policies                   SU
Sector Policies                  SU
Physical                         NA
Financial                        SU
Insitutional Development         SU
Environmental                    NA
Social
Poverty Reduction          NA
Gender                     NA
Other (Please specify)     NA
Private Sector Development       SU
Public Sector Management         SU
Other (Please specify)           NA



- 29 -
Annex 6.    Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                      Rating
Lending                                     S
Supervision                                 S
Overall                                     S
6.2 Borrowerperformance                   Rating
Preparation                                 S
Government implementation performance       S
Implementation agency performance           S
Overall                                     S



- 30 -
Annex 7.     List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report (January 7, 1994)
Mid-term review Project Status Report
Final Mission Project Status Report
Back-to-office report and Aide Memoire of the ICR mission
Government of Cape Verde's ICR



