Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2566 CV
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Sector Reform & Capacity Building Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 16, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2566 CV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Association has received a letter dated November 17, 1993 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the Borrower's public sector (hereinafter called the Program), and 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Directorate General of Statistics" means the Borrower's Statistics 
Department within MEC; 
(b)
"ELECTRA" means the Borrower's Electricity and Water Utility Company;
 
(c)
"MEC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economic Coordination;
 
(d)
"MIA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Internal Administration;
 
(e)
"MOC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Culture and Communications ;
 
(f)
"MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
 
(g)
"MOJ" means the Borrower's Ministry of Justice and Labor;
 
(h)
"MPA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Administration;
 
(i)
"Patrimonio" means the Department of Government Assets and Goods 
Acquisition within MOF;
(j)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established within MEC and 
headed by a project coordinator (the Project Coordinator) to coordinate the 
implementation of the Project;
(k)
"Planning Directorate General" means the Department of Planning within 
MEC;
(l)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
November 5, 1993 and November 16, 1993 between the Borrower and the Association;
(m)
"RAIMB" means the Reform Advisory and Implementation Monitoring Board 
presided over by the ministers of MEC and MPA; and
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
equivalent to five million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
5,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
Page  3
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15,
commencing April 15, 2004 and ending October 15, 2033. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on October 15, 2013 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms 
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association 
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall 
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
Page  4
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A, B, D and E of the Project through MPA, MIA, MOJ and MOF, respectively, 
and Part C of the Project through MEC, MOF and MOC, as appropriate, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower, through MEC:
(a)
shall establish, and thereafter maintain, the PCU within MEC with 
qualified staff in sufficient numbers, and with functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Association; the PCU shall be headed by a Project Coordinator, 
under terms of reference and with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the 
Association, who shall have the responsibility, inter alia, of ensuring that the 
coordination of all Project activities is managed by the PCU; and
(b)
shall maintain RAIMB, throughout the duration of the implementation of 
the Project, under terms of reference and with members, satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 3.04. By October 31 in each year, commencing with October 31, 1994, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
provide to the Association for its review and comments the proposed 
annual public sector reform program for the following year to include, without 
limitation:
(i)
a statement of objectives to be achieved and of activities to be 
undertaken;
(ii)
detailed investment and operating budgets for such activities;
 
(iii)
explicit targets to be achieved in such year in respect of 
proposed actions 
and reforms;
 
(iv)
an implementation schedule including monitoring targets to assess 
progress 
achieved throughout the year;
 
(v)
training and other technical assistance plans; and
 
(vi)
a procurement program detailing goods (including all equipment) 
and services 
to be procured;
 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on 
the proposed annual public sector reform program;
(c)
incorporate, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the 
Page  5
Association's comments on the proposed program; and
(d)
adopt a final annual public sector reform program satisfactory to the 
Association by no later than the first working day of each calendar year of the 
Project.
Section 3.05. In each quarter ending on March 31, June 30, and September 30, or 
on such other dates and for such other periods as the Association may otherwise agree, 
the PCU shall prepare a progress report, comparing actual and forecast progress and 
evaluating such progress against project monitoring indicators agreed with the 
Association including, inter alia, standard agreed performance indicators monitoring 
the physical, financial and operational progress of individual subcomponents and 
aggregating performance of all components of the Project; and shall provide such 
progress report to the Association no later than thirty days after each such quarter; 
and shall prepare an annual progress report including information concerning the 
quarter ending December 31 in each year, and shall provide such annual progress report 
to the Association by no later than March 1 in the following year.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to Section 3.01 of this Agreement, in each 
fiscal year throughout implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall make adequate 
allocation in its annual
budget to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the carrying out of retraining under Part A of the Project, and 
for the PCU.
Section 3.07. (a) By no later than October 31 in each year, commencing on 
October 31, 1994, the Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, a review 
(being, in the case of 1996,
the midterm review,) of the progress made in carrying out the Project and the Program. 
This review shall cover, among other things:
(i)
the performance of MEC, MIA, MOC, MOF, MOJ and MPA in implementing 
the Project;
 
(ii)
the effectiveness of the PCU;
 
(iii)
the availability of the Borrower's counterpart funding and the 
adequacy of its 
budgetary allocations for the Project;
 
(iv)
the results of the studies undertaken under the Project;
 
(v)
the effectiveness of training provided under the Project; and
 
(vi)
the degree of achievement of the Project's objectives in light of 
the 
monitoring indicators agreed upon with the Association.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall transmit to the Association, at least thirty days 
prior to each such review described in paragraph (a) above, a report in such scope and 
detail as the Association shall request, describing, inter alia, the status of the 
items listed in such paragraph and of Project and Program implementation generally.
(c)
Based on the review undertaken in accordance with (a) above, the Borrower 
shall promptly prepare an action plan acceptable to the Association for the further 
implementation of the Project and the Program and shall thereafter implement such 
action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than three months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower shall have established the PCU in accordance with Section 
3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower shall have established a financial management and accounting 
system for the Project, satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower shall have selected an independent auditor acceptable to the 
Association to audit the Project Account;
(d)
the Borrower and the Association shall have agreed on a detailed work 
Page  7
program for the first year of the Project; and
(e)
the Association shall have received an audit report of ELECTRA, 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
CP 506
Praia
Cabo Verde
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANCAS
6056 MFGCV
Cabo Verde
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
By /s/ Jose E. Barbosa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Page  8
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Training                    920,000        100%
(2)  Retraining                  140,000        49%
(3)  Advisory services         1,050,000        100%
     and studies
(4)  Goods                     2,600,000        100%
(5)  Operating                   140,000        100%
     costs
(6)  Public information           70,000        77%
     campaigns
(7)  Preinvestment studies       140,000        100%
(8)  Refunding of                140,000        Amounts due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(9)  Unallocated                 500,000
                               _________
         TOTAL                 5,700,000
                               =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of salaries of local contractual staff (including 
auditing staff), establishment
and maintenance of a financial and accounting management system, maintenance of 
vehicles and fuel, and office supplies and utilities; and
(b)
the term "public information campaigns" means the campaigns to be carried 
out under Part A and Part C (d) of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and services under 
contracts not exceeding
$25,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  9
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of 
its program for economic and social reform through implementation of public sector 
institutional development
and capacity building activities and enhancement of the environment for private sector 
development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Modernization of the Civil Service
 
Improvement of human resource planning and management systems in the Borrower's 
civil service through: (i) the provision of short-term advisory services training and 
equipment; and (ii) the carrying out of studies and public information campaigns, 
including:
(a)
design and implementation of a training program for managers, 
administrators and support staff in public administration and sector policy and 
analysis;
(b)
support for the modernization of human resources management by MPA; and
 
(c)
assistance in design of a civil service retrenchment program and of the 
implementation of training and retraining schemes for participants in the Borrower's 
voluntary departure program.
Part B:
Decentralization and Municipal Strengthening
 
Provision of short-term advisory services, equipment and training and the 
carrying out of studies in all of the Borrower's municipalities and in MIA, as 
appropriate, to:
(a)
assist in institution capacity building, further detailing guidelines for 
the decentralization process and strengthening communications between municipalities 
to promote the
sharing of technical support and equipment and communication between municipal 
authorities and local population; and
(b)
develop fiscal administration and management practices, planning and 
budgetary systems and procurement procedures for expenditure control at the local 
level;
(c)
assist municipalities in recruitment, staff training and personnel 
management; and
(d)
strengthen the municipalities, in particular, in the organization of 
provision of services to the community.
Part C:
Economic Management
 
The carrying out of studies and public information campaigns and the provision 
of advisory services, training, equipment, books and internal publications to MEC, MOF 
and MOC and their agencies and the private media, so as to:
(a)
restructure the national accounts and statistics system;
 
(b)
strengthen economic policy formulation and impact analysis capacity of 
the Planning Directorate General, establish a multi-year rolling investment program 
and provide the initial
finance necessary to set up a preinvestment studies fund;
(c)
support the Public Finance Department within MOF, undertake a study on 
methods of public resource mobilization, and assist in developing debt and aid 
coordination and management
systems;
Page  10
(d)
improve communication of economic and social policies (by public 
information campaigns);
(e)
test pilot schemes for the involvement of non-resident nationals to 
assist in economic and social development;
(f)
improve intragovernment communications; and
 
(g)
design a shared information data system for government operations.
 
Part D:
Legal Framework and Judicial Reform
 
Provision of equipment and materials, textbooks and internal publications and 
advisory services and training to MOJ and its agencies, including:
(a)
training for the Judiciary, the Registrar of Companies, the Registrar of 
Deeds and the legal services departments of key ministries and assistance in the 
preparation of draft commercial, labor and civil procedures legislation;
(b)
training for magistrates and other lawyers in business law;
 
(c)
strengthening of drafting skills of MOJ;
 
(d)
development of arbitration facilities and preparation of processes and 
procedures, including those for commercial law matters; and
(e)
provision of equipment to improve efficiency and computerization in 
relation to certain legal services, such as company registration, notarial services 
and business facilitation.
Part E:
Public Procurement Reform
 
Provision of training, equipment and advisory services to Patrimonio and 
selected government administration departments for preparing revisions of procurement 
procedures and legislation,
improving staff performance through training and modernization of the procurement 
process.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitations to bid referred to in 
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed 
beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by 
two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied 
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component of 
the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where 
Page  11
no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower 
shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms 
agreed with the Association.
(c)
Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by a third 
party inspection firm.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $770,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
Goods up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for the purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants' Guidelines).
2.
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants 
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued 
by the Association, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Page  12
Association, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association review shall not apply 
to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to 
single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably 
determined by the Association or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value 
to $50,000 equivalent or above, and to the first ten contracts to be awarded.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $250,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
Page  13
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
