Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19049-TUN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
MUNICIPAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3507-TUN)
March 31, 1999
Infrastructure Development Group
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
US$1.00 = TD 0.99 (December 1996)
TDI = US$1.01
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFH          Agence Fonci&re d'Habitation (Housing Land Agency)
ARRU         Agence pour la Renovation et la Rehabilitation Urbaine
(Urban Rehabilitation and Renewal Agency)
BTO          Back-to-Office Report (rapport de mission)
CPSCL        Caisse des Prets et de Soutien des Collectivites Locales
(Municipal Development Agency)
DGAR         Direction Generale des Affaires Regionales (General Directorate for Regional Affairs)
DGCPL        Direction Generale des Collectivites Publiques Locales
(General Directorate for Public and Local Governments)
ENA          Ecole Nationale d'Administration (National Administration School)
ENIT         Ecole Nationale d'Ingenieurs de Tunisie (National Engineering School)
FCCL         Fonds Comrnun des Collectivites Locales (Local Government Common Fund)
GoT          Government of Tunisia (Gouvernement de Tunisie)
IDF          Institutional Development Fund (Fonds de Developpe7nent Institutionnel)
LG           Local Government (collectivite locale)
MSIP         Municipal Sector Investment Project (Projet de Diveloppement Municipal)
MEH          Ministry of Equipment and Housing (Ministere de 1 'Equipement et de l 'Habitat)
MoF          Ministry of Finance (Ministere des Finances)
Mol          Ministry of Interior (Ministere de l 'Interieur)
OFPE          Office de Formation Professionnelle et de l'Emploi
(National Agency for Employment and Professional Training)
PDM          Projet de Developpement Municipal (Municipal Sector Investment Project)
PIC           Programme d 'Investissement Communal (Municipal Investment Program)
USAID        United States Agency For International Development
(Agence Amniricaine pour le Developpement International)
Vice President: Kemal Dervi,
Country Director: Christian Delvoie
Sector Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Team Leader: Frangois L. Amiot



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary.......................................................................................................i
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT BY THE BANK ............................... I
Municipal Sector Background ......................................................................I
Project Objectives ......................................................................2
Achievement of Project Objectives ......................................................................4
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...................................................                               9
Project Sustainability ......................................................................11
Bank Perfo nnance ......................................................................11
Borrower Performance .....................................................................                                                     12
Assessment of Outcome .....................................................................                                                   12
Future Operations .....................................................................                                                       13
Key Lessons Learned .....................................................................                                                      13
PART  II. STATISTICAL  ANNEXES  .......................                                  ..............................................        15
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment .16
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans-Credits .17
Table 3:  Project Timetable .17
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .17
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .18
Table 6:  Key Indicators for CPSCL .19
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .20
Table 8A: Project Costs .21
Table 8B: Project Financing .21
Table 9:  Status of Legal Covenants .22
Table 10:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .23
Table 11:  Bank Resources: Staff inputs .23
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions .24
APPENDIX: Borrower's Contribution to ICR .26
Map: IBRD 24726R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
MUNICIPAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3507-TUN)
Preface
This is the implementation completion report for the first Municipal Sector Investment Project,
for which the Govermnent of the Republic of Tunisia received a loan in the amount of US$75 million
equivalent. The loan was signed on October 7, 1992; became effective on April 22, 1993; and closed on
August 19, 1998. The last disbursement was made on August 3, 1998. USAID participated in the project
financing, with a contribution of US$3.4 million. IDF participated with a grant in the amount of
US$450,000.
This report was prepared by Alain Davet, consultant, and was revised and supplemented by
Maryse Gautier. It was reviewed by Francois Amiot and Laura Raimondo. It was drafted on the basis of
information contained in the project documents and gathered during a field mission. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the report by submitting its own project assessment, which is attached as
an appendix.



Tunisia                                   -i-             Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
MUNICIPAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3507-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Tunisia is a highly urbanized country, with more than 60 percent of its 8 million population living
in urban areas (1992 estimates). Urban growth is accelerating, and it is estimated that more than 7 million
will live in cities by the year 2020, creating further demand for infrastructure and services. Tunisia began
its independence in 1956 with a highly centralized and powerful national administration and very weak
local and regional government units. The municipal structure is more than a century old; its rules and
regulations were updated in 1975, in 1985, and more recently in 1991 and 1996.
2.    Development of the municipal sector requires a long-term strategy to strengthen the financial
resources of the municipalities, enhance decentralization and local institutional capacity, and improve the
institutions in charge of managing funds for municipal investments. The strategyis being implemented in
several phases; the first was the Municipal Sector Investment Project (MSIP), which closed in August
1998 and is the subject of this report. The Second Municipal Development Project, now under
supervision, has been designed with the same overall objectives as the first project, and is developing and
extending its achievements.
Project Objectives
3.    The project aimed at enhancing the efficiency of local governments (municipalities and regional
councils) in planning and delivering local services, financing and implementing investments, and
mobilizing and allocating resources. MSIP supported GoT's efforts to strengthen local governments and
finance part of their investments, thereby increasing their contribution to the economic, social, and
political development of the country. As the first Bank operation to directly support local governments,
the project focused on: (a) increasing the ability of local authorities to carry out their responsibilitiesto
plan, identify, and follow up municipal investments, and improving their financial resources through a
reform of local taxes; (b) strengthening the municipal development agency, CPSCL (Caisse des prets et
de soutien des collectivites locales); and (c) improving the municipalities' provision of basic
infrastructure and services through the financing of investments.
Project Implementation and Outcome
4.    The implementation and outcome of the project were satisfactory and the project closed
16 months earlier than initially scheduled. The capacity of local staff improved tremendously through an
efficient training program set up and successfully implemented by a Training Center created in 1995, and
through CPSCL assistance. CPSCL was strengthened, evolving from a cashier's window to an
autonomous agency able to provide financial and technical support to municipal investments. The



Tunisia                                   - ii -          Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
municipal investment component was disbursed quickly, and benefited municipalities through an
upgrading of low-income neighborhoods, municipal infrastructure, and commercial facilities.A local tax
reformn was approved by Parliament in January 1997 and is now effective.
5.    The proceeds of the project were totally disbursed by August 1998.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
6.    Project execution proceeded well and all objectives were achieved. The project was more than
100 percent committed and the Bank loan was 79 percent disbursed as early as February 1996, three
years after effectiveness. Government authorities and municipalities did well in planning and carrying out
investments. CPSCL effectively supervised the execution of subprojects and monitored the financial
performance of borrowing municipalities. The Training Center provided seminars and workshops to civil
servants from local governments.
7.    Factors affecting the project included the difficulty of providing training within the framework of
the DGCPL (Direction ginerale des collectivites publiques locales), which resulted in the decision to
create the Training Center outside of DGCPL. Actually, although created late in the project, the Center
proved much more efficient. Also, the Government's decision to have an independent directorate
(direction generale) within Mol was an acknowledgment of the importance of the municipal sector, and
provided the necessary means to launch the project.
8.    Another issue was the belated decision from the National Committee on the local tax reform. The
law was approved in January 1997, and is now effective. The reform, although enacted with some delay,
brought a major improvement to the financial system (see para. 11).
Project Sustainability
9.    The project was part of a long-term strategy that had been widely discussed between the Bank
and the GoT. Its success ensures the sustainability not only of the project itself, but most likely of the
longer-term municipal strategy, which will be further refined based on the outcomes of the second
project.
10.   The efficiency of the local governments (LGs) and of CPSCL dramatically increased during the
project, but it has been agreed that persistent efforts are needed in terms of training as well as developing
the capacity of the municipal agency to adapt to the changing financial environment. The second project
has responded to these needs with sustained Training Center activities and with a study aimed at helping
CPSCL to adapt to the financial environment.
11.   The reform of local taxation should drive the rationalization ofthe local tax systems and increase
the LGs' fiscal discipline in managing their budgets and debt service capacity. Local resources will be
further strengthened by equalizing the budget transfer to the municipalities, which is being undertaken in
the second project.
12.   Sustainability is also enhanced by the upgrading of local urban infrastructure and increased
sensitivity to maintenance issues, which are being continued underthe Second Municipal Development
Project.



Tunisia                                  - iii -          Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
Bank and Borrower Performance
13.   In working closely with the GoT, the Bank has been a persistent and strong advocate of the
important reforms embodied in the project: the status of CPSCL staff, the local tax reform, and the
creation of the municipal staff Training Center. The Bank was overly optimistic in the initial objectives
related to the local tax reform, in terms of (a) the extent of the reform, and (b) the planned schedule.
Nevertheless, the new law drastically chances the fiscal system, as the project intended. The Bank
supported Mol's decision to create a new Training Center through the proposal of an IDF, which
provided, along with USAID funds, the resources for initial studies.
14.   The performance and participation of the Borrower were satisfactory for both project preparation
and implementation, due largely to the institutional arrangements established by Mol. First, the project
was supervised by a coordination unit whose role was key, in conjunction with CPSCL, in the
achievement of the various programs and activities, and in reliable reporting to the Bank. Second, MoI
agreed to the creation of the Training Center once it was made clear that the issue could not be addressed
within DGCPL. Moreover, the various structural and financial commitments agreed upon with the Bank
were respected over the course of the project, such as the municipalities' investment program and the
local tax reform.
Lessons Learned
15.   The success and sustainability of municipal investment and financedepends on three main issues:
(a) provision of sufficient and reliable resources for municipalities; (b) increased autonomy ofLGs and
good expertise at the local level, stemming from appropriate human resources; and (c) a financial
institution able to provide technical and financial assistance to local governments.
16.   Experience has shown the advantages of placing individual projects in a strategic context, which
allows continuation of progress over the long termn.
17.   Changes were introduced through the local tax reform, which emphasized the need of strong
political will. Issues of equalization strike at the heart of Government decentralization, and are being
addressed in the Second Municipal Development Project.
18.   The success of the project was deeply rooted in the strengthening of LGs. This first experience
has shown the need to assess realistically the willingness of the Government to decentralize decision-
making and financing capacity.
19.   The project focused heavily on local finance and much less on management issues. Within the
framework of a more autonomous CPSCL, the role of DGCPL and DGAR (Direction generale des
affaires regionales), a part of Mol, could have been addressed in a more elaborated way.



Tunisia                                   -I-                Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
MUNICIPAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3507-TUN)
PART I
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT BY THE BANK
Municipal Sector Background
1.    The Tunisian municipal system is managed largely by the Ministry of Interior (Mol), which has
supervisory authority for all local governments. It exercises its authority at the regional level through the
governorates, which are divided into delegations. In 1988, the country was divided into
246 municipalities and 23 governorates (today 257 communes). The municipalities vary greatly in size
and population. Tunis, the largest city, has a population of 700,000, while the smallest has fewer than a
thousand people. Half of the municipalities have fewer than 10,000 inhabitants. Tunisian municipalities
are weak governmental structures with little economic importance.An important gap persists between the
role assigned to them by law and the one they are able to perform.
2.    The responsibilities of the municipalities are twofold: development of the community, and
management of municipal affairs. Development of the community is achieved through local
implementation of the national development plans and the definition of a five-year Municipal Investment
Program (Programme d'investissement communal, PIC). Management of municipal affairs covers three
types of activities: protection of public health and order (including maintenance of roads, public spaces
and buildings, and household garbage collection); management of municipal territory (including road
system alignment, zoning, sanitation plans); and management of the civil registry.
3.    The municipal authority is vested in an elected council, and its president, the mayor, supervises
and coordinates the council's work and countersigns and ensures implementation of its decisions. Mayors
are not paid and cannot work full time as mayors. They delegate their authority to other council members.
The Secretary General of the municipality has an administrative role. He plays the role of legal advisor to
the council and is responsible, under the responsibility of the president, for managing municipal staff and
the municipal road system, and overseeing the collection of local taxes and fees. The responsibilities of
the Municipal Council are to prepare and approve the budget and to supervise the municipality's affairs.
4.    The President of the Republic appoints 23 governors who represent the administrative authority.
Mol supervises them. When the Central Government decided to give the governorate councils more
financial autonomy and a more important role in the economic development of the region, it assigned the
regional development program to the governorates.
5.    In 1990, there were about 19,000 municipal employees in Tunisia, corresponding to four civil
servants per 1,000 inhabitants. Despite the growing share of municipal revenues devoted to salaries (on
average, 50 percent), the municipalities continued to face inadequate numbers and quality of staffing,



Tunisia                                   - 2 -              Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
employing mainly unskilled staff and recruiting few specialists. Improving their managerial capacity
depends chiefly on improving the qualifications of their personnel.
6.    Municipal finance is administered under the strict supervision of Mol and the Ministry of Finance
(MoF). GoT finances almost half the municipalities' budgets through several channels. In 1988,
43 percent of their total operating budgets were financed via the Local Government Common Fund
(Fonds commun des collectivites locales, FCCL), and 40 percent of their investments through the budgets
of various ministries. The Caisse des prets et de soutien aux collectivites locales (CPSCL) provides
additional investment financing in the form of loans and grants for local governments. In the early 1990s,
it operated as a cashier's window for the Direction generale des collectivitespubliques locales (DGCPL),
Mol's General Directorate for Local Government.
7.    The Director General of Taxation of MoF (Direction generale des eitudes et de la legislation
fiscale, DGELF) presented local tax reform proposals during preparation, and the project assisted in
implementing the changes. In the case of indirect taxes, GoT approved an increase, by as much as
100 percent of the tariff of municipal services such as civil registry, use of public space, and building
permits. Reforms are impeded, however, by inefficiencies in tax collection (evasion rates are high,
particularly for housing taxation), cumbersome land registration procedures, and political considerations.
8.    The municipalities were ill equipped to perform their duties. Efficiency gains could be realized
through planning, financing, and the implementation of local activities in closer consultation with end
users. Mol started the preparation of a municipal investment program (Programme d'investissement
communal, PIC) for the Seventh Economic Plan (1987-91) and maintained the same format for
preparation of the Eighth Plan (1992-96). The PIC is a list of investment projects for all municipalities for
the period of the plan. It includes financing schemes.
9.    Before this project, the Bank had granted five urban development loans to Tunisia. The first
(Loan 937- Credit 432-TUN, US$18million, 1973) was a successful urban planning and transport project,
including the rehabilitation of a suburban railway line in Tunis and the setting up of the Tunis District, a
Greater Tunis planning agency. The second project (Loan 1705-TUN, US$19 million, 1979) was
directed to two municipalities, Tunis and Sfax. The third and fourth projects (Loan 2223-TUN, US$25
million, 1983 and Loan 2736-TUN, US$30 million, 1989) initiated the institutional strengthening of
ARRU, the Urban Rehabilitation and Renewal Agency (Agence pour la renovation et la reihabilitation
urbaine), and AFH, the Housing Land Agency (Agence fonciere d'habitation). The fifth project (Loan
3064-TUN, US$58 million, 1989) included a line of credit to a restructured housing bank, institutional
strengthening of the Ministry of Equipment and Housing (MEH), and a land registration component.
10.   This project (Loan 3507-TUN, US$75 million, 1992) drew on the experience in municipal
development and finance in similar projects in other countries, while building on the sector work
resulting in the report entitled Municipal Finances and Management in Tunisia, March 2, 1988
(7150-TUN). This dialogue led to the formulation of this project, which was proposed to support the
Government's Municipal Investment Project (MIP), to strengthen the financial resources of the
municipalities, enhance decentralization with stronger local institutional capacity, and improve the
institution in charge of managing the funds. The final report on MIP was issued at the time of appraisal
in November 1991. The project supported implementation of GoT's program, which was intended to
strengthen local governments and increase their contribution to the economic, social, and political
development of the country. The Eighth Plan contemplated about US$460 million to finance the PIC.
Bank participation in this project complemented the financing resources of the Central and local
government budgets for PIC investments.



Tunisia                                     - 3 -              Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
Project Objectives
11.    The main objectives of the project were to help GoT increase the efficiency of municipalities and
regional councils in decisionmaking, resource mobilization and allocation, and project financing and
implementation. As the first Bank operation directly supporting local governments, the project focused
on three objectives: (a) increasing the local authorities' ability to carry out their responsibilities in
planning, identifying, and following up municipal investments and improving their financial resources
through a reform of local taxes; (b) strengthening the municipal development agency, CPSCL (Caissedes
prets et de soutien des collectivites locales); and (c) improving the municipalities' provision of basic
infrastructure and services through the financing of investments.
12.    The three components of the project were: (a) institutional strengthening of the municipalities,
Mol, and MoF (US$6.7 million, or 3 percent of the total project cost); (b) institutional strengthening of
CPSCL (US$1.0 million, or about 1 percent of the total project cost); (c) priority infrastructure
investments for municipalities and regional councils (US$200 million, or 96 percent of the total project
cost).
Institutional Strengthening of Municipalities and Ministries
13.    This component included consultants' services and vehicles and equipment for the municipalities,
Mol, and MoF. It also included a training program for the staff of municipalities and regional councils,
which involved setting up a Training Directorate within Mol and financing training sessions. The
Training Directorate was established as a link between municipalities and training entities.This Training
Directorate called on existing training entities such as Ecole nationale d'administration (ENA), Ecole
nationale d'ingenieurs de Tunisie (ENIT), and Office deformation professionnelle et de l'emploi (OFPE)
to provide training. The Training Directorate was given the authority to assess their results, modify the
content of their training, and require special activities from them. It worked jointly with the Project
Coordinator to define the training program and budget presented to the Bank. External technical
assistance was provided for the establishment and startup of the Training Directorate.
14.    Consultant services bolstered the local tax reform  and the improvement of municipal
management. The studies were managed by DGCPL and the Project Coordinator in consultation with the
appropriate administrative services. The terms of reference of the studies to be carried out in a certain
year were agreed upon with the Bank by December 31 of the previous year.
Strengthening of CPSCL, the Municipal Development Agency
15.    This component was designed to help restructure and strengthen CPSCL so it could play a major
role in evaluating the projects and municipalities it finances. It included setting up an accounting system
by June 30, 1993; the adoption of procedures for project appraisal and follow-up (Operations Manual);
and the hiring of CPSCL staff, including a manager experienced in financial matters and project
appraisal, staff training, and provision of equipment and vehicles.
Municipal Investments
16.    This component included: (a) upgrading of low-income neighborhoods; (b) construction and
rehabilitation of municipal infrastructure in existing neighborhoods including urban roads, street lighting,
drainage, and a solid waste collection and disposal system; and (c) construction and equipping of
commercial facilities such as markets and slaughterhouses. These projects were to be appraised



Tunisia                                       - 4 -                Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
according to eligibility criteria acceptable to the Bank, and reflected in the allocation of loans and
matching grants decided annually by the Government according to sector priorities.
Achievement of Project Objectives
17.    The project met its main objectives. The efficiency of the local and regional governments in the
decisionmaking process with respect to resource mobilization and allocation, and project financing and
implementation, was enhanced. The reform program to increase municipal revenues was carried, and a
study on municipal services cost recovery was completed. CPSCL was restructured and strengthened.
Local infrastructure and services were improved. The project increased the overall efficiency of the
Tunisian economy, and the associated studies contributed to the preparatory work for the
recommendations of the Ninth Plan (1997-2001). The efficiency in preparing and supervising project
implementation stemmed from the nomination of a coordinator withinMol, who was essential in defining
objectives and following up implementation of the TA component.
18.    Institutional strengthening of municipalities and ministries. The training facility was first located
within DGCPL, at the Mol, from 1992 to 1994. During this period, it became clear that its installation
inside the Mol was not the optimal solution due to internal administrative constraints. The facility was
then moved to a convenient location, where a Training Centerl was created and a General Manager2 was
nominated. Some studies3 concerning the setting up of the Center, the development of courses, and the
training of trainers, financed by USAID and an IDF grant, were realized in 1993. The activities with
students started after June 1995. Although the Center began its activities late in project implementation,
its results were satisfactory, as indicated by the beneficiaries. Courses reached a large number of people,
covered practical topics, and utilized effective communication techniques.
19.    The activities of the Training Center are summarized below:
Period          Topics             Total Activities        Total Beneficiaries
1995,            7                        15 workshops          2,112
from June           7                         28 seminars
13                       48 workshops          803
1996             10                20 training of trainers       189
2                2 study tours in France        23
14                        43 seminars          2,094
13                       64 workshops          2,146
1997             2                  3 training for trainers      11
I11                       36 seminars         2,541
1                 1 study tour in France        1
I study tour in Belgium        I
Source: Training Center, June 1998.
The Training Center (Centre national de perfectionnement et de recyclage des cadres regionaux et municipaux,
CNPRCRM) was created by Law N' 94-76 of June 27, 1994 and Decree N° 94-2325 of November 14, 1994.
2 Information about the period preceding the nomination of the General Manager and financing of the Training
Center is provided below. The General Manager was nominated in June 1995. The Center has also two managers
who are also trainers. In 1998, the three of them were forner ENA students.
3 See Table 7 in the statistical annexes for the list of studies prepared within the Local Government Support
Program (LGSP).



Tunisia                                      - 5 -               Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
20.    Reasons for the Training Center's success included: (a) its ability to recruit and train good
trainers, and (b) supervision of the workshop trainees by the trainers after the formal training. In fact, an
interesting aspect of the program was the pedagogical training of trainers by foreign specialists and their
strict evaluation at the end of the courses. The trainers, who were interviewed during the ICR mission,
considered their experience highly rewarding because they acquired skills they could use not only at the
Training Center but also in their professional environment in the municipalities or elsewhere.They also
mentioned the relationships they developed among themselves and with their trainees.
21.    To communicate information to trainees, the Center used both seminars and workshops. Seminars
generally lasted one day and involved no real interaction between the trainer(s) and attendees. They
presented general information on topics such as the Ninth Development Plan (presented to 313 persons),
the New Salary Scale (655 beneficiaries), the New Guide for Municipal Investment Projects
(612 attendees). Workshops (2 or 3 days) were very popular among the trainees because of the active
participation requirement. From the outset, they were told they would have to prepare anaction plan that
they would implement when they returned in their municipalities. Action plans were accepted by the
trainers and officially sent to the governorates and the mayors to obtain their participation. Trainers
helped the trainees to carry out their work, either technically or by intervening, if necessary, at the
municipal level. In a country where hierarchy is important, the fact that middle management could
implement the action plans they created boosted their interest in their work. In some municipalities, the
new trainees were clearly thought to be spearheading a new way of doing municipal business. Another
benefit the training was that it developed a real esprit de corps among the attendees, who exchanged ideas
and experiences when they returned to their municipalities, creating an informal network.
22.    The creation, organization, equipping, and running of the Center, as well as the completion of the
necessary studies for preparation of the courses, were financed jointly by grants from IDF and USAID,
by GoT, and by the loan. The US$450,000 grant from IDF covered consultants' fees for US$350,000 and
the purchase of equipment (hardware, software, training documents) for US$100,000. USAID contributed
US$316,000. GoT covered the salaries and allocated TD 250,000 from 1995 to 1997. The loan covered
US$216,000.
23.    The Training Center was successful not only in transferring technical skills in different areas such
as cost accounting, planning or service management, cost-recovery mechanisms, and financial and
economic analyses, but also in introducing new behavior to municipal civil servants. These activities are
expected to continue. More trainers should be designated and trained to replace those who have been
promoted or are too busy to carry out training sessions. Former trainers took with them a savoir-faire that
will help modify the way the administration works. It is crucial that the frequency of training continues
and even accelerates to reach new beneficiaries without forgetting those who have already passed through
the Center.4 They still need reinforcement of the basic knowledge they acquired during their short stay
there.
4 In one of the large cities, a civil servant who had taken a cost accounting course at the Training Center was
delighted to be able to calculate the real cost of maintenance of the city theater. He planned to analyze all the
costs of the city. The General Secretary and a member of the Elected Council confirmed that it was the first time
that the city knew what expenses were charged to different city departments.



Tunisia                                   - 6 -              Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
24.   Tax reform. The reform, approved by the Parliament on January 1997, rationalized and simplified
the local taxation system.5 But the introduction of administrated square meter pricesto set the value of
owner-occupied housing for the Rental Value Tax, instead of using the rental value, was only a second-
best solution with respect to determining both property taxes and the market value of real estate. It did
not take into consideration the differences in land values and construction costs across regions. However,
the reform seems to have improved perceptions of fairness among the population and the collection rate
should increase. But it is still difficult to force an individual to pay his taxes (unless the municipality uses
indirect means such as delays in the delivery of official documents). The reform will not substantially
increase the revenues of LGs. In fact, some large municipalities with many high-value rental villas, such
as Tunis, Ariana, or Sousse, may recover less than before. Nevertheless, the reform brings major
improvements to the financial system.
25.   MoI implemented the new system in 1998 with retroactive collection for 1997, and launched an
information campaign on tax reform directed toward the communes for mayors (1 day) and civil servants
(2 days) in 1997. Software was distributed to the municipalities. The census needed at the local level to
implement the new taxes is now completed and tax rolls are being determined and computerized. Taxes
on unbuilt land will be difficult to levy because the municipalities generally do not have any information
(cadastre or other) with respect to the owners of the land.
26.   The reform brought major improvements in the financial system, although it was enacted with
some delay. As suggested during project appraisal, the reform established financing mechanisms that
make the volume of resources available to LGs easier to predict, and, consequently, enables
municipalities to improve financial planning. The Bank was nevertheless too optimistic in expecting the
reform to expand municipal funds, which remain modest, as well as in planning the reform procedure,
which ended up requiring lengthy debates.
27.   The second objective of the SAR, concerning the local finance reform, suggested increasing the
budget transfer between Central and local governments by 8.5 percent per year; the FCCL (Fonds
commun des collectivites locales) would then reach 5 percent of the budget in 1996. The aim of pursuing
both objectives at the same time was overly ambitious in a limited span of time, and the second objective
could not be achieved within the scope of the project. However, a study financed by USAID indicated
that FCCL funds have not kept up with the needs of the municipalities and should be increased and/or
indexed to Central Government revenues. The USAID study also suggested that the existing distribution
of FCCL should be examined and a system that takes more into account the need for equalization should
be considered. That study was the starting point of the discussion between the Bank and the Government
which led to the reform of the transfer system between Central and local governments, and its
equalization role under discussion in the Second Project. The reform is under development in the second
project. In terms of absolute amounts, though, FCCL was close in 1998 to one percent of Government
fiscal revenues, revealing the Government's timid political will to decentralize.
28.   CPSCL. The challenge was to take a cashier's window, supervised by Mol's DGCPL, without
any means or proper staff, and transform it into an instrument capable of providing financial and
technical support to achieve municipal development objectives. Supervision reports, documents issued
by CPSCL, and audits by external auditors clearly indicate that CPSCL has been transformed into an
efficient instrument. From 1992 to 1997, four departments were created, organized, and made
5 In 1995, the urban communities had four direct taxes that produced 43 percent of the revenues and seven other
taxes that produced 57 percent. The direct taxes are the rental value tax, business tax, hotel tax, and tax on
unbuilt land.



Tunisia                                       - 7 -                Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
operational, and managers, analysts, and engineers were hired (total staffwas 91 in 1998, compared to 14
in 1992). The balance sheet increased to more than TD 255 million as of the end of 1997, with a net
income of TD 4.2 million.
29.    CPSCL  fulfilled  its tasks of assisting the municipalities in identifying, studying, and
implementing their investment projects, as well as financing them through grants and loans. During the
project, it often organized seminars and workshops to provide information on investment. Its
departments and team of young professionals are continually upgrading their skills and procedures. Its
Finance Department is composed of engineers specialized in different municipal sectors. They review
projects, consult with the persons in charge at the municipal level, and prepare the technical part of the
appraisal report6 presented to the Board of Directors. They also verify the technical progress of the work.
The Studies and Monitoring Department, composed of analysts and engineers, reviews the financial
situation of the municipalities, systematically follows the progress ofinvestments, and regularly monitors
projects in the field. The Finance Department disburses the funds: first the loan and then the subsidies.
Information with respect to the technical and financial review of a project is systematically captured by
software developed in house. Appraisal reports for the Board of Directors as well as other documents,
including agreements between CPSCL and the municipalities, acceptance letters and checks are
automatically produced by the computer using all the information captured progressively during the
procedure. Special queries can also be formulated.
30.    Another objective indicated in the SAR was to strengthen CPSCL autonomy with respect to the
central administration. That happened in part during the project. CPSCL is first an instrument of the
local policy of the Tunisian Government and as such should demonstrate, if necessary, some flexibility in
the financial evaluation of the municipalities. The Board of Directors is composed mostly of executives
delegated by different administrations7 and its official mandate is to assist municipalities in reaching the
investment program they have agreed upon with municipal authorities. Within this context, CPSCL
adjusts its financing plans and subsidies to the long-term reimbursement capacity of financially weak
municipalities. There is some divergence between the willingness of the CPSCL to behave like a "quasi
bank" and the political/economic realities that may interfere with the pursuit of that objective. In the
future, the Government should transparently identify the cost of its social goals and authorize CPSCL to
respond to market forces.
31.    The project did achieve the objective of increasing the interest rate on loans from the heavily
subsidized 2.5 percent in 1988 to different directed rates that come closer to market rates and better
reflect the cost of funds for CPSCL. The objective of the project was to increase the rate first to
6.5 percent at the beginning of the project and to 8.5 percent on January 1, 1997. The latter was,
however, not consistent with the economic situation. The legal covenant was therefore amended, and, at
the end of the program, infrastructure loans were paying 7.5 percent and commercial projects, such as the
6 Until December 1997, the appraisal report had four parts: (a) synthesis of the project, including presentation,
justification, estimated cost, and implementation schedule; (b) second, evaluation of the project, including
eligibility, priority ranking of the investment within the PIC, impact on the environment, and execution; (c) the
project's irnpact on municipal finance, including analysis of the flow of funds in the past and projections for the
future; and (d) recommendations to the Board. The appraisal report is now being integrated in an information
network system.
7 In addition to CPSCL's General Manager, the Board members come from Mol (3 representatives), the National
Association of Tunisian Cities (2 representatives, presently the mayors of Tunis and Sousse), MoF, Central Bank,
Ministry of Equipment and Housing, Ministry for Economic Development, State Controller, and CPSCL's
External Auditor.



Tunisia                                      - 8 -               Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
construction of markets and slaughterhouses, were charged 8.5 percent. It is recommended that CPSCL
be authorized to apply interest rates based on the cost of its funds in the market or elsewhere. Spread
should be calculated to cover expenses and provide a reasonable profit to keep some form of capital
adequacy ratio even if its status does not require it. The only covenant that was only partially complied
with was the self-financing ratio that CPSCL had to reach. The ratio fluctuated from year to year, with a
peak in 1997 (46.7 percent) related to the fluctuation of loans made to local governments.
32.    The results in terms of municipal investments attest to the success of the project. During the
period 1992-1997, the amount of investments in the municipalities reached TD 640 million versus an
estimated amount of TD 426 million. The following table presents the number of projects authorized
during the period, the total amount accepted by CPSCL, and the type of financing.
Year   Number of    Total Cost        Self       Other     Loan    Subsidies
Projects   in Million TD   Financing
1992      451            44            12         6         19         6
1993      927           132           29          8         60         36
1994      795           109           28          12        37         32
1995      519            68            18         7         24         19
1996      1,023         116           25          12        53         26
1997      1,812         171           46          18        65         42
Total     5,527          640          158    1   63         258        161
Source: CPSCL, June 4, 1998.
33.    CPSCL is developing additional tools for arrears analysis to better reflect its situation in terms of
portfolio affected and aging arrears. The recovery situation has been satisfactory, at over 94 percent,
except when the ratio decreased to 91 percent in 1997; 25 percent of the non-recovered debt belonged to
one large city, and the problem has since been resolved (the Government has committed to reimburse the
city). The other debtors were generally towns that overspent, had revenue problems, or underestimated
their costs.8 In all these cases, CPSCL said that it stopped lending or rescheduled the loans so that the
town could meet its reimbursement. No penalties were levied. A pure case of bankruptcy is not likely for
the time being. The following table presents information on the recovery situation from 1993 and 1997.
1993 &       1994         1995        1996         1997      Cumulative
before
Amount to recover   9,080,940   12,275,217   17,833,903   22,075,409   24,224,872   85,490,341
Recovery ratio (°/O)  94.70      97.29        94.98        94.20        91.26       94.03
Source: CPSCL.
34.    Municipal investments.   The objective was to develop  infrastructure  investments for
municipalities in the amount of US$200 million, and this was achieved early in the implementation
period. A large part of the preparation work was done under the Municipal Investment Program, PIC (a
8 One town hid a few invoices for a while to make its financial situation look better. Then the creditors reacted and
asked for payment of their bills. Since then the town has had problems paying back its loan. DGCPL and CPSCL
now have the necessary tools to prevent this kind of risk.



Tunisia                                      - 9 -               Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
list of investment projects for all municipalities, including financial plans for the planned period), which
was prepared and decided upon before 1992 for the Eighth Plan. Considering the demand already
programmed, the rapid utilization of the credit componentwas not surprising. It was fully committed as
early as 1996, and 79 percent of it was disbursed. Reallocation from the technical assistance component
increased the line of credit component from US$72.5 million to US$74.05 million. Considering the low
level of technical and financial awareness of the majority of municipal civil servants, Mol, the
municipalities, and CPSCL did a good job in planning and carrying out the investments indicated in the
Eighth Plan. The sectors that received the largest amount of approved investment during the 1992-1997
period are shown in the table below:
Sectors                                             No. of Projects   Amount in Million TD
Road work and pavement                                  786                  180
Street lighting                                         385                   23
Commercial projects                                     244                   39
Procurement of equipment                                663                   55
Sports and youth projects                                95                   45
Others such as drinking water, drainage, open spaces,   985                  102
beautifying, administrative building, studies
Total                                                  3,070                 444 *
- The indicated amount does not take into account the PNRQP (low-income neighborhood upgrading) of
TD 47 million and other specific municipal, rural, and regional projects. The total amount of approved
investment by CPSCL was TD 640 million during the 1992-1997 period.
Source: CPSCL, Situation des projetsfinances par la CPSCL, June 4, 1998.
Implementation Record and Main Factors Affecting the Project
35.   Institutional strengthening for municipalities and ministries took shape slowly, and was less
successful than the strengthening of CPSCL. This is explained by the weak capacity of the central
directorates, DGCPL, and DGAR to provide needed technical assistance to the training program. A
decision to establish a Training Center outside of Mol was made two years after project inception; a law
establishing the Center was passed in June 1994 and the decree was published in November 1994.
However, despite the clear success of the Training Center in building stronger management, the transfer
of responsibilities to the local level remained modest in acontext of generally slow decentralization under
the project. The Bank's proactive dialogue with the Government, being pursued under the second project,
can contribute to strengthening the managerial and administrative capacity of more LGs and to better
balance the powers between Central and local government.
36.    The Training Center was set up in July 1995. In June 1995, the recently nominated Director
General of the Training Center contracted with a consulting firm (RTI) to help fine-tune the training
programs and strategy. The Bank supported Mol's decision by proposing an IDF grant, which, along with
USAID funds, provided the resources for initial studies. The budget of Mol financed TD 250,000.
USAID provided funds mainly through two programs: MDFP9 and LGSP.10 The IDF grant was
9 MDFP, the Municipal Development and Finance Program, consisted of a US$15 million Housing Guarantee Loan
(HG-004D 1989) and US$960,000 in grant-funded activities. The total US$15 million was transferred to CPSCL
in 1993. Eligibility conditions become the same as for PMD- 1. MDFP was intended to address three major
problems facing the municipal financial system: near-term shortfalls in GoT's local government development



Tunisia                                    - 10-               Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
secured in July 1994 for a total amount of US$450,000 (Grant IDF 28-827-T1JN). With adequate
funding and a sufficiently staffed training center, training of municipal staffwas carried out efficiently.
By the end of 1997, the Training Center launched a survey to update the needs of the municipalities and
modified its curriculum for 1998 accordingly. The Center considers that it has two goals; first, to
maintain the courses it has offered or is in the process of introducing; and second, to explore the changing
local and international municipal environment with the help of foreign advisors and create appropriate
new courses. Recently, there has been a change in the orientation of the Center in two directions that
might cripple it. The first is a tendency to plan ambitious programs without maintaining the same level of
quality. The new management team has a desire to expand topics, with new teaching and evaluation
methods. Slowing down or stopping the frequency of current module delivery to develop new concepts
will damage the program. Workshop topics are generally rather basic but their influence is important.
The second concern is the tendency of the new management to modify the concept of workshop, with its
action plans and follow-up periods. The success of this part of the training program comes from this
association between trainers and trainees within the action plan framework. Modifying the concept may
damage it.
37.   The local tax reform component experienced serious delays due to the difficulty of the National
Committee in coming up with a draft final report despite more than 100 sessions. The report "Note
relative a la riforme de lafiscalite locale" (MoF, DGELF, September 7, 1994) was eventually sent to the
Bank in December 1994 for comments. After acceptance by the Council of Ministers and the Conseil
constitutionnel, the new law was passed by Parliament in January 1997. Although some divergences
remained between the Bank comments and the approved text, mainly on the limited effects of the reform
on municipal resources, it brings major improvements to the financial system.
38.    Strengthening of CPSCL. Following a rapid startup after effectiveness, project implementation
slowed until the Government decided on the status of CPSCL staff. Then CPSCL made rapid and
impressive progress in terms of staffing and developing capacities, and in the appraisal, supervision, and
disbursement of municipal subprojects. During the term of the project, CPSCL's management and
operations were developed and strengthened. A new accounting system was introduced. Audits were
carried out by independent accountants. A lending policy was established. A Municipal Investment
Guide was issued. Computerized information on projects and borrower budgets was set up. Severe
financial requirements were imposed by the Loan Agreement's covenants and largely achieved by
January 1997, with the exception of the interest rate increase, reviewed by amendment of the legal
covenant in 1997 (see para. 27).
39.   Project execution for investments proceeded remarkably well. The project was more than
100 percent committed and the Bank loan was 79 percent disbursed by February 1996. Government
authorities and municipalities succeeded in planning and carrying out investments. CPSCL effectively
supervised the execution of subprojects and monitored the financial performance of borrowing
municipalities.
budget, the need to expand sources of revenue, and the need for a clearer policy for servicing low-income
populations. (Source: Final Evaluation Report, USAID, September 1996.)
l °LGSP, the Local Government Support Program, consisted of a US$1,878,000 grant from USAID. LGSP was
intended to address two major issues: the limited ability of local governments to plan, finance, manage, and
implement badly needed infrastructure programs in existing low-income neighborhoods; and the inadequacy of
GoT's highly centralized mechanisms for fmancing, installing, and rehabilitating urban infrastructure in Tunisian
municipalities. (Source: Final Evaluation Report, USAID, September 1996.)



Tunisia                                   - I I-             Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
Project Sustainability
40.   The project is part of a long-term strategy that was widely discussed between the Bank and the
GoT. Its sustainability is assured by the success of the first phase, and will be furthered by the expected
outcomes of the second project.
41.   The efficiency of CPSCL dramatically increased during the first project. The restructured agency
became the provider of information and knowledge, fiscal discipline, and credit, enabling local
governments to respond to stricter rules. While CPSCL is not yet an independent institution, the project
laid the foundation for transforming CPSCL into a specialized financial institution, providing for even
more sustainability of the system in the longer term. In the second project, CPSCL will undertake a
strategy study in 1999 with respect to its future development. CPSCL, restructured into an quasi-
autonomous and quasi-financially viable public enterprise could evolve into a full-size financial
institution specialized in municipal financing. Moreover, municipal financing business could be opened
to other financial institutions. A few well-established municipalities, through the assistance of a
restructured CPSCL, could start to tap directly into long-term domestic savings through the issuance of
bonds. The strategy will involve finding new sources of financing, and will recommend that any
borrowing be done without any additional contingent liability at the sovereign level. Such borrowing
would have fund revenue-generated investments and would entail no recourse to the local or Central
budget.
42.   The strengthening of CPSCL also helped to produce a group of reliable, financially and
technically sound, municipalities, in addition to the persistent efforts carried out by the Center in terms of
training. The second project has internalized these results in Training Center activities.
43.   The reform of local taxation should drive the rationalization of local tax systems andencourage
greater fiscal discipline by the LGs in the management of their budgets and debt service capacity.
Strengthening of local resources will be further achieved by equalizing the budget transfer to the
municipalities under the second project.
44.   Sustainability was also enhanced by the upgrading of local urban infrastructure and an increased
sensitivity to maintenance issues, which is being continued under the Second Municipal Development
Project.
Bank Performance
Identification Appraisal
45.   Bank performance was satisfactory, with Bank staff cooperating closely with the Government in
carrying out the major reforms embodied in the project. Preparatory work was based on the report
"Municipal Finances and Management in Tunisia," March 1988 (7150-TUN), followed by a feasibility
study, "Projet de Developpement Municipal," financed under the Second Urban Transport Project and
was issued at the time of appraisal in November 1991. Formal project preparation was delayed for
14 months due to the nomination of two State Secretaries for Municipalities, the organization of
municipal elections, and a thorough review of the interim report of the feasibility study, which was
subsequently endorsed by two inter-ministerial committees. The appraisal mission was conducted in
October-November 1991, pre-negotiation missions took place in April 1992, the staff appraisal report
was published in June 1992, and loan was signed in October 1992. The Bank was initially overly
optimistic regarding the local tax reform, in terms of (a) the extent of the reform, and (b) the planned



Tunisia                                   - 12 -             Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
schedule. Nevertheless, the new law drastically changed the fiscal system, as the project intended. The
speed at which disbursement of the loan occurred demonstrates its usefulness.
Supervision
46.   Bank supervision missions were executed on a regular basis (generally two per year) and follow-
up documents sent to the Borrower were quite detailed. The different aides-memoire spelled out the
issues at stake for the different components and provided advice. They also listed steps to be taken to
carry out the different phases of the project. The Bank also invited the Tunisian Government, a few
months after effectiveness, to decide on important aspects of the project: i.e., the status of CPSCL staff,
the local tax reform, and the launching of the Municipal Staff Training Center program. The Bank
supported Mol's decision to create a Training Center by proposing an IDF grant, which provided, along
with USAID funds, the resources for initial studies. Bank supervision also issued comments on CPSCL's
handling of subprojects, carried out early detailed reviews of some subprojects interms of their feasibility
and procurement issues, and advised CPSCL on its audited financial statements.
Borrower Performance
47.   The performance and participation of the Borrower were satisfactory during both preparation and
implementation, due largely to the institutional arrangements established by Mol. First, the project was
supervised by a coordination unit whose role was key, in conjunction with CPSCL, in achieving the
various programs and activities, and in reliable reporting to the Bank. Second, MoI agreed to the creation
of the Training Center once it was made clear that training could not be addressed within DGCPL, and
then moved decisively to provide the means and appoint Training Center management. Work has been
conducted with energy since then and results are evident. Moreover, the various structural and financial
commitments agreed upon with the Bank were respected over the course of the project.  The
municipalities' investment program committed more than US$74 million for infrastructure, facilities, and
upgrading of low-income neighborhoods after CPSCL evaluated their financial statements. Local tax
reform went slowly due to the Reform Committee's lack of decision, but was nonetheless approved by
Parliament in 1997. Implementation started in 1998, and the reform is now effective.
Assessment of Outcome
48.   The outcome of the project was satisfactory. The Borrower took ownership of the project:
CPSCL was enhanced, a Training Center was set up, and funds were disbursed much faster than
anticipated (in 4 years instead of 7). The authorities closed the loan in August 1998, well before the
initial closing date of December 1999.
49.   During this project, the role of the CPSCL was greatly modified. It has become a financial
institution, specialized in local financing with assets of more than TD 255 million, TD 128 million of
which is financed by foreign borrowing (1997 figures). New accounting procedure was implemented. A
computer system was organized. Technical assistance to strengthen its management will be continued
during MDPII. By the end of 1997, CPSCL had 69 staff (75 percent executive staff, including
14 engineers), up from 14 in 1992. It is expected to reach 91 staff by 1998. Net income increased to
TD 4.2 million in 1997, up from 2.8 million in 1996 (2.9 million in 1995, and 3.0 million in 1994), due to
an interest rate increase in the loans provided to municipalities.



Tunisia                                   - 13 -             Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
50.   Training Center for institutional strengthening for municipalities and regional governments.
Since its late inception in 1995, the Training Center has organized seminars and workshops on
administrative and technical topics for about 10,000 civil servants.
51.   Local finance reform. The reform of local taxation approved by the Council of Ministers and the
Constitutional Councils was passed by Parliament in January 1997. The law was implemented in January
1998, with information campaign and census in municipalities. The law is retroactive to 1997.
52.   Municipal investments. The loan amount of US$72.5 million attributed to this component was
fully committed by the end of 1997. An amount of US$1.55 million was transferred from the Technical
Assistance to this component. Upgrading of low-income neighborhoods represented US$11.54 million,
municipal infrastructure represented US$52.52 million, and market facilities amounted to US$9.99
million.
Future Operations
53.   A  Second Municipal Development Project was developed in  1997 (Loan 4202-TUN,
US$80 million) to contribute to the CAS objective (16517-TUN, May 14, 1996) of strengthening public
sector management and provision of infrastructure and services. By enhancing infrastructure in under-
equipped areas and increasing the equalization role of the system of transfers, the project will help diffuse
gains from economic growth and reduce regional disparities. By upgrading LG human resources and
introducing information technologies and cost accounting practices, the project will improve efficiency in
the management of LG operations. By improving CPSCL's financial intermediation and LG revenue
mobilization and allocation, it will promote the decentralization process and increase the autonomy of
LGs. The project will increase the percentage of the urban population with piped discharge, and the
percentage of the rural population with access to piped water.
Key Lessons Learned
54.   The sustainability of efforts to develop municipal investment and finance depends on three
factors: (a) provision of sufficient and reliable resources for municipalities; (b) increased autonomy of
LGs and good expertise at the local level, stemming from appropriate human resources; and (c) a
financial institution able to supply technical and financial assistance to local governments. All of these
require strategic planning over the long term. Experience has shown the advantages of placing individual
projects in a strategic context, which allows continuation of progress over the long term.
55.   Changes were introduced through the local tax reform, with effects expected within 2 to 3 years.
Issues of equalization strike at the heart of Govermment decentralization, and are being addressed under
the Second Municipal Development Project. The first project confirmed that local tax reform requires a
strong political will and a sustained monitoring of the different phases of the implementation, either by
the Central Government or by the municipalities.
56.   The project focused on strengthening the LG's ability to effectively deliver local services,
improve the selection of development priorities, and better manage local resource mobilization and
allocation. This first experience has shown the need to assess realistically the willingness of the
Government to decentralize decision-making and financing capacity. Although, in the case of the project,
this was clearly overestimated, the revitalization of LG investment program, introducing sounder
financial discipline in the management of municipal budgets, and increasing financial and investment
planning was enhanced by the restructuring of CPSCL.



Tunisia                                    - 14 -             Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
57.   The project showed the need for balance in addressing local finance and management issues.
Indeed, while it focused heavily on the restructuring of CPSCL, the management and supervision
capabilities of the Direction generale des collectivites publiques locales (DGCPL) and the Direction
generale des affaires regionales, (DGAR), both part of Mol, could have been addressed in a more
elaborated way.



Tunisia                                  - 15 -             Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
MUNICIPAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3507-TUN)
PART II
STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1                    Summary of Assessment
Table 2                    Related Bank Loans
Table 3                    Project Timetable
Table 4                    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5                    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6                    Key Indicators for CPSCL
Table 7                    Studies Included in Project
Table 8                    Project Costs
Table 9                    Project Financing
Table 10                   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11                   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12                   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13                   Bank Resources: Missions



Tunisia                                        - 16 -               Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial       Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                            Cl                              E               0
Sector policies                           b3                              El             El
Financial objectives                      E3              [                ]             E
Institutional development                 b              .                E              El
Physical objectives                                       Q O                            El
Poverty reduction                         D               a                              El
Gender issues                                                             E l O
Environmental objectives                  5                               E3              El
Public sector management                  El              EE                              El
Private sector development                El             EE                               El
B. Project Sustainability               Likely              Unlikely               Uncertain
.           (/~~~) (/)                                   (v')
0        El                     ~~~~~~~~El
C. Bank Performance                     Highly             Satisfactory             Deficient
Satisfactory            (/)
Identification                            El                                           El
Preparation                               El                                           El
Appraisal                                 a                     a                      El
Supervision                               El                   b                       E
D. Borrower Performance                 Highly             Satisfactory             Deficient
Satisfactory            (V)                     (a)
Preparation                               El                                           El
Implementation                            O                    EZ                      E
Covenants compliance                      El                   0                       E
E. Assessment of Outcome                Highly       Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     Highly
Satisfactory                                  Unsatisfactory
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         El              0              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El  El



Tunisia                                       - 17 -              Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
Table 2: Related Bank Loans-Credits
Loan/Credit                      Purpose              Year of Approval       Status
Previous Projects
1. First urban Development  - Establishing the District of Tunis    1973        Closed in 1982
Project                     - Renovation of a railway line
(Loan432-TUN, US$1I8m)                                                                          I
2. Second Urban Development  - First Bank project in the housing    1979        Closed in 1985
Project                       sector
(Loan 1705-TUN, US$19m)    - Urban projects in Tunis and Sfax
- Rehabilitation and upgrading of
low-income neighborhoods with
l _____________________ _     fthe creation  of ARRU                                             l
3. Third Urban Development    - Improvement of housing conditions   1986         Closed in 1995
Project                       for the poor
(Loan 2223-TUN, US$25m)    - Institutional support for the Third
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  U D P                                                     l
Subsequent Projects
1. Second Municipal         - Development of urban services and     1997        Effective in
Development Project           institutional capacity building                    February 1998
(Loan 4202-TUN, US$80m)                          _    _. ._.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Realized by MG
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned                    Actual Date
Identification                               NA                            12/01/87
Preparation                                  NA                            01/29/90
Appraisal                                    NA                            10/20/91
Negotiations                                 NA                            05/11/92
Board Presentation                           NA                            07/02/92
Signing                                      NA                            10/07/92
Effectiveness                                NA                            04/22/93
Closing of loan                            12/31/99                        08/19/98
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97      FY98      FY99_1
Appraisal Estimate          7.5       6.8       8.3       10.6      13.5      18.8      9.5
Actual                       3       10.37     35.22     15.95     10.22      0.13      0.11  I
Actual as % of Estimate    40%       152%      430%      152%       76%       0.7%       1%   11
Date of last disbursement |        _         _          . ._i___   __._ |_08/98  |



Tunisia                                  -18 -              Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation              SAR Estimate               Actual or ICR Estimate
Indicator
1. Condition for CPSCL   - Adequate staffing               Fully achieved on time
allocation:         - Agreed training program
- Adequate accounting system
- Adoption of procedures for subproject
appraisal
- Achieved in 1993
2. Implementation of    - preparation report in 1992       - Preparation phase extended
local tax reform:   - action plan in 1993                until 1996
- implementation thereafter        - Law enacted in January
1997, under implementation
since 1998
3. Urban services       Investment planned in the Eighth plan   Fully achieved
provision and cost   1992-1996
recovery
4. Procedure manual     Achieved in 1993 and 1994          Achieved on time
5. Municipal            Planned in 1995 and 1996: development Not realized
performance chart    of indicators for municipal management
6. Reform of public local Study planned in 1995 and 1996   Cost accounting introduced in
accounting and                                          municipal finances
budgeting procedures
7. Mapping              Provide municipalities with mapping    Not realized
over the project implementation
8. Municipal data bank    Financial data Bank              Fully achieved with 1993 to
1998 data
9. Municipal Project    Preparation of guidelines for municipal  Final draft completed in 1998
manual               project preparation



Tunisia                                       - 19 -              Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
Table 6: Key Indicators for CPSCL
Key Operating Indicators in SAR              Agreed                         Actual
for CPSCL
Debt-service coverage ratio          > 1.5                       3.45 in 92
(all the time)                                                   4.77 in 93
4.38 in 94
4.00 in 95
2.67 in 96
3.80 in 97
Self-financing ratio                 20% in 93;                  26.03% in 93
(each year)                         30% in 94;                   20.76% in 94
35% in 95-98                46.89% in 95
40% from 99                 30.67% in 96
._______________________     20.6%   in   97
Operating margins on average assets   1% from 1993 to 1998        1.59% in 93
1.5 % thereafter            1.77% in 94
1.43% in 95
1.21% in 96
________________________     1.74%   in   97
Charge on infrastructure loans       6.5% during 92-96           6.5% during 92-97
8.5% thereafter             7.5% thereafter (new figure
agreed by amendment)
Charge on equipment loans            4% during 1992-1996         4% during 92-97
6.5% thereafter             6% thereafter(new figure agreed
____________________________ _      ______________________       by  am endm ent)
Economic rate of return for          Minimum 12% when            Not computed
investments                          applicable



Tunisia                                      - 20 -               Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                Purpose              Status                   Impact
Conditions for   Revise FCCL allocation      Postponed   On March 22, 1996, meeting of mayors,
FCCL allocation    criteria to reduce resource          general secretaries, representatives of MoF,
disparities and take into              Mol and M. of Economic Development to
account needs of local                 discuss the conclusions of the study. Financial
governments                            simulations were realized by DGCPL with
CPSCL in order to test some distribution
proposals of funds to the municipalities. Will
be continued in the Second project. Law
expected to be approved in July 1999
Local tax reform   Improve LG resources through  Complete   Study facilitated the preparation of the law,
more transparent taxes and             voted in January, 1997. Implementation
better collection rates                started in 1998
Urban services   Review cost recovery practice  Complete   Study completed
provision and cost  and regulations, and propose
recovery         measures for its simplification
and improvement
Procedures       -Update, distribute municipal   Complete   Improved project appraisal by CPSCL
manual           guidelines
- develop internal procedures
guidelines that have been
tested in 5 pilot municipalities
Municipal        Develop periodical follow-up   postponed   NA
performance chart  indicators for municipal
management
Reform of public   Simplify and modernize    Partially    Cost accounting in municipal finance
local accounting    current regulations      Completed
and budgeting
Mapping of       Provide municipalities with    Postponed   NA
municipalities   easy to use photos, maps,
plans
Municipalities   Develop financial data bank    Started  Improved follow-up of municipal investments.
data bank        for investment appraisal, local         Will be completed in the Second Project
tax reform and PIC
preparation
Municipal project  Prepare guideline for     Complete   Better preparation of municipal projects
manual           municipal project
identification, preparation,
execution, monitoring and
completion.



Tunisia                                    - 21 -              Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
Table 8A: Project Costs (US$ million)
Estimated                     Actual
Local   Foreign    Total     Local   Foreign    Total
CurCurrenc    urrency        Currency  Currency
A. Institutional Developmentfor the Municipalities, MoI and MoF
- Training, consultants' services  4.0       1.7       5.7       0.07     0.2       0.27
- Material, vehicles, and equipment    0.2   0.8       1.0       0.16     0.15      0.31
Subtotal    4.2      2.5       6.7      0.23      0.35      0.58
B. Institutional Development for CPSCL
- Consultants' services            0.1       0.6       0.7       0.02     0.12      0.14
- Material, vehicles, and equipment    0.1   0.2       0.3       0.12     0.38      0.5
Subtotal    0.2      0.8       1.0      0.14      0.50      0.64
C. Municipal Investments
- Low-income neighborhood         35.0      15.0      50.0      22.26     11.54    33.80
upgrading                              _                             l         l
- Municipal infrastructure        84.5      45.5    130.0       99.38    52.52    151.90
- Markets, and municipal facilities  8.0    12.0      20.0      15.56     9.99    22.55
Subtotal  127.5     72.5    200.0    134.20      74.05   208.25
Total Project Cost               131.9      75.8    207.7    134.54      74.9    209.64
(includes about US$37 million for
taxes and duties)                                                      l         l
Exchange rate is IUS$=I TD.
Municipal facilities are not included in the project.
The funds not disbursed yet amount US$111,000; this amount corresponds to the Institutional Development
Component.
Table 8B: Project Financing (US$ million)
Estimated                     Actual
Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
8                               | Currency  Currency |         Currency  Currency
Central Government                  77.9      0.8       78.7    76.13  _            76.13
Municipalities                      54.0  T             54       58.41              58.41
IBRD-IDA                        |            75.0       75.0              75.00     75.00
Cofinancing institutions:       l         l_____0.03                       3.85      3.88
USAID                                   _          _        ___          3.40 *    3.40
IDF 28827                                                      0.03      0.45 *    0.48
Total                              131.9     75.8  l  207.7 | 134.57 |  78.85   213.52
* these amounts are grants.



Tunisia                                        - 22 -               Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree    Section      Type of   Present       Date of             Description of conditions
-ment                condition    Status    application
Loan
3.02            10         CD                     Local tax reform
3.03            01          C                     Audit reports
Schedule 2      09          C                     Completion date. Complied with 16 months
earlier
Schedule 4      09          C                     Procurement
Schedule 5      09          C                     Implementation program
Schedule 6      10          C                     Special account closed
Letter 1        09         CD         12-31-92    Local Tax reform approved by Parliament in
January, 1997
Letter 1        10         CD         12-31-93    Hire consultant for Cost Recovery Study
(partl). Final report submitted by 6-95
Letter 1        04          C                     Minimum Government transfer to CPSCL of
TD49m via FCCL and TD50M directly for 92-
_________                 96
Letter 2        10          C                     Procurement to follow bank rules on origin of
labor-materials, currency, public bid opening,
evaluation
Minutes of      09          C                     Project Coordinator and CPSCL to submit bi-
negotiation                                       annual project progress report
i._____ page 13
'Project______________________
3.01            01          C                     Audit reports by June each year
3.04            02          C                     Return on CPSCL
3.05            02         CP                     Minimum internal sources of CPSCL loans
made in 1993 20%, 1994 30%, 1995 to 1998,
35% and 40% thereafter. Complied with for
93 and 95 (see table 6)
3.06            02          C                     No new debt unless minimum net revenue 1.5
times the estimated debt service requirement.
3.07            02          C                     Minimum interest rates on infrastructure
subloans 6.5% until 1996 and 8.5% thereafter.
Amended increase on interest rates agreed
upon on June 1997
Schedule,       10          C                     Procurement conditions
paras. 3&4
Schedule        09          C                     Training program for CPSCL for the following
para. 5                                           year
Annex to        10          C                     Terms and conditions of subloans and grants
Schedule
Minutes of      10          C                     SOE acceptable for expenses below $1 m for
negotiation                                       subloans (part C) and for goods below $100.0
l_____ page 13                                             (part A and B)
Present status: C= complied with; CD-complied with after delay; CP=complied with partially;
NC=not complied with.
I= audit; 2= financial performance/ revenue generation from beneficiaries; 4=Counterpart finding;
9= monitoring, review and reporting; 10= Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9.



Tunisia                                   - 23 -             Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No failure to comply with the manual of procedures were noted
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle     Planned          Actual         Planned          Actual
l_______________________      (weeks)         (weeks)          (US$)           (US$)
Preparation                    NA             183.3            NA             470,600
Appraisal                      NA              24.7             NA             83,100
Negotiation through Board      NA              16.1             NA             53,300
approval
Supervision                    NA              80.8            NA             282,200
Completion-closing             10.0                           29,000           17,500
Total                                         304.9                           906,700



Tunisia                                        - 24 -                Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of    Month   Nb. of   Days in    Specialized staff                              Type
project cycle  -year   persons   field    skills represented    Imple-    Develop     of Problems
mentation    ment
status    objectives
Preparation    03/87      2        17    Urban planner
mission                                   Financial specialist
Preparation    09/87      1        14    Urban planner            _          _
mission
Preparation    01/88      1        13    Urban planner
mission
Preparation    09/88      4        18    Urban planner            _
mission                                   Financial specialists
Municipal engineer
Preparation    05-        2        11    Urban planner            _          _
mission       06/89                       Municipal engineer
Preparation    10/89      2        19    Urban planner            _          _
mission                                   Municipal engineer
Preparation    02/90      5        11     Urban planner           _          _
mission                                   Municipal engineer
Financial analyst
Municipal engineer
Projects adviser
Preparation    05/90      1        6      Urban planner
mission
Preparation    03-        5        12     Urban planner           _          _
mission       04/91                       Municipal engineer
Financial analyst
Municipal engineer
Projects adviser
Pre-appraisal  06-        3        16    Urban planner
mission       07/91                       Financial analyst
Municipal engineer
Appraisal     10-         4        18    Urban planner
mission       11/91                       Financial analyst
Municipal engineer
Computer specialist
Pre-          04/92       2        6      Urban planner
negotiations                              Computer specialist
mission
Supervision    11-        3        11     Urban planner            I          1      Municipal staff
mission       12/92                       Municipal engineer                        training program
Financial analyst                         needs more dyna-
mic preparation.
The local tax
reforms is 6
months late.



Tunisia                                       - 25 -               Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
Performance rating
Stage of    Month   Nb. of  Days in   Specialized staff                              Type
project cycle  -year   persons   field    skills represented    Impie-    Develop-    of Problems
mentation    ment
status    objectives
Supervision    04-       2        21     Urban planner       1          1         Municipal staff
mission       05/93                      Financial analyst                        training program
needs more dyna-
mic preparation.
The local tax
reform report is 6
month late.
Supervision    12/93     2        15    Urban planner        1          1         Project execution
mission                                  Financial analyst                        is hampered by
delays in decision
regard-ing
CPSCL staff
status. Municipal
staff training
program needs
more dynamic
preparation.
The local tax
reform report is
sixth months late.
Supervision    11-       3        17    Urban planner        HS         S         Implementation
mission       12/94                      Financial analyst                        of the local tax
Municipal engineer                       reform delayed
Supervision    03/95     1        13    Urban planner        HS         S         Implementation
mission                                                                           of the local tax
reform delayed
Supervision    06/95     3        14    Urban planner        HS         S         Implementation
mission                                  Municipal engineer                       of the local tax
Senior financial                         reform just
analyst                                  scheduled
Supervision    01/96     3        16    Senior financial     HS         S         N/A
mission                                  analyst
Municipal engineer
Urban planner
Supervision    06-       3        11    Economist            HS         S         The fiscal reform
mission       07/96                      Municipal engineer                       lags behind the
Senior financial                         original planned
analyst                                  schedule.
Supervision    06/97     1        13    Municipal engineer   S          S         No substantial
mission                                                                           progress was
made with the
land information
system
Supervision    12/97     2        11    Economist            HS         HS
mission                                  Municipal engineer
Supervision    06/98     2        11    Economist            HS         HS
mission                                  Municipal engineer
Completion                              I



-26 -



Tunisia                                                                    Implementation Completion Report
Municipal Sector Investment Project
APPENDIX
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
MINISTIRE DE L'INTERIEUR
Unite du Projet de DNveloppement Municipal
RAPPORT D'ACHtVEMENT
DU PROJET
DE DEVELOPPEMENT MUNICIPAL
F1VRIER 1999
Rapport a actevement au rDM 1      1/ 37



RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMEINT DU
PROJET DE D)VELOPPEM,4ENT MUNICIPAL
SOMMAIRE DU RAPPORT
Page
A - PRAS ENTATION DU PROJET DE DEV ELOPPEMENT
MUNICJIPI?AIL ( PD1 M  ) ...     ...........................  1
1 -  CONTEXTEETGENESEDUPROJET ............7.......... 
2-- L'APPROCHEINTEGREEPRECONISEEPARLEPDM. 8
B - OBJECTIFS ET CONTENU DU PDM  ......................... 
1-  OBJECTIFSSTRATEGIQUESPRIORITAIRES ............ 8
2-  COMPOSANTESDUPDM ...............................    9
a)   Appui institatioDnel aux collectivites locales et aux stractmres
d u miist*re die I'Intirieur ................................................. 9
b)  Appui i la restructuratiol de la Cpscl ................................. I 0
c)   Financement de projets d'investissements prioritaires ..............   10
3 -  COITS ET FINANCEMENT DU PROJET ...................    1
mapport o-acnevement au rDM 1                              2 / 37



4-  REFORMESANNONCEESPARLEPROJET .............  11
a)   Am6lioration du systbme financier communna  .......................   I 
b)   Dh*eloppeiment des ressources humaines dans les collectivit6s
locales .............................. 12
5 - CONDITIONS D E SUP ERVISION ET D'EXECUTION
DIUPROJET .............................                             13
C - R.EfJISAL rIST ONS DUI}  PEIM   .............................   14
1 - REALISATIONS ENREGISTREES AU TITRE DE LA
PARTIE"A"DUPDM ........................................  14
a)   Elaboration at mise en oeuvre d'une strat6gie de formation en
direction des collectivit6s locales .....................           14
b)   Amdlioration des systemes d'allocation et de mobilisation des
ressources budg8taires des collectivites locales .............. ......... 16
-i-   Refonte du code de la fiscalitd locale ..........................................  16
-fi- Etude pour la r6vision du systbme de repartition du Fonds Comnmun
des Collectivitis Locales ..........................................  16
c)   R6alisation d'etudes et lancement d'op6rations pilotes ......... .... 17
2 - REALISATIONS ENREGISTREES AU TITRE DE
LAPARTIE "B" DUPDM ................................... 18
3 - REALISATIONS ENREGISTREES AU TITRE DE
LAPARTIE"C"DUPDM ....................................  20
Rapport aacfevement au FDM 1                                    3 / 37



D - LES  9iNNVATIONS APPORTEES PAR LE PDM  ....... 24
1 - LE MONTAGE INSTITUTIONNEL ET FINANCIER
DUPDM1. ................................................... 24
a)  Ligne de cr6dit & I' tat, rtrockdRe i la Cpscl, san risque
de chae et gratuitement pour le fonds r6serv6s a I'appui
institutionnel .....  24
b)  Procedure souple de refinancement des d6penses engag6es
par la Cpscl .2.... 26
c)  Facilit6 de retrait du fonds i partir du compte principal
du prit tenu i la Bird ................. ....................... 26
d)  Procedures plus souples pour effectuer les d6penses d'appui
institutionnel pr6vues au Projet ........................................ 26
2 - LA SYNERGTIE CREEE ENTRE LES BAILLEURS
DESFO-NDSDUPDM1 ......................................  26
3 - UNE NOUVELLE APPROCHE DES INVESTISSEMENTS
MUNICIPAUX ..............................................  27
a)  Am6lioration des conditions d'elaboration et du financement
du PIC ..................................... 27
b)  Introduction de plus de rigueur dans la preparation des
projets d'investissements municipaux ......................;   28
c)  Renforcemnt du r8le de la Commune en tant que maitre-
d'ouvrage des projets de d6veloppement sur son territoire . 29
d)  Recours ar-cru au secteur priv  pour 1'6tude et la r6alisation
des ilnvstisoSments municipaux.                             29
e)  Rationalisation de la gestion des d6chets solides.           3D
xapporL aacnevement au rDM i                            4 / 37



E - PRLENN1Th DE LA DYNAMIQUE ENGAGI E PAR
L E PDMI .......... ........ 30
1 - PRINCIPALES QUESTIONS NON ENCORE RESOLUES
PARLEPROJET .....                                           31
a)  Le d6veloppement des ressources finanieres des
mumicipalit6s ....  31
b)  Le d6veloppement des ressources humaines dans les
Collectivit6s Locales ....  31
c)  Difficult6s chroniques rencontr6es par les structures de bttelle
centrale pour pr6parer & g6rer les r6formes et les activit6s
strat6giques d'appui au PDM .....  31
d)  Fragilit6 encore importante du systeme de formation etabli au
profit des Co11ectivitbs Locales ....     32
e)  FrgilitV encore importante du systbme de planification,
de programmation et de financement des investissements
locaux .... 32
"2-  CONSOLIDATION DES ACQUIS DU PDM 1 : ASPECTS
INTEGRESDANSLEPIDM2 ................................ 33
a)  Mobilisation accrue des ressources des Municipalites .... . 33
b)  Reforme du systsme actuel des transferts du FCCL ...    .. 33
c)  Consolidation et e1argissement du syst&m  de finanement des
investissements des CollectivitEs Locales ....   34
d)  Recherche de solutions compl6mentaires ou alternatives pour le
d6veloppement des ressources humains des Communes .34
e) - Renforcement, ouverture et adaptation des programmes de
rnase a miveau des Col1ectivitis Locales .34
rapport wacCievement cu rDrm i                          5 / 37



3 -  CONSOLIDATION DES ACQUIS DUPDMI1  PRIORITES
POUR UN EVENTUEL "AGENDA 21 MUNICIPAL "....... 35
a) Consolidation des mcamismes de maitrise de l'habitat anarchique
par les Collectivitis Locales ............................................. 35
b)  Evaluation et projection des besoins en logements .35
c)  Etude et mise en oeuvre d'encouragements a la production
de lots et logements sociaux.                              35
d)  Reduction de la pauvrete et de l'exclusion dans les villes, par
le d6veloppement de h'intgrtion d'activit6s 6conomiques dans
le tissu urbain .36
e)  Amilioration de l'environnement urbain et renforcement de
la capaciti des Collectivit6s Locales a gerer les problemes
y affnrents.                                               36
Rapport aacnevement au FDM 1                           6/  37



RAPPORT D 'ACHAVEM
DU PREMIER
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEME   MUNICIPAL
-O-
A. PRESENTATION DU PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT
MUNICIPAL
1. CONTEXTE GENERALETENESE DU PDM:
Initie en 1987 par Son Ffleze, le PridmtZ    El Abidiz  BEN ALI, le
Projet de D6veloppement Municipal ( PDM ) a ete concu pour concr6tiser la politique
du Gouvernement de l' re Nouvelle en matibre de dkentralisation et pour impliquer
reellement les pouvoirs locaux dans le processu de planification, de r6alisation et de
suivi du developpement 6conornique et social du pays.
A cet effet, une Conumission Nationale du 7 eme Plan ( 1987-91 ) pour la
R6forme du secteur des Municipalites a W mnise en place pour la premibre fois en Tuni-
sie; Au vu des conclusions des travaux de cette Comnission, une 6tude de faisabilite
d'un Projet de D6veloppement Municipal a e  lancee par le Ministere de l'Interieur
avec im double objectif, a savoir:
-    Faire le diagnostic de la situation des collectivitXs locales aux plans institutonmel,
humain, financier et de leur gestion, et proposer toutes les reformes appropriees
en l'objet,  d'une part,               et,
-    Monter un programme int6gre, bancable, susceptible d'etre eng*  des le 8nme
Plan 1992 - 1996.
RapporL aactevement cio PDM 1                                   7 / 37



2. L'APPROCHE INTEREE PRECONISEE PAR LE PDM:
Le PDM, tel qu'il a ete negoci; avec la BIRD et approuv6 par le Gouvernement
la Cbambre des Diputes en 1992 et 1993, est um Projet inter portant aussi bien sur des
composantes "classiques" d'un Projet de Nveloppement Urbain ( investissements, for-
mnation, equipemnts, ...) que sur des r6formes insitutionnelles, orgaisationnelles,
financieres, fiscales, ... visant a consolider le r8le, les capacites et les moyens d'inter-
vention des collectivit6s locales, et a agir sur leur environnent institutionnel (
bailleurs de fonds, organisnes publics, structures administratives centrales et rigionales
exernt une tutelle admnistrative, financiere ou technique sur ces colI8ctivitbs locales,
organisations et associations de d6veloppement local, op6rateurs prives, ...) pour mieux
l'adapter aux ex4ences d'm processu de developpement urbain concert6 oui la collecti-
vite locale est appelee a jouer de plus en plus le r8le d'un partenire essentiel et
incontournable.
B. OBJECIPS ET CONTENU DU PDM
1. OBECRIFS STRATEGIQUES PRIORITAIRES:
Le huitieme Plan 1992 - 96 pr6voit, en plus de la r6alisation des investissemients
en infrastructures, l'introduction de changements fondamentaux dans la repartition des
responsabilitis institutionnelles du secteur public. Le PDM s&inscrit donc dans le cadre
de la politique g6nrale du pays marquke nota=ment par un desengagment progressif
de 1'Etat central au profit d'un accroissement du role et de la participation des collecti-
vit*s locales ( municipalit6s et conseils regionux ), du secteur prinv et des organisations
coramunautaires dam le processus du developperfent regional et nunicipal, conwidir
comme le pivot du developpement 6conomique et social de la Tunisie.
Le PDM a pour objectif principal de rendre les autorites locales plus responsables
vis a vis de leurs electeurs et leur dormer en mnbne temps les moyens de remplir leur
mandat, c'est a dire finaner leurs investissements et developper leurs capacits a mobi-
liser les ressources et a amnliorer l'efficacit6 de la prestation des services fournis a la
population.; Cela comprend egalement la consolidation du role et des moyens des
communes dans les domaines de la planification & de la maitrise du developpement
urbain ainsi qu'en matiere de production & de financement des infrastutures et des
services urbains.
Rapport d'achevement am PDM 1                                  8 / 37



Parni les autrs objectifs stat6giques prion'taires du PDM, il y a nota=ent
lieu de mentionner:
-  IsioeLa rdforen duL    de             d'6vaA de                  de r.h-
saionetdie si de               des c dtv   locs;
-    L'amilioration du systbme de financement des collectinvites locales:
Elle repose sur des concepts inh6rents a toute politque de decentralisation, enga-
g6e dans m contexts difficile de hlnitation des transerts financiers de l'Etat central
vers les collectivitis d6centralisies et d'accroissement des prerogatives & responsabilites
des autorites locales.
-    LUmfioration de la gestion des roirces hom    ds les cofltivi  loCles,
pour renforcer les capacit6s des collectivit6s locales a se mettre au  rvice de la popula-
tion et a soutenir la dynanique du developpement local et regional.
-    La modermsation de la gestion mumicipale.
2. COMOSANTES DU PDM:
Le PDM comprend trois composantes essentielles, a savoir:
a)  L'ex6cution d'un programme  d'Appui Institutionnel' au profit des
structures des minires de l' Interieur et des Finaces, ainsi que des collectivites
locales ( mnicipalit6s et regions ) concernees par la preparation et la mise en
oeuvre du Projet.
Ce programme porte sur la rialisation d'une serie d'actions relatives a:
-i-  Lamise au poiut de sysemes efficaces de mobilisaion & d'allocation des res-
sources budgzaires an collectivite locates: reforme de la fiscalite locale, revision des
critks de rpatton du FCC L...
-ii-  La iseaupomtde poc*dures ysemes approprit*s d   les domaines de la
geution locale et de lplaificaion des invesme  muicipa: Fin          t des
srie publics urbais & recouvrement des couits ; etablissent d'une base de donmes
muicipales; elaboration d'un gide d'identification, de priparation, d'evaluation et
d'ezicuton des projets mumicipaux ; e1aboration et difusion d'un guide pratique des
c0om=mes;  tablissement de cartes des commumes;...
Rapport wacnevement au PDM 1                                  9 / 37



-ii- L' laboratiot & A ia aise en ocuwe d'uae sat4ie et d'un programme de foria-
tiol u prfit des tlus et des cadres deS coleclitteS locales Xilm qye des UMMrcs
cenzrales & regionales do minist*re de l'IatrieUt, y compris I'etablissement d'une
Direction de la Formation appelee a assurer un lien entre les municipalitis et les entites
de formation eadstantes telles que 1'ENA, I'ENIT, l'OFPE, ...
-iv- La fouiture des matriels et equipemetsncessaires il'Vexction etau suii du
PDM: materiel informatique, logiciels, eqinpements, supports pedagogiques, doCumef-
tation,
b)   L'ex6cution du programme de retucturation de la Caise des prets
et de soutien aux collectivit6s locales ( CPSCL ), et de renforcement de sos
capacit6s et moyens operationels & de gestion: Ce programme porte notam-
ment sr:
-i-   L'autononisuion dela CPSCL: Affirmation de son statut d'EPIC dote de struc-
tures de decision & de gestion, d'un organigramme approuve, d'un statut de personnel,
d'um plan de recrutement, d'un plan de formaton, des dquipemem  & vdbiues neces-
saires, ...
-i-  i'tablissemenL d'un manuel oprzionel de I CPSCL adapt aux rformes du
systre  de financement des investissements locaux & regionaux, introduites an 1992, et,
se rapportant aux:
criteres d'eligibilite financibre des projets des collectivitis locales: prioritis du
P.IC. & solvabilite de la commune,
==  bscmas de financement des projets d'investissement :% d'autofinancement, de
pret & de subventon,
-    conditions des prets accordes taux d'int6rit, durees de remboursement, periodes
de grace pour les divers types de projets.
-in- 1' tablissement et la mise en place de sywtemes d'i,formaion appropries au sein
de la CPSCL: Systeme d'informations comptables & financiires, systme d'6valuation &
de suivi des projets finances, base de donnies firncires sur les collectivites locales, ...
-iv- la mobilisation par la CPSCL des ressources budgires & ext6rieures nicessaires
an finacement ( octroi de prets & subventions ) des projets des collectivites locales.
c)   Le financement, via la CPSCL, de projets d'i-n stis mt prioritai-
res inscrits dans le cadre du Plan d'Invetissement Commnal et de certains program-
mes nationaux.
Outre les projets econorniques marchands ( marcis, abattoirs, centres comrmr-
ciaux ...), le PDM finance surtout les projet de constrxcion, de rifection ou d'entre-
tien des ifrastructures de base : Voirie,  ss sement, drainage des saux pluviales, ali-
mentation en eau potable, 6clairage public, espaces verts, ramnass:ge & evacuation des
dke1ets solides ... notamment dans les quarers populaimes.
Rapport Gacnevement au rDM i                                    10/ 37



3. COOTh Er FINANCEMENT DU PROJET:
L'estimation initiale des cots du PDM1 est d'environ 207,7 Millions de $US,
dont 200 M$ pour financer les investissements prioritaires des collectivites locales et 7,7
M$ reserves au financement des activites d'Appui Institutionnel a la Cpscl ( 1 M$ ), aux
Collectivites Locales et aux autres stuctures centrales ( 6,7 MS ) concernkes par la pr6-
paration et la ni'se en oeuvre des diverses composantes du Projet.
Le tableau n°l figurant a l'Amexe ci-jointe r6capitu1e les coats estimatifs et le
schema pr6visionnel de financerent du PDM 1, tels qu'ils ressortent du Rapport d'va-
luation etabli par la BIRD ( n° 10348 du 10 / 6 1 1992 );
Sur les 75 M$ du Pret Bird contract pour co-finaner le PDM1, 3 M$ devaient
servir au financement partiel d'activit6s d'Appui Institutionnel a la Cpscl ( 0,6 M$ ) et
aux autres strutures concern6es ( 2,4 M$ ) ; L'essentiel du pret ( 72 M$ ) devait kme
r6serv6 au financement de projets communaux ; En realite, la part du pret consacr6e
aux investissements locaux aura et de 74,050 M$.
Le tableau n0 2 ci-axe donne la repartition initiale ( selon I'Accord de Pret)
et actuaisee ( apres raffectation approuvee par la Bird le 8 Janvier 1997 ) des ressour-
ces du PrMt n° 3507-TUN-0 relatif au PDM1.
A la cl8ture du PDMI en 1998, les deboursements szr le pret Bird auront ete de
74,997 M$; Le tableau ne 2b ci-annexO domne les repartitions initiale et actualisee amsi
que les deboursements effectifs des ressources du Pret Bird ; Le tableau n4 3 donne en
Annexe r6capitule les deboursements annuels pr6visiomels et r6els du Pret Bird.
4. REFORMS ANNONCEES PAR LE PROJ.ET:
Outre les reformes li6es a la restructuration de la CPSC L et a la revision du sys-
teme de planification & de finamement des investissements des collectivit6s locales, le
PDM a egalemnent pr6vu l'introduction d'autres reformes non moins importantes portant
notamment sur:
a)  L'am6lioration du systme financier communal, et ce, a travers:
-i-  La reforme des tiansferts du Fonds Commun des Collectiviths Locales ( FCC L):
Dcisions a prendre qunt a 1'6volution et a la repartition du FCCL.
-ii- L'6valuation de l'impact de la nouvelle fiscalit6 indirecte locale en vue de son
adptation eventuelle.
Rapport a acnevement at rDm 1                                  11 / 37



-iii- La revision de la fiscalite directe locale, notarnment la tue locative, la taxe sur
les terrains non batis, la TCL, la Tae h8teliere et 1'eventuelle creation ou transfert de
nouvelles tWme ou redevances a caractere urbain.
-iv- L'axrilioration de l'efficacit du recouvrement des taxs & autres recettes mumi-
cipales: Revenus du doraie, services rendus, ...
-v-  L'am61ioration du systime d'information budgetaire & comptable communal.
b )  Le developpement des ressources humaines dans les collectivitfis loca-
les et dans leur environiement institutionnel:
-    pwm7axr~. Avec seuernent 24 678 aents, les Commmues disposent en
moyenne de 5 agents pour 1 000 habitants ; Ce nombre varie, salon l'importance dsmo-
graphique des communes, entre 3 et 7 agents / 1 000 hab.; La Commune de Tunis
emploie a elle seule 30% de 1'ensemble des effectifs commurnux.
-    jpufhaa: Moins de 7% des effectifs communaux ont un niveau de formation
intiale egal ou superieur au baccalaur6at ; 25% ont um niveau compris entre la lere
ann6e et la 6eme niee secondaire ; 68% ont un niveau inf6rieur ou egal a la 6eme
=xm&e pre.
-    .w  a6.  Les Communes disposent de 3 778 agents d'encadrement pour
21 300 ouvriers, soit en moyenne un taux d'encadrement de 13,7%, avec cependant um
taux d'encadremet technique tres faible ( 2,8%) compare a celui de 1'encadrement
administratif 6, 1%), relativement plus eleve; Pour les Communes de plus de 50 000
habitants (18 t 250), les agents des categories A et B reprdsentent entre 7,5 et 9 % des
effectifs; Ce tau est inferieur a 6% pour les communes dont le population est comprise
entre 5 000 et 10 000 habitants ( 52 Communes).
-    wi qzaW   Entre 1987 et 1990, environ 2 500 cadres et agents communaux
ont participe a des journees d'information, de sensibilisation ou a des sessions de recy-
clage, ce qui donne une moyenne inf6rieure a une journ6e de formation par an au pro-
fit de moins de 2,5% des effectifs communaux.
Le atoms du PDM prvms an mzmre de                 do  #;  h
n  dm Is colectyit locals co Dmzt notmed:
Rapport acacnevement au FDM 1                                   12 / 37



-1-   Le rea&nntde  adr- &                       qupo   rporter les taux
d'encadrement i la fin du plan 1992 - 96 aux niveaux de 5% des effectifs cormunax=
pour la catgorie A et 10% pour la catgorie B.
-fi-  La crafoz, apt de l'EliA & autres institutions spucialisges, de fiibrs de for-
malionooadapt   aux m6tiers sp6cifiques des collectiviths locales.
-in-  Lamis enpa   d'mystkpu  ment do perfectiornkt& deryc,Vle  s
li & co    rbom  nemt cip : Strat6gie, structures de formation, evaluation
des besoins, ddiiition du contenu, financement, r6a1isation, suivi, .
-iv-  La ise en oeuvre de nurwe  d'ac     o    o  pour dlargir les perspectives
de carriere et acroitre l'attractivit6 des nitiers communmux: Regiementation adequate
concernant les organigrammes des collectvites locales, le statut du personel, les diver-
ses formes de motvation, ...
5.  CONDMONS DE SUPERVISION & D'EXRCLTION DU PROJET:
Le montap du PDM, tel qu'il ressort des Accords conclus en l'objet avec la
BIRD, pr6voit que le Minist6re de P'Int6rieur assure la supervision generale du Projet,
et repartit les responsabilit*s de son excution entre:
4-  Le Comaz  d        ;Skv  prBsid par le Secretaire d'Etat aux Collectivits Locales
et comprenant des representants des principaux ninisteres concernes, est charg6 de la
coordination entre les divers ntinistbres.
-it-  Le Coordiwzw4     place sous I'autorite directe du Secr6taire dEtat aux Collec-
tivit6s Locales, est charge de la coordination courante du Projet et de la gestion des etu-
des pr6vues pr6vues dans la composante 'Appui Institationnel" ;
-iii- La CP'SC, sous tutelle du Ministbre de 1 Intrieur, charge de sa propre
restructration, de 1'6valuation & du finan t des investissements co0munaux, et,
de la gestion comptable & financire de toutes les composantes d'Appui Institutionnel;
-iv- Ls DGCPL appelee notamment a assurer, avec 1'2ide du Ministere des Finances,
la r6alisation de la composante uAppui institutionnel, y compris 1'6tablissement d'une
Direction de la Formation & la consolidation de ses moyes d'action;
-v-  LBs Coffwed  i    LocI&ar, appelOes a r6aiser les investissements comrnunaux
et les 1ements du volet d'appui instittionnel les concernant
Rapport a-acnevement au rDM 1                                   13 / 37



C. LES RIALISATIONS DU PDM i:
1. REALISATIONS ENREGISIR5E1   AU TLRE DE LA
PARTIE `Au DU PDM
Au niveau des composantes d'appui institutionnel aux collectvit6s locales et aux
stutures du Ministere de l'Interieur, certaines r6alisations meritent d'6tre soulign6es;
Elles concernent notamment:
a)   L'6laboration et la mise en oeuvre d'une strat6gie de formation en
direction des collectivit6s locales, y compris la creation, en 1992, d'une direction
de la formation au sein de la DGCPL, et, en Juin 1994, du 'Centre mtional de perfec-
tionnement et de recyclage des cadres regionaux et municipaux" et la consolidation de
leurs capacites & moyens d'action ; Non prevu initialement par le PDM, ce Centre a
permis de capitaliser et de poursuivre les actvites de formation initiees par le Ministbre
de l'Interieur, avec l'appui de 1'USAID et la BIRD, et portant notamment sur 1'6valua-
tion des besoins de formation des collectivit6s locales; la s6lection et la formation de
plusieurs formateurs & de quelques instructeurs ; le deweloppement de supports techni-
ques & p6dagogiques adaptes pour une quinzaine de themes importants ou prioritaires;
l'organisation de nombreuses sessions de formation, de seminaires de sensibilisation ou
d'ateliers de travail au profit de plusieurs centaines d'e1us & cadres des collectivites
locales ...
L finae ent des activites de formation, entreprises par le Ministbre de 1'Int&
rieur et le Centre entre 1993 et 1997, a e  principalement effectu6 sur les ressources
provenant des dons de l'USAID ( DSP, PEP, LGSP, PPES ..), de la BIRD (Don IDF
28827 TUN et Pret 3507-TUN-0 ), et du Budget du Ministsre; Le tableau suivant
donne une estimtion approm'mative des ressources mobilisees par le Ministire de
l'Interieur ( a travers la DGCPL et le CNPRCRM ) pour le financement de toutes sortes
d'activits de formation en direction des collectivit6s locales:
Sources de financement         DGCPL          CNPRCRM           TOTAL
Dons de 1'USAID (@)          1.425.840          376.977        1.802.817
Don de la BIRD (IDF)              -             451.214          451.214
Sous-total des Dons         1.425.840           828.191       2.254.031
PrOtdelaBIRD  (PDM1)             16.205          172.464         188.669
Budget du Mlin lnt6rieur        80.140            98.033         178.173
TOTAL GENERAL               1.522.185        1.098.688        2.620.873
(@):finaments su les programmes MDFP, LGSP & PPES;   (Unit6: ldt= 1$).
Rapport aacnevement au ?DM 1                                    14/37



Depuis 1998, les Collectivit6s Locales contribuent egalement au financement des
activites du Centre, par une dotation annuelle calculke en fonction de leur masse sala-
riale (0,5%) Le montant total de cette contribution, mobiliske en 1998, est d'environ
328 mille dinars
Au registe de la Formation de base compl6mentaire ou d'adaptation a 1'emploi
des cadres appeles a travailler dans les collectivit6s locales, 4 filieres sp6cifiques ont et
creees au sein de l'Ecole Nationale d'Administration pour former des "Administrateurs
des CLU (113 cadres formes entre 1990 & 1997 ), des "Administrateurs-Conseillers
des CU ( 24 cadres formes entre 1996 & 1997), des "Attach6s d'Administration des
CL  (70 agents formns entre 1995 & 1997) et des 'Secr6taires d'Administration des
CL" (48 agents formes entre 1996 & 1997 ). Le finncement de ces actions de forma:-
tion a i effectue sur les ressources de l'ENA et, accessoirement, sur celles budget du
Ministere de 1'Int6rieur ( pre-salaire des eleves durant le cycle de formation ).
MWme s'il n'eiaste actuellement pas d'informations fiables sur les affectations,
mutations et departs des agents formes a 1'ENA dans le cadre des filieres sus-
mentionn6es (mnie base de donnees "ressources humaines" informatis6e sera mise en
place dans le cadre du PDM2 ! ), il est clair qu'il y a un decalage entre les besoins
importants e2primis par les collectivits locales et l'offre insuffisante, forcement limi-
t*e par les ressources budg6taires du Ministere de l'Interieur ( prenant en charge les
pr&salaires des agents en formation) ainsi que par les capacites d'accueil et les moyens
financiers de 1'ENA.
Pour attenuer ce d6calage, les D6crets n! 97-1621, 97-1622 et 97-1623 du 18
Aout 1997 ont pr6vu que les collectivit6s locales peuvent, sur leur demande, prendre en
charge les traitements des agents temporaires durant leur periode de formation comple-
mentaire aupres de 1'ENA ( filieres pour "administrateurs-conseillers", 'administra-
teurs" et "attachis d'administration' ); En retour, ces agents seront affectes d'office
aupr&s des collectivit6s ayant contribue au financement de leur formation.
A ce jour, .... collectivit6s locales ont pris en charge la r6mun6ration d'agents
temporaires en formation; filieres administrateurs - conseillers ( ... agents ), adminis-
trateurs ( ... agents ) et attach6s d'adxnnistration ( agents).
Les tableaux n0 4, 4a, 5 et 5a figurant a l'ane donment des indicateurs lies a
l1'volution des effectifs commnuxm
Les tableaux n° 6 et 6a ci-annexs donnent des indicateurs de base compl&
mentaire (4 filieres) dispensee a I'ENA au profit des cadres appeles a travaiUler dans les
Coulectivit6s Locales.
rapport a acnevement am rDM i                                       15 / 37



Les tableaux n° 7 et 8 joints en annexe donnent des indicateurs lis aux perfor-
mances des stuctures charges de la formation au sein de la DGCPL et DGAR.
Les tableaux n° 9 et 10 donn6s en annem portent sur des indicateurs de perfor-
mance des structures charqges de la formation au sein du CNPCRM et des Collectivit6s
Locales.
b)   L'amakioration des systbmes d'allocation St de mobilisation des res-
sources budgetaires des collectivites locales: Les principales activit6s d'appui
institutionnel realis6es ont port6 sur la formation et 1'assistance tschnique pour la pr6pa-
ration & la vulgarisation des r6formes entreprises en l'objet, ou, pour la r6alisation de
nornbreuses etudes & op6rations-pilotes portant notamment sur:
-i-   La refonte ( loi n97- 11 dui 3 Feyrier 1997 ) do Code deli fiscalite locale; Initia-
lement, cette reforme devait etre achev6e en 1996 ; Malgr ses limites et le retard cons-
tate au niveau de sa mise en oeuvre, cette r6forme a des chaes d'ameliorer sensible-
ment les niveaux de recettes fiscales - notament celles provenant de la Taxe sur les
immaubles Batis et de la Taxe sur les Terrains Non Batis - de la majorit6 des communes
tunisiennes L'6valuation des impacts de cette r6forme est prevue pour fin 1999, dans le
cadre du PDM 2 ; Outre les efforts d'information du grand public et I ou de sensibilisa-
tion - formation en direction des 6ls & agnts des collectivit6s locales ainsi que des
receveurs des finances, l'introduction de cette r6forme fiscale a 6galement 6te facilit6e
par un effort accru dtinformatisation ( fourniture de mat6riel + developpement de logi-
ciels + formation des utilisateurs  des structures & services assurmt la gestion de taxes
locales.
-ii-  La rftlision d'une etude pour la revision dii systtme de rparition du Fonds
Commundes Collectivites Locales: Pr6vue pour 1993 dans le PDM 1, cette 6tude a 6te
lanc6e en 1994 dams le cadre de la coop6ration avec l'USAMD; Pour diff6rentes raisons
( faible evolution du volunme global du FCC L, refus d'indemtion des ressources du
FCCL, difficulte technique a appr6hender les besoins objectifs ou reels des diff6rentes
collectivit6s locales... ), les orientations de r6forme propos6es par 1'etude en 1995 n'ont
pas ete retenues.
En 1997, et a la lumire des orientations du Gouvernement ( Comit6 Inter Minis-
teriel du 17 Mars 1997 ), l'6tude a red6marr6 sur de nouvelles bases, a savoir une
legtre modification des criteres actuels de r6partition du FCCL pour introduire une
per6quation au profit des communes les mois nanties en potentiel de ressources pro-
pres, cr6er une incitation plus effective a l'amelioration des taux de recouvrement de la
Taxe sr les Immeubles Batis, et, proposer des masures d'acco   m   t comprenant
notamment un transert global accru du FCCL et ne progression dans l'introduction
des nouveaux criteres de rSpartition de ce fonds.
RapPOrt aOacnevement au ?DM  1                                   16 / 37



Les nouvelles propositions, discuthes dans le cadre du Comit6 inter-dUpartemental
de suivi du PDMJ ont W soumises au Gouvernemient en Novmbre 1998, et il est pro-
bable que cette reforme intervienne en 1999.
Le tableau n° 11 donne en anmn   retrace les principaux indicteurs de perfor-
mance lies a l1'volution des finanes municipales entre 1990 et 1997.
c)   La rialisation d'etudes ou le lancement d'op6rations - pilotes portant
notament sur:
-i-  la production & le finamncement des infrastructures & services publics urbains,
-ii- le d6veloppement de la sous-traitance aux prives de la gestion de la collecte des
ordures mena6res,
-iii- I'amnenagement ou la gestion de d6charges contr8lees d'ordures nrtnageres,
-iv-  le soutien  la restructuration de la Pederation Nationale des Villes Tunisienrs &
ia consolidation de ses moyens d'action, y compris I'6dition d'un "Guide Pratique
des Commues",
-v-  uns op6ration-pilote d'amnernt foncier, en partenariat entre la Commune de
Sousse et d'autres intervenants publics et priv6s,
-vi- le soutien a des projets - pilotes de gestion communautaire de Y'environnement,
entreprise dans plusieurs quartiers de Kasserine & Sousse, et conduite par des
.uimzzw      ,e~'e rgeJgroupant des elus municipaux et des representants
d'organisations communautaires locales ( comites de quartiers notnment ),
-vii- le developpement de supports de formation & la fourniture d'assistance technique
necessaire a la realisation d'expkriences menses avec des Collectivit6s locales pour
"I'introduction de la comptabilite analytique dans certains services municipaux",
T'amlioration des relations entre 'adxministation communale et la population",
"la sensibilisation a l'utilite des systhmes d'information geographique au niveau de
la gestion communale",...
-    etc.
Le tableau ne 12 ci-anneax donne des indicateurs de perforrme lies aux princi-
pales activitks d'appW insitutionnel prevues par la Partie 'A" du PDM  1.
RapporE cacnevement au rDM 1                                   17/ 37



2. REALISAlONS ENREGISTREES AU NIVEAU DE LA
PARTIE "B" DIU PDM 1
Le PDM 1 comprend une composanto d'appw a la restructuration de la Cpscl et au
renforcement de ses capaciths de gestion; In etait initialerent pr6vu de financer cette
composante, a hauter de 0,6 MUlron de S (soit 60D d'un coat total estimx i I MS),
sur les ressources du pret Bird relatif au PDM 1; Le montant total des depenses rwa1i-
sees dans le cadre de cette composante est d'environ 1 ,898 Mdt, r6parti comme suit:
Actvit d'Appii          CoU total            Sour=es de fimzment
p . par                (en dinars)    Prit Bird    Dons UsJid    Buit M.I.
Bind+ LI.IPdml (1)         717920       568804          -           149116
Usaid +  I.  Mdfp (2)      180 000                     130 000       50 00
BudgtEbt I Pdml (3)        200000         -               -200 000
TotalAppuialaCpscl       1 097920       %8804          130000       399116
Sources:   (1): Cpscl -4112 / 1998.                         Unit = 1$ = dt
(2): Annexe VII du rapport final d'evaluation des progrmmes MDFP & LGSP - Usaid.
(3): Cspc -4 12/ 1211998 - Dotaion depremier tablissement - 1993.
Les tableaux n° 13 a 17 figurant a l'anne  donnnt le detail des ddpenses
d'appw institutionnel a la Caisse, reparties par nature & source de financement
Sur les 717 920 dt depenses pour l'Appui a la Cpscl & financas par le PDM1,
536 219 dt (environ 75 2) ont porte sur la fourniture d'equipements informatiques
(236 005 dt), de vehicules (1 63 949 dt), de photocopieurs (59 020 dt), de mathriel &
instalions thl6phoniques (41 041 dt), et d'autres rnatriels de bureaux (36 205 dt);
Le reliquat de ces depenses a port sur la fourniture de services de consultants ( tudes
& asismce tecbnique pour un montant de 133 538 dt ) et la formation des agents &
cadres de la Cspcl (48163 dt, soit environ 7 % du total des d6penses d'appui institu-
tiomnel 2 la Caisse);
Les dapenses d'assistance technique a la Cpscl fiancees dans le cadre du PDMI
ontpermis I'iaboration d'un systeme d'information & de gestion de la Caisse; 1'ta-
blissement de manuels de prockdures; la remun6ration des auditeurs; la r6alisation
d'6tudes des projet d'investissement communaux financs (Iere tranche) par le PDM1;
la preparation & la diffusion de dossiers-types d'appel d'offres pour diverses categories
de projets d'irastructures mtuncipales; la pr6paration des termes de reference de
1'6tde sW la st:atgie d'6volution instituonnelle de la Cpscl; la confection-dition de
rapports anmuels, brochures & dop1iants de la Caisse;...
Rapport a achevement cDu PDM I                                 18 / 37



Les depenses d'assistance tecbnique, financees dans le cadre de la cooperation
avec 1'USAID, concernent surtout l'6tude sur les modeles alternatifs de fincement
des investissements locaux & de la Cpscl ; l'actualisation & la vulgarisation - diffusion
de son Manuel Op6rationnel; ainsi que I'61aboration & l'ex6cution partielle du Plan de
formation de ses cadres & agnts.
Concernant la formation des agents & cadres de la Caisse, son cout total aura 6
suprieur a 168 000 dt entre 1993 & 1998: 70.000 dt au moyen de dons de 1'USAID
+ 47 618 dt sur le pret BIRD + 50 545 dt sur le budget du Ministere de 1'Int6rieur.
Cette formation a et sous-trait6e aupris d'une vingtaine de bureaux prives ou
d'institutions publiques spkcialiskes ( CNI, CITET, IFID, QNPC...) ; Elle a e dispen-
see au profit de la moitie des ingnieurs, du tiers des autres cadres, et, de plus du cin-
quiime des autres agents de maitrise & d'excution de la Cpscl; De 1992 i 1997, 408
'participants' ont suivi les 85 tbbmes de formation organiss au profit des cads &
agents de la Caisse.
L'6volution des effectifs de la Caisse entre 1992 et 1995 a b  inferieure aux pre-
visions contenues dans les accords conclus avec la Bird dans le cadre du PDM 1.
Le tableau suivant r6capitule I'6volution pr6visionnelle et reelle des effectifs de la
Cpscl de 1992 a 1998:
Effectifs       Effectifs  % r6alisations
Ann6e    pr6visionnels   R6els         sur previsions  Observations
1992 .         20 .......  14  ...... - 30 S   .. .. Dmarrage2Umesemestre92.
1993 .         38 .      ....... 34 ......  -  1 %   ......... Difficalt6derecrutementde
1994            53    ..... 51    .... - 04   ..        cadresporabsencedesmtt
1995 .         60 .......  54 ......  - 10 % ......... du personnel de la Cpscd.
1996 .         60 .....6 2 .....  +  03 % ..Co. Cr&onseryicesauditin=rne
1997 .         60 .....   69 ......   +  15 % ...    er"contr6ledegescion".
1998 .         60 .....   76 .....   +  27     .......  Cr 2Breax*ionzimrx
Les tableaux n° 18 & 18a figint a I'annexe donnent la repartition dataill&e par
structre de 1'evolution des effectifs de la Caisse.
Les tableaux n 20, 20a, 20b, 21, 2 la, 22, 22a, et 22b ci-arness donnent la
r6partition dtaill6e des actions d'appui institutionnel au PDM 1, finames dans le cadre
des accords de dons conclus avec l'USAID ( MDFP, LGSP, PPES, ... ).
ltapport awacnevement au rDM I                                  19 / 37



Le rytbme de rialisation de ces investissements communaux sur la priode 1992-
96 est rkcapitul6 ci-apres:
-    annee 1992  ............  73,983 Mdt ...... 11,7 %
-    annee 1993  ............  107, 807 Mdt ...... 19,8 %
-    azm  1994    ..   156,860 Mddt . 24,7 %
-    aDD6e 1995 ............  119,667 Mdt ...... 189 %
-    an  1996 ............ 176,023 Mdt ...... 27,7 %
Le tableau ne 23 figurant a l'annex detaille la repartition, le schema de finance-
ment et le rytbme de realisation des investissernents communaux entre 1992 & 1996.
Les investissements communaux fmanc6s dans le cadre du PDM1 concernent
1141 projets pour um coit global d'environ 205,9 Mdt ( contre des pr6visions initiales
de 181 Mdt ) sur um cofit total de 3903 bldtdes projets prioritaires 6ligibles au finance-
ment de la ligne de credit Bird ( Pret ne 3507-tun-o ), soit environ 53 % des couts de
ces projets tligibles ou encore 33 % du total des investissements communaux realises de
1992 a 1996
Les investissements finances dans le cadre du PDM I ont porte sur des projets
d'infrastructures de base ( 881 projets pour m coat total de 150,218 Mdt ), des projets
de rehabilitation inclus dans le PNRQP ( 122 quartiers r6habilit6s pour un cout total de
33,964 Mdt ) et des projets econoimiques ( 138 projets cotant 21,732 Mdt ).
Les investissements r6alisks dans le cadre du PDM I ont e finances selon le
scha suWvant:
-    autofinamement des communes ....... 58,405 Mdt .  28,4 %
-    prtde lC .................                 ... ..   36,1%
-    subventiondehaCp        ps. cl........ .... 73,133 Mdt...... 35,5%S
Sur les 147,508 t financks par le biais de la Cpscl ( prets + subventions ), la
Bird a refinanc 72,321 Mdt soit environ 35 % du couit total des projets commuaux
r6a1isk dans le cadre du PDM 1, les 65 % restants etant fimnces au moyan de ressoures
nationales.
Rapport O'acDevement au FDM 1                                  21 / 37



Les investissements r6alis6s dan le cadre du PDMI ont toucbi toutes les 257
communes tsiennes sans exceptaon, avec toutefois certaies disparitds entre les com-
munms des divers gouernorats, comme indique dans le tableau sWvant:
Gouvmwrat Nombre de    Nombre de Cofit ttal des    Nb. moymproj/ConmrL
commus        projet     projet           coat mom prprojet
Tunis ........   06 ........    51 .....    27,218 .... 8,5proj ... 0,534tMdt
Sousse ........   15.........  67 .....    18,359 .... 4,5 proj... 0,24Mdt
Sfax ........   15..........                1 .....    13,822 .... 6,Oproj j.    0,154Mdt
Monastir .   .......  31. ........ 123 .....   14,740 .... 4',Oproj ... 0,120Mdt
Nabeul .......  24 ........  76 .           12,756 .... 3,2 proj.  0,168 Mdt
Maenie  ........ 07 ........    40 ....    11,825 .... 5,7proj.   ,296MEt
Bizerte ........   13 .......70 .           1621 .... 5,4proj ... 0,l66Mdt
Ariana ........ 1 2 ........    34 ....    10,605 .... 2,8proj ... 0,312Md.t
BenAro . .. I I                 5.   1 .........  9,240 .... 4,6proj.  DJ,1811Mdt
Kairouan ........ 12.49                      9172 .... 4,1 proj ... 0,S7V  dt
Mahdia ........  14 ........    65    ....  8,166 .... 4J6proj.   0,126 Mdt
G.abs ........    10 ........   32    ....  6,859 .... 3,2proj.   0,214Mdt
Kasserine .......  10 ........   52    ....  6, 075 .... 5,2proj ... 0,117Mdt
Siliana .......    10.   ........  58    ....  5,406 .... 5,8proj ... 0,93Mdt
Zaghouan ........ 06 ........   17    ....  3,448 .... 2,8proj ... 0,203Mdt
SI tot  .      196 ........    875 ......   169,313 .... 4,5 proi ... 0,9194  dt
En au gouv.(S) ..-61   .       266.36,601 .... 4,3prpj.  0,138Mdt
Totd G1i3L  257 ......         1141 ....   2,914...    .... .4po.....  0,1880 Mdt
Les tableaux ne 23 a 25 figurant a l'annem  donnent le detail des investisse-
ments muDicipau ralisks dans le cadre du PDM1, et notamment leurs cotts, leurs
scbws   & soiwces de financement ainsi que leirs repartition par gouvernorat et par
categorie de projet.
Par aillers, la Cpscl a egalement fourni une assistance tecbnique aux collectivi-
tes, sous forme d'etudes de projets et, depuis 1994, a nis en place un important disposi-
tif de suivi des projets communaux qu elle finance.
Rapport c acnevement Ou rDM 1                                 22 / 37



Ainsi, la Cpscl a-t-elle conclu 27 conventions d'etude pour un montant total de
337 416 dinars, portant sur la ra1isation de 32 etudes de projets dont le coilt total a e
estimE a 5,2 millions de dinars,  dtailes comme swt:
Convntioms d'6b11      Proje& d' ina
Nare des projets      Nombre    Mo*at   Nombre   Coiit lta
Infrstructures diverses     04   091 603 dt        09     1 789 mdt
tquipements marchands       12   165 847 dt        13    2 100 mdt
Pc1airqe public             04   018 750 dt        04       410 mdt
Bitiments adTnistratifs     02   006 982 dt        01       080 mdt
tudes d'impacts environn    03   012 084 dt        03       420 mdt
Parcs de loisirs            01   019 750 dt        01       100 mdt
Embeliswment                01   022 400 dt        01       300 mdt
TOTAL            27   337 416 dt        32      5 199 mdt
Source Cpscl -Nov. 1998.
Concermnt le suivi des projets par les services de la Cpscl, if a touch6 906 pro-
jets (entre 1994 et 1997) repartis sur les 257 Comnunes et 23 gouvernorats; Le tableau
suivant d6tailie la nature des projets ayant fait l'objet de rmissions de suivi:
Proje sumvis 194W1997
Nature de projs       Nombre        Cots       Ces missions onr permis de:
- d6bloquerprojetseniance
inrastructures diverses   618     143 882 mdt  pourraisonstech. & finnieres.
Embelissement           080       019 900 mdt * resoudrepoblemesgen&iques
Eq1ipements marchands   079       018 114 mdt  dexeciondesprojets.
BNtments a stratis   116          044 102 mdt -inttgrr*pectenvironnement
Acquisition de mat6riel   012     000 706 mndt danslesetudesdesprojets.
Etudes                  001       00 0014 mdt aactualiserleguidedesprojets
- -         * disposer base de donnmes techniq.
TOTAL        906      226 718 mdt * concevoir"unitedepost-evaluatr"
Source: Cpsci -Nov. 1998.
xapport c'acnevement au rDM i                                    23 / 37



ludicule-rs (raios ft zims)    1993         1994        1995        1996     1997
1.     A   l_      nt des prit wzcord}is am coIecft       local (%):
P?rvu         19154       35,13       42,47       50,43    32,67
ROalist       26,03       20,76       46,89       30,67     15,43
O)bjetif      20,00       30,D0       35,00       35,0D     35,00
Ecart I Preision    06,49      -14,37       04,42      -19,76    -17,24
Ert / Objectif     06,03       -09,24       11,89      -04,33    -19,57
2.   Marger Ir  wtifss moy          (S):
Pr6Vu         01,21       01,30       D1,10       00,93    00,72
Rka1ise       01,59       01,77       01,43       01,21     01,65
Ob, lif       01,00       01,00       01,00       01,00    01,00
Ecart / Prvision    00,38       00,47       00,33       00,28     00,93
Ecart/ Objectif    00,59        00,77       00,43       00,21     00,65
3.   Re,abi1  des Fonds Propre:
Prevu         01,57       02,01       01,95       01,85     01,49
Rka1ise       02,52       03,36       03,16       02,98    04,21
Ob- 
EcartI PrOision    00,95        01,35       01,21       01,13     02,72
4.   Couverr dU smrice de la dete (fois) par reC ou        I du priciphl dgs pft :
Pr6vu         05,45       04,13       02,88       02,44     01,54
Rialis6       04,77       04,38       04,00       02,67     06,96
Objetif       D1,5D       01,50       01,50       01,50    01J50
Ecart! Preision   -00,68        00,25       0 1,12      00123    05,42
Ecart/ Objectif    03,27        02,88       02,50       01,17     05,46
Source: CPSCL - Janvier 1999.
i.    Pourleratio d'autofinmncement dela Caisseparrappoau total des presqu'elle accorde, lanorme
admiseg nralemenprvoirtunmamium de 30%, etla Bird aproposeunobjectif de35% aptirde
1994. Les ecansnegatifs enregistres en 1997 (ann&e de tansition entre le 7eme etle 8ime plan) soatimpu-
tablesaunebaissedel'acrivitk deflnancement.
ii.   Pourlaratio demarge de 1B Caisserapportee aux actifs moyens, lanormeadmise danslesbanques
est de 1,2% et cellefix6eparla Bird pourlaperiode 1992-96 est de 1%.
iii.   Le rato de rentabilite des fonds propres a depass6 les previsions de la ptriode 1993-97, mais me
inferieuramxtaux d'inflation( entre 3 et4%)etailarentabilite dusecteurbancaire.
iv. Le ratio enregistre au niveau de la couverwre du service de la dette de la Caisse patre recouvremenr
duprincipal desprets depasselargementles prvisions etles objectifsfixes.
Rapport a acnevement au F.DM 1                                      25 / 37



Au vu du montage financier retenu par les accords du PDM 1 conclus avec la
BirdJ I'USAID a accepte, en 1992, de revoir le montag du programme HGO04D et
de mobiliser des dons pour assurer la reussite du projet de restructuration de la Cpscl et
des autres activites strathgiques pr6vues dans le PDM 1 ( revision du code de la fiscalite
locale, du FCCL, mise en place d'un systrine de fornmtion en direction des 6lus &
cadres municipaux, soutien a la privatisation de certains services publics locaux, recher-
che de solutions alternatives au probleme de l'habitat anarchique, actalisation du Guide
Pratique des Communes, soutien a la FNVT & aux ONG locales, ... ).
3. UNE NOUVELLE APPROCHE DES INVESSEMENTS
MUNIC.IPAUX:
Au dela de l'importance ( nature, nombre & volume ) des projets d'investisse-
ment r6alis6s, le PDM 1 a surtout permis a toutes les communes sans exception d'a=c6der
au nouveau systme de finanement mis en place, d'ameliorer la qualit6 de preparation
& d'excution de leurs projets, de rdduire leur duree de rSalisation, de maitriser leurs
couts et d'en assurer un meilleur suivi ; Cette evolution est notamment due a :
a)   L'amlioration des conditions d'elaboration & de financement du PIC
II faut surtout souligner l'importame croissante de la Cwrrti4ruz ergage aux diffi-
rents niveaux & phases de planification et de programmation des investissements des
Collectivit6s Locales: Aux niveaux local & regional d'abord, chaque Commune ( ou
Conseil Regional pour le programme d'investissements au profit des Conseils ruraux)
consulte les structures representatives de la population avant d'arr6ter la liste hi6rarchi-
see des projets d'investissement prioritaires a sounettre i la tutelle centrale pour leur
inthgration dans le Programme d'Investissemnent Communal (PIC);
Ces propositions font ensuite l'objet d'une 'concertation-regociation" au nivean
national entre les ministeres ( Int6rieur, Finaces, DNveloppement Econoraique, Envi-
ronnement, Equipement, Jeunesse, Clture, Domaines de 1'Etat, ... ) et les organismes
publics ( ARRU, ONAS, ANPE, ...) concernes. Sorts de 'contrat-programms' pluri-
anuel, le docment final du PIC resulte donc d'un consensus pour r6aliser des investis-
sements juges prioritaires tant par 1'Etat que par les collectivit6s locales concernees;
Par ce contrat moral, les Coliectivites Locales s'engagent a r6aIiser leurs projets
prioritaires selon l'6chbancier pr6vu et a mobiliser l'auto-finanement requis en l'objet;
I'Etat s'enga i mobiliser des ressources budgetaires suffisantes pour l'octroi des sub-
ventions prevues; et la CPSC L s'engap i mobiliser en temps voulu les financements
ncessaires (prets & subventions).
Rapport aacnevement au PDM I                                    27/ 37



Pour mnieux~ preserver les 6quilibres financiers des collec'ivites locales et de la
Cpscl, un certain nombre dimnovations ont e introduites au niveau du systeme de
finacement du PIC: Elles concernent I'6largissement de la liste des projets eligibles au
financement de la Cpscl ( incluant les etudes, les acquisitons foncieres ainsi.que les pro-
jets figurant dans les programmes dit nationaux: PNRQP, PDUI, .  ; l'application
d'un schbma de financement adapte a chaque cathgorie de projet; et, le mixage de res-
sources mobilis6es par la Cpscl, ce qui permet d'octroyer en mnme temps des subven-
tions, selon des taux pr-determines, et des prets, accord6s a des taux nornimux certes
plus 6Iev*s mais toujours inf6rieurs a ceux du march6 financier surtout losqu'il s'agit de
projets prioritaires d'infrastuctures de base ou d'acquisition de materiel de propret6 ou
de voirie.
b)   L'introduction de plus de rigueur au niveau de la preparation des
projets d'investissements mumcipau:
Le PDM a permis aux Communes et a la CPSCL de disposer d'un guide d'etude
& d'6valuation des divers types d'investissements a r6aIiser et financer. -
Pour faciliter l'appropriation de ce guide par les Communes et I'application de la
d6marche preconisee afin de rationaliser davantage le processus de preparation de leurs
projets de d6veloppement, la CPSCL a organise en 1993 2 l'intention de 17 bureaux
d'etudes pre-selectionnes m atelier de travail, pour expliciter les prestations attendues
de leurs experts & consultants appeles a assister les Communes en testant la faisabilite
techniaue et financiere de leur PICs et en effectuant les etudes tecbniques, economiques
& financires de la premiere tranche des investissements a realiser par ces Communes.
En parallele, la CPSCL a egalement organise des seminaires d'information et de
formation au profit d'6quipes m=mncipales constitu6es par des elus, secr6taires gnkraux
et responsables des services techniques ainsi que certains responsables des services
regionaux du Ministre de l'Equipement & de 1'Habitat pour faire connaitre les nouvel-
les regles du jeu relatives a la preparation - evaluation - finmement des projets
d'investissement communax
Progressivement, l'utilisation de ce gde permet aux collectivits locales de
mieux prendre en compte les preoccupations de rentabilite economique, financibre et
sociales de leurs projets de d6veloppement ainsi que de leurs impacts sur la protection
de 1'environnement, sur l'6vo1ution des finances de la collectivite, ... En pratique, de
nombreuses Communes en sont venues a modifier le programme physique, le contenu
technique ou le schema de financement de leurs projets, pour tenir compte des preoc-
cupations sis-indiquees.
Rapport Oacnevement Ou PDM 1                                    28 / 37



c)   Le renforcement du r6le de la Commune en tant que maitre d'ouvrage
des projets de developpement rmeme s'ils sont inscrits dans le cadre de program-
mes nationaux tels que le "Programme National de Rkhabilitation des Quartiers Populai-
res", projets finmc6s par le "Fonds de Protection des Zones Touristiques", ...
Selon le cas, les innovations introduites a ce sujet ont porte sr divers aspects
relatifs au montage institutionnel et financier de ces projets ( conventions-cadres ou par-
ticuli6res, modes specifiques de passation des inarch6s ou de circulation des fonds entre
les maitre d'ouvrage, maitre d'ouvrae delegue, bailleur de fonds ...).
d)   Le recours accru aux bureaux d'etudes et aux entreprises privees
pour 1'etude et 1'ez6cution des projets d'investissement des mumicipalit6s:
Les prockdures d'6valuation des projets communaux et de d6boursement des prbts
et subventions accordbes par la Caisse incite indirectement les communes a ameliorer la
qualit6 de leurs etudes de projet ( facilites de financement des etudes, conseils des servi-
ces de la Caisse pour anmliorer les etudes de projets et, au besoin, renvoi des dossiers
incomplets aux communes concernees );
Par ailleurs, les procedures en vigueur a la Caisse pour le d6blocage des fonds
encouragent les communes qui ne peuvent pas assurer une geston efficace et transpa-
rente des projets realises en regie a preferer le recours aux entreprises priv6es:
engenme de justificatifs de 1'avancenent des travaux, de la fourniture des matieres
consommables, ... mise a disposition des communes des dossiers-types d'appel d'offres
pour diverses categories de projets d'infrastructures, ...
Le couit total des etudes de projets finances par la Caisse entre 1993 et 1996 est
estim6 i 2,9 Mdt ; Le pourcentage des projets commnunaux ( approuv6s par la Caisse)
r6aliss par recours a l'entreprise est passe de 38 % en 1993 a 69 % en 1996;
Le delai moyen de realisation des projets d'investissements est passe de 39 mois 
en 1993 a 29 mois en 1996; Le delai maTdmum s6parant I'approbation d'un projet de sa
clture estpasse de 5 a 3 ans entre 1993 et 1996.
Les tableaux n° 26 et 27 ci-annex6s donnent des indications relatives i 1'6volu-
tion, entre 1993 et 1996, des modes d'6tude des projets d'investissement locaux, de leur
r6alisation ainsi que de ler duree moyenne d'ex6cution.
IaPoPrt asacnevement au ?DM 1                                     29/ 37



e)   La rtiou on de la gestion des dMdbt solides, notamment a travers:
-i-  le dtveloppement de la sows-atance de la collecte qW a nkcessite un evaluation
pr6alable de l'or,nisation de la gestion existante, une innovation au niveau des rapports
de la Commune avec les sou0nisomnaires ou l'adjudicataire, ume adaptation des proc6-
dures d'appel d'offres & de passation des march6s,...
-ii- raLionalisationdes op ioansd'acquisiLtondemuteriels denettoiement etde
voirie a tavers le recours aux " marchbs-cadre" conclus par la CPSC L pour le compte
des collectviths locales et la formation des agnts en charge de l'exploitation de ce
materiel.
-iii- lerenforcement deli concertaion et delisolidarit iter-communale enmatiere
de gestion des d6charges conrol1es, qu'il s'agisse de choix des sites possibles ou de la
participation des Communes au processus d'etude & de planification, au financement des
projets d'am6nagement & d'6quipement des d6charges ou encore aux d6penses de leur
exploitation.
E. PlRENNITE DE LA DYNAMIQUE ENOAGSE
PAR LE PDM 1:
Le prerrier PDM ( 1993 - 1998 ) a clairement mis en relief les capacit6s institu-
tionnelles, techniques ou financi6res des collectivitts locales a assurer une forte dynarmi-
que d'investissement ou a assumer de nouvelles responsabilites: Les commves ont en
effet prouve qu'elles etaient largement capables (moyennant une neilleure concertation,
une clarification des responsabiItis respectives et un niveau minimum d'assistame) de
bien d6finir leurs priorites de d6veloppement, choisir des projets d'investissement bene-
ficiant au plus grand nombre, fournir des etudes de qualite, s'adapter aux rigueurs &
exigences d'un systeme moderns de finrarenent, ...
En meme temps, et ma1grS la rWforme du code de lturbanisme qui est venue
conforter la politique de decentralisation suivie, les collectivit6s locales n'ont pas encore
r6uni toutes les conditions necessaires leur permettant d'etreverntablement le matre
d'ouvrage du d6veloppernent urbain sur leurs territoires et de s'engger durablement
dans une logique de cooperation ciblee avec d'autres collectivites locales, ou de partena-
riat efficace avec le scteur priv6, ou encore de "conmertation-participation' evoluee et
continue avec la population & les organisations communautaires representatives de cette
population urbaine de plus en plus nombreuse et eigeante.
II est clair egalement que la dynamique de d6veloppement engagee par le PDM
n'est pas encore irreversible et que plusieurs aspects de cette constrction intWgr6e doi-
vent etre consolides.
Dapport wacnevemenE au rDM I                                    30 / 37



1- LES PRINCIPALES QUESTIONS NON RESOLUE
PAR LE PROJkET
Le rytlume relativement rapide de la realisation des diverses composantes physi-
ques du PDM ( invstisements, etudes, assistance technique & formation, fourniture de
mat6riels & 6quipements, ... ), et la lenteur relative de 1'introduction de certaines
reformes pr6vues par le Projet, n'ont pas manque de laisser plusieurs questions princi-
pales non emore enierement resolues, a savoir notament:
a)   Le developpement des ressources finaxiires des municipalit6s:
Le retard relatif de 1'entr6e en vigueur du nouveau code de la fiscalit6 locale et la
faible evolution des transferts du FCC L aux communes, combinks ave la tres forte
croissance des investissements locaux entre 1992 et 96 (PIC r6alig sup6rieur a 600 MD
contre moins de 300 MD entre 1987 et 91 ) et I'accroissement de la population urbaine
font qu'un certain nombre de communes se posent des questions quant a 1'6volution de
leur situation financiere, et ce mialgr6 les efforts notoires fournis pour mobiliser leurs
ressources propres.
b)   Le d6loppeemn des roun             lmines dam les collectivt locales:
Malgr6 toutes les nouvelles dispositions juridiques et autres prises mesures pour
aider les coliectiviths locales a recruter directement les cadres administratifs & techni-
ques dont elles ont besoin, 1'6volution quantitative et qualitative de 1'encadrenent dans
les municipaiitks reste encore tr6s en de# des objectifs inscrits au PDM.
c)  ID  diTfcul1t chromuqi rexuonf;    pa I  sbmtre de tUle des Collecvi-
tW LOCals pour ahcie, pear et Pr effi              I'dt les rfornzs et momes  nvi-
Vssh-giquw;d'----:,  0_     du PDM:
Malgr6 l'importame (nombre, diversite et volume) des activit6s d'appui institu-
tionnel ( 6tudes, -formation, fournitures d'6quipements informatiques et bureautiques...)
r6a1is6es dans le cdre ou a la marge du PDM 1, les structures de ituelle centrale des
Communes (DGCPL & DGAR I MI, )DGCP / MF... ) n'ont pu 6viter des retards
importants, voire meme la non-r6alisation, de nombreuses r6formes ou activit6s strat&
giques prevues par le PDM 1, telles par exmple:
-1-  la refonte du Code de la fiscalite locale,
-ii- la r6vision des critbres de repartition du Fonds Commun des CollectiviLs Locales
-iii- la revision de la nomenclature budg6taire et comptable des micipalit6s,
-iv- ' amelioration du systbme de financement des infrastructures et services publics
urbains, et des mcanismes de r6cup6ration des coots y afferents,
Rapport dachevement dlu PDM 1                                     31 / 37



-v-  l'elaboration d'un tableau de bord communal,
-vi-  l'elaboration et la diffusion d'un rmnuel des prockdres communales,
-vii- l'etablissement et l'exploitation d'une Banque de Donn6es Communales,
-vifi- etc.
La p6rennitW du processus de decentralisation engag par le Gouvernement de
l'Ere Nouvelle a travers le PDM va probablement dependre en partie de la pertinence et
de la rapidit6 de ltlaboration et de la mise en oeuvre d'un programme specifique de
mise a niveau des structures centrales charages de la tutelle des Collectivit6s Loca-
les,cibl6 sur le renforcement de leurs capacit6s institutionnelles, organisatiomelles,
humaines et techniques a soutenir plus efficacement le d6veloppement municipal et
regional.
d)   Uu frbgi cmrtaim du          de foriration mis en pie en direction des Col-
lectiviWs Locales:
. Le PDM I a permis de jeter les bases d'un syst6me de formation, permanent et
efficace, en direction des elus, cadres & agents des regionaux et municipaux; La p6ren-
nit& de ce syst6me, encore en pbase de nise en place, va probablement dependre de sa
capacite a bvoluer vers une meilleure connaissance des besoins objectifs & prioritaires a
satisfaire, a assurer une offre de qualit6 toujours plus adaptee a ces besoins,  garantir
sa propre perennite financi6re dans une perspective d'une liberte plus importante laiss6e
aux Collectivit6s Locales pour choisir les institutions de formation ( publiques et pri-
v6es) qui repondent le rnieux a leurs besoins sp6cifiques, et, a instaurer un systeme fia-
ble d'6valuation des impacts de la formation ainsi que des performnnces des structures
en charge d'assurer cette formation.
e)   Uxm frt    exore impornt du sys    de pdiiation, de prcg      on,
de    etde sun des i              Io  locxtregit:
Le PDM a certes permis de mettre progressivement en place un systkm fiable et
relativement efficace de planification, de programmation et de financenet des investis-
sements municipaux;
Cependant, pour assurer sa perennite, ce systime doit encore progresser pour,
non seulement mieux prendre en compte les risques inhirents a l'volution recente des
finances locales et des equilibres financiers de municipalit6s et de la Cpscl, mais egale-
ment accroitre sa capacith a s'adapter dans un contexte financier different avec une per-
spective d'une plus grande liberth et responsabilite alloiees aux Collectivit6s Locales en
matiire de choix d'investissements et de politique d'endetement.
Rapport aoacnevement au ?DM 1                                   32 / 37



A cet egard, un interet particulier pourrait etre accord6 i certains aspects tecbni-
ques mais revYtant une dimension strategique, tels que:
-i-  lemaiddmezguideqmitmdesu                   d es     d'n _et ce, a
travers Il'1aboration d'autres guides ou Dossiers d'Appels d'Offres-types, un recours
accru aux bureaux d'tues specialises, uine meilleure vulgrisation et uiLsation des
facilit6s et financements disponibles pour la realisation d'etudes de qualit6, ...
-fi-  iamin  dcs,        ftqodk*      desd'k                    d'ou IB rale
important devolu aux antennes r8gionales de la Cpscl en mati6re de swvi de la qualith
des 6tudes & dossiers d'ex6cution, de suivi-relance systematique des d6boursements
effectues sur les ressources accordees pour le firncement des projets (mobilisation de
l'auto-financement d'abord puis d6blocage des prets & subventions).
ii- L'adxSl 7                                         if
cpXoeedmeLde              snffis^-|des&Cxxed*rt_ scet ce, par la
multiplication des activit6s d'ssistace tecbnique ( fournitures de programmes;types,
etudes de cas, op6rations-pilotes,...) et de formation en directon des regions et commu-
nes concernkes.
2- CONSOL.IDATION DES ACQUIS DU PDM 1: ASPECTS
rEGRES DANS LE PDM 2: Ils concernent notaninent:
a)   Une mobilisation accrue des ressources propres des collectivit6s loca-
les) adaptee a 1'6volution de leurs responsabilit6s et aux besoins d'une population
urbaine croissante
L'obtention d'un niveau de ressources propres importantes, stables et previsibles
necessite urn effort soutenu articule autour de l'application efficace du nouveau code de
la fiscalite locale & l1'6vauation de ses impacts; l'amlioration du recouvrement des
taxes, redevances & autres recettes existantes provenant de la gestion du patrimoine ou
de la remuneration de services rendus; et, le cas kb6hant, la consolidation de I'autono-
mie financire des Collectivites Locales par l'instauration ou le transfert de nouvelles
tes et redevances au profit des Communes et Conseils r6gionaux,
b)  La reforme du systbme actuel des transferts financiers de 1'Etat pour
aider davantage les Collectivites Locales ayant un faible potentiel de ressources propres
ou rexontrant des difficultes particulieres a assurer un niveau minimum de services
dTinfrastrctures et d'equipements, notamment dans les zones abritant tme population
aux renus modestes.
Rapport C'acnevement au ?DM 1                                   33 / 37



c)   La consolidation & l1'largissement du systeme des fcement des
investissemnts des collectivitis locales ainsi que le renforcement des cwacites
& moys d'intervention de l'orgnisn  principal de finacement du d6veloppement
local ( la CPSC L ), y compris ve6ntuellement la transormation de cetb institution en
un etablissement financier babiliht   offrir une diversit de produits adaptes a l'evolu-
tion des besoins des collectiviths locales ainsi que des organisations communautaires et
autres intervenants publics & prives ( stutures dependant des I associees aux collectivi-
ths locales ou travaillant pour law compte ) concernes directenent par le developpe-
ment local.
d)   La recherche de solutions compl6mentaires ou alternatives pour le
d6veloppement des ressources humaines dans & autour des collectivitis
locales, y compris notamment la p6rennisation du systeme de production & de finAn-
cement de la formation et du recyclage en direction des collectivit6s locales; la pour-
suite des efforts de recrutement de cadres dans les collectivites locales ; l'amelioration
indirecte de l'encadrement des collectivites locales par une meilleure formation I infor-
mation I sensibilisation des elus et par un recours accru aux services rdmunerhs de
Bureaux d'tudes, Ing6nieurs- conseils specialises dans les divers secteurs et domaines
de l'action communale.
e)   Le renforcement, l'accfl6ration, l'ouverture et l'adaptation des
progrmmes de mise anivesu destin6s aux collectivit6s locales et i leur
environement institutionnel (administrations de tutelle, secteur privM, associa-
tions de developpement local, organisations cornmunautaires, ... ), y compris nota-
rnent le developpement ou la g0n6ralisation progressive d'experiences pilotes, dUnent
6valu§es, interessant:
-i-  led6veloppementdecerainesagglomrations ruraIes ( finmncement d'infrastruc-
tures de base + 6laboration de plans d'amenagsment + renforcement des capacitEs
humaines, techniques et logistiques de certains conseils ruraux ).
-ii-  le souden, i phrenisation etia rplicuzion d'acions ou projets particulierement
r6ussis, initi6s ou rftlists par des orgaaisaions commuautres ( comites de quartiers,
syndicats de copropri6taires, associations,...) en partenariat avec les collectivit6s locales
participant au financement partiel de petits projets d'amelio-ration de l'environnement
immidiat & des conditions de vie de la population dans les quartiers ou groupements
d'immeubles concernes ...
-iii- le soumien, lapereisation etle replication de l'experience du projet 'E1M atar' 
Sousse portant notanmrent sur la rehabilitation d'une zone d'habitat spontane et la pro-
duction de lots sociaux destinbs en priorit6 aux proprietaires et occupants actuels au
revenus modestes.
Rapport alacnevemeut au rDM 1                                   34 /37



institutions financibres ( banques commerciales, assurances, CPSC L, ...) pour proposer
des produits financiers adaptes anx divers besoins sp6cifiques des promoteurs fonciers
& imrnobiliers ( prives & publics, collectivit6s locales incluses ) et des populations
ciblees par les op6rations de production de lots & de logements sociaux, ou eventuelle-
ment, les operations de production de logements locatifs destinks a certaines categories
de population ( tudiants, salaries des grandes zones d'activites industrielles ou de servi-
ces, femnnes divorcees avec enfants, ...).
d)   La reduction de la pauvret6 et de l'exclusion dans les villes par le
d6veloppement et I'integration des petites activit6s economiques dans le
tissu urbain: I1 s'agit notanment d'impliquer davantage les collectvites locales parti-
culirenient toucvhes par ces probl6mes et de les encourager a:
-i-   revoir les reglements d'urbanime dans les plans d'amgement, caiers de
charges desloissemens, reglemenationmunicipale... poir faciliter 1'implantation
d'activiths de proxmith non polluantes ( comnmerces de distribution de denrees alimen-
taires, activiths artisanales, activites de services,...) a l'inthrieur des zones d'habitation
ou des tissus anciens de type Mkdina;
-ii-  facilitferl am6aement&l'occupaiondezonesd'activites pour regrouper les
anciens conmneants informels occupant le domaine public communal
-i- facilnerIepartenriat collectivitslocales-oprateurspublics &pnves-
organisations communauires- pourl'amnagement & lagestion / mintece de
zones d'activits au profit de PME & abritant, le cas ichbant, des pepinieres I incuba-
teurs de projets portant sur des activit6s artisanales, industrielles ou de services interes-
sant des 'jeunes promoteurs" ( femms, dipl6m-s de 1'enseignement superieur, diplfmts
de cycles de formation professionnelle, jeunes artisans aprs ime periode d'apprentis-
sage aupres de professionnels..);
-iv-  favoriserl'exercice parles laires etles Gouverneurs deleurs LTogatives regle-
mentaires(contr8le de l hygi6ne & de la salubrite publiques, autorisations d'occupation
dui domaine public ou d'exercice de certains metiers, preservation de l'estbetique
urbaine...) pour stimulerindirecteme,t et efficacement 1'emplci & l'6conomie locale;
e)   Am6liorer 1'environnement urbain et renforcer la capacite  des collec-
tivit6s locales a faire face plus efficacement a la multitude de problemes de
d6veloppement & d'environnement g6neres par une croissance urbaine
rapide et stable : Certains de ces problemes depassent trsk largement l'echelle terr-
toriale ou les moyens d'une seue collectivit6 locale et leur resolution passe inevitable-
ment par l'identification de nouveaux modes de de cooperation entre collectivites loca-
les, d'me part, et de partenariat avec d'autres intervenants publics ou prives, d'autre
part.
KapporE a acnevemen aGu rDM 1                                    36 / 37



Les domaines d'action prioritaires vis6s par ces nouveaux m6canismes de coordi-
nation, de coopeation & de partenariat conernnt nota=nent la planification, 1'orga-
nisation, la gestion & le suivi (i) des D6chets solides urbains ( ord=as mnnagkre: &
dechets industriels ), (ii) des Abattoirs, (iii) des zones industrielles, (iv) des transports
urbains, (vi) de la circulation et du stationnement h I'intkrieur des villes et grandes
aggiomzrations ( surtout Tunis, Sfax, & Sousse), (v) des pares naturels & espaws verts
urbains, (vii) de 1'entretien I r6habilitation I restauration I r6novation du parc immobi-
lier ancien notatnment dans les tissus de type Mdkina, (viii) des Circuits de distribution
des produits agricoles & de pech ( marebs de production, march6s de gros nationaux
& regionaux, divers souks permanents ou p6riodiques,...).
La p6renniti et la replicabiIit6 des actions a mener dans le cadre de l'ventuel
Agenda 21 Municipal dependra de toute evidence (i) de l'ampleur du processus partici-
patif envisagd, (ii) de la clartd des responsabiliths, obligations & gmanties contractuelles
des divers intervenants, ainsi que (iii) de la pertinence des m6canismes de financement
& de recunration des cofits d'investissement & d'exploitation des ouvrages projetis.
Rapport clacnevemenr diu PDM 1                                   37/37



MAP SECTION



IBRD 24726R
-M-EDITKRgANEA N    0   -   ~   RBiTNA           NS
SEA          
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZR                                                 3 7  >loa   -
=    >    ~ ~~~~~ ~ Be ja    ,ARIANA N I
,^JEINLJUBA      BEJA         BENArous  
J eSouba                   AROUS       0
.  - 0                     tz   0)          N~abeul
(                       ZagZhouan
<      (  El Kef               ZAGHOUAN
_   3          . Siliana                Gulf of Hammtmet
360               EL KEF                            0                      36°
LJ '                         Kairouan            cMncstir
rv 'KARVt' M0    SYIR
02    )  KASSERINE          KAIROUAN                    chdia
Kasserine             a            cz?         >
33~~~~~~~~ 0  4                                                      3
L35',                               s                                       35°
XI ~~~Sidi Bou 4 
BOUSIDI        Sfax             erkenah
Gafsa                                        Islands
'   ° pS a sa        ~~~~~ZID,     X                  Miskar
el GAFSA   ;
Gharso                     CD              Gulf of       Ashtaot
44~     4                -        Chott el        Gabes                   340
r;  _   Fe<3             ...    'XGabes
hott        Gbeli        GAB ES
\V         <2         9        fMe.enine
l & 90~~~~~~~~~
33'        GBELLI          *Tatoouine
TATAOUINE
TUNISIA                                                                32°
TUNISIE                                                        A
W 3   SALT LAKES
LACS SAfLES;                        
GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
CAPITALES DES                                     LO    E 2   50  75
GOUVERNORATS              \                       KIL OMET ERS
GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES i                            b              31-
- FRONTIERES DES                               I   The boundaries, colars.
FRONTIERES DES   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~) denominations and any
GO U VE R NO RATS                                o ather infarmatian shown
I              a~~~~~n this map da nof
NATIONAL CAPITAL                          /      imply, on the part oa
0                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The Wabrd Bank Graup.
CAPITALE DU PAYS                          J      any judgment on the legal
status  of  any  territory,
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                         or/  a any endorsement
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES                       or acceptance of such
so    INTERNATIONALES   t ~~~~~~~0  haundaries.
r8                9A     1995
APRIL l 995



