Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
o/ v . "? > 3  S
Report No. 6290-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
November 19, 1986
Agriculture 4 Division
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwist be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah
US$1.00        =  Rupiah (Rp) 1,650
Rp 1 million   =  US$606
FISCAL YEA11,
April 1-March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer                   -    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)      =    100 ha = 0.39 sq miles
1 hectare (ha)                -    2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)               =    2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)            -    1.10235 short tons (2,000 lbs)
0.9842 long tons (2,240 lbs)
INDONESIAN FIVE-YEAR PLANS
Repelita IV                   -    Fourth Five-Year Plan, 1984-89
Repelita V                    -    Fifth Five-Year Plan, 1989-94
ABBREVIATIONS
MAETE     -   Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension
AARD      -   Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
BRI       -   Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DGF       -   Directorate General of Fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture
DGWRD     -   Directorate General of Water Resources Development,
Ministry of Public Works
DI        -   Directorate of Infrastructure in DCF
EEZ       -   Exclusive Economic Zone
FAO/CP    -   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
GOI       -   Government of Indonesia
MOA       -   Ministry of Agriculture
MPE       -   Ministry of Population and Environment
NTT       -   Nusa Tenggara Timur
p.a.      -   per annum
PBB       -   Land and Building Tax
PCC       -   Project Coordinating Committee
PTBR      -   P.T. Bali Raya
Shrimp PL -   Shrimp Postlarvae (used as seed)
Tambak    -   Brackishwater fish/shrimp farm



FOR OmCIAL US ONLY
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUh MARY...................o........,..,. i.
I. *   ACKGROUND.............................................,.        1
II.  THE FISHERIES SECTORo.oO.....                                      1
Resources.... ...........................................    1
Production Potential and Constraints******************#**    2
Markets and Pri                        ces...                  4
Fisheries Support Services aad Institutions..o...........    5
Sectoral Objectives and Strategy.........................    8
Bank's Past Role in the Sector .,      ........................    9
Rationale for Bank Involvement...........................   10
Role of Other ..................................   11
III.  THE PROJECT AREA ...........................................      11
Cl.imate  .        .       ............... .................... ....   12
Soils and Groundwater.... ... ................ .............   12
Tides ........     ...................................   12
Transport and Infrastructure. ............................   12
Population and Incomes ..... ................                 12
Production, Processing and Marketing.....................   12
IV.  THE PROJECT      1...................14
Project Genesis, Objectives and Formulation..............   14
Brief Project Description. .................o..........o  14
Detailed Project Description ........................o. .o   15
Physical Infrastructure Rehabilitation................   15
Coastal Aquaculture Investment Support. ...............   15
Strengthening Input Supply.................o.........e  16
Marketing Support Services-- Flores..................   16
Marketing Support Services -- Restructuring of
Public Enterprises..... ...             *               17
Technique Development4.... ......o. 4444444444444444444o s  17
Planning and Evaluation Support .......................   18
Coastal Zone Pilot Project ......44.................4.   18
Environmental Aspects................       ........ .....   18
Role of .........                                             19
This report is based on the findings o£ an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. T.P.N. Sinha, Lucian M. Sprague, Ohene Nyanin (Bank), Henry
Gunawardena (FAO-CP), and Karl Jensen (Consultant) which visited Indonesia in
February/March 1986.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomuance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V.  PROJECT COST AND FI.ANCING .....    .. ......... . ......... .....   19
Project Cos ....                                                19
............... .... ....... .......... . .. ........ ...   19
Procurement.... ........ ......... ...... ............ . . . ....22
D i s b u  r    s    e    m    e    n    t     ~~~~~~~~~~24
Accounting and Audits    ...........      ........ . ,          24
VI.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ........   25
Directorate General of Fisheries .....................o..       25
Directorate General of Water Resources Development .......   27
Bank Rakyat Indonesia. ...................... .. .... ...       27
Ministry of Population and Environment ...................   27
Project Implementation Plans and Statuso.................       28
Monitoring and Evaluationo...................o...........       28
VII.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES ...............        .....         29
vields ..... ~~~~~~~~~~29
Production........ .. . ................... . ..... .... ....... 29
Projected Market Demand and Prices ......................       30
VIII.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ......       ......... .         31
General....,. ........ ............. ..... .... ......... .... .   31
Beneficiaries and Poverty Impact .......                        31
Project Benefits .....                                          32
lncomes ..... ~~~~~~~~~32
Cost Recovery ................*..........................       32
Economic Anysss                                   i      s      33
Sensitivity Analysis and Project Riskss             ks..............  34
IX.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM OMMEATIONSS......................   35
TABLES IN THE TEXT
Table 3.1:    Coastal Aquaculture Area and Production (1984) ........   12
Table 5.1:    Project Cost Summary.......................................   20
Table 5.2:    Financing Plan........ .....................                  21
Table 5.3:    Procurement Arrangements......9 .......................   22
Table 7.1:    Shrimp Yield Projections .............................    29
Table 7.2:    Incremental Project Production ........................   30
Table 8.1:    Economic Rate of Return .............................e        33
Table 8.2:    Switching Values.........................                     34



- il -
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Project Genesis and Formulation                                        38
2.  Project Costs Summary Tables                                           40
3.  Financing Plan and Disbursements                                        46
4.  Organization and Implementation Charts and Tables                      53
5.  Yields, Production and Prices                                          64
6. Terms of Reference of Key Technical Assistance
Personnel                                                            74
7.  Financial and Economic Cash Flows and Projections                       79
8. Credit Component--Formula for Calculating Relending
Rate to BRI                                                          88
9. List of Related Documents and T~ata Available
in the Project File                                                  90
MAP
IBRD 19681 Map of Indonesia with Project Location



INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of Indonesia.
Beneficiaries:             About 7,300 small scale fishermen families in South
Sulawesi, Southeast Sulawesi, Aceh and Nusa Tenggara
Timur Provinces.
Loan Amount:               US$24.5 million equivalent.
Terms:                     Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:           The Government of Indonesia (GOI) will relend
US$8.2 million to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) at a
variable interest rate equal to BRI's average cost
of loanable funds, for 20 years, including 5 years
of grace. The GOI will bear the foreign exchange
risk. Subloans to fishermen will be for 10 years,
including 2 years of grace, and bear interest of 1%
per month on the original loan amount, or an effec-
tive rate of 18% p.a. (161 p.a. after rebate for
final payment).
Project Descriptio:        The project would support GOI's overall objectives
of increasing non-oil exports, developing rural
areas of the less developed outer islands, increas-
ing income of the relatively poor segments of
Indonesian society, while reducing demands from the
fisheries sector on GOI's Development Budget. The
project would do this by (a) supporting private
investments in export-oriented segments of the
fisheries sector, (b) locating improved services and
investments in areas with high concentration of poor
fishermen, (c) assisting in restructuring of state
enterpr2.ses, and (d) reducing interest rate subs-
dies. In line with this strategy, the project would
rehabilitate physical infrastructure (primary and
secondary brackishwater canals) in coastal areas of
South Sulawesi, Southeast Sulawesi and Aceh. This
will create favorable conditions for fishermen to
invest in intensified brackishwater shrimp culture.
Fishermen's investments would be supported by
improved DGF field services and Bank funds onlent
through BRI. The project would also improve market-
ing support services for marine fisheries through



- ii -
private sector investments in cold stores, freezer,
and ice plant, and by providing assistance for re-
structuring state-owned fisheries enterprises. DGF
sectoral planning and administration efforts and
fisheries adaptive research would be strengthened
through training, technical assistance, and provi-
sion of equipment and supplies. Support for a small
but innovative pilot component for environmentally
sound coastal aysaculture development would also be
provided using the efforts of private nonprofit
organizations for assisting the poorest fishermen,
who are normally not considered creditworthy by
banks. The project will increase Indonesia's fish-
eries exports by about US$26 million p.ao by year
ten. Improvements in policies, administraLIon and
planning would contribute towards increasing the
efficiency of Indonesia's fisheries sector. The
main Aisk is possible delays resulting from diffi-
culties.in coordination among the agencies responsi-
ble for project implementation. However, this risk
would be minimized since the project would be
largely implemented through existing well estab-
lished institutions. In addition, there is a risk
related to the price of shrimp. Should the past
trend towards gradually increasing real prices for
shrimp be reversed, which is not considered likely,
project benefits would be affected. However, sensi-
tivity analysis shows that even if shrimp prices
should decline by 38% below projected levels, the
project ERR would remain abGve Indonesia's opportu-
nity cost of capital (10%).
Cost Estimates:                                      Local       Foreign    Total
…--    (US$ million)--
Physical Infrastructure Improvement              8.6          4.1       12.7
Coastal Aquaculture Investment Support           7.6          7.2       14.8
Strengthening Input Supply                       0.2          0.3        0.5
Marketing Support Services                       0.3          1.0        1.3
Technique Development                            0.4          0.7        1.1
Planning Support                                 0.1          0.9        1.0
Coastal Zone Pilot Project                       0.2          0.1        0.3
Total Base Costs                              17.4         14.3       31.7
Physical Contingencies                           1.6          1.2        2.8
Price Contingencies                              4.6          1.9        6.5
Total Project Costs /a                        23.6         17.4      41.0



- iii-
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                             7.1        17.4       24.5
BRI                                              4.3         0.0        4.3
Private local                                    5.0         0.0        5.0
GOI                                              7 2         0.0        7.2
Total                                       23.6         17.4       41.0
Estimated
Disbursements:       Bank FY   1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
_________________ --US$ million) ----           -
Annual        0.0   1.0   2.4   3.7   3.9   4.4   4.2   3.4   1.5
Cumulative   0.0   1.0   3.4   7.1  11.0  15.4  19.6  23.0  24.5
Economic Rate of Return: 24%
Maps: IBRD 19681
/a Includes local duties and taxes (US$2.9 million).



INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance for
a project to increase production and export of shrimp and tuna by increasing
the productivity of small coastal fishermen (including fish farmers) through
improved fisheries support services. The project was prerared by GOI with
substantial assistance from FAO/CP and Bank staff and appraised by the Bank in
February/March 1986.
II. THE FISHERIES SECTOR
2.01      Role in the Economy.  The fisheries sector in Indonesia, accounting
for a relatively small proportion (about 2%) of GDP, contributes over 60% of
animal protein supply in the Indonesian diet and earned about US$233 million
in foreign exchange in 1985. It provides employment for about 2.2 million
fishermen and aquaculture workers. The majority of these are poor. The
sector's contribution to GDP has grown at about 5% p.a. over the last decade
and Indonesia, with 300,000 boats, now has the world's largebt active fleet,
most of which is small-scale. The sector is dominated by small-scale
fishermen, and their production accounts for 95% of Indonesia's fisheries
production.
Resources
2.02      Indonesia, with an arzhipelago of some 13,090 islands and an
Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) covering 5.8 million km , has substantial
potential for fisheries production. It has highly productive waters due to
the shallow shelf between islands and rich run-off from numerous rivers which
help sustain large fish populations. In addition, some of the swampy coastal
areas and inland fresh water rivers and ponds hold potential for expanded
aquaculture production. Fisheries resource information is mixed: good in some
areas but weak in others. Consequently, estimates of exploitable marine
resource vary between the FAO estimate of 4.5 million tons p.a. and the
Directorate General of Fisheries (DGF) estimate of 6.6 million tons p.a.
However, both estimates are far in excess of 1985 production of about
2.4 million tons. Better resource information would be helpful in encouraging
greater investments in and management of marine fisheries. The Agricultural
Research III Project, which is proposed for Bank finAncing, would include
funds for improving marine resource assessment, as part of an overall
strengthening of fisheries research activities.



-2-
Production Potential and Constraints
2.03      Indonesia's fish production has come primarily from marine
fisheries, which accounts for about 77% of the total. However, the best
growth potential is in coastal aquaculture (6% of production), which recently
has been the most dynamic segment of the fisheries sector, with growth rates
averaging over 9% p.a. since 1977.
2.04      Mktrine fisheries holds some promise for expanded production in
selected areas, particularly in eastern Indonesia. However, prospects for
production growth are not as strong as for coastal aquaculture (para. 2.06).
This is because currently 60% of marine fish catch is from waters around Java
and Sumatera Tilands in western Indonesia. These areas, being nearer
population centers, ar(e currently producing at or beyond sustainable yield
levels. While GOI has taken some steps to limit fishing in these areas by
instituting a trawl ban in western Indonesian waters (west of longitude
130'E), controlling fishing by small fishermen through licensing is
administratively very difficult. While the resource position is better in
eastern Indonesia, the following constraints still exist:
(a) high-value marketable species (lobster and wild shrimp) are in
limited quantities and catch rates are close to maximum sustainable
yield;
(b) medium value species (skipjack, yellowfin. tuna, sardines, etc.) are
more abundant in selected areas, but lack of local markets and
efficient marketing infrastructure prevents production increase;
(c) a lack of good resource information makes investments in marine
fisheries more risky, thereby discouraging expansion of commercial
fisheries;
(d) weak international prices for species such as skipjack and yellowfin
tuna reduce incentives for investments in marine fisheries in all
but the most productive areas;
(e) live bait problems are developing in some areas because of destruc-
tion of coastal mangroves and illegal use of explosives for fish-
ing. Wh.'le GOI has regulations prohibiting both activities,
administratively these controls are difficult to enforce; and
(f) long distances from population centers increase marketing costs for
fisheries in eastern Indonesia, thus reducing incentives for
fishermen.
2.05      While there is little Indonesia can do about weak international
prices, it can take actions to alleviate many other constraints and improve
production. GOI should encourage culture of high-valued shrimp, which are in
short supply (para. 2.06), and this would be the main focus of the proposed
project investments. Private sector investments in marketing infrastructure
(freezer, cold storage, transport, etc.) in selected areas that have abundant
marine fisheries resources, such as Nusa Tenggara Tim-ar, should also be



3
supported.  Improverents in fisheries resource information thriugh additional
efforts in fisheries research will help reduce investment risks a..d encourage
private investments in marine fisheries. Finally, GOI should assist in
developing better fishing gear, boats, and methods for marine fisheries
(technique development) to increase productivity and incomes of marine
fishermen. GOI appreciates the need for all these measures. Under the
proposed project, COI would aim to encourage private sector investments in
marketing infrastructure and to strengthen fisheries technique development in
addition to strengthening of coastal aquaculture (para. 2.06).
2.06      Coastal aquaculture.  Brackishwater ponds which produce milkfish and
shrimp, continue to hold the best prospects fcr future growth in production
because of strong market demand for shr .mp (para. 2.08-2.09), extensive
brackishwater areas, and year-round warm climate. In 1984, about 85,000 ha
(net area) of coastal brackishwater ponds were operated by some 121,000
fishermen. Current yields are about 770 kg/ha, mainly of low-value shrimp and
milkfish (average price of US$1/kg). Yield of high-value tiger shrimp (average
farmgate price of US$6.4/kg) is very low, only about 30 kg/ha, which compares
with a potential of around 3,000-4,000 kg/ha under intensive cultivation, and
500 kg/ha under semi-intensive cultivation. The current yields of high-value
shrimp are low because of the following constraints:
(a) poor supply of sea water due to siltation of existing channels and
canals in coastal areas;
(b) shallow ponds (0.5 m deep) which are more suitable for lower-value
milkfish production, compared with the 1.0-'.5 m depth requirel for
high-value shrimp cultivation;
(c) reliance on wild shrimp seed (post larvae, PL) which consists of
mainly lower-valued species;
(d) low capacity utilization of shrimp hatcheries due to technical and
managerial problems;
(e) poor shrimp predator control due to poor quality water gates;
(f) shortage of credit for intensification of aquaculture; and
(g) poor fisheries extension.
Improving sea water supply infrastructure, shrimp PL supply services, credit
support services, and extension support will help shrimp fishermen increase
the production of high-value shrimp, which woula, in turn, increase their
incomes. The proposed project would support this strategy (para. 4.02).
2.07      Freshwater Fisheries.  Freshwater fish production is about
420,000 tons, or about 20% of Indonesia's fisheries production. Two thirds of
this production *s from inland capture fisheries and the remaining one third
from freshwater aquaculture in ponds and paddy fields. Production is growing
at about 4% p.a., much slower than marine or coastal fisheries. Inland
capture fisheries are already intensively exploited, and production increase



- 4 -
prospects are largely limited to improved productivity in existing ponds.
While freshwater prawn culture shows some potential for production growth,
development would not be as rapid as for coastal (brackishwater)
aquaculture. Prices and profit margins for freshwater shrimp are lower than
for brackishwater shrimp, and therefore there is less incentive for
investments. While fish culture in paddy fields is expected to grow,
production growth possibilities are limited by conflict with the modern high-
yield rice technology, which is commonly associated with the use of chemicals
detrimerntal to fish. In addition, freshwater aquaculture will require
substantial extension effort. The Third National Agricultural Extension
Project recently approved for Bank financing will assist farmers to adopt
improved techniques for rice/fish culture.
Markets and Prices
2.08      Ex ort Performance.  Fisheries have played an important role in
Indonesia's exports  para. 2.01).  It has been one of the more dynamic export
growth sectors, and in the last ten years fisheries exports have grown by
about 10% p.a. This growth has been mainly due to the excellent demand for
shrimp, exports of which account for over 70% of Indonesia's fisheries exports
in terms of value, though less than 30% in terms of export volume. Other than
shrimp, the main fisheries exports are skipjack and yellowfin tuna, frog legs,
jellyfish, ornamental fish, and other fish, which form less than 30% of the
value but over 70% of export volume. Tuna exports, in particular, have been
hit by weak international demand and prices. Shrimp demand and prices have
remained strong, but shrimp exports declined in recent years because of the
ban on commercial trawling (para. 2.04) in western Indonesia waters. The ban
reduced marine shrimp production by about 20,000 tons after 1979. Since then
GOI has given an impetus to coastal aquaculture of shrimp to satisfy the
strong export demand.
2.09      Export Destination and Prices.  Most Indonesian fisheries exports
have gone to Japan. This is especially true about shrimp, about 86% of which
have been exported to Japan. Because of the proximity to market, strong
technical and financial ties between Indonesian shrimp processors and Japanese
importers, and better market acceptability of Indonesian tiger shrimp in the
Japanese market, Indonesia has become the main source of shrimp for the
Japanese market, after India. Indonesian tiger shrimp fetch a premium of
about 10% over comparable sizes from India and Thailand.
2.10      Local Markets.  Although fish is the cheapest and the main source of
animal protein in the Indonesian diet. Indonesia's annual consumption of
about 13 kg of fish per capita is still low when compared with other ASEAN
countries where fisil consumption ranges between 18 kg and 43 kg per capita.
Local fish prices have increased at a rate above the general price index in
Java, but have kept pace with the index in the outer islands. This reflects
reso.rce depletion in waters around Java, out adequate supply in the outer
islands. Higher prices and supply constraints in Java have given some impetus
to movement of fish from the outer islands to Java. This has been mainly in
the form of dried fish. Some externally assisted fisheries projects are
helping with local marketing of fish by providing refrige,oated vessels and
trucks to transport frozen fish. However, local demand for frozen fish is



-5-
still small, given the consumer preference for fresh fish, and most frozen
fish is exported.
Fisheries Support Services and Institutions
2.11      Fisheries support services consisting of sectoral planning and
administration, physical infrastructure support, input supply development,
research, fisheries technique development, and extension are all provided by
agencies under the Ministry of Agriculture. Other support services such as
fisheries credit and marketing support services are provided by autonomous
corporations, some of which are GOI owned. These services are described
below.
2.12      Planning and Administration.  The Directorate General of Fisheries
(DGF), within the Ministry of Agriculture, is the main GOI agency responsible
for planning, coordinating, and supporting fisheries sector development. DGF
is comprised of six Directorates and a Secretariat to help in carrying out its
functions. The Directorate of Programming is responsible for planning, bud-
geting, monitoring, evaluation and liaison with external donors. The Produc-
tion Directorate is responsible for support and assistance to hatcheries and
other input suppliers and for recommendations on production methods. The
Enterprise Development Directorate is responsible for technical guidance to
state-owned fisheries enterprises, marketing support services development,
fisheries enterprise development, and licensing. The Directorate of Infra-
structure (DI) is responsible for fishing ports, fish landing facilities, and
aquacilture infrastructure development. The Extension Directorate provides
technical guidance on fisheries Droduction, fishermen group development and
extension material development. The Directorate of Resource Conservation is
responsible for resource identification, monitoring and management (which
includes development of better production techniques), and environmental
protection. In addition, DGF has 27 provincial offices (Dinas Perikanan) and
285 district offices. Over 90% of DGF staff of about 3,000 are in the
provinces. DGF field staff is used mainly for collection of statistics and
for dissemination of fisheries information.
2.13      Physical Infrastructure Support.  DGF and its provincial offices are
responsible for providing physical infrastructure support through its
Directorate of Infrastructure in cooperation with other concerned agencies.
For marine fisheries, 15 fishing ports and 136 fish landing sites have been
constructed by DGF and its provincial offices in cooperation with the Ministry
of Public Works and the Department of Sea Communications. Another ten
fisheries ports are under construction. In addition to ports, DCF is also
responsible for planning the development of canals for conveying brackishwater
to coastal aquaculture sites with the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development (DGWRD). DGF is charged with the identification of sites and
specification of aquaculture water needs, whereas DGWRD is responsible for
engineering and construction supervision for primary and secondary canals.
Interagency coordination at the working level is done through a project
coordination committee and at policy-making levels by the Minister of
Agriculture. Currently, the "Fisheries Infrastructure Sector Project"
financed by ADB is providing a US$50 million credit line for the development
of fisheries port and landing sites. This should alleviate the current



shortage of fishery ports and landing sites. However, the brackishwater
canals for supply of sea water to coastal ponds need to be improved to allow
higher shrimp yields to be obtained from these ponds. GOI has taken some
steps to improve such canals in Java, but canals in other major coastal
4quaculture areas in Aceh and South Sulawesi remain to be improved. The pro-
posed project would support these developments (para. 4.04).
2.14      Input Supply.  Major inputs for marine fisheries are boats, engines,
fuel, ice and bait, and for aquaculture, fish seed (postlarvae-PL, fry and
fingerling), feed, and, to a lesser extent, pumps, fertilizer and fuel. These
inputs are generally supplied by private sector enterprises and traders.
Inputs, in most cases, are easily available. The main problem for marine
fisheries is shortage of ice for preserving fish and a shortage of live bait
for skipjack fishing in some areas. Construction of ice plants in high
potential areas would help maintain fish quality for exports. Research for
determining the financial viability of bait fish aquaculture as well as for
developing techniques to reduce live bait fish mortality would assist in
alleviating input problems of marine fisheries. Improving shrimp seed
availability is the most critical aquaculture input supply issue. Most shrimp
hatcheries are currently operating at well below capacity due to management
and technical problems. This results in high price of shrimp seed, which is
currently selling at about US$30-35 per thousand. This compares with a seed
price in the Philippines of about US$20-25 per thousand. Provision of good
quality advice on shrimp hatchery technology and management will help increase
production and decrease unit costs of production as well as sales price.
DGF's Directorate of Production, which is responsible for improving shrimp
seed production, will need to be strengthened through technical assistance and
training. The proposed project will provide assistance for these purposes
(para. 4.05).
2.15      Fisheries Credit.  Credit for fisheries-related activities of small
fishermen is very limited. Noninstitutional lenders provide mainly short-term
credit at very high interest rates of 40-50% p.a. Institutional credit has
been made available through GOI sub3idized programs at interest rates of about
121 p.a. A total of about Rp 140 billion (US$85 million) was outstanding to
the fisheries sector in 1984. The main bank for lending to the fisheries
sector is Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) which has been especially active in
providing credit to small fishermen. BRI has lent about Rp 81 billion
(US$49 million) to the fisheries sector to date, but repayment performance has
been unsatisfactory with about 33% of fisheries loans in arrears. Repayments
have been poor in part because lending to small fishermen was often done in
isolation, without accompanying improvements in other support services such as
extension and marketing, or in infrastructure such as canals for conveying sea
water. Fisheries loan appraisal capacity within BRI was weak, and BRI quite
often lent for relatively capital intensive technology that is not appropriate
for Indonesia's conditions. Loans were usually collected once or twice a year
and did not match the marketing pattern of fishermen, who tend to sell fish
almost on a daily basis with little savings maintained for annual or biannual
repayments. Low interest rates charged on loans also provided little
incentive to fishermen for timely loan repayment.



- 7 -
2.16      BRI has recently taken several steps to improve repayment
performance. It has reduced fisheries lending to only those areas where other
essential support services have been strengthened, so that the fisheries
investments supported by its loans have a better chance for success. Subloan
appraisal capability of BRI staff is being strengthened through training. BRI
has also started a market interest rate (1-1.5% per month on original borrowed
amount) loan scheme (KUPEDES). Loan collection performance has been good,
with a loan loss ratio of only 1.75%. The program started in 1984, and loan
volume has now passed the break-even point. In the quarter ending
October 31, 1985, BRI made a profit of Rp 2.4 billion on a loan portfolio of
Rp 209 billion. To overcome past problems, BRI needs to progressively
increase market-rate lending along the lines of KUPEDES and in the case of
fisheries credits, involve fish marketing and processing channels more closely
in debt collection through automatic deduction agreements (such involvement is
desired by fishermen also because of its convenience). The proposed project
would support these activities of BRI (para. 6.10).
2.17      Fisheries Research.  Until 1974, fisheries research was conducted by
institutes under DGF. To improve sharing of facilities and farming systems
research, most of the agricultural research institutes, including fisheries,
were brought under a newly created Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD). In 1979 AARD was reorganized, and all fisheries research
institutes were grouped under a Central Research Coordinating Center for
Fisheries (RCCF) within AARD. In 1983, fisheries research was again
reorganized under newly established Research Institutes for Freshwater
Fisheries, Marine Fisheries, and Coastal Aquaculture Fisheries. These
reorganizations were motivated by a desire to put more emphasis on fisheries
research and to increase specialization of individual fisheries institutes.
The Bank has assisted coastal aquaculture research through the provision of
research facilities and advanced training for staff under the Second National
Agricultural Research Project (Loan 1840/Cr.1014), which is expected to pro-
duce significant benefits given the vast potential for coastal aquaculture in
Indonesia. Because of longer-term uncertainties about marine resources, a
first phase program to study fisheries resources in Indonesia's EEZ would be
conducted under the proposed Third National Agricultural Research Project, for
which GOI is also seeking Bank assistance.
2.18      Technique Development.  To utilize the fisheries research results
generated by AARD and international research institutes, DGF maintains a
series of Technique Development Centers for marine fisheries (FTDC), coastal
aquaculture (BADC), and freshwater aquaculture (FADC). At these centers
developmental work is carried out to give practical techniques to fishermen.
This includes development of hatchery techniques, adaptive research, explora-
tory fishing, and boat design. These centers are also used for training of
extension workers. Facilities are relatively well equipped but suffer from a
shortage of staff with higher-level training, equipment, and operating
funds. There is also a need to bring these centers closer to the fisheries
industry so that their development priorities reflect the needs of the
fisheries sector. To do this, it is essential that these centers form a group
involving industry participation which would suggest areas where the centers
should concentrate their developmental efforts and evaluate technique
development work done by the centers to guide further work and also to provide



- 8 -
incentives. Staff from the centers should also try to do more of their
developmental work and testing away from station and on production and
processing sites. The proposed project would provide assistance to support
these initiatives (para. 4.08).
2.19      Fisheries Extension.  Prior to 1974, fisheries extension was
conducted by DGF. In 1974, agricultural extension services were merged and
the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension (AMETE) was
created. In 1983, a Directorate of Fisheries Extension was created in DGF to
strengthen fisheries extension effort. In 1984, AAETE was again made respon-
sible for coordinating overall extension at the national level. This repre-
sented an effort to unify field extension work, with the extension agent
trained to address a farmer's problems concerning a variety ef agricultural
activities that are typically found on his farm. Currently the fisheries
extension effort is hampered by a shortage of field staff, extension centers,
and transport. The recently approved Bank-supported Third National
A&ricultural Extension Project would provide extension infrastructure and
field personnel, some of which would be used for fisheries extension.
Sectoral Objectives and Strategy
2.20      Recognizing the potential of the fisheries sector, GOI's Repelita IV
development strategy gives special emphasis to the development of the fishe-
ries sector for achieving GOI goals of increasing non-oil exports and of alle-
viating poverty. To achieve these objectives, Repelita IV has set a target
for average annual growth rates of about 18% for fisheries exports and about
5% for domestic consumption. To meet these marketing targets, GOI plans to
expand aquaculture fish production by about 10% p.a., marine catch by about
6%, and inland capture by about 2%. The main emphasis of the Government's
fisheries development strategy is to emphasize exports and aquaculture produc-
tion. A fisheries sector study prepared by the Asian Development Bank (ADB)
in association with the Bank (December 1983) endorsed these objectives and
suggested the following program priorities:
(a)  increasing the productivity of existing tambaks (ponds);
(b)  expanding the area under coastal aquaculture;
(c)  improving infrastructure and marketing support services;
(d)  improving fisheries research and exploratory fishing, especially
stock assessment, test fishing and technique development; and
(e)  strengthening linkages between state enterprises and commercial as
well as small-scale fishermen.
2.21      In view of the severe GOI resource constraints, it is now unlikely
that the ambitious Repelita IV targets will be met. In recognition of these
constraints, GOI's fisheries sector strategy is now emphasizing better use of
existing investments in the sector. This will involve:



- 9 -
(a) rehabilitation of canals serving coastal aquaculture areas so that
the improved water supply allows fishermen to improve the
productivity of their ponds;
(b) provision of technical assistance to existing hatcheries, which in
most cases are operating at far below capacity due to technical and
managerial problems;
(c) strengthening of credit support, DGF field staff, and extension
advice in existing coastal aquaculture areas;
(d) focusing of fisheries research and technique development on areas
which will bring quicker returns, e.g., optimizing parameters for
placement of fish aggregating devices;
(e) encouragement of private sector investment in marketing support
services for marine fisheries in high potential areas;
(f) restructuring of state fisheries enterprises through joint venture
and other agreements such that the burden on the Government s budget
is reduced;
(g) fuller use of existing fisheries port infrastructure before
constructing new ports; and
(h) focusing the majority of investments on those segments of the
fisheries sector, such as high-value shrimp, that show the best
export demand.
Bank's Past Role in the Sector
2.22      The Bank has been involved in two fisheries development projects in
Indonesia (Cr. 211-INS, effective January 1971 and closed June 1978; and Cr.
480, effective January 1975 and closed December 1981). The emphasis in these
projects was on financing of fishing vessels for state enterprises and
cooperatives, with half of the second project (Cr; 480) focused on aquacul-
ture. The economic rate of return (ERR) estimated at completion of the first
project was negative and of the second, 29X. The main lessons learned from
previous projects are included in the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) Report Nos. 2806 and 4468 and are summarized below:
(a) State enterprises, while often the only choice for operation of
shore facilities, are not very efficient at fishing.
(b) Aquaculture development provided essential employment and income to
a large number of subsistence fish farmers. The re-estimated ERR
for aquaculture (30%) was higher than anticipated at appraisal.
(c) Credit recovery from farmers and cooperatives should take place at
the time of fish catch delivery and marketing.



- 10 -
OED also expressed the view that there is substantial potential for further
Bank investment in fisheries activities in Indonesia.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.23      In view of the current, rather severe resource constraints in
Indonesia and the need to diversify export earnings, the Bank's medium-term
lending strategy for Indonesia's fisheries sector aims to support elements of
the sectoral strategy that are geared towards increasing exports with rela-
tively low demand on GOI's budget. The proposed project would be the Bank's
first direct assistance for Indonesia's fisheries sector after a hiatus of
abo t five years, and is designed to build upon the lessons learned from
prm> ous experience. It represents an attempt to broaden and diversify the
Bank's assistance to Indonesia's agricultural sector, which has so far
concentrated largely in three subsectors: irrigation, tree crops, and
transmigration. The strategy being supported would include rehabilitation of
infrastructure, encouragement of private sector investments and the restruc-
turing of state enterprises, increasing flow of unsubsidized credit in support
of private commercial and fishermen's investments in the fisheries sector, and
increasing the productivity of fisheries investments through well-focused
research, development and extension. The proposed project would be the main
vehicle for implementing the above strategy in the fisheries sector, while
supportive investments would also be made through the recently approved Third
National Agricultural Extension Project and the proposed Third National
Agricultural Research Project. In discussions with GOI, it has been agreed
that the Extension and Research Projects would provide extension and research
infrastructure which is generally shared by many subsectors of agriculture,
and the fisheries project would provide specialized technical support for on
farm investments in project areas, exploratory fishing, and fisheries
technique development.
2.24      Through the proposed project, the Bank would support some important
policy initiatives which represent significant departures from and improve-
ments over past policies arn practices in fisheries sector administration,
including the following:
(a) Strengthening the Role of Private Enterprises. While previous
fisheries projects in Indonesia (and the initial proposal for this
project) had supported GOI's policy of heavy investments in state
enterprises for providing fisheries production and marketing
services, during project processing it was agreed after intensive
dialogue with GOI that this policy should be modified to promote
greater efficiency and reduce financial demands on the budget.
Accordingly, the proposed project would be the first GOI-sponsored
and Bank-supported fisheries project under which investments for
marketing support services would be provided by a private enterprise
(para. 4.06) and assistance for the restructuring of state enter-
prises would also be provided (para. 4.07).



- 11 -
(b) Reduction of Subsidies for Fisheries Credit. Recognizing that the
heavy subsidies under previous fisheries credits were a drain on GOI
resources, which prevented larger numbers of fishermen from
benefiting from such credit, GOI, under the proposed project, has
agreed to provide unsubsidized credit for fisheries. Accordingly,
the on-lending rates agreed under the proposed project would be
significantly higher than the rates under previous Bank-supported
agricultural projects in Indonesia. This should also help ensure
replicability (para. 5.03).
(c) Involving Private Processors in Channelling Fisheries Credit. The
proposed project would also involve private processors in
channelling GOI-sponsored credit to fishermen, which is expected to
reduce credit administration costs and improve credit recovery
(para. 5.03).
(d) Poverty Alleviation. Over 80% of the project beneficiaries would be
from the poorer sections of Indonesian society, and the project
includes a pilot component for channelling funds to the poorest
fishermen, who have so far been left out of formal credit system
assistance because they lack tangible assets to use as collateral
(para. 4.10).
Role of Other Donors
2.25      While many donors are currently involved in the fisheries sector in
Indonesia, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) has been the main donor. The
majority of ADB loans (five loans) have been to state fisheries enterprises in
Sumatera, Java, and Irian Jaya for marine fisheries. These loans have
financed fishing boats for production and refrigerated vessels and trucks for
internal marketing of fish. Two of the three state enterprises are now tech-
nically bankrupt and GOI is considering a proposal to liquidate them. ADB has
also lent for fish processing, hatcheries and boats through a fisheries credit
project, for fisheries ports, and for coastal brackishwater aquaculture,
mainly in Java. These three loans are more recent and so far have not met
with any major problems. The Bank is coordinating its efforts with ADB, and a
fisheries sector study was prepared jointly by ADB and the Bank (para. 2.20).
Dialogue is being maintained to ensure proper coordination of our efforts.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      Project activities would be located in the provinces of South
Sulawesi, Aceh, Southeast Sulawesi, and Nusa Tenggara Timur (Flores) (see IBRD
Map 19681). The location of the project is consistent with GOI's development
strategy which calls for encouraging economic development in less developed
areas of the outer islands. The provinces of South Sulawesi, Aceh and
Southeast Sulawesi were selected because of their favorable environmental
conditions for coastal aquaculture, in the form of good tidal ranges and soil
conditions. Nusa Tenggara Timur was selected because of its abundant tuna
resources and the need to provide market outlets for its fishermen. These
provinces also have large numbers (22,000) of poor fishermen who need
assistance for improving their productivity and incomes (para. 3.06).



- 12 -
3.02      Climate.  In South Sulawesi, Southeast Sulawesi and Aceh, the
climate is largely determined by the monsoon, with a "wet" and a "dry"
season. Monthly average temperatures do not change much (26-31C) and provide
a long growing season for shrimp culture. Rainfall is highest during the
northwest monsoon (December through February), and lowest during June through
August. The remaining months are transitional. The area of the marine fish-
eries of the project is a region with few tropical storms and highly favorable
fishing weather.
3.03      Soils and Groundwater.  The soils of the brackishwater areas are
undifferentiated sediment with high clay content and in the project area
relatively little incorporated organic matter. Such soils are excellent for
making fish ponds. The low organic content lessens the probability of encoun-
tering problems with acid sulphate soils which can produce severe problems
with shrimp farming. In Aceh and South Sulawesi groundwater resources are
substantial, which could provide an alternative source of freshwater in these
areas.
3.04      Tides.  The project area tidal range is narrow, but with improved
canals and use of pumps, the ponds will get ample water for aquaculture. In
South and Southeast Sulawesi, the tides are largely diurnal, i.e., there is
one high tide per day and the average tidal range is only about 0.85 m. In
Aceh sometimes there is a smaller second tide each day and the tidal range is
somewhat more favorable, about 0.8-1.1 P. per day, over part of the area.
3.05      Transport Infrastructure.  The project areas are all well served by
basic transportation infrastructure including roads, and are accessible to
airport facilities. In Nusa Tenggara Timur at Maumere, there is a small well-
developed fishing harbor and fishing boat landing place alongside an under-
utilized commercial port.
3.06      Population and Incomes.  Population of the project area is about
12.6 million (1984), of which some 6.5 million are in South Sulawesi, 1.1 mil-
lion in Southeast Sulawesi, 2.9 million in Aceh, and about 2.2 million in Nusa
Tenggara Timur. The 1985 average per capita income of fish pond operators was
about Rp 150,000 (US$91). About 73% of this income came from the tambak
enterprise, with the remaining 27% being derived from nontambak sources.
About 90X of these fishermen have incomes below Rp 220,000 per capita p.a.
(US$133) -- the relative poverty level for Indonesia.
Production, Processing and Marketing
3.07      Shrimp Production.  Production and area of brackishwater ponds in
the project area are shown in the table below:



- 13 -
Table 3.1: COASTAL AQUACULTURE AREA AND PRODUCTION (1984)
Exportable    Other fish       Total
Area         shrimp       and shrimp    production
(ha)         (ton)          (ton)          (ton)
South Sulawesi          63,824           7,940        27,060          35,000
Aceh                    27,840           2,215        13,285          15,500
Southeast Sulawesi       2,170               5             65             70
Total             93,834          10,160         40,410          50,570
3.08      The more valuable tiger shrimp make up about 70% of the export
shrimp from South Sulawesi and about 27X from Aceh. This is because of much
higher reliance on wild shrimp in Aceh, and the shortage of black tiger shrimp
seed from natural sources. Several hatcheries are now under construction in
the project area, which will increase the supply of seed. In addition, the
proposed project will also help improve capacity utilization in existing
hatcheries (para. 4.05).
3.09      Shrimp Marketing.  Valuable shrimp are almost all for export.
Shrimp are sold to exporters by a large number of small collectors and
wholesale dealers. Farm prices appear to be about 70% of the delivered
wholesale prices, which is comparable to market margins in similar commodities
elsewhere. Marketing facilities for shrimp for both domestic and export
markets are well developed.
3.10      Shrimp Processing.  In South and Southeast Sulawesi, five processors
operate shrimp freezing plants with a capacity of about 30 mt/day of pro-
duct. In Aceh, six processors operate plants with about 25 mt/day capacity.
In addition, in South and Southeast Sulawesi, there are 13 ice plants with a
total capacity of 375 mt/day, and in Aceh, 11 plants with a capacity of
435 mt/day. Processors are running at about 30% of installed capacity. This
is because many processors were attracted by excellent market demand and
profit margins, and they have all invested in processing capacity. This has
helped increase competition amongst processors and support farmgate prices.
Production response has not been sufficient because of various constraints,
particularly water control and fry supply.
3.11      Tuna Production and Marketing.  In 1984 skipjack landings in Nusa
Tenggara Timur area were about 1,500 tons compared with the estimated poten-
tial yield of about 6,000 tons. A fleet of about 20 skipjack boats of
10-15 GT (gross tons) size is operated from Maumere. However, because of poor
market outlets, prices, and maintenance problems, only some seven or eight of
these vessels now operate at any one time. Most of the tuna is sold locally
as fresh fish, which is consumed fresh or as dried, salted, or smoked, but the
local market for any of these products is small. Because of a lack of market
outlets and weak local demand, fishermen, on occasion, have had to throw away



- 14 -
their catch. On instructions from GOI, a state-owned fishing company, P.N.
Tirta Raya Mina of Java, has occasionally sent a boat to purchase fish from
Maumere. These occasional purchases of up to 60 tons a year have been too
small to give sufficient incentive to local fishermen to increase produc-
tion. There is currently an opportunity to start a cold storage and freezing
plant for purchase of skipjack from this area. Recognizing this potential,
P.T. Bali Raya, a private sector enterprise, has expressed a strong interest
in setting up such facilities in the project area to supply its underutilized
cannery in Bali. PeT. Bali Raya has developed European and North American
markets for canned tuna exports. Currently, its main constraint in expanding
canned tuna exports is the availability of skipjack tuna as raw material for
its cannery (para. 4.06).
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Genesis, Objectives and Formulation
4.01      In response to a request from the Director General of Fisheries, the
Bank arranged for an FAO/CP identification mission to visit Indonesia in May
1984. The project was prepared between December 1984 and January 1986, with
appraisal in February/March 1986. During the preparation/appraisal stages,
the initial proposals, which were oriented towards large investments in state
fisheries enterprises, were reformulated in favor of greater private sector
involvement. The project has also been designed to provide support services
for those selected segments of the fisheries sector that are export oriented
(shrimp and skipjack/yellowfin tuna (para. 2.05)). Since the expert market
demand and prices are much stronger for shrimp than for skipjack and yellowfin
tuna, the project area and components were particularly selected to give major
emphasis towards encouraging shrimp production and export (para. 3.01). In
addition, since the selected treas have large numbers of poor fishermen, whose
productivity is limited by inadequate fisheries support services, the project
has been designed to strengthen these services, including fisheries credit.
Because controlling demand on the development budget is an important objec-
tive, the on-lending arrangements (para. 5.03) were designed to eliminate any
budget support for fisheries credit, which has traditionally been highly
subsidized (para. 2.15). Further rationale for Bank involvement, in terms of
support for several important policy initiatives, was provided earlier in
para. 2.24.
Brief Project Description
4.02      The project would be implemented over a seven-year period and
include the following major components:
(a) physical infrastructure rehabilitation, including 295 km of primary
and secondary brackishwater canals serving 11,000 ha of ponds
(tambaks) in South Sulawesi, 5,000 ha in Aceh, and 2,000 ha in
Southeast Sulawesi;



- 15 -
(b) strengthening coastal aquaculture shrimp farm development by
improving access to water supplies, better on-farm water control,
farm management, through improved credit delivery and the provision
of investment support to fishermen and fishermen's groups;
(c) improving supply of shrimp seed (post larvae-PL) to fishermen in the
project area through the provision of credit for the establishment
of fry rearing and distribution facilities and technical assistance
to private sector hatcheries;
(d) strengthening marketing support services for marine fisheries
involving the construction of a cold store, ice plant and freezer,
and restructuring of state fisheries enterprises;
(e) fisheries tzchnique development (adaptive research);
(f) training and technical assistance for DGF manpower development,
planning, and for project preparation; and
(g) a small pilot component for ensuring environmentally sound coastal
aquaculture development, involving the poorest coastal fishermen.
Deta_led Project Description
4.03      Physical Infrastructure Rehabilitation.  Adequate brackishwater
supply for coastal aquaculture is reaching only a few coastal ponds in South
Sulawesi, Aceh, and Southeast Sulawesi. The project will improve the water
supply serving 18,000 ha of coastal ponds to ensure that at least 80% of these
ponds are able to exchange about 5-7% of their pond water daily. This will
allow fishermen to flush out. pond wastes and bring sufficient nutrient-rich
water to enable them to stock more shrimp and to reduce shrimp mortality,
thereby increasing pond productivity. To accomplish this, about 110 km of
primary canals about 20 m wide, and 185 km secondary canals 8 m wide would be
rehabilitated. During rehabilitation care would be taken to minimize
disrupting existing production (para. 4.04) as well as minimizing land
acquisition. It is expected that during the 6-year canal rehabilitation
period, not more than 300 ha of land will need to be acquired. Where land
acquisition is difficult, existing canals will be deepened rather than
broadened. The cost of rehabilitating primary and secondary canals will be
about Rp 21.0 billion (US$12.7 million). The Directorate General of Water
Resources Development (DGWRD) would implement this component in cooperation
with DGF (para. 6.09).
4.04      Coastal Aguaculture Investment Support.  To intensify shrimp produc-
tion, fishermen would need to improve their ponds. This will involve increas-
ing the height of pond dikes, improving on-farm watf. control by providing
water gates and, in some cases, small pumps, and constructing channels for
connecting ponds to primary and secondary canals. Shrimp are very sensitive
to fluctuations in water temperature and oxygen levels. By increasing the
height of dikes, larger quantities of brackishwater can be contained in the
pond and water temperature and oxygen fluctuations minimized. The alternative
of increasing dike height rather than deepening ponds has been selected to



- 16 -
ensure that productive soils from pond bottoms are not removed, and the
fishermen are able to drain their ponds completely at least once every
season.   This is essential for preventing acidity in the ponds.  The above
investments, which would range in size between US$800 and US$5,000 per ha,
would be carried out by fishermen assisted by credit financing from BRI under
the project (para. 5.03). Credit support fcr incremental working capital
would also be provided by BRI. Agreements between processors and BRI (para.
5.03) would include, inter alia, a guarantee from processors for the repayment
of 502 of the fishermen's loans. Technica' assistance and supervision would
be provided by DGF personnel (para. 6.05). Extension infrastructure will be
provided by AAETE under the proposed Third National Extension Project. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that GOI will give priority to
strengthening of fisheries extension infrastructure and would construct and
equip nine Rural Extension Centers in the project area by March 31, 1990;
first five of these by March 31, 1988. It is expected that the coastal aqua-
culture investment support would cost about Rp 24.4 billion (US$14.8 million),
and this would be supported by BRI credit (para. 5.03) of about Rp 14.3 bil-
lion (US$8.7 million).
4.05      Strengthening Input Supply.  The main constraint in supply of inputs
for fisheries activities in the project area is the shortage of shrimp seed
(PL) for coastal aquaculture. This is due to low level of production from the
existing government and private enterprise hatcheries and poor marketing
(para. 2.14) of shrimp PL. The project will strengthen DGF support for shrimp
hatchery operation by providing technical assistance and training. About
24 man-months of hatchery management specialist assistance and 4 man-months of
an engineering and technical services specialist will be provided to the
Directorate of Production in DGF to assist project area shrimp hatcheries. In
addition, the project will improve the marketing of shrimp PL by supporting
private initiatives for setting up shrimp PL rearing and distribution
centers. The component is inexpensive, costing only about Rp 0.8 billion
(US$0.5 million). This is because of tFe availability of underutilized shrimp
hatcheries, which can be rehabilitated to produce twice the current level of
PL with very little new investment.
4.06      Marketing Support Services -- Flores.  While processing and
marketing services for shrimp are adequate in South Sulawesi, Southeast
Sulawesi, and Aceh, the same is not true for tuna in Flores (para. 3.11). The
project would provide credit through BRI to a privately-owned fish processing
company to help establish a 500-ton cold store, a brine freezer with a
capacity of 30 tons per day, and an ice plant with a capacity of 30 tons per
day. The cold store equipment would include one 2-stage compressor unit, an
evaporative condenser, diesel generator, switchboard, and connecting pipes.
An insulated ice container would be operated at -5°C and a separate generator
would be provided for the ice plant. Some workshop equipment including
welding units, handtools, wood working equipment and workshop tools would be
provided. The construction of these marketing facilities has already begun,
and the project includes the cost of only the second phase construction
activity, which is expected to start around October 1986. These marketing
facilities would be owned and operated by P.T. Bali Raya (PTBR), which will
transport frozen skipjack to its new cannery in Bali. The canning plant has
adequate capacity, and therefore additional canning capacity will not be



- 17 -
necessary. PTBR will help BRI select small-scale fishermen eligible to
receive credit for the purchase of 26 pole and line vessels (10-15 GT each),
costing about US$0.4 million. PTBR will guarantee repayment of these loans.
This will help increase production and ensure that the marketing infrastruc-
ture will be fully utilized. A letter of intent from PTBR to DGF committing
PTBR to make the proposed investments for marketing support services in
Flores, has been issued. Signing of an agreement between BRI and PTBR, and
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that adequate processing facilities are
under construction on Flores, are conditions of disbursement against credit
for pole and line vessels. Strengthening marketing support services in Flores
would cost about Rp 2.0 billion (US$1.2 million).
4.07      Marketing Support Services--Restructuring of Public Enterprises.
While GOI-owned fisheries enterprise have provided useful marketir.g support
services to small-scale fishermen in eastern Indonesia, this has bee- done at
a high cost. A recent GOI study outlines specific problems of the individual
state fishing enterprises, including high cost of vessel operations, declining
export prices, excessive capacity of facilities, excessive manpower, and
difficulties in generating operating funds. The study recommends the closing
of two of the enterprises, namely P. T. Tirta Raya Mina and P. T. Karya Mina,
while recommending alternative management styles for the remaining four. GOI
is seriously considering ways of restructuring the enterprises' organizational
and financial structures, in order to operate them as productive entities and
as part of future investments under joint venture agreements with the private
sector. Following internal review, GOI has decided to move ahead with the
restructuring of some state fishing enterprises, including, in particular, P.
N. Perikani Sulawesi Utara Tengah and Perikanan Samodra Besar. The project
will assist GOI in valuation of assets and preparation of proposals for leas-
ing facilities and forming joint ventures with the private sector. Government
has agreed that restructuring proposals would be reviewed by GOI and the Bank
by March 31, 1988, with a view to establishing an action plan by June 30,
1988. The cost of this component would be about Rp 0.3 billion (US$0.2 mil-
lion).
4.08      Technique Development.  There are important problems and
opportunities in the fisheries sector, where development of new techniques
translated from the findings of research could help increase the productivity
of investments (para. 2.18). The project would provide support for
developmental work in the following areas:
(_.  'lanning of exploratory and test fishing in high potential areas,
which would provide useful information for optimal deployment of the
fishing fleet;
(b) gear testing and development for fishermen to increase productivity
of their fishing effort;
(c) development of proper deployment and management techniques for
artificial reefs and floatir, fish aggregation devices such as
floating rafts (rumpons) foi increasing productivity of fishermen;
and



- 18 -
(d) development of techniques for controlling water quality in shrimp
culture and hatcheries for increasing shrimp yields.
The project would provide research funds, laboratory equipment, technical
assistance and training to assist DGF in implementing this work program, at a
cost of about Rp 1.9 billion (US$1.2 million).
4.09      Planning and Evaluation Support.  DGF staff needs i:ren7thening to
improve support services to the fisheries sector and achieve ,he &Abitious
targets for sectoral growth (para. 2.20). The project will provide technical
assistance to carry out a study to determine skill gaps and estimate DGF
training needs, based on which the consultants would prepare proposals for
manpower development. In addition, DOF would need assistance for the prepara-
tion of Repelita V (1989-94) fisheries sector plan. Technical assistance
would be provided to prepare a fisheries sector plan, along with proposals for
projects suitable for Bank financing. Local consultant support will be pro-
vided to assist DGP in preparing a mid-term evaluation report and the project
completion report. The planning and evaluation component (also see para.
6.14) is expected to cost about Rp 1.7 billion (US$1.0 millioo).
4.10      Coastal Zone Pilot Component.  Some of the poorest of the poor in
Indonesia are fishermen living in the coastal areas. These fishermen are
often not creditworthy enough to borrow funds from organized banking institu-
tions for more intensive fisheries production. Furthermore, they are
reluctant to borrow from the informal sector because of the risks of failure
and of perpetual bondage. In such a socioeconomic setting, some nongovern-
mental organizations have been successful in reaching poor brackishwater
fisherman and increasing their productivity through technical assistance,
training, and equity contribution involving profit and risk sharing. The
project includes a pilot component under which funds would be provided under a
contract with an suitable organization for all purchased inputs (mainly fry)
and the fisherman will contribute his labor. If the crop fails, the fishermen
will not be obliged to pay anything. This process will reduce the fisherman's
risk and help build vp his capital stock and technical skills, making him
creditworthy enough to borrow from the organized sector. The Ministry of
Population and Environment (MPE) is keen to implement this pilot component
because it will also assist in reducing economic pressure on fishermen to
clear environmentally sensitive mangrove areas in the coastal zone. The
component would be carried out under a contract between MPE and a suitable
organization. MPE would also seek consultants to prepare a futare project and
monitor results, which if favorable, will allow larger scale replication. The
component would cost about Rp 0.5 billion (US$0.3 million).
Environmental Aspects
4.11      Coastal fisheries development has sometimes involved clearing of
mangrove swamps to create new ponds. In this process, the habitat of many
juvenile fish, shrimp, and other species are destroyed, leading to decline in
fish population. The proposed project addresses this problem by supporting
coastal fisheries intensification rather than the creation of new ponds
(extensification). A pilot component (para. 4.10) for etuvironmentally sound
coastal zone development would also be implemented.  At negotiations assur-



- 19 -
ances were obtained that the pilot components will be carried out with sound
environmental procedures acceptable to the Bank (para. 9.04(e)).
Role of Women
4.12      In fisheries, women are typically involved in marketing operations
and sometimes in taking care of fish in ponds. The marketing role of women
gives them significant control over family finances, which allows them to use
funds to improve family nutrition. By increasing fish production and income,
the project will strengthen this role of women. DGF is aware of the important
role of women in the sector and has started using women extension workers to
teach women better techniques of preserving and processing fish before
consumption or sale.
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Project Cost
5.01      The project is estimated to cost Rp 67.7 billion (US$41.0 million),
of which about Rp 4.8 billion (US$2.9 million) would be duties and taxes, and
Rp 28.7 billion (US$17.4 million) foreign exchange (Table 5.1). Base costs
are calculated on early October 1986 estimates based on recent contracts and
quotations. Physical contingency estimates for civil works and on-farm
improvements are estimated at 10%, and for other categories at 5%. Price
contingencies are based on estimated annual local inflation of 13X in 1986,
101 in 1987, 51 in 1988, and 3.5% thereafter. Annual inflation in foreign
costs is estimated at 12.0% in 1986, 3.0% in 1987, 1.0% in 1988-1990, and 3.51
thereafter. Total physical contingencies amount to about 9% of base costs,
and expected price increases constitute about 20% of base costs.
Financing
5.02      The proposed IBRD loan of US$24.5 million will finance 65% of total
project costs (US$41.0 million) less duties and taxes (US$2.9 million) and
reserved procurement of vehicles (US$0.4 million). The loan will finance 100X
of foreign and 30% of local costs and will be at the standard variable inter-
est rate for 20 years with a 5-year grace (Table 5.2). Local contribution,
net of duties and taxes, will be about US$13.6 million, of which GOI will
contribute US$4.9 million (net of US$2.9 million in duties and taxes),
fishermen and private enterprises US$5.0 million, zr,d BRI US$4.3 million.



- 20 -
Table 5.1: PROJECT COST SUI,:ARY
.
X       Total
Rp million                         US$ '000           Foreign   base
Local     Foreign    Total    Local        Foreign    Total  exchange  costs
Physical infra-
structure
improvement        14,130      6,825    20,955      8,564      4,136    12,700        33       40
Coastal aquacul-
ture investment
support            12,475    11,956    24,431       7,561      7,246    14,807        49       47
Strengthening
input supply          316        474        789        191       287        478       60         2
Marketing support
services streng-
thening               586      1,577      2,164        355       956      1,311       73         4
Technique develop-
ment                  724      1,214      1,938        439        736     1,175       63         4
Planning support        221      1,435      1,655        134       869      1,003       87         3
Coastal zone pilot
project               339        125        464        206        76        281       27         1
Total Base Cost      28.791    23,606    52,397    17,449    14,307    31,756           45       100
Physical
contingencies       2,618      1,977      4,594     1,586      1,198      2,784       43         9
Price
contingencies       7,623      3,088    10,711      4,620      1,872      6,491       29        20
Total Project
Cost               39,031    28,671    67,702    23,655    17.376    41,032           42       129
5.03      Onlending Terms for Bank Loan:  From the proceeds of the Bank loan,
90I will onlend up to US$8.2 million to BRI at a variable interest rate equal
to the average cost of loanable funds from customer rupiah deposits of BRI.
The rate would be subject to a floor equal to the rate on the Bank loan plus a
fixed spread of 1.75 percentage points. (Annex 8 gives details of the pro-
posed formula). Based on recent data, this arrangement would result in an on-
lending rate to BRI to about 10% p.a., which is highly positive in real
terms. The term of the loan will be 20 years including 5 years of grace. GOI
will bear the foreign exchange risk. About 952 of the loan will go to small
fishermen and it will be difficult to pass on foreign exchange risk to them.
Subloans will be made to: (i) shrimp fishermen for pond development and fry
rearing facilities (US$11.6 million), (iii) skipjack fishermen for procurement
of small pole-and-line fishing boats (US$0.4 million) and (iv) PTBR for the
expansion of marketing support services in Flores (US$10.5 million) (see
paras. 4.04, 4.05 and 4.06). Subloans will be made for ten years including a



Table 5.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$'000)
Private
IBRD          Fishermen          BRI        enterprises    Government           Total
Amount      Z    Amount      %   Amount      %   Amount   Z   Amount       Z    Amount       ?
Physical Infrastructure
Improvement                 14,146.1   85.5        --         -       -      -         -   2,396.8   14.5  16,542.9   40.3
Coastal Aquaculture
Investment Support           7,788.2   39.9  4,683.5  24.0  3,955.2  20.2        -     -   3,108.9   15.9  19,535.8   47.6
Strepkthening Input Supply       458.8   79.4        -      -      91.6  15.8      -     -       27.8    4.8      578.2    1.4
Marketing Support Services
Strengthening                  895.2   61.2        -      -     264.5  18.1  284.8  19.5       17.7    1.2   1,462.2    3.6
Technique development             481.4   34.9        -     -         -     -      -      -     897.8   65.1   1,379.2    3.4
Planning support                  324.0   27.8        -     -        -      -      -      -     841.5   72.2   1,165.4    2.8
Coastal zone pilot project        367.8  100.0        -     -         -     -      -      -        -       -      367.8    0.9
Total Disbursement       24,461.4   59.6  4,683.5  11.4  4,311.3  10.5  284.8   0.7  7,290.6   17.8  41,031.6  100.0



- 22 -
grace period for principal repayment of two years. Shrimp processors will
guarantee 501 of participating shrimp fishermen's loans, while PTMR will guar-
antee 1001 of skipjack fishermens' loans. The onlending rate to fishermen
will be 1X per month on the original loan amount, which is in line with the
rate charged on investment loans under KUPEDES. With two repayments in a
year, this will yield an effective interest rate of about 181 p.a. (or 161
p.i. after allowing for a rebate given as an incentive for making all payments
on time). The repayment of principal and interest will be made through auto-
matic deduction by processors from fish sales proceeds. Loans from SRI to
PTBR will be at commercial rates, currently around 181 p.a. For on-lending of
the Bank loan, signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) between GOI and
BRI acceptable to the Bank will be a condition of loan affectiveness. During
ne$.itiationsp assurances were also obtained from GOI on the above onlending
terms and conditions, and that BRI will, by September 30, 1987 enter into
agreements acceptable to the Bank with shrimp processors in Aceh, South
Sulawesi and Southeast Sulawesi for the collection of shrimp fishermen subloan
repayments, and by December 31, 1987, enter into an agreement acceptable to
the Bank with PTBR for the collection of loans to skipjack fishermen.
Procurement
5,04      Procurement arrangements are summarized in table 5.3 and summarized
below:
Table 5.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement method
Project Element             ICB      LCB      Other    NA          Total Cost
Land                                             1.1                     1.1
Civil works                           14.0                              14.0
(12.8)                           (12.8)
Equipment and machinery      1.4                 0.4                     1.8
(0.9)              (0.2)                   (1.1)
Vehicles                                         0.4                     0.4
On-farm improvements                                    16.7            16.7
(7.8)          (7.8)
Incremental operating
costs and training                                     3.5            3.5
(0.3)          (0.3)
Technical assistance                             3.4                     3.4
(2.5)                  (2.5)
Total                1.4      14.0      5.3    20.2            41.0
(0.9)    (12.8)    (2.7)   (8.1)          (24.5)
/a   Costs are inclusive of contingencies, duties and taxes, but exclude
financing costs. Figures in parenthesis indicate expected disbursement
from the proposed Bank loan.



- 23 -
5.05      Civil Works (US$14.0 million).  These consist of small canal
rehabilitation works (US$13.8 million), and cold store (US$0.2 million), scat-
tered over 46 sites in four remote provinces of Indonesia, and are to be
implemented over 6 years. These works will be procured following LCB proce-
dures in which foreign contractors are eligible to participate. LCB proce-
dures are justified because these works are small and scattered over a large
number of locations. While works to be implemented in any province over a
period of two years would be packaged to-ether, this will still result in
contract sizes of US$2.0 million or less. Packaging across provinces is not
feasible because of administrative and budgeting difficulties.
5.06      Equipment and Machinery (US$1.8 million).  Most equipment and
machinery would be procured following ICB procedures in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. Items less than US$50,000 in value will be procured by shopping
with at least three suppliers. These would not exceed US$0.4 million in total
value.
5.07      Vehicles (US$0.4 million).  It is GOI policy to restrict procurement
of vehicles to those that are assembled within Indonesia. These items, which
are reserved for procurement within Indonesia, will be financed entirely from
the GOI budget and will not be eligible for Bank financing. Six 4-wheel drive
vehicles, three minibuses and 30 motorcycles would be required. At negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that these vehicles would be provided in
accordance with the schedule in Annex 4, Table 2.
5.08      On-Farm Improvements (US$16.7 million).  These consist of
improvement of ponds and tertiary water delivery syster which would be under-
taken by individual fishermen. The size of each investment made by a
fisherman is likely to be very small, not exceeding US$5,000. This will
consist of earthwork, incremental supply of shrimp seed and feed, and in some
cases pumps. These are inappropriate for bidding procedures. DGF will assist
fishermen in ensuring that on-farm improvements are made efficiently.
5.09      Other (US$8.0 million).  Consultant services (US$3.4 million) will
be procured following Bank guidelii.s for hiring of consultants.  Small pieces
of land (US$1.1 million) will be procured along canal right of way in small
pieces spread over five years. These will be procured after local valuation
to determine whether the price being paid is reasonable. The remaining costs
(US$3.5 million) are for incremental operating costs and training.
5.10      Contract Review.  After an initial review of standard civil works
bidding documents by the Bank for LCB contracts, only bidding documents for
contracts estimated to exceed US$700,000 will be reviewed prior to issuance.
This will result in prior Bank review of six bidding documents covering 75% of
the value of contracts. Similarly, for equipment and machinery, all bidding
packages estimated to cost over US$200,000 will be reviewed prior to issuance,
and this will result in Bank review of three documents covering 821 of the
value of contracts. Tne remaining contracts will be reviewed on a random
basis after award of contracts.



- 24 -
Disbursement
5.11      Disbursements under the Bank loan will be completed by December 31,
1994, about eight years after Board Presentation (Annex 3, Table 5). This
compares with the typical disbursement period of about nine and one-half years
for agricultural projects in the East Asia and Pacific region, and ten years
for the average fisheries project in the Bank, A shorter disbursement period
is assumed as the project was designed to conform to a request by GOI to limit
the project implementation period to about seven years, which, allowing for
disbursement lag of about one year, will result in an eight-year disbursement
period. At appraisal, the project was reduced in size to increase the likeli-
hood of its getting completed slightly ahead of the typical fisheries proj-
ect. If there were a 10-year disbursement period, the project costs would be
about Rp 71.4 billion (US$43.3 million), which is Rp 3.7 billion (US$2.3 mil-
lion) higher than under the proposed 8-year disbursement period. An
equivalent extension of the implementation period and delay in the benefits
would not change the justification for the project (see para. 8.08).
5.12      Disbursements from the Bank loan will be made for:
(a) 91X of project expenditures on civil works;
(b) 65% of project expenditure on locally procured equipment or 100% of
foreign expenditures on internationally procured equipment;
(c) 100% of expenditures, net of duties and taxes, on technical
assistance and training;
(d) 65% of net disbursements on fisheries credit made to project
fishermen; and
(e) 80% of disbursement on sub-loan to PTBR.
Disbursements for training (US$0.3 million) and fishermen credit (US$7.8 mil-
lion) would be based on Statements of Expenditure (SOE). SOE for fishermen
credit will be prepared by BRI and for training and incremental operating
costs of investment support staff by DGF (see para. 4.04). Detailed documen-
tation supporting SOEs would be retained at BRI and DGF offices in Jakarta.
At negotiations, assurances were obtained that these statements would be
audited (see para. 5.13 below) and the audit reports would be made available
to the Bank for inspection during supervision (para. 9.04 (c)). Disbursements
for other components (US$16.4 million) will be based on fully documented
withdrawal applications.
Accounting and Audits
5.13      Separate project accounts, clearly indicating the various sources of
receipts and expenditures by functional category for their respective project
components, will be maintained by DGE, BRI, and the Ministry of Population and
Environment (MPE). The accounting and internal audit procedures of the imple-
menting agencies are satisfactory. Each agency has an internal audit office
which continuously audits its accounts. Strict budget control is maintained



- 25 -
based on standard unit costs, and expenditure beyond budgeted amounts is
difficult. As required by GOI regulations, agency accounts are audited
annually by the Directorate of State Accountancy. Audits are usually delayed
due to shortage of accountants and auditors in Indonesia, and these problems
are being addressed by the Bank through a free-standing project (Credit 869-
IND). At negotiations, assurances were obtained that unaudited project
accounts and SOEs will be submitted for audit and to the Bank within five
months of year-end, and the audit report made available to the Bank within
nine months of the year-end. The report would include a separate auditors'
opinion on SOE, verifying that the related expenditures were made for the
agreed purposes of the project.
VI. PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
6.01      General.  The project will be implemented primarily by the
Directorate General of Fisheries (DGF) with assistince from the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD), the Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI), and the Ministry of Population and Environment (MPE).
Directorate General of Fisheries (DGF)
6.02      Coordination.  DGF will have overall responsibility for project
implementation and coordination. For this purpose a project coordination com-
mittee (PCC) has been set up, with the Director General of DGF as Chairman and
the Directors of DGF and the representatives of DGWRD, BRI and MPE as mem-
bers. PCC will review project progress and plans in quarterly review meet-
ings. It will be assisted by a Project Liaison Office in the Directorate of
Programming of DGF. This office will help implementing agencies in: (a)
solving any problems concerning project accounting, budgeting, and procurement
procedures, and (b) channelling disbursement requests and progress reports to
the Bank. The setting up of the Project Liaison Office is a condition of Loan
effectiveness.
6.03      Input Supply.  The Directorate of Production within DGF will be res-
ponsible for the input supply component. Because of the importance of improv-
ing shrimp PL supply especially in South Sulawesi, an assurance was obtained
that DGF will hire and station a full-time hatchery consultant in South
Sulawesi by September 30, 1987 for improving production of PL from existing
hatcheries.
6.04      Physical Infrastructure Strengthening.  Engineering and construction
of primary and secondary canal rehabilitation is the responsibility of DGWRD
(para. 6.09) based on technical requirements for coastal aquaculture deter-
mined by DGF.  The Directorate of Infrastructure (DI) in DGF will be respon-
sible for coordination with DGWRD to ensure that canal rehabilitation is done
in line with fisheries needs.  For this purpose, DGF and DGWRD have already
entered into a cooperation agreement. At negotiations, an assurance was
obtained that a Technical Committee for Infrastructure Improveme-nt(TCII) con-
sisting of DI and DGWRD representatives will be maintained for the project
period. TCII will be responsible for technical advice on selection of
consultants and for monitoring of their progress and performance.



- 26 -
6.05      Coastal Aquaculture Investment Support.  The Directorate of Infra-
structure will be responsible for ensuring that fishermen's investments in
developing tertiary water supplies, pond dikes and gates ire backed by ade-
quate technical advice and supervision. For this purpose additional DGF field
staff will be stationed in South Sulawesi, Aceh and Southeast Sulawesi.
Coastal aquaculture areas at the field level, each containing about 200 ha
with an average of about 80 fishermen, would be delineated and formed into a
block supervised by a Block Manager. Between 10 and 15 block managers would
be grouped into a Development Zone headed by a Zone Manager. The Block
Manager would provide technical supervision of fishermen investments and will
assist individual fishermen and fishermen groups with the acquisition of
shrimp PL, feed, fertilizer, and credit. Thus, the Development Zone and Zone
Center would provide a focus to assist farmers in getting all the inputs,
credit and information required for intensification of shrimp yields. They
will assist in channelling of credit by helping fishermen fill out forms and
in meeting credit requirements. Following GOI administrative regulations,
Zone Managers in each province will report administratively to the provincial
fisheries office (Dinas Perikanan) headed by Kepala Dinas Perikanan. The
Kepala has many duties and to assist him with the supervis.'on load placed on
him by the project, a development officer will be provided in each project
area Dinas Perikanan office. At headquarters, the Director of Infrastructure
will be responsible for this component since it involves tertiary water supply
development and other civil works. The Director will be designated manager
for this component. In Sulawesi Selatan there would be a phased development
of five Zone Centers, the first being established in 1987 and the last in
1991. In Aceh there would be two Zone Centers, one established in 1987 and
one in 1989. In Sulawesi Tenggara there would be a combined PPDO and Zone
Center established in 1988. The "spearhead" teams of Block Managers and more
senior administrative and technical managers forming the Zone would be
reassigned to new areas of investment after a period of five years from the
date of their beginning field work. The regul,r and by then strengthened
agricultural extension service would take up the provision of extension to the
brackishwater farmers in the earlier areas of investment. At full develop-
ment, there would be about 130 in'.estment support staff recruited in accor-
dance with the schedule shown in Annex 4, Table 3.
6.06      Marketing Support Services.  DGF's Directorate of Enterprises would
be responsible for the development of marketing support services in the
project area, and for this purpose it will provide assistance to P. T. Bali
Raya in setting up cold storage and fisheries purchase centers. The
Directorate will also assist state-owned fisheries enterprises in their effort
to arrange joint ventures by providing technical assistance (para. 4.07).
6.07      Technical Development.  The Directorate of Resource Management would
be designated manager for the Technique Development component. The marine
component would be carried out by the Fishing Technique Development Center at
Semarang, and the brackishwater component by the Brackishwater Fisheries
Development Center at Jepara. The two centers have adequate staff and no new
staff will be required. To ensure that these centers do developmental work in
response to industry needs, each center will be guided by an advisory group
consisting of industry representatives. The groups will also have representa-
tives from the fisheries research organization (AARD) to ensure that fisheries



- 27 -
research and development efforts are mutually complementary. Government has
agreed that the two advisory groups will be set up no later than December 31,
1987, and maintained thereafter.
6.08      Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation.  The Directorate of
Programming will be responsible for project planning, monitoring, and evalua-
tion. It will have a project liaison office for overall project monitoring
(para. 6.02). The Directorate will engage consultants for planning, evalua-
tion studies and project preparation including a mid-term review (para. 6.14).
The current level of staffing requires about two additional staff. A "base-
line" study would be established by July 1, 1987, a mid-term evaluation should
be carried out not later than December 31, 1989, and a project completion
report should be completed by six months following the end of loan disburse-
ments. Government has agreed that, with respect to the preparation of a
fisheries sector plan and their plans for P.epelita V (1989-94), the Bank would
be consulted in regard to the progress of these plans.
Directorate Gtneral of Water Resources Development (DGWRD)
6.09      DGWRD will be responsible for primary and secondary canal rehabili-
tation. The Director of Swamps will be designated project manager for this
component. DGWRD will hire consultants for detailed design and supervision.
In implementing this component, DGWRD will work in close cooperation with DGF
(para. 6.04). DGWRD is familiar with Bank procurement procedures, having been
involved in several Bank-assisted irrigation projects. Therefore, the involve-
ment of DGWRD in implementation of canal rehabilitation should help in getting
project works completed faster than it would otherwise have been possible.
After completion, the provincial irrigation services will maintain the primary
and secondary canals. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that adequate
operation and maintenance budget will be made available to provincial irriga-
tion services, and the cost recovered from beneficiaries (para. 8.05).
Adequate funds are estimated at about Rp 20,000 per ha.
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
6.10      BRI will be responsible for on-lending project funds to fishermen.
The General Manager (Investasi) will be designated manager for the credit
aspects of this project.  BRI will use existing branch offices and staff in
the project area for this on-lending, and therefore incremental administrative
costs will be minimized.  BRI will consult with fishermen group leaders, DGF
investment support staff, and local processors/exporters before selecting
borrowers.  Loan interest and principal repayments will be deducted by
processors/exporters from fishermen's sales proceeds. This will allow better
credit recovery and lower administrative costs. Fishermen like this system
because they find it more convenient than making a trip to a BRI branch to
make payments. The processors also like this system because they are current-
ly having problems getting enough shrimps to fully utilize their processing
capacities and they strongly support initiatives for increasing shrimp
production.



- 28 -
Ministry of Popuiation and Environment (MPE)
6.11      MPE will be responsible for the pilot component and will designate
one of its officers acceptable to the Bank by June 30, 1987 to be the project
manager for this component. At negotiations, appropriate assurances to this
effect were obtained from GOI. For implementing the pilot component, MPE will
award a contract to a suitable NCO that has experience working in coastal
brackishwater areas. MPE will monitor progress and carry out an evaluation
three years after start of this pilot component and will seek consultants to
prepare a future project, drawing on the experience gained. Draft TORs for
the pilot component are included in the Working Papers for the project.
Project Implementation Plans and Status
6.12      The project will be implemented over seven years, though fishermen
will continue to be assisted after that. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that lending to project area fishermen will continue using funds
obtained from initial repayments.
6.13      Detailed designs for the first-year construction activities are
ready and for subsequent civil works construction every year, detailed designs
will be done in the previous year. It is expected that BRI will reach agree-
ments for the credit component with the processors to be ready to start on-
lending in the first year of the project. Site selection for canal rehab-
ilitation covering 3,000 ha, to be done in the second year of the project, has
been completed. An implementation schedule for the proposed project, vehicle
procurement, additional staff required and terms of reference for key consult-
ants were agreed with OI during negotiations (Annex 4).
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.14      Investment support block managers would provide monthly information
on the progress of shrimp farmers in the block to zone managers who would sub-
mit a zone summary to the Provincial Project Development Office (para 6.05)
which in turn would report summary results to the Project Development Office
in Jakarta. For the purposes of these reports block managers would routinely
collect physical and financial data from farmers in their block on the key
aspects of (a) water supply, (b) investment support, (c) fry and other input
supplies, (d) credit, and (e) yields. Standard formats and procedures for
these reports would be prepared by DCF early in project implementation. PPDO
managers would independently assess the quality of zone and block reports by
sample shrimp farmer interviews at least once every six months. Data on
yields, price, physical improvements to farms and canals, use of fry and fry
quality, and other input supply problems would be analyzed periodically by
PPDO and PDO staff, and a summary of this information would be included in the
semiannual progress reports submitted to the Bank. The project would be eval-
uated at the end of Loan disbursements (para. 6.08). The PDO working with the
PPDOs would have a project completion report (PCR) prepared, with the assi-
stance of local university groups oi qualified consultants, in which project
results would be compared with appraisal estimates. The PCR would describe
the physical implementation of the project and changes in production techno-
logy and its adoption in project and nonproject areas, changes in prices in



- 29 -
real terms resulting from larger export volumes, changes in earnings and
incomes for project farmers, and changes in employment resulting from better
pond management. The economic and financial rates of return would also be
recalculated on the basis of actual costs and reestimated benefits.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, AND PRICES
Yields
7.01      Black tiger shrimp will be the main project output in terms of
value. Depending upon the different intensity categories, shrimp yields are
expected to increase gradually from 70 kg/ha to 300 kg/ha (for 4% of project
area), to about 400 kg/ha (for 62% of project area), and to 1,000 kg/ha (for
5% of project area). The remaining 29% of the area would stay at 70 kg/ha,
covering those shrimp and fish farmers who are not expected to take up the
improved technologies (Table 7.1).
Table 7.1: SHRIMP YIELD PROJECTIONS
(kg/ha)
Year
Intensity groups                          0     1      2     3     4    5-20
Medium intensity, tidal fed               70    53   110   168   225    300
Medium intensity, pumped                  70    56    82   202   214    414
Higher intensity, pumped                  70    53   285   517   750  1,000
The projected shrimp yields are much below the 4,000 kg per ha yield achieved
in Taiwan. DCF has expressed the view that higher yields should be expected.
While some pond operators would be able, and should be encouraged, to exceed
the projected yields, it is considered prudent to base project analysis on
more modest average yield projections.
7.02      Skipjack tuna catch is estimated at about 700 kg per day or 140 tons
per year per (10-15 GT) boat. This is based on current yield of similar boats
operating in the area.
Production
7.03      Shrimp production would build up slowly reaching an incremental
880 tons (head on) by project completion (PY7) and about 3,400 tons in PY10
(Table 7.2). These production levels are based on a realistic assumption that
only about half of the project area fishermen will have developed their ponds
by project completion and another 20% would have gradually developed their
ponds by the tenth year after project start-up (Table 7.2).



- 30 -
Table 7.2: INCREMENTAL PROJECT PRODUCTION (tons/year)
Project year
Project output                                  5            7          10
Shrimp                                           97          878       3,424
Skipjack                                      3,612        3,640       3,640
Skipjack incremental production would build up faster to about 3,600 tons by
the fifth year of the project, but it is expected to remain at about this
level beyond the fifth year because of overall constraints in industry
resources.
Projected Market Demand and Prices
7.04      Shrimp Demand.  Japan will remain the main market for black tiger
shrimp from the project area. Of the three major international shrimp markets,
Japan, the US and Western Europe, the Japanese market has been the traditional
one for Indonesian shrimp (para. 2.09). This is expected to continue because
of the ease of transport and communications, facilitated by the geographical
proximity of Indonesia to Japan and the preponderance of Japanese joint ven-
tures in the Indonesian shrimp processing/exporting industry. Cultured black
tiger shrimp are preferred by Japanese buyers and it is expected that project
area shrimp will continue to be well received in the Japanese market.
Japanese shrimp demand is expected to continue to be strong. On a per capita
basis, the Japanese are the largest consumers of shrimp in the world, with a
per capita consumption of about 2.3 kg p.a. in recent years. Declining domes-
tic catches provide only about 25% of Japan's total supply of shrimp, causing
the Japanese to import increasingly large quantities of shrimp, principally
from India, Indonesia, Taiwan, China, and Australia. Japanese imports have
been increasing at an annual growth rate of about 4% and this is expected to
continue. The project's 1995 incremental shrimp production of 3,400 tons
(head on) or export of about 2,200 tons (headless) would represent only about
1.3Z of the 1984 Japanese shrimp imports and about 1Z of a projected 1995
Japanese import demand of 260,000 tons. Such a small amount of exports, give.I
the reputation of, and preference for, the Indonesian black tiger shrimp,
should not have any problems in being absorbed in the Japanese market.
7.05      Shrimp Prices.  In the Japanese market, shrimp prices depend upon
the size of the individual shrimp, variety, q'-ality, and source of supply, and
the Indonesian black tiger shrimp commands a 10% premium (para. 2.09). Shrimp
prices peaked at the end of 1982, declined in 1983-84, and began to recover by
the middle of 1985. The February 1986 Indonesian black tiger shrimp c.i.f.
price in the Japanese market ranged from about US$10 to US$17 per kg,
depending upon size, for the medium to large sizes. TVe price for the 21-25
count per kg (the average size of project output) is about US$12 per kg.
Shrimp prices have shown an increasing trend in real terms, but in the future,
increasing production of black tiger shrimp from Taiwan and other Indo-Pacific



- 31 -
countries will dampen price increasen and no increase in the real price is
expected. However, the high regard and preference for the Indonesian product
will ensure competitive prices for project shrimp, and prices are projected at
about US$12 per kg.
7.06      Skipjack Demand. The international tuna market has performed poorly
in recent years, and while it is beginning to show signs of stability, the
future of tuna prices is uncertain. Canned tuna imports, however, increased
modestly in the last few years and US canned tuna imports reached the 100,000
tons mark in 1985, up from 75,000 tons the previous year. This is due to the
low tuna prices, and the fact that skipjack/tuna production and canning is no
longer profitable in high labor cost countries. it is expected that countries
such as the United States will increasingly rely on canned tuna imporls from
lower labor cost countries. Indonesian exporters such as P.T. Bali R&fa are
now finding that they have sufficient demand for canned tuna and in the future
their main constraint will be supply of skipjack/tuna for canning. P.T. Bali
Raya is therefore keen to buy skipjack from the project area, and it estimates
raw material requirements from the project area at 7,000 tons p.a. Project
area production of 3,600 tons p.a. w 'l satisfy only half of this demand.
7.07      Skipjack Prices.  Skipjack p:ices rose to a peak of about US$1,100
per ton in 1980. By early 1981 when the market started to weaken, prices fell
sharply. Although skipjack prices improved in the first and second quarters
of 1985, the current f.o.b. price of about US$600 per ton (Rp 990,000) is far
from the 1981 peak prices. While there are no specific forecasts, it is
unlikely that skipjack prices will recover to the peak 1980 levels within the
foreseeable future. The February fisherman skipjack price of Rp 285,000 per
ton is about 63% of the ex-cannery price of about Rp 450,000 per ton, which
represents about 68% of the f.o.b. prices. Given the competitiveness of the
low cost canneries such as P.T. Bali Raya, the ex-cannery and fishermen prices
are expected to be stable at these levels for the short to intermediate run.
At the present low prices, which are remunerative to fishermen, no
difficulties are anticipated in disposing of the project incremental output.
VIII.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
8.01      The project supports GOI's broad objectives of increasing non-oil
exports, alleviating poverty, and developing the outer islands.
Beneficiaries and Poverty Impact
8.02      The main project beneficiaries would be about 6,900 small-scale
coastal fishermen who are engaged in brackishwater aquaculture on ponds with
an average size of 2 ha. Some 400 small-scale marine fishermen will also
benefit directly from the marketing support services component, but the size
of investment for this component is small (about 3% of project cost).
8.03      Among direct project beneficiaries, over 80% have per capita incomes
less than the threshold rural poverty level of about US$130. The average



- 32 -.
tambak fisherman in the project area has a per capita income in 1986 of about
US$140. Benefits under the project are expected to increase tLe average bene-
ficiary'a income to about US$294 (para 8.06), and of the total project costs
75%, including investment support activities, woulA be directed to the poor.
Project Benefits
8.04      Quantifiable Benefits.  The project will increase high-value tiger
shrimp production and exports by some 2,200 tons (headless) by year ten of che
project, representing foreign exchange earnings of about US$26 million p.a.
The project marketing support services to artisanal fishermen would also
produce an annual incremental skipjack productiGn of about 3,600 tons valued
at about US$2.2 million (f.o.b.) for canning and exporting by the fifth year
of the project. At full development, the aquaculture and marine a:omponents
will result in the creation of about 4.3 million additional men-days of
employment annually.
8.05      Nonquantifiable Benefits.  The project support fvr fisheries techai-
que development will result in more efficient technology thereby improving the
productivity of the fisheries sector.
Incomes
8.06      With the project, a fisherman's net income from pond operetions is
to increase from a base of Rp 1.14 million p.a. (1TS$693 p.a.) to Rp 4.7 mil-
lion (US$2,831) by year five, after deducting the cost of hired labor. The
financial rate of return (FRR), estimated at more than 50% will provide suffi-
cient incentive for the fishermen to invest in intensive shrimp culture. This
return will also ensure that fishermen will be able to support a loan at an
effective interest rate of 18% p.a. (16% after rebate for prompt repayment).
The average loan amount would be about Rp 4.4 million (US$2,667) per ha and
will be spread over 10 years. The fisherman's debt service ratio will not
exceed 20%, and by year 10 the net income after financing in real terms will
be about Rp 5.5 million p.a. (US$3,320 p.a.). This is equivalent to a per
capita income of about US$474 p.a., which is significantly above the relative
poverty level of US$133 p.a. and similar to incomes expected for beneficiaries
of tree crop projects, but double the average family income in the project
area.
Cost Recovery
8.07      The onlending rate under the credit component (para. 5.03), a real
rate of about 101, is such that full cost recovery of the credit component
(381 of project cost) can still be expected. The marketing support services
(31 of project cost) would be provided by the private sector. For the coastal
zone pilot project (1% of project cost), fishermen will be contributing 50% of
their profit, and with rates of return higher than 20% p.a., full cost
recovery is likely. For DGF institutional strengthening, field activities and
technique development (141 of project cost), beneficiaries are not easily
identifiable and direct cost recovery is not feasible. Strengthening input
supply (1% of project cost) will include fisheries credit and technical
assistance. The remaining project cost is for physical infrastructure deve-



- 33 -
lopment (43X of project cost). For this component, at negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained that GOI will recover O& costs from beneficiaries. A
plan of action for the recovery of the O&M costs would be furnished by GOI to
the Bank for comment by December 31, 1990. With full recovery of O&M costs,
the cost recovery index for directly productive components of the project
would be about 531. The coastal aquaculture pilot component could also have
long-term benefits in developing replicable models for environmentally sound
aquaculture development and mechanisms for reaching the poorest fishermen.
Economic Analysis
8.08      Project components for physical infrastructure improvement, input
supply and investment support will increase shrimp production and produce an
economic rate of return (ERR) for this component of about 26% (Table 8.1).
The marketing support and the pilot components will have ERRs of 19% and more
than 30% respectively. The overall economic rate of return for the project is
estimated at about 241 based on a seven year implementation period. In the
event implementation was delayed (and benefits also delayed) by two years in
line with past Bank experience with project implementation in the fisheries
sector, the overall ERR would fall to about 20% (para. 5.11).
Table 8.1:  ECONOMTC RATi OF RETURN
Net present
value /a                           % of
(Rp billion)       ERR (%)       project cost
Shrimp Coastal Aquaculture             26.1               26             90
Marketing support (Flores)              1.0               19               3
Pilot project                           0.5              >30               1
Cther                                  -2.8                -               6
Total                             24.8               24             100
/a   At 10% cost of capital.
8.09      The benefit/cost analyses were conducted in border prices.  Inter-
national prices have been converted to Rupiah at the current official exchange
rate. Local prices have been converted to border Rupiah using appropriate
conversion factors. Specific project-calculated conversion factors of 0,86
and 0.93 for shrimp seed and feed respectively were used in converting those
input costs due to their importance in the tambak operating costs. A
conversion factor of 0.8 for the outer islands rural unskilled labor was used
to convert the market-wage rate of unskilled labor (Rp 1,500/man-day) to its
economic equivalent. Other local prices were converted to border Rupiah by
the general project conversion factor of 0.8.



- 34 -
8.10      ERRs for the shrimp components (coastal aquaculture and pilot
component) show the highest returns mainly due to the high-value nature of the
product, but also because of project design of intensifying production on
existing tambaks as opposed to further investments in extensification.
Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks
8.11      Sensitivity Analysis.  An analysis of switching values (Table 8.2)
shows that the shrimp culture components will have to sustain sizable declines
in revenues or cost increases before the ERRs for those components fall below
the Indonesian opportunity cost of capital (OCC, estimated at 10%).
Table 8.2: SWITCHING VALUES
Coastal        Pilot           Flores
aquaculture     project      marketing support
Revenue (X)                         -56              -38             -10
Investment costs (%)                255              511              59
Seed cost (X)                     1,068              207               -
Feed cost (%)                       583              917               -
Total Operating Costs (X)      617               71              14
Delays in revenue (years)             5                3                1
8.12      The shrimp culture ERRs are also robust against increases in invest-
ment costs. These costs can increase by more than 100% without reducing the
component ERRs below the OCC. Similarly, the shrimp culture components can
withstand delays of up to three years (five years for coastal aquaculture) in
realization of component benefits and the component ERRs will still be above 10%.
8.13      The Flores marketing support component's ERR is, on the other hand,
quite sensitive to both revenues and fishermen operating costs. A decline in
prices and/or catches by more than 10X or a rise in operating costs in excess
of 14% will reduce the ERR of the component to below 10%. A delay of one year
in this component's benefits will also drop the ERR below the OCC. This
underscores the weakened tuna prices and the importance of operating costs of
vessels (especially for crew and fuel) in the industry. It is in recognition
of this that project investment in this component has been kept low (3% --
Table 8.1).
8.14      The main project risk is possible delays resulting from difficulties
in coordination among the various agencies responsible for project implementa-
tion. However, this risk would be minimized since the project would be
largely implemented through well-established existing, instead of new, insti-
tutions. While the Flores marketing support and the pilot components are more
risky due to their innovative nature, the risk has been limited by keeping the



- 35 -
component sizes small (4% of project cost). In addition, there is a risk
related to the price of shrimp. Should the past trend towards gradually
incresing real prices for shrimp be reversed, which is not considered likely,
project benefits would be affected. However, sensitivity analysis shows that
even if shrimp prices should decline by 38% below projected levels, the
project ERR would remain above Indonesia's opportunity cost of capital (10%).
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Formation of a project liaison office (para. 6.02) and signing of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and BRI, acceptable to the Bank
(para. 5.03), are proposed as conditions of loan effectiveness.
9.02      Signing of an agreement between BRI and a private sector enterprise
ensuring collection of subloans for pole and line vessels and evidence satis-
factory to the Bank that adequate processing facilities are under construction
on Flores, are proposed as conditions of disbursement against credit for these
vessels (para. 4.06). Bank approval of the BRI investment loan to PTBR would
be a condition of disbursement against that loan.
9.03      At negotiations, the following assurances were obtained.
(a)  GOI will give priority to the strengthening of fisheries extension
infrastructure in the project area by constructing and equipping
nine rural extension centers in the project area by March 31, 1990,
of which five will be completed by March 31, 1988 (para. 4.04);
(b)  project accounts and SOEs will be submitted to the Bank for audit
within five months of each year-end, and the audit report will be
made available to the Bank within nine months of the year-end
(para. 5.13);
(c)  a hatchery consultant, with qualifications and TORs acceptable to
the Bank, will be employed and stationed in South Sulawesi by
September 30, 1987 (para. 6.03);
(d)  a technical committee for infrastructure improvement, consisting of
DCF and DGWRD representatives will be maintained for the project
period (para. 6.04);
(e)  adequate operation and maintenance budget will be provided to the
provincial irrigation services (para. 6.09);
(f)  a senior officer of the Ministry of Population and Environment
(MPE), acceptable to the Bank, will be designated as project manager
for the pilot component by June 30, 1987; and MPE will carry out the
pilot coastal zone component in accordance with sound environmental
procedures acceptable to the Bank including avoidance of aquaculture
development destructive to environmentally sensitive mangrove areas
(paras. 6.11 and 4.11);



- 36 -
(g) BRI will, by September 30, 1987, enter into agreements acceptable to
the Bank with shrimp processors in Aceh, South Sulawesi and South-
east Sulawesi for the collection of shrimp-fishermen subloans
through automatic deductions from sales proceeds and for the guaran-
tee of the repayment of 50% of the amount of the subloans; and by
December 31, 1987, BRI will enter into an agreement acceptable to
the Bank with a private enterprise for the collection of loans to
skipjack fishermen and the guarantee of 100% of such repayments
(para. 5.03);
(h) BRI will use the proceeds received by it from the repayment of the
principal of subloans for further relending to subborrowers for
subloans under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(para. 6.12);
(i) GOI will provide vehicles in accordance with an agreed-upon schedule
(para. 6.13); and
(j) GOI will furnish to the Bank for comments by December 31, 1990, a
plan of action for the recovery of the costs for operation and
maintenance of the rehabilitated canals under the project, and will
thereafter carry out such plan of action taking into account the
Bank's comments on such plan; and by September 30,1992, reassess, in
accordance with Law No. 12 of 1985 regarding Land and Building Tax,
the coastal ponds benefiting from the project (para. 8.07).
9.04      With the above actions and assurances, the proposed project is suit-
able for a Bank loan to GOI of US$24.5 million equivalent for 20 years with a
grace period of 5 years at the standard variable interest rate.



- 37 -
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEXES



-38                                ANE-
Page 1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Genesis and Formulation
1.        In response to a request from the Director General of Fisheries, the
Bank arranged for an identification mission from FAO/CP in May 1984. The
project was prepared over a 13-month period between December 1984 and
January 1986, with appraisal in February/March 1986. The initial project
proposals prepared jointly by FAO/CP and 001 suggested that investments be
made in marketing support services in Northeast Sulawesi and Flores through
two GOI-owned fisheries enterprises. The Bank discussed these proposals with
GOI in April/May 1985, during which it was pointed out that the two state
enterprises were a constant drain on GOI resources, and further investments
may put excessive burden on an already constrained GOI budget. It was
suggested that GOI may consider identifying private-sector enterprises which
may be able to reduce calls on GOI's budget. GOI was able te identify a
private enterprise, P.T. Bali Raya, and agreed that the project should provide
assistance for privatization of state fisheries enterprises by preferably
forming joint ventures with the private sector. GOI also agreed to orient the
project in favor of shrimp culture, for which market demand was excellent.
Main Considerations and Objectives in Project Formulation
2.        The main considerations and objectives which guided the selection of
project components and the project area are as discussed below.
3.        Macroeconomic Objectives.  Indonesia's economy and balance of pay-
ments are excessively dependent on one commodity, oil, which accounts for two
thirds of Indonesian exports. The danger of this excessive dependence has
been underscored by the weakness in oil demand, which has seen gross oil
export revenues decline from nearly US$19 billion in 1981 to about US$12 bil-
lion in 1985, and this has emphasized the need for increasing non-oil exports.
In line with this objective, during component selection, a much higher weight
was given to strengthening fisheries support services for fisheries enter-
prises that are export-oriented, such as shrimp and skipjack production.
4.        Market Demand.  In selecting between different export-oriented proj-
ect components, the nature and strength of export demand for alternative proj-
ect output was a central consideration. Among Indonesia's fishery products,
the demand for tiger shrimp (Penaeus monodon) is the strongest and, indeed,
its price has been increasin- in real terms. On the other hand, export demand
for skipjack and tuna is relatively weak and export prices have fallen in real
terms since their peak value in 1981. Tuna and skipjack prices have been hurt
because of competition with chicken, and therefore skipjack price has been
held down to a level between US$700-1,100 per ton. In contrast, black tiger
shrimp goes to affluent, calorie-conscious export markets, which have been
expanding in size, and therefore it fetches US$13,000 per ton. Furthermore,
Indonesia's year-round warm climate and appropriate environmental conditions



39 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 2
in some of its coastal areas give it a competitive advantage in shrimp
culture. This was an important consideration in reformulating initial project
proposals which were entirely tuna/skipjack-based, and for targeting project
components much more towards helping increase shrimp production.
5.       G0I Budget.  Owing to declines in oil revenue, the GOI budget has
come under severe strain. This was a consideration in reformulating initial
project proposals which were oriented towards increased GOI investments in
state fisheries enterprises. In discussions during preparation/appraisal, the
Bank and GOI agreed that alternatives which encouraged greater investments
from the private sector should be favored, and investments in state enter-
prises postponed until they are privatized, and that the project should
include technical assistance to help bring this about.
6.        Replicability.  Traditionally, agricultural credit in Indonesia has
been highly subsidized. This has limited GOI and the banking system's ability
to expand credit in rural areas, and access to credit has become a limiting
factor in agricultural development. This was an important consideration in
the formulation of fisheries support services components, where several inno-
vative features were introduced to eliminate direct subsidies, to improve cre-
dit rec;very, and thereby strengthen GOI and the banking system's ability to
reach larger numbers of fishermen and farmers.
7.        Environmental Considerations.  For expanding shrimp production,
there are two basic alternatives -- area expansion (or extensification) and
more intensive cultivation in existing areas (or intensification). The
altcernative of extensification was rejected partly because of environmental
considerations. Unless properly done, area expansion can result in
destruction of mangrove swamps since these are often the areas best for shrimp
culture. Destruction of coastal mangrove can have serious environmental
consequences because these swamps are often the rearing places for a large
number of species of marine fish, and their population can be seriously
affected by destruction of coastal swamps. In addition, removal of mangroves
can increase erosion of coastal areas by sea waves. Partly because of this,
the intensification alternative was chosen since it does not involve cutting
down of any mangrove trees.
8.        Income Distribution Objectives.  Fishermen in Indonesia are among
the poorest segments of the population, and one of the considerations in lend-
ing for a fisheries project was to try and increase the income of this
economically disadvantaged segment of the population. This objective played
an important role in locating project investments in economically less-
developed areas of Indonesia. It also played a role in targeting most of
project investments on small-scale fisheries and fishponds, and in not trying
to follow a very high-intensity shrimp culture technology which would be
suitable only for better-off fishermen/fish farmers.



- 40 -
AMNEX 2
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Sumary Tables A
Table 1   Summary Accounts by Year - Base Costs
2   Sumary Accounts by Year - Total Costs
3   Project Components by Year - Base Costs
4   Project Components by Year - Total Costs
5   Summary Account by Project Component
I/  Projects costs do not include financing charges.



INDtlHESIA
FISNERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PRWECT
Suwcry Accounts by Year
(RUPIANiMlli font
Bese Costs                                 Foreign Exchenge
86/87   87/88   8a/89   g9/90    90/9t    91/92    92/93   Total           V      Aunt
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LAND ACQUISITION                          81. t   324.4   446.0    405.5    202.7          -        -  1459.6      0.0       0.0
8. CIVIL HORNS
CONSTRUCTION                             208.?   876.9 2.737.6  5365.9  S. 308.2  2.935.5          - 17. 432.7    31.4  5419.2
DESIGN AND SUPERVISION                    61. 0   263.0   494.8    628.0    530.8    293.6          -  2.271. 1    62. 1   1, 411 2
Stsb-total CIVIL WORKS                      269.6 I, 139.9 3.232.4  5,993.9  5. 839.0  3.229. 1        - 19. 703.9    35.0   6. 890. 4
C. EQUIPMENT AND MACHINERY                1. 057.2   680.0   663.3    260. 3    t50. t    130.6    65. 6  3 227. 1    79. 8   2. 575. 4
D. VEHICLES                                     -   210.8   112. 6    111. 9     67. 1     67. 1       -    569.5    70.3      400. 4
E. ON - FARM IPROVEIENtS
t. CREDIT SUPPORTED                          -    37. I  587.3  2.046.7  3 Ot8.0  4. 136. 5 4,449.9 14,277. 4    50.2   7,16B.0
2. FARMER CONTRIBUTIOpS                      -        -   127. 2    729.   1. 292.2  1. 644.6 1, 08. 3  5.801. 6    54. 1   3. t41. 3
3. GOVERNMENT DEMOSTRATION                   -        -    53. 6        -        -         -        -     53. 6    26.9      14. 4
Sub-lootaI ON - FARM IMPROVEMENTS               -    37.1   768.0  2.775.8  4,310.2  5.983.3 6. 28.2 20.132.6    51.3  10.323.7
F. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS               35. t   472. 7   610. B    746.8    829. 0    723. 0   723.0  4. 140. 5    26. 7   I, 104.9
G. TRAINING EXPENSES                         74.6   239.4   129. 8      53.6         -        -        -    497.4    46. 6     232.0
H. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - FOREIGN               -   033.1 1. 239.9    176. 9    125.5      92.8    65.4  2, 633.6    76. 6   2070.4
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTACE - LOCAL                  -    32.8        -         -         -        -        -     32.8    26. ?       8 7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                       1 517. 7 4,270.2 7,202.8 10.524 6    5t. 523.7 10.226.0 7. 132. 2 52,397.0    45.1 73 606. 0
Total BASELINE COSTS                          1 517.7 4.270.2 7,202.8 10t524.6 t1.523.7 10.226.0 7 132.2 52.397.0    45. 1  23 606.0
Physical Contingencies                        90.4   280. t   562.4    958.2  1,071.9    961.9   669.S  4,594.3    43.0   1.976.7
Prico Contingenies                            48.2   396.0 1.o058t  2.033.6  2,545.5  2.570.0 2.059.4 10,7tO.7    28.8   3.088.2
Totat  PROJECT COSTS                          1 656.3 4,946.2 8.623.3 13.516.4 15. 141.0 13,757.8 9,861. 1 67, 702. 1    42.3  28,670.9
=:SSSSS  s=::::  *Sn:::: Sn:s:::: S:.::s:5:t::=:==: 5:::a: ::n::::  ::::  St:: S
Ta.os                          - -           144. 6    422.0   662.1    954.5  1.098.8    935.5   573.1  4,790.6        O. O      0.0
focetio  Exchne                            t 07. 0 2. 588  3,22.5  4, 62. 3  5 766. 2  5 68.4 44 755. 6 28,670.9        0.0       0.0
--_   ----------------------------------------- . .__ .....-------...----------------.......-----  -------------------------------__.--___-----------------...._ __



IllOOtlEStd
FtSHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROWECT
Sumery Accouts by Year
Totals Including Continog iens                                 Totals tneluding Contingencies
(RUPIAH Ntllioni                                                IUSS  iI Ittionl
88t/  87/88   U/89   89/90    90/91    9t/92   90/93   total    86/87 87/88 88/89 89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 Totel
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LAD ACQUISITION                          9St.    394.7   5T. 3    546.9    283.0           -        -  1,894.8    0. 1  0.2   0.4   0.3   0.2        -     -   t. I
6. CIVIL ROS
CONSTRUCTION                             236. 4 1, 058. 0 3. 459. 2  6,986.3  7. 105.3  4,055. 7    - 22.898.9    0.1   0. 6   2. 1   4.2   4.3   2.5      -   3. 9
DESION AND SUPERVISION                     5. 9   29. 5   583.S    758.8    656.8    314.1          - 27385    0.0   0.2   0.4   0.5   0.4   0.7           -   t ?
Sub-Total CILt  ORS                         302. 4 1, 355. 4 4. 042. t  7. 745. I t 762.0  4,429.8     - 25, 637.5    0. 2   0. 8   2. 5   4. 7   4.7   2.7   -  I5.5
C  EQUIPUENT MD N4CRINERT                 t. 143 4   99  I   769.6    305.4    I7S 2    159.2   tO1    0  3,659.9    0. 7   0.6   0. 5   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   2.2
0. VEIICLES                                     -   238.8  t30.9    132.1        80. 6     82.9        -     65. 2      -   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.1       -   0.4
E. 0S - fA1N 1PIIOVENENTS
______ ___ ____________
1. CREDIT SUPPORTED                          -    44.8   746.0  2.638.6  3,933.3  5,S3t.1 6.177.9 19.07?.?          -   0.0   0.S   1.8   2.4   3.4   3.7  tt.6
2. f4RIIER COITRY8UTIONS                     -        -   161.5    933.4  1. 673.9  2,459.1 2,499. 9  t, 727.8       -     -   0. t  0.86  1.0   1.5   1. 5   4.1
3. GOVElUNET E  ONSMTIRTION                  -        -    6. 2         -        -         -        -      8.2       -     -   0.0      -     -      -     -   0.0
Stb-Totat ON - FAIN INPROVENENTS                -    44.8   97k.,7  3. 572. 0  5.607.2  7,996.2 8. 677. 7 26.873.7      -   0.0   0.6   2.2   3.4   4.8   S. 3  t. 3
F. IlClR T6L OPERATING COSTS                 38.0   544.2   739.8    933.2  1,066.1    960.2   993.8  5.27S.0    0.0   0.3   0.4   0.6   0.6   0.8   0.5   3.2
6. 1513136tt E23SES                          80.7   274.8   152.7       62.5         -        -        -    570.6    0.0   0.2   0.1   0.0       -      -     -   0.3
IN. TEMNICAL ASSISTANCE - FOREG1N               - 1.059. t 1, 43. 9    2t9.2    163.8    129.4    81. 0  3. 08?.7       -   0. 6   0.9   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   1.8
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - LOCAL                 -    37.7        -                            -        -     37.7       -   0.0     -      -     -      -     -   0.0
lotel INVESTHERT COSTS                       1.658.3 4.94S.2 8.823.3 13,516.4 15. 141.0 13,757.8 9,881. 1 67.702.1    1.0   3.0   5.3   8.2   9.2   8.3   S 0  41.0
t:::.::  .: ::as:: a.."tai  ,.:t::a taa a:c staons ::    =        :  . . at:== :s:::  t:.:::::… … …    tat atata ant:    x: ta. a..:
Total PIIOECT COSTS                           1. 656.3 4,94iS  t8,23.3 13.516.4 15, 141.0 13.757.8 9,861. 1 67,702. I    1.0   3.0   5.3   8.2   9.2   8.3   8.0  41.0
itttisi  iitiiii   tgt* tu            t s::a:za Xtannattat*.* iis::..  Cstatsta  Xmas. 2tat.  Same= mass= t saut t ana.  *isi.  ***mu
I!E0
--- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- --   -
ti ,S



ANEX 2
Table 3
- 43 -
INOONlSIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICtS PROJECT
Projoct Coponents by Y"r
(RUPIAN NMIlonl
Base Costs                                 total
86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90    90/91    91J92    92/93    RUPIAH  1US$ '00)
2.:ZZ.: tn:.::: t:S :2:::: 222:: :1::::::: ::2:::S: ::5:::: 1:::.::S :.::s:::,:
A. PiiYSICAL INFRAStRUCIURE IlPROVEtlENT           142. 11,464.3 3,678.3  6.399.4  6.041. 7 3.229. I        -  20. 954.8   12. 599.9
8. COASTAL ARUACULTURE INVESTNENT SUPPORT          128. 9   775.0 1, 341.5  3.382.8  5.019. 5  S. 810.5 6.973.2  24. 431. 5   14, 807.0
C. STRENGTHENING INPUT SUPPLY                          -   176.3  329.1    246.7       37.         -              789.3      478. 4
0. NAIRETING SUPPORT SERVICES STRENGTNENING    1,24U.7   537.6   289.9        89.6        -        -            2. 163.8    1,311.4
E. TECHNIqUE tEVELOPIENT                               -  809.2   659.6    231.7    216.7       10.5    10.5   1.938.2    1. 174.7
F. PLANNING SUPPOR1                                    -   415.0   811.5     81.6    115.7      83.0   14S.4   1,655.3    1.003.2
G. COASTAL lONE PILOT PlOWECT                          -   92.8    92.8      92.8      92.8     92.8        -    464.1       281.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                               1. 5;; 7 4.270.2 7,202.8 10.524. 6 11.523. 7 10,226.0 7. 132. 2 52. 397.0   31. 755.8
Piut l Costitnl  ies                              90.4   280.1  562.4    958.2  1,071. 9    961.9   669.5   4.594.3    2.784.4
Price Coenting ioes                                48.2   396.0 1.058.1  2.033.6  2,545.5  2,S70.0 2.059.4  10.710.?    6.491.4
Total PROUECT COSTS                                1,656.3 4.946.2 8,823.3 13,516.4 15,141.0 13 757.8 9.861;1  67.702,1   41.,031.8
lmes                                              144.8  422.0  182.1   954.5  1,098.8    935.5   573. 1  4,190.6    2,903.4
Foreign ExohelW                                 1, 08. 0 2,5U.8  3,822.5  4,682.3 5, 766. 2  5,868.4 4,755.6  28 670.9   17. 376. 3
----   _   .   -__    -.    .   _-.    .---..----.--..-------------    ---___---------_---------.    -__  _-----------------..    --------..--.--.-    ...........



INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Caronents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                        Totals Including Contingwncies
(RUPIAH lli I I ionl                                                     (USS '0001
86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93   Total       88/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   SO0tS   91/92   92/93   Total
A. PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE IllPROVEENT             157.8 1. 750. 1 4, 621.0  8.292. 1 8.045. 1 4.429.8      - 27.295.8     95.6 1.060.7 2,800.6 5.025.5 4.875.8 2.684.t         - t6.542. 9
8. COASTAL AQUACUItURE INVESltEINT SUPPORT         139. 5   886.0 t. 651. 6  4. 308. 1 6, 506.8  9.083.6 9, 660.6 32.234. 1    84.5   537.0 1. 000. 9 2 S09.8 3943.5 5.505.2 . 854.9 1I.535.8 S
C. STRENGTIENING IPIIUT SUPPLY                         -   202.2   392.5    309. 1    50.2         -        -    954. 0       -   122. 6   237.9   111.3    30.4        -       -    S78.2
0. NMETINS SUPPORT EERtICES STRENtGTHENING    1 359. 0   609.8   338.3    105.5           -         -       - 2.412.7    823.7   369.6   205.0    63.8         -        -       -  1,412.2
E. TECNIttOUE DEVELOPIIET                              -   917.8   770.2    285. 9    275. 7     12.8    13.3  2.275. 7       -  SS6. 3   466.8   113.3   167. t      . a     S O  t. 379. 2
F. PLtAlING SUPPORT                                    -   468.2   931.8      95.9    137.8    102.1   187.2  1.923.0         -   283.8  584.7    58. I   83 5    61.9   113.5  1, 165.4
h  COASTAL ZONE PILOT PROtECT                          -   112.0  1t8.0    121.8    125.4    129.6          -    606.8        -    67.9    I1.5    73.8    76.0    t8.5         -    38?.8
Total PUOdECT COSTS                                1. 656.3 4,948.2 J 823.3 13.516.4 15. 141.0 13,757.8 9. 861.  67. 702. t  1,003.8 2. 997. 7 5.347.5 8 191. 7S 17B. 4 8,3331 I5,96. 4 441031. 6
sic..:: 2222232 2222222 t2 a23 222222  2:2222:2 22222fl 23222222  2222222 *2222222 222*2222 2223223 222222 2223222 2222222 222e2222
--- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- ---  :---5---  -- --- -- --- -- --- -- -*--- --- -- --- -- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --



INDONESIA
FtSHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Sumary Account by Project Component
(RUPIAH8 Nillionl
COASTAL                                                                                    Phys,cal
PHYSICAI    AQUACUItURE                     MAIRKETING                             COASTAL              Contigngncios
INFRASTRUCTURE  INVESTMENT   STRENGTHENING  SUPPORT SERVICES  TECHNIQUE   PLANNING  ZONE PILOT             -------------
IrPROVEEINT     SUPPORT    INPUT SUPPLY    STRENGTHENING    OEVELOPMENT  SUPPORT    PROJECT      Total     ?    _mu"t
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LAND ACQUISITION                           1.459.6            -               -                 -           ^         -           -   t.459.6   10.0  14L.0
8L CIVIL vOnS
CONSI11CtION l. t224. 1                                      -              -             208.A            -         -           -  17. 432.7   10.0 1. 743.3                        1
DESIIN AND SUPERVISION                     2.27).t            -              -                 -            -         -           -  2.271. t   5.0   113.6                          -PI
Suib-Total CIVIL MOS                         19,495.2            -              -             208.             -         -           -  19.703.9   9.4 1, 56. 8
C. EQUINT AD MM tACINERT                            -        50t.2              -             63.389       606.6     4s0.s           -  3.227.t   S.0  tS6.4                             1
0. VEHICtES                                         -        460.0              -                 -         89.5         -           -    s69. 5    S. 0    28. 5
E. Ol - FAIN IHPROYNENHTS
1. CREDIT SUPPORTEO   ,                          -     13.943. 0         334.3                 -            -         -           -  14.277. 4   10.0 1.42r.?
2. FA3ER CONTRIBUTIONS                           -      5.801.               -                 -            -         -           -  S.801.6   10.0  580.2
3. GOVERIENT DEMNOSTRANT-O                       -         53.8                                                                   -      53.6  10.0    5.4
Sub-TotIl ONl - FARM INPROVEMENTS                   -      19.7928.3        334.3                 -            -                     - 20.132.6  10.0 2,013.3
F. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                      -      3, 353. t            -                 -        746. 7     40.7           -  4, 140.5   5.0  207. 0
G. TRAINING EXPENSES                                -        299.0           I 8. 7            79.7            -         -           -    497.4   S.0    24.9
H. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - FOREIGN                   -            -          336.2             203. 7       495.4  1, t34. t      464. 1  2. 633.6    5.9  S4.9
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTACE - LOCAL                      -            -              -              32.8            -         -           -      32.8   5.0    1. 6
Total INSTMENT COSTS                            20.954. 8    24,431.5          789. 3          2. 163.8     1,938. 2   1. 655. 3    464. 1 52.397.0    8.8 4.594.3
Total BASEtINE COSTS                             20.954.8    24,431.5           789.3           2,1 63.8      1,938.2  1,655.3       464. 1  52.39.0    8. . 4.594.3
Physical Contingsrcies                         1t,981.9     2,211.5           56.2             118.6         96.9      82.8        46.4  4.594.3   0.0    0.0
Ptic. Contlnonctes                             43   1       5. 591. t         108.5            130. 2       240.6    184. 9        9.3  10.70.I   8 .s  892.8
Total PROECT COSTS                               27, 295.8    32. 234. 1        954.0           2, 412.7     2.275.t   1,923.0       606.8  6?7 702. t   8 1 5,48 89
Taxes                                          2.22.3       1,903.3           48.1             219. 3       212.9     174.8           -  4,730.8    8 .0   383.9
forecin Echange                                 . 255. 3    14,928.4         547.4           1, 745.4     1. 385.3   1, 65?. 1    152.1 28,60.9    7. 8 2,225.6
i t



.4UNNX 3
- 46 -
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Financin  Plan and Disbursement
Table 1.   Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
2.   Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
3.   Financing Plan by Project Components
4.  Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange/Local/Taxes
5.   Disbursement Projection
6.   Disbursement Category Limits



INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
FinanrinJ Plan BY Disbursesent Catesors
(USS mIllion)
PRIVATE
IBRD       PISHtRfEN        BRI      ENTERPRISE    overnment        Total              Local
For.  (Excl.  Duties I
APount  X    Amount  Z    Amount  Z    Amount 2    Amot  2    Amnt   Z    Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes
A. LOAD                                              -                               1.1 100.0      1.1   2.8      -      1.0       0.1
B. CIVIL WMRS
ENTERPRISE                  0.1 52.0       -    -      0.0 13.0     0.1 35.0      0.0   0.0      0.1   0.3    0.0     0.1        0.0
OTHER                      14.1 91.9       -    -        -    -        -    -     1,2   8.1    15.4  37.5    5.0      9.1        1.2j
Sub-total CIVIL WORKS         14.2 91.5       -    -      0.0  0.1      0.1  0.6     1.2   9.0    15.5  37.9    5.0       ?.2       1.3
C. EQUIPHEWT
ENTERPRISES                 0.3 52.0       -    -      01 13.0     0.2 35.0      0.0   0.0      0.7   1.6    0.5     0.1        0.1
OTHER                       0.7 64.4       -    -        -    -        -    -     0.4  35.6      1,1   2.7    0.9     0.1        0.1
Sub-Total EQUIPIENT            1.1 59.8          -        0t1  4.9      0.2 13.1     0,4  22.2      1.8   4.4    1.5     0.2        0.2
I. IE1.0CLES                            -    -              -    -        -    -     0.4 100.0      0.4   1.0    0.3     0.1        0.1
E. ON-FARN IPROVENWS           7.8 46.8     4,7 28.0      4.2 25.1        -    -     0.0   0.1    l6.7  40.8    8.2       7.7       0.9
F. INCR. OP. COSTS                    -        -    -       -    -        -    -     3.2 100.0      3.2   7.8    0.8      2.i       0.3
6, TRAINING t T.A.             1.3 60.2        -    -       -    -        -    -     0.9  39.8      2.2   5.4    1.6      0.5       0.2
Total Disbursenent              24.5 59.$     4,7 11.4      4.3 10.5      0.3  0.7     7,3  17.8    41.0 100.0   1/.4    20.8         2.9



IOESIA
FISMIRIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJCT
Financing Plan bw Sumary Accounts
(US Killion)
PRIVATE
IBDD       FIS4ERNEN        BRI      ENTERPRISE    Government       Total             Local
- -  -h ________For.  (Exil. Duties I
Amunt         Amount        AmOt 2    AmOunt Z    Amount             Aount  2    Exch, Taxes)   Taxes
I. IIWESTHENT COSTS
A. LAND ACUISION                             -     -       -     -       -    -        -    -     1.1 100.0     1.1   2.8       -     1.0       0.1
B. CIVIL  OKS          .
CONSTRUCTION                           12.6  90.5       -     -     0.0  0.1      0.1  0.4     1.2   9.0   14.9  33.8   4.1        8.6       1.3
DESIN AND SUPEVISION                    1.7 100.0       -     -       -    -        -    -     0.0   0.0     1.7   4.0    1.0      0.7         -
Sub-Total CIVIL WORSt                     14.2  91.5       -     -     0.0  0.1      0.1  0.3     1.2   8.0    15.5  37.9    5.0    9.2         1.3
C. E0UIPT AND NAcHIERT                     1.4  60.9       -     -      0.2 10.9     0.2 10.2     0.4  17.9     2.2   b.4    1.8      0.3       0.2
3. VEIUCLES                                  -     -       -     -        -    -       -    -     0.4 100.0     0.4   1.0    0.3      0.1       0.1
E. ON - FARR INPROVEfENTS
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~co
1. CREDIT SUPPORTED                     7.5  65.0       -     -     4.0 35.0        -    -     0.0   0.0    11.6  28.2    5.5      5.5       0.6
2. FANNER CONTRIDUTIONS                   -     -     4.7 100.0       -    -        -    -     0.0   0.0     4.7  11.4   2.4       2.0       0.3
3. GOWRIEIIT IENONSTRATION              0.0  65.0       -     -       -    -        -    -     0.0  35.0     0.0   0.1    0.0      0.0       0.0
Sub-Total ON - FAR  IIVRCOEIENTS           7.5  46.3     4.7  28.8     4.0 24.8        -    -    0.0   0.1    16.3  39.7   719        7.6       0.8
F.  NI2rEIEWTAL OPERATING COSTS              -     -       -     -        -    -       -    -     3.2 100.0     3.2   7.8    0.8      2.1       0.3
6. TRAINING EXPENSES                       0.3  91.2       -     -       -    -        -    -     0.0   8.8     0,3   0.8    0.2      0.2       0.0
H. TEO6WICAL ASSISTANCE - FOREIGN          1.0  54.5       -     -        -    -       -    -     0.9  45.5     1.9   4.6    1.4      0.3       0.1
I. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - LOCAL            0.0  52.0       -     -     0.0 13.0      0.0 35.0     0.0   0.0     0.0   0.1    0.0      0.0       0.0
Total INVESTNT COSTS                         24.5  59.6     4.7  11.4      4.3 10.5     0.3  0.7     7.3  11.8    41.0 100.0   17.4    20.8        2.9
Total Disbursmnmt                             24.5  59.6     4.7  11.4      4.3 10.5     0.3  0.7     7.3  1?.8    41.0 100.0   17.4    20.8        2.9
_=    --  --X           =     = __=           Z 2: =       t= =              =5      =    Y ==



INDOOESIA
FISHEklIES SUPURT SNICES PROJCT
Fmancins Plan bs Proect Comwoents
(Ml '000)
PRIVArE
IBRD       fISHERIC         BRI       LNTERrRISE   Goverruent      Total
Local (Excl  Duties I
Aount         Amunt  t   Aount  2   Amont I   AMOurt  1    A t                    Fhr. Exch.    Taxes)       Taxes
A. PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE lFPROVEfEHT        14,146.1  85*5       -   -                     -   - 2,396.8 14.5  16t542.9 40*3    5,006*2         10,186,8  1,352.9
B. CASTAL AUACULTURE INVESTMNT SUPPORT        79788.2  39*9 4,683.5 24.0  3M9b5&Z 20.2 2- 3,108,9 15.9  lY,S35,8  47.6    9,047,5                 9,634.8  p1l53.5
C. STREN16THNIN6 INUT SUPY                      458.8  79.4        -   -    91.6 15.8        -   -    27.8  4.8    578.2  1.4          331.7        211.3      29.1
D, tNAETINS SUPPORT SERVICES STRENOTHENINO      895,2 61.2         -   -   264.5 18*1  284.8 19.5    17.7  1.2  1,462.2  3*6    1,0b/08             271.5    132.9
E. TECHNIOUE DEVELOPIIENT                       481,4  34.9        -    -        -   -       -   -   897.8 65*1  1t379.2  3.4          839.6        410.6    129.0
F. PL.MININ SUPPORT                             324*0 27.8         -   -        -   -        -   -   841.5 72.2  1,165.4  2.8    14004.3             55.2    105.9
6, CMASTAL ZONE PILOT PROJECT                   367.8 100.0        -   -        -   -        -   -       0.0  0.0    367.8  0.9         92.2        275.6         -
Total Disburseent                              24,461*4  59.6  4p683.5 11.4  4,311.3 10.5  284*8 0.7 7v20,6 11,8  414031,6 100,0   17,376.3        20thl*9  2M903.4
_==- ===== -- -==_5=  =55-===-- ======3-- ---5_-=



ANNEX 3
Table 4
- 50 -
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Financi.- Plan by Foreign Exchange/Local
(IS$ Million)
PRIVATE/
IBRD     FISHERMEN      BRI      Got't      Total
Amount    Amount       Amount Amount    Amount
I.  Foreign                        17.4        0.0          0.0     0.0       17.4
II.  Local (Excl. Taxes)             7.1        5.0          4.3      7.2      23.6
Total Project                  24.5        5.0          4.3     7.2 /1   41.0
/1 Includes $2.9 million in local duties and taxes.



A$4NEX 3
Table 5
_ S1. -
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Disbursement ProLection
Typical
Project /1                     Bank-wide
Semester-                                                         fisheries sector
Semester                                           J~~~~~~~~~~~~profile
Semester    Cumulative    Cumulative    (Cumulative %)
(US$ M )     (US$ M)           )
1                       0.0           0.0            0               0
2                       0.2           0.2            1               1
3                       0.8           1.0           4                4
4                       1.2           2.2            9                9
5                       1.2           3.4           14              14
6                       1.7.          5.1          21               21
7                       2.0           7.1          29               29
8                       2.0           9.1          37               37
9                       1.9          11.0          45               45
10                       2.2          13.2          54               53
11                       2.2          15.4          63               61
12                       2.2          17.6           72              68
13                       2.0          19.6          80               74
14                       1.9          21.5           88              80
15                       1.5          23.0          94               85
16                       1.5          24.5         100               89
71  GOI wishes to implement project within seven years, which, with disbursement lag
of about one year, would result in an eight-year disbursement. At appraisal,
some of the later investments were dropped from the project to ensure that the
disbursements would be completed in eight years rather than the more normal ten-
year disbursement period for the typical fisheries sector project financed by
the Bank.



ANNEX 3
Table 6
- 52 -
INDONESrA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Disbursement Category Limits
Categories                         Basis                 Amount (US$M)
I  Civil Works                  65% of total expenditures            11.7
II  Equipment                    65% of total expenditures             0.6
III  Fishermen's Credit           65% of BRI disbursement               7.6
IV  Technical Assistance        100% of total expenditures net
and Training               of duties and taxes                   2.3
V Enterprise Credit            80% of BRI disbursements               0.5
VI  Unallocated                                                        1.8
TOTAL                               24.5



- 53-~                          ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Organization and Implementation Charts
Table 1.   Project Implementation Schedule.
Chart 1.   Directorate General of Fisheries - Organization Chart.
Chart 2.   Indicative Implementation Schedule - South Sulawesi 3000 ha
Command Area.
Chart 3. Primary and Secondary Canal Rehabilitation - South Sulawesi -
Implementation Schedule.
Chart 4.   Primary and Secondary Canal Rehabilitation - Aceh - Implementation
Schedule.
Chart 5. Primary and Secondary Canal Rehabilitation - Southeast Sulawesi -
maplementation Schedule.
Schedule of Procurement
Table 2.   Schedule of Vehicle Provision.
Table 3.   Schedule of Staff Recruitment.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Table I
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Component                                                    Implementation
Start                  Complete
Marketing Support Services
Engage consultants                              April 30, 1987            September 30, 1987
Adopt action plan                               October 1, 1987           December 31, 1987
Physical Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Site selection for 1st 3000 ha
Form selection team                            March 1, 1986            March 15, 1986
Carry out site selection                       March 20, 1986            April 30, 1986
Consultant Procurement (Local)
Short list                                    June 1, i986              June 30, 1986
Invitation                                    July 1, 1986             August 15, 1986
Technical evaluation                          August 30, 1986           September 15, 1986
Negotiation                                   September 16, 1986       September 30, 1986
Issue letter of intent                        October 1, 1986          October 15, 1986
Survey, Mapping and Design                       October 15, 1986          November 15, 1986
Technical Committee for Infrastructure
Improvement (TCII) Formed                        March 31, 1987           Until Completion
South Sulawesi
1st Unit (1000 ha)
Surveys and technical studies              January 1, 1987           May 15, 1987
Engineering design                          June 1, 1987             November 30, 1987
Prequalify tenderers                       October 1, 1987           December 31, 1987
Tender                                      January 1, 1988          February 15, 1988
Contract award                              February 16, 1988        March 31, 1988
Construction                                April 1, 1988            September 30, 1988
2nd Unit (2000 ha)
Engineering                                October 1, 1987           August 31, 1988
Tendering                                  .August 1, 1988           December 31, 1988
Construction                               January 1, 1989           June 30, 1990



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
3rd Unit (2000 ha)
Engineering, Tendering, Construction       June 1, 1988              March 30, 1991
4th Unit (3000 ha)
Engineering, Tendering, Construction       March 1, 1989             December 31, 1991
5th Unit (3000 ha)
Engineering, Tendering, Construction       January 1, 1990           August 31, 1992
Aceh
1st Unit (1000 ha)
Engineering, Tendering, Construction    January 1, 1986             September 30, 1989
2nd Unit (1000 ha)
Engineering, Tendering, Construction    October 1, 1987             May 31, 1990
3rd Unit (1500 ha)
Engineering, Tendering, Construction    July 1, 1988                March 31, 1991
4th Unit (1500)
Engineering, Tendering Construction       April 1, 1989             December 31, 1991
Southeast Sulawesi
1st Unit (1000 ha)
Engineering, Tendering, Construction    October 1, 1987             September 30, 1990
2nd Unit (1000 ha)
Engineering, Tendering, Construction    October 1, 1988             June 30, 1991
Coastal Aquaculture Investment Support
Establish investment support spearhead teams
Headquarter unit                              October 1, 1986           November 30, 1986
Provincial project offices                    November 1, 1986          October 1, 1987
Zone offices                                  December 31, 1986         June 30,  1990
Block staff                                   January 1, 1987           December 31, 1990
Strengthening Input SupPlY
Engage technical assistance for hatchery               -
Improvement                                   July 1, 1987              June 30, 1989
Establish fingerling farms                    July 1, 1987              June 30, 1990
Technique Development
Advisory group formation                      September 30, 1987         Until Completion



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
Marine DevelopMent
Procurement of equipment                      July 1, 1987              June 30, 1990
Engage technical assistance for
Planning exploratory fishing survey       July 1, 1987              June 30, 1988
Fish attraction devices study             July 1, 1987              June 30, 1988
Brackishwater Development
Procurement of equipment                      July 1, 1987              December 31, 1988
Engage technical assistance for fish
disease study                                 July 1, 1987              June 30, 1988
Manpower Development and Planning
Monitoring Evaluation and Studies
Equipment procurement                         July 1, 1987              December 31, 1988
Contract for manpower study                   July 1, 1987              June 30, 1988
Project preparation studies                   July 1, 1987              December 31, 1988
Project evaluation contract
Baseline study                            July 1, 1987              October 31, 1987
Hid-term review                           July 1, 1990              October 31, 1990
Overall review                            July 1, 1992              October  31, 1992
Coastal Zone Pilot Project
Designation of component manager              March 31, 1987            Until completion
Contract for pilot project                    July 1, 1987              December 31, 1991
Cost Recovery
Prepare action plan                      July 1, 1990                December 31, 1990
Land Tax Authority
Revalue tambaks in canal renovated
area                                     October 1, 1991            September 30, 1992



INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES-PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART FOR DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF FlSIIERIES
DIRECTOR GENERAL
StCRETA%RY                 _.
..   .   |      .                                                    |_____ ___ 
DIRECTDRk OF 
PER30U"EL            DIREC OR OF           DIRECTOR OF        FISUERIES             DIRECTROR OF         DIRECTOR Of          DIRECTOR OF
OIVI8B0"             PR£SRASUI"G           PRODUCTION         EN ERLPRS           RCSOSRCE TNFIOSTN                                          5
I                 ~~~~~~~DEVELOPMNKNTaitkTo
STATISTCS           PRODUCTION          ENTERPRISE   * |    m      I                        >R                           _4
DliVIUDIIm                                                     DIVISION            DIVISION              Division            DIVISION
PROGIDENTICMON ANI    FISH SEED              FISHtERIES          CONSERVATION        FISHING PORT         INSTIIMONAL
IANhGUEN=       I                  n I WIPRODUCTION           COOPERAITIVES        FACILITIES           MANWACENKUTNTI
DIVISIO               DIVISION            DIVISION              DIVISION           NADGEIV D                   O 
LELAL AMD      I  BUDGET PLANNING  1    AQUACULTURE       I                     f FISHING RESOURCE  I  FISHIN  PORTFOATION
ORGANIZATION                         I    PRSIMODUCTION     1CREDIT SCHUEME           TCNALFCIHINGPTISDVIO
DIVISION              DIVISIN        j   DIVISION            DIVISION              ANAGEC ENT         FACILITIES NUIDANCE
AT     tONITORING AND  1       IShI CATCH        ENAERPRISEAN       nFSHIN  LOic            QAUTR                11FACILTI
SSREAIATO       1   VALUATON            PRODUCTIONI       A NTEYSISEA                 OTO                                   GUCILT
DIVISION    j I Division       I   DIVISION      *ILECISLATION                                    DIVISROL            DIVISM
| s'''oMI t     t   I  ' '     -i       L                 IR@ UCTIN i  1 X i U     t     NT l lDIVISION  AAGE|ENT  DIVISION
LROJE1 ANDPRODUCTION    1                  PRtOCESSING AND 1 WATER POLLUTION        LADN       C         To     OG
S65 = GI     |          |FACILITIES        POLLUTION             PDEEVEOPMENT N|D15ION 
SUPPSORTNG           DIVISION    ]DIVISION    j                 DIVISION             DI'VISION          GUIDANCE
SERETARIAT     j f   SECRETARIAT          SECRETARIAT   J L  SECRETARIAT            SECRETARIAT   |  |    CTIAT



INDONESIA
FSHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
,INDICATIVE IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
FOR SOUTH SULAWESI 3000 HA COMMAND AREA
ACTIVITY                           1986   1987   1988   1989   1990    1991   1992   1993
CANAL REHABIUTATION PLANNING
SITE SELECTION                                          E3
CONSULTANT SELECTION                                    ___                _
SURVEY MAPPING & DESIGN                                           C __ _
CONSTRUCTION                                .                                       _
ESTABUSH INVESTMENT SUPPORT SPEARHEAD TEAMS                                     .
PLANNING HEADQUARTERS UNIT                                 m23
ESTABLISH HEADOUARTERS UNIT                                     _ _ f_     _ _z_z  __
PLAN PPDO STAMNG       _ _ _ ___                           _ ____T
ASSIGN PPDO STAFF                                                _ _  _ _  ______                 _
PLAN ZONE STAFF                                                  E.                                             _
ASSIGN ZONE STAfF F                                                _.,,
PLAN BLOCK STAFF                                                    ca
ASSIGN BLOCK STAFF                                                    ez _ _ __
TRAIW 14G PROGRAMS FOR SPEARHEAD TEAMS
PLAN STAFF TRAINING                                            a23
SELECT TRAINERS                                                   0 a                                       _
DEVELOP COURSE MATERIALS                   .
TRAIN SPEARHEAD TEAM                                                 ez
DEVELOP TERTIARY CANALS                                                      _
PLAN TERTIARY CANAL DEV.                                                 E_
DEVELOP TERTIARY CANALS                                 _ _              _        _                      f'ZZZZZZ
DEVELOP DEMONSTRATION AREAS                                               r z         z
IMPROVE FRY SUPPLIES                                                               i       i _   _   _
REVIEW_TOR_FOR_TA________
PREPARE TA PROTOCALS                                   |                 _       *       _        _       _ _ *_-7__
SELECT HATCHERIES                            -   -   -   -- |-- _-_
ASSIGN TA__ _ 
IDENTIFY FRY REARING OPERATORS                                                J |         
SPEARHEAD TEAMS ORGANIZE FARMERS GROUP  f  -  J   w   
,FARMES BEGIN TO TAKE UP TECHNOLOGY IMPROVEMENTS                   }}}v                    znb



_ 59                           Annex 4
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hr 3 
0b_                             L  
.4 
T                  ,,          . |~~~~~~~~~~~~
Z W  :'  ::  ----   -        :    X~~~~~~~
. 9;i --:_
a. v...                .    
_                                         .
_                     ..
aT            -_ ___
9       -:--
x1 -xS                                .S.   ..
U       _a                                  -- 
...  !|  ]-                    l     i'_ E''--  .         .
s~~ l_lt jil -ii --i;                     liii



UJDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICS PROJECT
Primrfy and Secondory COanal Rehobilltotn-Aceh
Imp bentm  Schedule
C0_ _ _ FHA_   I _ .  W __D ._  _J  _.._S II!R^ |HA4DJI^H^, |  C4"4J FAJ|A|S+i!I10    F1 1s> DID| 
CQIMT MD 2
-IjLij~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ommbcf m
CONUMC MD 4
to- 



- 61-                     =.9.qts4
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r _5 , M
<"           ;~~~~~~~
i ~~~~~~~~
-       _
3      -.



- 62
ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT
SERVICES PROJECT
Schedule of Vehicle Provision
Type                                   Number
4 x 4 Vehicles                               6
Mini buses                                   3
By December 31, 1987
Mbtorcycles as follows:
By December 31, 1987                         3
By December 31, 1988                         7
By December 31, 1989                        10
By December 31, 1990                        10



_ 63 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT
SERVICES PROJECT
Schedule of Staff Recruitment
Investment Support Staff
By December 31, 1986                          5
By June 30, 1987                              9
By December 31, 1987                         10
By June 30, 1988                              6
By December 31, 1987                         20
By June 30, 1989                              9
By December 31, 1989                         30
By June 30, 1990                             12
By December 31, 1990                         30
Sub-Total      131
Planning Support Staff
By June 30, 1987                              2
Sub Total              2
Total                133



-64-                              ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Yields, Production, and Prices
Table 1. Yield, Pond Development and Production
2. Financial Export Parity Price of Black Tiger Shrimps of
21 - 25 shrimp per kg-count (headless)
3. Economic Export Price of Black Tiger Shrimps of 21 - 25 shrimp
per kg-count (headless)
4. Price Structure of Shrimp Seed
5. Price Structure of Diesel Fuel
6. Price Structure for Shrimp Feed
7. Price Structure for Fertilizer - Urea
8. Farmgate Prices for Milkfish and Non-traded Pond Inputs



t)
IrmAa: Fishtd.  Vport SNdvice  Ptoject
PIEB  9a   SMC5 FEOR"
YIMECWDEIN                  AND EffMUIQIR
i W     per W
YEAR
intmity oz p G                        of' koja:t Are                            0        1        2        3        4     5-2D
lg intity                           0.2850                                   70       70       70       70        70       70
lhwit  Itmtwity-Tidal  ed           0.0400                                   70       53      110      168      225       300
f4wi4m  terity-PaUIV1               0.6225                                   70       56       82      202       214      414
Higjur I       rte-ity-   ped       o.os2s                                   70       53      285      517      750      1000
1.0000
l.OX0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
am imeg in                                                                                                        Ut
a.per bEl
YEAR
nttity Grups                        S of Projrct Ame                            0        1        2        3        4     5-20
U1  Intuity                         0.2850                                    0        0        0         0        0        0
edhum InteAity-TideI Fed            0.0400                                    0      -17       40       98       155      230
Mldium k"miy-fumWe1                 0.6225                                    0      -14       12       132      144      344
Wl*r Ineity4iuped                   0.0525                                    0      -17      215      447      680       930
1.0000
1966     1987     1968     1969     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994     1995
Bxr     al D e       t                                                              750     2250     3000    4125      3375      1800     1800      900
(latative Devetopmt                                                                 750     3000     6000    10125    13500    15300    17100   l6(          
zrmxtaol  Dive1opzt                                                                                                                                                                 s
By Intewity Grups               I of Piojtvt Area
1n Intaity                           28.501                                 214      641      855    1.176      962       513      513      257
Msditu Xntensit-Tidl   Fed            4.002                                  30       90      120      165       135       72       72       36
?e&i- L"Witypwed                     62.251                                 467    1.401    1.868    2.568    2.101    1.121    1.121       560
HiWr 7nte-ityW-ab ed                  5.251                                  39      118      158      217       177       95       95       47



INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Yields, Pond Development,and Production
Incremental Production (tons)
Intensity Group      1988      1989     1990      1991      1992     1993      1994      1995      1996    1997      1998     1999-2005
Low Intensity            0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0
Medium Intensity-
Tidal Fed             (0.5)    (0.3)       4.5     15.5      36.9      66.5     95.7    123.4    143.9   155.4    162.9          165.6
Medium Intensity-
Pumped                (6.5)   (14.0)    52.3    238.6    610.2  1,259.8  1,929.7  2,624.2  3,206.9 3,511.6  3,742.5    3,854.5
Higher Intensity-
Pumped                (0.7)      6.5      40.3    109.8    230.9    386.9    538.1    676.6    775.8   832.4    867.0            878.9
Total Project           (7.7)    (7.9)    97.1    363.8    878.0  1,713.2  2,563.5  3,424.2  4,126.5 4,499.5  4,772.4    4,899.0
*, ID |X



- 67 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Financial Export Parity Price of Black Tiger Shrimps
of 21-25 Shrimp per kg-count (Headless)
Unit                      Amount
C&F Japan /a                                 US$/kg, headless                 11.88
Less freight, unloading                      US$/kg, headless                  0.32
FOB Indonesian Port /b                       US$/kg, headless                 11.56
Exchange rate                                Rp/USS                           1,650
FOB Indonesia Port                           Rp/kg, headless                 19,074
Less quality testing fee /c                  Rp/kg, headless                     19
Less transport and handling
between processor and ship                Rp/kg, headless                      50
Price at processing plant                    Rp/kg, headless                 19,005
Less processing cost/margin                  Rp/kg, headless                  3,000
Processor buying price                       Rp/kg, headless                 16,005
Processor buying price /d                    Rp/kg, head on                  10,403
Less transport and marketing
costs from farm-gate to
processing plant                          Rplkg, head on                      500
Farm-gate price                              Rp/kg, head on                   9,903
Rp/kg, rounded                   9,900
/a Average price; 90% of January-March 1986 price of US$13.20.
/b Ujung Pandang.
/c 0.1% of FOB.
/d 65% conversion factor (from head on to headless).



- 68 -                             ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Export Parity Price of Black Tiger Shrimps
of 2,125 Shrimp per kg-count (Headless)
Unit                      Amount
C&F Japan /a                                US$/kg, headless                 11.88
Less freight, unloading                     US$/kg, headless                 0.32
FOB Indonesian Port /b                      US$/kg, headless                11.56
Exchange rate                               Rp/US$                           1,650
FOB Indonesia Port                          Rp/kg, headless                19,074
Less quality testing fee /c                 Rp/kg, headless                     19
Less transport and handling
between processor and ship /d             Rp/kg, headless                     50
Price at processing plant                   Rp/kg, headless                19,005
Less processing cost/margin /e              Rp/kg, headless                 2,400
Processor buying price                      Rp/kg, headless                16,605
Processor buying price /f                   Rp/kg, head on                 10,793
Less transport and marketing
costs from farm-gate to
processing plant /e                       Rp/kg, head on                    400
Farm-gate price                             Rp/kg, head on                 10,393
Rp/kg, rounded                 10,400
/a Average price; 90% of February-March 1986 price of US$13.20.
/b Ujung Pandang.
/c 0.1% of FOB.
/d Financial cost multiplied by transport conversion factor of 1.0.
/e Financial cost multiplied by general project cost conversion factor of
0.8.
/f 65% conversion factor (from head on to headless).



- 69 -                             ANNEX 5
Table 4
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Price Structure of Shrimp Seed
(Constant 1986 Rp/piece of PL 25)
Financial price /a                     Economic price /b
1986                               45                                     39
1987                               45                                     39
1988                               44                                     38
1989                               43                                     37
1990                               41                                     35
1991                               38                                     33
1992                               36                                    31
1993                               34                                    29
1994                               32                                    27
1995                               29                                    25
1996                               28                                    24
/a Gradual reduction in financial prices as project provided technical
assistance to hatcheries and other support to the industry improve hatch-
ery capacity utilization, thereby, reducing per unit costs to reasonable
levels.
/b Financial price multiplied by mission-calculated conversion factor for
shrimp seed of 0.86; Annex 2, Table 2.



- 70n
- 70 -                     ANNFX 5
Table 5
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Price Structure for Diesel Fuel /a
(1986 currency values)
Operation 1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1995
World export price, FOB Singapore,
US$/ton /b                                        117   121   123   123   123   128
Freight and insurance                       +         8      8     8      8     8      8
Handling and distribution to retail
level                                     +        42    42    42    42    42    42
)zonomic retail price, US$/ton                      167   171   173   173   173   178
Economic retail price, Rp/liter /c                  230   235   238   238   238   245
(Financial retail price, Rp/liter)/d                242   242   242   242   242   242
/a  Refined motor diesel.
lb October 1986 price quoted by EPD; projections based on 20% of crude oil price
percentage changes from 1986 as presented in IBRD Commodity Projections,
January 1986.
/c Prices converted at an exchange rate of Rp 1,650 = US$1.00; 1 ton of diesel =
1,200 liters (1 x 318 US gallons x 3.78 liters per US gallon)e
/d Price at appraisal.



_ 71 -
ANNEX 5
Table 6
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Price Structure for Shrimp Feed la
(1986 currency values)
1986       1997        1990        1995
Economic raw material factory-gate
cost (US$/ton)/b                           230        233         265         265
Economic production cost (US$/ton)           272         275        313         314
Economic farm-gate price (US$/ton)           334         338        385         386
Economic farm-gate price (Rp/kg)/c           551         558        634         636
(Financial farm-gate price)                  597        605         683         683
/a  Based on mission-recommended feed formulation of 25% animal protein, 10%
plant protein, 55% carbohydrate and 10% oil (Working Paper III).  The
derivation of these prices are presented in Annex 1 of this Working Paper.
/b Computed with commodity prices from IBRD Commodity Price Forecasts Update,
August 1986.
/c Prices converted at an exchange rate of Rp 1,650 = US$1.00.



- 72 -
ANNEX 5
Table 7
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Price Structure for Fertilizer - Urea - 46% N
(1986 currency values)
Operation 1986  1987  1990  1995
World export price, FOB Europe, US$/ton                     115   131   205   189
Ex-factory price, Palembang /a                              130   146   220   204
Handling and distribution to retail level           +        25    25    25    25
Storage and transfer to farm                        +         4     4     4      4
Economic farm-gate price, US$/ton                   -       159   175   249   233
Economic farm-gate price, Rp/kg /b                          262   289   412   385
(Financial farm-gate price, Rp/kg) /c                       100   117   191   209
/a  Urea is valued ex-PUSRI plant, Palembang.  Prire projections for bagged
urea, FOB Europe have been adjusted to Asian markets by adding a transport
premium of US$15/ton.
/b  Prices are converted at an exchange rate of Rp 1,650 - US$1.00.
/c  Projected on the assumption that domestic prices would move along with
long-term world prices as projected by IBRD Commodity Studies and Projec-
tions Division in August 1986.



- 73 -
ANNEX 5
Table 8
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Farm-Gate Prices for Milkfish and
Nontraded Pond Inputs
(Constant 1986 Rp)
Economic /b
Item                  Unit         Financial /a      1986         1990         1995
Milkfish               kg              1,175          940          940          940
Fingerling
(milkfish)         piece               65            52           52           52
Pesticide /b           kg             1,200           960          960          960
/a October 1986.
lb Financial price multiplied by a general project cost conversion factor of
0.80.



- 74 -
ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
KEY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PERSONNEL



- 75 -                            ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Reference for
Key Technical Assistance Personnel
General Description of Consultant Services Required
1.        The brackishwater fisheries component of the Indonesia Fisheries
Development Project is a program intended to intensify tambak production of
shrimp in the provinces of South Sulawesi, Aceh and, to a lesser degree,
Southeast Sulawesi. The project consists of an integrated series of
activities including canal rehabilitation, provision of farmer and enterprise
credit, and technology transfer and investment support.
2.        A firm or an individual with extensive experience in the aquaculture
production of penaied shrimp and engineering design of aquaculture facilities,
possibly in association with an Indonesian firm, will be engaged for a period
of approximately two years. The firm or individual will be responsible for
the provision of technical assistance services to the DGF related to the
implementation of the project. These services include preparation and conduct
of shrimp hatchery technology transfer programs, preparation of investment
support materials, assistance with the design of fry rearing facilities, and
other technical assistance requested by the DGF.
3.        The consultant staff must demonstrate technical expertise in aqua-
culture projects, hatchery management components, and the capability to field
staff of the highest professional standard with at least five years of
relevant experience. The consultant personnel will ensure that shrimp
hatching and other related technology transfer is accomplished so as to enable
local project managers to increase their proficiency in their respective
fields.
4.        The major emphasis of the consultants activities will be to
implement hatching technology transfer programs that would support the shrimp
farming intensification effort to the project areas.. The first phase of the
project would focus on improving the operationi of selectcd private sector
hatcheries in South Sulawesi.
5.        The consultant would report to the Directorate of Production of DGF
and would be stationed in the field initially in South Sulawesi. It is
expected that the duration of the assignment would be 24 months.
Background
6.        Throughout Indonesia, but of relevance particularly to the project
area, there are a number of shrimp hatcheries owned by the private sector
which, primarily due to the lack of experienced hatchery management personnel,
are now operating at less than 25% of design capacity.



76 -                  ~~~~~ANNEX 6
- 76 -                           PSage 2
7.        This has caused the private sector considerable financial loss and
has also resulted in a mass of conflicting ideas about the nature and adequacy
of existing designs and management systems.
8.        It is believed that providing hatchery owners with access to highly
competent and experienced technologists would result in much higher capacity
utilization and consequently far higher numbers of shrimp fry for the
expanding needs of shrimp farmers.
9.        In addition, there may be the need to promote the development of an
intermediate stage in the shrimp farming cycle between the hatchery and the
shrimp farmer. This stage of rearing fry is specialized and while a small
number of experienced farmers now carry out this stage on-farm, it would be
far more efficient to carry it out on specialized farms than it would be to
attempt to bring the technology to the many farmers who require fry.
Scooe of Work
10.       The scope of work for the selected consultant(s) is outlined as
follows:
(a) The consultant would assist DGF in preparing a set of technical
criteria whereby private sector hatcheries could be ranked and given
priority for receiving technical assistance. This would involve
making a confidential review of existing data on hatcheries, mainly
in the project areas, carrying out surveys as needed and making an
assessment of hatchery owner/management interest in and commitment
to carrying out improvements.
(b) Once recommendations have been made and hatcheries have been
selected by DGF, the consultant would prepare an outline plan under
which improvement to the hatchery would be made, including phasing
and implementation schedules, manpower requirements, lists of any
required design changes, equipment requirements and cost estimates.
(c) Written agreement between the hatchery owners and DGF on the plan
and an agreement to carry out the plan, as well as the commitment of
financial resources (possibly by means of escrow accounts) would be
a pre-requisite to the preparation of a detailed plan, the
supervision of its implementation, training of hatchery staff to
carry out every stage of the plan's implementation and the
preparation of an operating plan which if followed would be expected
to result in the achievement of a high proportion of the design
capacity (as redesigned) of the hatchery.
(d) In it increasingly apparent from experience in many parts of the
world that hatchery operations are highly complex with some signifi-
cant unknowns and some uncertainties exist in the ability to assure
production at or near, design capacity. It is important that pro-
ject management, as well as private sector participants understand
that the achievement of near design capacity could not nor should
not be guaranteed. What can reasonably be expected are the best



ANEX 6
77 -                          Page 3
efforts of highly selected, well trained and experienced
technicians.
(e) consultants would monitor the technical progress of hatchery
rehabilitations, determine possible problem areas and offer
solutions to the problems.
(f) In addition to the hatchery related work above, consultants would be
engaged to promote, assist in the design and preparation of a
detailed operational plan and outline design for rearing farms.
Such farms to be taken up under the project by private individuals
or firms for the purpose of rearing hatchery produced fry to a stage
of PL 15-35 for sale to farmers.
11.       In addition, consultants would:
(a)  assist the DGF, in organizing the wide dissemination of technical
and practical information on modern shrimp farming methods in order
to reach the maximum number of farmers through the investment
support staff.
(b) assist in determining elements to be included in the training of
PPD', Zone and Block staff in the field; provide guidelines for
pr,. aring instruction materials as appropriate and give lectures
and instruction from time to time in areas in which they are
qualified. Including overseeing the preparation and review of
appropriate and practical field manuals for (i) Hatchery Management;
and (ii) Shrimp Farming which should be appropriately contracted for
and prepared in the English and Indonesian languages. TOR for the
manuals and drafts of the manuals would be reviewed by the Bank.
12.      As required short term consultants could be employed to assist in
specific areas of expertise identified by the consultant and or DGF as needed
to assist in the rehabilitation of hatcheries and the establishment of rearing
farms. For examplet the seevices of an acquaculture engineer may be
required. This consultant will have at least five years experience in the
civil engineering aspects of aquaculture. le will be knowledgeable in the
design criteria for aquaculture projects including hatcheries, ponds, water
control structures, earthworks, soil mechanics, construction methods and the
scheduling and coordination of diverse, specialized civil construction
projects. He will have a related engineering degree.
13.       He will be based in the provincial offices of the project area.  His
duties will require frequent trips to the various project and training sites.
14.       He will be assigned for up to 12 months.  He will:
(a) as directed by the Project Manager, work in close conjunction with
the Indonesian senior technical staff of the project;
(b) prepare standard design criteria and specifications, including pond
layouts, dikes, water control gates, construction methods and equip-



-78 -                            ANNEX 6
Page 4
ment, requirements, for use in the rehabilitation of hatcheries and
the development of rearing facilities.
(c)  assist as necessary with specialized engineering problems.
15.       It may also be necessary to seek the assistance of other short term
technical assistance such as soil scientists, hydrologists, animal feed
specialists and rural sociologists. Terms of reference for these staff would
be prepared as they are required in relation to the specific problems
encountered.



- 79 -                      ANNEX 7
- 79 
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Financial and Economic Cash Flows and Projections
Financial Analysis Tables
1.  Coastal Aquaculture Tambak Operator Financial Cash Flows
2.   Coastal Aquaculture Tambak Operating Costs at Full Development
3.   Coastal Aquaculture Tambak Incremental Operating Costs at Full
Development
4.  Pilot Project Tambak Operator Financial Cash Flow
5.   Flores Fisherman Financial Cash Flow
Economic Analysis Tables
6.  Coastal Aquaculture Economic Cash Flows
7.  Pilot Project Economic Cash Flows
8.   Flores Matketing Support Economic Cash Flows



ItlSDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Coastal Aguaculture Financial Cash Flows
(Rp'000)
Year
0       1        2        3       4        5        6       7      8         9        10
Cash Flow /a
Revenue                            6,404   5,124   6,176  12,233  11,181  21,082  21,082  21,082  21,082  21,082   21,082
Investment costs                        -   1,175   3,175   2,000   4,458          -        -        -       -        -         -
Operating costs                    3,545   2,951   3,460   6,294   5,408   9,405   9,212   8,958   8,861   8,861    8,861
Net cash flow                      2,859      998    -460   3,939   1,315  11,676  11,870  12,124  12,221  12,221   12,221   X
Net cash flow without project    2,859   2,859   2,859   2,859   2,859   2,859   2,859   2,859   2,859   2,859    2,859
Incremental net cash flow               -  -1,862  -3,319   1,080  -1,544   8,817   9,011   9,265   9,361   9,361    9,361
IRR   56%
Financing Affordabilit  (%) /b
Net loan repayment/family income                                                  17       20       19      18       18        17
Loan repayment/shrimp revenue                                                     30       31       29      27       27        26
/a Cash flow is for a 5 ha model.
/b Loan repayments consist of principal repayments and interest charges. Net loan repayment in any year is the loan repay-
ment net of disbursements. Disbursements exceed loan repayment during the investment period (year I to 4).
*                    1!E~~II



-81 -                             ANNEX 7
Table2
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Coastal Aguaculture Tambak Operating Costs
at Full Development (5-ha Pond) /a
Category                             RpOOO         % of revenue          % of cost
Input Costs
Fertilizer                          418.0              2.0                  4.7
Pesticides                           48.0              0.2                  0.5
Feed                              1,366.0              6.5                 15.4
Fuel                              1,393.9              6.6                 15.7
Shrimp seed                       2,708.9             12.8                 30.6
Fingerlings                         121.9              0.6                  1.4
Subtotal                       6,056.7             28.7                 68.4
Labor Costs
Skilled labor                       306.0              1.5                  3.5
Unskilled labor                   1,806.0              8.6                 20.4
Subtotal                       2,112.0             10.0                 23.8
Maintenance                           532.5               2.5                 6.0
Miscellaneous costs                   159.8               0.8                 1.8
Total Operating Costs          8,861.0             42.0                100.0
/a Four hectares developed for semi-intensive shrimp culture and 1 ha
remaining underdeveloped under mainly milkfish culture.



- 82 -                               ANNEX 7
Table 3
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Coastal Aguaculture Tambak Incremental Operating Costs
at Full Development (5-ha Pond) /a
Category                                       Rp'OOO                   % of cost
Input Costs
Fertilizer                                    418.0                       7.2
Pesticides                                     48.0                       0.8
Feed                                        1,366.0                      23.5
Fuel                                        1,393.9                      24.0
Shrimp seed                                 1,425.4                      24.6
Fingerlings                                      -                         -
Subtotal                                 4,651.3                      80.1
Labor Costs
Skilled labor                                 216.0                       3.7
Unskilled labor                               936.0                      16.1
Subtotal                                 1,12.0                       19.9
Maintenance                                                                   -
Miscellaneous costs                                -
Total Operating Costs                    5,803.3                     100.0
/a Four hectares developed for semi-intensive shrimp culture and 1 ha
remaining underdeveloped under mainly milkfish culture.



INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Pilot Project Tambak Operator Financial Cash Flow /a
(Rp 000)
Year
0        1         2        3         4        5         6        7         8      9-10
Revenue                1,182      987    1,816    4,666    4,666    4,666    4,666    4,666    4,666    4,666
Investment cost            -    1,072    1,122         -         -        -         -         -        -         -
Operating cost           568      568       972    2,340    2,433    2,433    2,433    2,433    2,433    2,451          1
co
Net cash flow            614     -653      -278    2,325    2,233    2,,233    2,233    2,233    2,233    2,215
Net cash flow
without project        614      614       614      614       614      614       614      614       614       614
Incremental net
cash flow                -   -1,267      -891    1,711    1,619    1,619    1,619    1,619    1,619    1,619
…-- -----                     ---- (IRR = 57%)
/a Two-ha pond without pumping. Possible only :.n limited areas close to ocean.



INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Flores Fisherman Financial Cash Flowy
(Rp million)
Year
1       2       3        4       5        6       7       8        9       10-15
Revenue                        40.4    48.5    53.9    55.9    53.9    53.9    53.9    53.9    53.9    53.9            1
Investment (vessel) costs      25.0       -       -        -       -       _        _       _        _       -         >
Operating costs                32.3    37.1    40.3    40.3    40.3    40.3    40.3    40.3    40.3    40.3
Net cash flow                 -16.9    11.4    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6         5.6    13.6
------------------------------- …IRR 75%) ----------------------------------
I'll



INDONESIA
FISRERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Coastal Aquaculture Economic Cash Flows /a
(Rp000)                                                                                   1
Year
0       1        2       3        4        5       6        7       8        9       10      11       12      13       14       15      16     17-20
ReItnue                 5,992        -        -   4,793   5,957  12,291  11,599  21,999  21,999  21,999  21,999  21,999  21,999  21,999  21,999  21,999  21,999  21,999
Far  iLnvestment costs       -       -        -     940   3,100   2,160   4,109          -       -        -       -        -        -       -   2,160   2,160   2,160         -
Fare operating costs    2,936        -        -   2,343   2,876   5,446   4,741   8,312   8,216   8,216   8,216   8.216   8.216   8,216   8,216   8,216   8,216   8,216
Farm benefits           3,056        -        -   1,510      -19   4,685   2,748  13,687  13,783  13,783  13,783  13,783  13,783  13,783  11,623  11,623  11,623  1-3,783
Without project
benefits              3,056        -        -   3,056   3,056   3,056   3,056   3,056   3,056   3,056   3,056   3,056   3,056   3,056   3,056   3,056   3,056   3,056
Incremental farm
benefits                   -       -        -  -1,546  -3,074   1,629    -307  10,631  10,728  10,728  10,728  10,728  10,728  10,728   8,568   8,568   8,568  10,728
Nonfaruer project costs      -   4,032   1,647        -        -       -      820      335       -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
Project incremental
benefits                      -4,032  -1,647  -1,546  -3,074   1,629  -1,127  10,296  10,728  10,728  10,728  10,728  10,728  10,728   8,568   8.568   8,568  10,728
ERR - 262
/a  Cash flow Is for a 5 ha model.



ANNEX 7
Table 7
- 86 -
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Pilot Project Economic Cash FlTws /a
(Rp-000)
Year
0         1          2          3         4-8        9-20
Revenue                           1,094         963      1,790     4,725      4,725       4,725
Farm investment costs                 -         858        898         -          -
Farm operating costs                469         588        979     2,282      2,423       2,396
Farm benefits                       625        -483        -86     2,443      2,302       2,329
Without project benefits            625         625        625       625        625         625
Incremental farm benefits             -      -1,008        712     1,818      1,677       1,703
Nonfarmer project costs               -         228        145        41          -           -
Project incremental benefits          -      -1,336      -856      1,776      1,677       1,703
ERR - 58%
/a For a 2 ha model.



INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Flores Iarketing Stport Economic Cash Flows
,Rp million)
Year
1       2        3       4         5        6         7        8         9         10        t1       12        13       14        15       16        17        18       19        20
Incremental revenue /a      80.8   581.7  1,093.5  1,319.7  1,389.7  1,400.5  1,400.5  1,400.5  1,400.5  1,400.5  1,400.5  :,400.5  1,400.5  1,400.5  1,400.5  1,400.5  1.400.5  1,400.5  1,400.5  1,400.5
Incremental fishermen
investment cost           44.0   264.1    220.1       44.0        -         -        -         -      24.2    145.3    121.1       24.2        -        -         -        -       24.2    145.3    121.1       24.2
Increental fishermen
operating costs           62.2   444.0    810.n    965.2  1,006.2  1,012.5  1,012.5  1,012.5  1,012,5  1,014.6  1,014.6  1,014.6  1,014.6  1,n14.6  1,014.1  1,014.6  1,014.h  1,C14.6  1,014.4  l,nl4.6
Increeental benefits       -25.4  -126.3       55.4    310.5    183.6    388.0    388.0    388.0    363.8    240.6    264.8    361.6    385.9    385.9    385.9    385.9    361.6    240.6    264.8    361.6
Shore facilities
investment costs       1,115.8    28.8         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -
Incremntal net
benefits              -1,141.2  -155.2       55.4    310.5    383.6    388.0    388.0    388.0    363.8    240.6    264.8    361.6    385.9    385.9    385.9    385.9    361.6    240.6    264.8    361.6
EER - 192
/a Fisbermen and cold store revenues.



- 88 -                               ANNEX 8
Page1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Credit Component
Calculation of Relending Rate from GOI to BRI - Formula
1.        The interest rate on the Subsidiary Loan will be a variable rate per
annum equal to the average weighted interest rate on the free (unpledged
customer deposits of BRI. This rate will be determined according to the
following formula:
IrT (T ) +r5 (S ) +rD (MD)
X  = t   t       t   t      t    t
t   (T  + S  + r ) (RT+ RS +rD
Definitions             t    t    t        t   t    t
t       =    the last day of the most recent month or quarter prior to an
Interest Peri.od for which BI has consolidated data on the
deposit base of BRI
rP            interest payable on demand deposits as defined below, at time
t, of BRI
rT           interest payable on time deposits, at time t, of BRI
S
e
r     t      interest payable on savings deposits, at time 6, of BRI
Dt            the amount of Demand deposits (i.e., those free customer
deposits in accounts which can be operated by checks), at time
t, of BRI
Tt      =    the amount of Time deposits, at time 6, of BRI
St           the amount of Savings deposits, at time 6 of BRI
MDt          minimum average balance of demand deposits outstanding during
quarter immediately preceeding time t
RT      =    reserves on time deposits of BRI at t
t
Rt            reserves on savings deposits of BRI at t
RD            reserves on demand deposits of BRI at t
t
Xt      =     interest rate applicable on the Subsidiary Loan for each
interest period



89-                                 ANNEX 8
Page 2
2.        Notwithstanding the above cost of funds formula, the relending rate
will not be less than the interest rate on the Bank loan plus a margin of 1.75
percentage points.
3.        The interest rate  X   shall be calculated for each Interest Period
except that if during an InteAst Period, changes in the ur.derlying parameters
indicate a change of at least 1.5 percentage points in the rate, then the
Government, may, after consultation with the Bank, adopt for the rast of that
interest period the rate calculated on the basis of the most recently avail-
able data.



- 90 -                           ANE  9
Page 1
INDONESIA
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
List of Related Documents and
Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
Al   Indonesia Fisheries Sector Study, Asian Development Bank/IBRD,
December 1983
A2   Indonesian YArine Capture Fisheries, ICLARM, In press
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bi   Indonesia - Fisheries Development Project, FAO/IBRD-CP, February 22,
1985
B2   Indonesia - Preparation Report on Brackishwater Fisheries, L. Sprague
and A. Schuuret Drocember 1, 1985
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl   Review of Brackishwater Fisheries
C2   Physical Infrastructure Strengthening
C3   Investment Support for On-farm Development and Tertiary Canal
Development
C4   Strengthaning Fry Supplies and On-farm Inputs
C5   Strengthening marketing Support Services-Flores
C6   Support for Privatization of State Enterprises
C7   Technique Development
C8   Strengthening Manpower Development, Planning and Studies
C9   Fisheries Credit
C10  Shrimp Markets and Market Development
Cll  Project Financial and Economic Analysis
C12  Coastal Zone Pilot Project
C13  Project Cost Tables



MAP SECTION
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



THAILAND    i05e                           *1oo 100
Banda Aceh
13                       MALAYSIA                                                            BRUNEI
dan                                                                                              j
12                                                                      MALAYSIA  (               17
zC..SINGAPORE                      V             /*-l,,
J00  BPkanbaru                                                                          A 
9                               Pontianak0         K A  L I ¶  A  N         A  N
w <                      t= 14 A ASamarinda
Padang  1 1          1 A                                                    Palang
f       ~Janb       ->ANGKA                          (15 
O.K.I. JAKARTA          l       R        A                                                 Palangkaraya
2 JAWA BA RAT                                   P galembang                        )
3 JAWA TENGAH                    7)    8    *
4 D.l. YOGYAKARTA                                               l lWNG                                 1    16
5 JAWATIMUR               Bengkutuwi              IN                                         Banjarmadn
6 LAMPUNG                                        6
7 8ENGKULU
6'  8 SUMATERASELATAN
9 RIAU                                 Tnugra                                                                          Ujungpandar
10 JAMBI                               Tonjungahrng         1r
1 ISUMATERA BARAT                                          JAK4RTA
12 SUMATERA UTARA                                                   JAWA
13 DI ACEH
14 KALIMANTAN BARAT                                                             O
15 KALIMANTAN TENGAH                                                                           A Jepara
,6  KALIMANTAN SELATAN                                    Bandung        SemaraVJPaJ
17 KALIMANTAN TIMUR                                       BadugSurabaya
18 SULAWESI TENGAH                                           2                                                          SUMBAWA
19 SULAWESI UTARA                                                     Yogyakarta  VALl
20 SULAWESI SELATAN                                                            4
21 SULAWESI TENGGARA                                                                                       W         Wtaram
22 BALI                                                                                              Denpr010
23 NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                                                                                      2             23   7
100 24 NUSATENGGARATIMUR
25 MALU KU            r? ,      Z , , 0 , .    pr   by ,  W.f. , .r ft OheWaO Of
26 IRIAN JAYA                    to ,dSWbra OM%  for ft WAdUN of Th WION t*M 0 0 **M00W
27 TIMOR TIMUR                    F       iu A            W ft_-0'UO'UIe'0 100e   OA eA t
cnV m ft 1W ofs T tONmd to&MWW I   COV6 NW Ad _
an go ft9 0141*9o &Wr wi*ffOy or &Wary   o u W8flt0cAwseflO  such boonlwO
100°                         1060                         110°                         1130
4                                                     ''                                                        I_



IBRD 19681
riov  1i6-          --      300        1-                     -INDONESIA          1419
FISHERIES SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT a
PHIL-PP,N,S,,  BRACKISHWATER SHRIMP FARMING
PROJECT AREAS
/t   FISHING ENTERPRISES ASSOCIATED WITH
L.-.                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THE PROJECT
A    FISHING TECHNIQUE DEVELOPMENT
CENTERS
PT PERIKANI
SULAWtESI UTARA TENCAH
M Airtembaga                                                 )  RW1NCE HFADQI.WrERS
FIROVtNaC BOUNIDAMIS
19                         HALMAHERA                               ltMNAN& tOUNWIES
da         11
Alu                                    25
PIJLAUAN SUIAWL  08I                                                                Jayapura4)
20         B~SiJAWESI
./ 21                                0    ER                                           IRIAN JAYA            'K
I'A   eKendari   .8URU  Ambon                                                                 26               i    6°
andang                                                                                                                            Z
fA             FLORES PT YALI RAlYP
|PMaumore
/S _  '    1TIMOR                       °      100      200     300     400     500               10°
SUMBA       24      Kpa 2n7                                          0  100  200  300  400  500  B00  700  800
KILOMETERS
120°                         125°                         t30'                        135°                         140'
MAY 1986



