Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20154 IRN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$145.0 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
FORA
TEHRAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
April 3, 2000
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate for the Project effective March 7, 2000)
Currency Unit: Iranian Rial (IR)
10,000 Rials    = US$1.22
US$1.0          = 8,200 Rials
FISCAL YEAR
(March 21 to March 20)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOT       Build, Operate and Transfer
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
DOE       Department of Environment
EA        Environmental Assessment
EMC       Environmental Monitoring Committee
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
FMM       Financial Management Manual
FMS       Financial Management System
GEF       Global Environmental Facility
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICF       Intemational Consulting Firm
LACI      Loan Administrative Change Initiative
MOE       Ministry of Energy
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NWSEC   National Water and Sewerage Engineering Company
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PBO       Planning and Budgeting Office
PHRD      Policy and Human Resources Development
PIP       Project Implementation Plan
PMR       Project Management Report
PMU       Project Management Unit
QBS       Quality-Based Selection
QCBS      Quality and Cost-Based Selection
RfP       Request for Proposals
SA        Special Account
SAS       Social Assessment
SOE       Statement of Expenditures
TOR       Terms of Reference
TPWSC   Tebran Province Water and Sewerage Company
TSC       Tebran Sewerage Company
TSE       Tehran Stock Exchange
Vice President:       Kemal Dervis
Country Director:     Inder K. Sud
Sector Director:      Jean-Claude Villiard
Sector Manager:       Jamal Saghir
Team leader:          Mohammed Benouahi



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
Tehran Sewerage Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
A. Project Development Objectives ..............................................................2
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators ...........                 .............  2
B. Strategic Context ..............................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ...............................................         2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .......................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...........             ...........   3
C. Project Description Summary .......................4......................................                    4
1. Project components ..............................................................                        4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .............              ...............  5
3. Benefits and target population ......................5,,., ...............5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                .6
D. Project Rationale .10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies .11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .12
E. Summary Project Analysis .12
1. Economic .12
2. Financial .13
3. Technical .18
4. Institutional .18
5. Social .18
6. Environmental assessment .19
7. Participatory approach .20
F. Sustainability and Risks .20
1. Sustainability .20
2. Critical risks .21
3. Possible controversial aspects .21
G. Main Loan Conditions .22



1. Effectiveness conditions ..........................................................  22
2. Other ...........................................................            22
H. Readiness for Implementation            ............................................   23
I.  Compliance  with  Bank  Policies .............................................................  23
Annexes
Annex 1        Project Design Summary
Annex 1.1       Key Performance Indicators
Annex 1.2      Performance Indicators
Annex 2         Detailed Project Description
Annex 2.1       Letter of Sector Development Policy
Annex 2.2       Sector Institutions and Strategy
Annex 2.3       Organizational Charts (3)
Annex 2.4       Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 3         Estimated Project Costs
Table Al     Estimated Project Costs on Annual Basis (in US$ million)-
Contingencies shown separately
Table Al -a   Estimated Project Costs on Annual Basis (in US$ million)-
Contingencies included
Table A2     Estimated Project Costs on Annual Basis (in billion RIALS) ---
Contingencies shown separately
Table A2-a   Estimated Project Costs on Annual Basis (in billion RIALS) ---
Contingencies included
Annex 3.1       Projected Number of Sewer Connections
for Phase 1 and 2 (2000-2011)
Annex 4         Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5         Financial Projections: Main Assumptions
Annex 5.1       Water Tariff for Residential and Non-Residential Connections
Annex 6         TSC Financial Management System
Annex 6.1       Action Plan to Improve the TSC's FMS
Annex 7         Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al     Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C      Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 8         Summary of Environmental Assessment
Annex 9         Social Assessment
Annex 10        Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 11        Documents in Project File
Annex 12        Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 13        Country at a Glance
Maps:
Project Location IBRD 30287
Project Layout   IBRD 30288



Islamic Republic of Iran
Tehran Sewerage Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Middle East Department
Date: April 3, 2000                                      Task Team Leader: Mohammed Benouali
Country Director: Inder K. Sud                           Sector Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Project ID: P069946       Sector: Water Supply & Sanitation  Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan             Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes   [ ]  No
Project Financing Data                   [X] Loan        [] Credit        [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$145 million
Proposed terms:                            f ]   Multicurrency      [ x] Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 5           1]   Standard Variable    [ ]  Fixed          [x]    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0,75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Front-end fee: 1%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                 Local              Foreien           Total
Government
IBRD                                                                -                 145.0            145.0
Tehran Sewerage Company (TSC)                                     195.0                                195.0
Total          195.0                145.0           340.0
Borrower: Tehran Sewerage Company
Guarantor: Islamic Republic of Iran
Responsible agency: Tehran Sewerage Company
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                   2001        2002      2003     2004    2005   2006
Annual                7.00      20.70     37.50     40.00    25.20  14.60
Cumulative               7.00       27.70     65.20    105.20   130.40  145.00
For Guarantees:                                     []   Partial credit     [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                 []    Yes             [     No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estirnated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 2000-2005
Expected effectiveness date: July 1, 2000
Expected closing date: June 30, 2006



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page  2
Country: Iran, Islanic Remublic of                                         Tehran Sewerage Project
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1):
The major development objective of the proposed Tehran Sewerage Project (the project) is to improve the
environmental conditions in Greater Tehran, with a present population of about 7 million.  The objectives
would be achieved through:
(a) Provision of satisfactory wastewater collection and treatment facilities for about 2.1 million people covering
an area of about 16,500 hectares;
(b) Improvements in public health and reduction of surface and ground water pollution;
(c) Provision of treated wastewater for irrigation of about 15,000 hectares on the Varamin plain;
(d) Development of the Tehran Sewerage Company (TSC) into a fully autonomous entity to be operated on a
commercial basis; and
(e) Facilitation of private sector participation in the sector through contracting out various TSC functions, such
as engineering, construction supervision and operation and maintenance.
Key performance indicators to measure achievements under the development objective are (Annex 1.1):
(a) number of sewer connections to be installed;
(b) improvements in surface and ground water quality;
(c) quantities of treated effluents to be used for irrigation;
(d) TSC financial performance; and
(e) participation of the private sector in TSC operations.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project (see Annex 1):
GAS document number: N/A                    Date of latest CAS discussion: N/A
Iran was an active borrower until the early 1970s when, following the oil revenue windfall, it graduated from
borrower status. Lending was resumed in 1990, following an earthquake when, as a result of the long war with
Iraq, incomes had again declined and the Government had initiated a program of economic reform and major
reconstruction. During the period 1990-1993, the Bank made six loans to Iran, totaling US$847 million. The
loans financed the Earthquake Recovery Project (Ln 3301-IRN) which has been successfully completed. The
remaining five operations currently under implementation are: Sistan River Flood Works Rehabilitation (Ln
3478-IRN), Tebran Drainage Project (Ln 3479-IRN), Irrigation Improvement (Ln3570-IRN), and Power Sector
Efficiency (Ln3583-IRN), and Health and Family Planning (Ln2584-IRN). The projects are all in satisfactory
status, both with respect to their development objective and implementation progress. The total loan value of
the portfolio is $597 mnillion, of which US$401 million has been disbursed.
As there has been no lending to Iran since 1993, there is no current CAS. A Tehran Sewerage project, however,
was under preparation in 1993, and the current project design has benefited from it. It has also benefited from
the complementary studies done since 1993 on Tehran air pollution (GEF funded) and Tehran solid waste
management (PHRD funded). The project, which addresses environmental and social issues related to
wastewater, storm water drainage, solid waste and air pollution is a high priority for the Government, given that
only 9% of the households in Tehran have wastewater connection.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Current sector situation on Tehran wastewater collection and disposal can be summarized as follows:



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page  3
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                          Tehran Sewerage Project
* there are about 26,000 sewer connections, serving a population of about 655,000. This would correspond to
an overall connection rate of about 9%;
* 9 small wastewater treatment plants are in operation which, despite overloading, are performing reasonably
well;
* remaining population is served by absorption wells which, through infiltration or overflowing, are polluting
ground and surface waters. This has caused closing of wells used for public water supply; and
* most of the revenues are collected by the Tehran Province Water and Sewerage Company (TPWSC) and
transferred to TSC.
Issues
These are:
* Poor performance of on-site wastewater disposal facilities, causing an increasing risk for ground and surface
water pollution;
* Sector institutions that still have to gain adequate autonomy and to be operated on commercial bases; and
* Complicated tariff structures and arrangements for transfer of revenues from TPWSC to TSC.
The Government has in recent years reorganized the sector and created 11 Regional Water Boards responsible
for water resources management and allocation, and about 24 Provincial Water and Sewerage Companies
(Companies) responsible for the provision of water supply and wastewater services. The Companies can further
delegate the responsibilities for operation and maintenance in specific geographical areas to separate entities.
The Companies are supported, at the national level, by the National Water and Sewerage Engineering Company
(NWSEC) -- attached to the Ministry of Energy (MOE) -- in matters of policy, investment planning, human
resources development and in the establishment of standardized systems and procedures.
The TPWSC has through the establishment of TSC in 1996 delegated the responsibility for wastewater
collection and disposal services in Greater Tehran. Like TPWSC, the TSC is a corporate utility reporting to a
Board of Directors and operates under the Iran's Commercial Code. TSC's common stock is owned to 80% by
TPWSC with the major portion of remaining 20% owned by two of the municipal Water Supply Companies in
the Tehran province, which are controlled by TPWSC.
The Government decentralized its tariff authorization procedures in 1998, and tariff increases are now approved,
instead of by the Cabinet, by MOE, based on recommendations by a tariff committee. The committee is
composed of: the chairman of TSC; the Governor of Greater Tehran; a representative of Planning and Budgeting
Office (PBO); and two members of the Parliament. The institutional and legal framework for the development
of the wastewater sector would thus be in place, and based on actions already taken the Government strategy, as
formulated in the Project lmplementation Plan (PIP) and the Sector Development Policy Letter, is:
* to further strengthen the sector entities, including the TSC, through organizational and staffing development
and to make them financially viable, with the objective of reaching full cost recovery, through the
introduction of appropriate tariff structures and adequate tariff levels;
*  to increase and improve service levels and standard;
* to promote effluent reuse;
* to protect the environment; and
* to encourage and facilitate private sector participation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.
The project, in addressing specific sector issues, will focus on:



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page   4
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                                Tehran Sewerage Project
(a) assisting in implementing a wastewater strategy for Greater Tehran;
(b) promoting commercialization and capacity building of the TSC;
(c) pricing of wastewater services for full recovery of operation and maintenance (O&M) and of capital
investment costs; and
(d) enforcing regulations to reduce surface and ground water pollution.
In addition, the objective would be to assist in mobilizing private sector participation which, in a second phase
(not part of the project), possibly could lead to a Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) contract for the wastewater
treatment works. This could, through joint public and private sector participation, result in more efficient sector
operation, which could lead to similar approaches to be pursued by other companies in other parts of the
country.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
A development program has been prepared for the extension of wastewater collection and disposal facilities for
Greater Tehran. The development is proposed to take place in 5 phases to cover the period to about 2030. For
phases 1 and 2 covering the periods through 2006 and 2011, respectively, and a population of 4.2 million (about
2.1 million in each phase), wastewater treatment works will be constructed in the south of Tehran with the use
of treated effluents in the Varamin irrigation system. For phases 3 to 5, covering a population of about 6
million, additional wastewater treatment works will be constructed southwest of Tehran with the extension of a
separate tunnel/trunk main system.
The project covers, as shown on enclosed maps, the phase 1 requirements and consists of interceptors and
laterals, two trunk mains -- the western one to be laid as a pipe and the eastem one to be constructed as a tunnel
-- and the southern wastewater treatment works. Areas to be covered by a wastewater collection system are
about 5,600 hectares in the northern part of the city, about 10,000 hectares in the southern part, and about 900
hectares in the central part. The project further includes operation and maintenance equipment and technical
assistance/training/consultant services for institutional development and project management, engineering
design and construction supervision, updating of the wastewater development program, and feasibility study and
engineering design for phase 2 investments.
Cornponent                              Category    Indicative    %      of Bank-        %  of Bank-
Costs        Total     financing    financing
_____________(US$M)    (US$M-
Interceptors and laterals                 Physical          209.30        61       43.35            30
Trunk main and tunnels                    Physical           46.60        14       34.90            24
Wastewater treatment works                Physical           64.00        19       54.40            37
Operation and maintenance equipment      Physical             2,70         1        2.70             2
Technical assistance/consultant services, PMU  Institution   17.40         5        8.20             6
and training                             Building
Front-End Fee                                                                       1.45             1
Total             340.00       100      145.00           100



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page  5
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                         Tehran Sewerage Proiect
A proposed Bank loan would be limited to US$145.0 million, and, despite attempts made, no co-financing has
been raised. Remaining amount of about US$196.45 million equivalent would then be provided locally through
internal cash generation. Bank financing under interceptors and laterals would, to a large extent, be limited to
pipes with a size above 500 mm. The cost estimates are based on current Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE) rate of
8,200 Rials to one US$, and future exchange rates will be adjusted to local inflation to take place during the
years of project implementation.
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project:
These will include:
(a) the introduction of pricing policies of water supply and wastewater services to achieve more efficient and
equitable tariffs -- full recovery of O&M costs and capital expenditures -- and to induce water conservation;
(b) capacity building and streamlining of the TSC organization with strengthening of, in particular, investment
planning, and financial and project management;
(c) promotion of private sector participation in the sector; and
(d) the introduction of adequate environmental monitoring tools for the use of treated effluents and sludge for
irrigation and soil conditioning.
The responsibilities of TSC in investment planning, project management and works operation will grow
significantly in the near future, which could be illustrated by a projected increase in sewer connections from
about 21,000 in 1999 to 235,000 in 2006 (Annex 3.1). This unprecedented growth can only be sustained, if
concurrent actions are taken on the scaling up of the TSC capacity.
Although TSC will contract out to the private sector operational works, engineering design and construction,
some core functions will remain with TSC. These include: (i) general management including formulation of
integrated strategies and business plans and performance monitoring; (ii) investment planning and financial
management including tariff analysis; (iii) project management; (iv) customer services including a marketing
of sewer connections; (v) communications and public relations; (vi) operation and maintenance of completed
works including supervision of contracted works; and (vii) environmental monitoring. Supporting functions,
such as human resources development, will need to be built up in parallel. For the strengthening of TSC, the
following will be pursued:
(a)    Medium and long-term needs will be supported by a technical assistance/training component under the
project. This component should provide for a transfer of experience and relevant on-site training and
possibly study tours for key TSC staff. In addition, resources will be made available to finance:
* a PMU team to be appointed on contract basis (para.4);
* a communication campaign to "market" wastewater services; and
* development of office technology and management information systems.
(b)    Actions already or still to be taken are:
* TSC has appointed a Chief Financial Officer to deal with financial matters; and
* TSC should proceed with the appointment of a consultant to further develop the scope of work and
analyze the requirements under the technical assistance/training component. The recommendations
to be made by the consultant would be in place and/or initiated by early 2001.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page  6
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                         Tehran Sewerage Project
3. Benefits and Target Population:
The benefits will include: (i) improved services for the urban population of Tehran, particularly, the low income
groups living in the southern part of the city; (ii) a continuous and safe use of present ground water sources for
Tebran water supply, which, in the long term, could be extended in pace with improved ground water
conditions; (iii) increased agricultural outputs through the use of treated effluents for irrigation and of treated
sludge for soil conditioning; (iv) a reduction in health risks due to improved sanitary and environmental
standards; and (v) less damage to building structures by a lowering of the ground water levels as a result from
the provision of a centralized wastewater collection system.
The project will, specifically, target the population in the south of Tehran. This population represents about 65
percent of total population to be covered under the project.
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements:
Project Management. TSC is responsible for management and implementation of the project and for
subsequent operation and maintenance of facilities to be built. TSC is establishing a project management unit
(PMU) within its organization to be integrated with other TSC functions. The responsibilities of the PMU will
include planning, coordination, monitoring and reporting, which at a later stage will be based on the Loan
Administrative Change Initiative (LACI) procedures to be operational by end-2001. In order to support the
TSC/PMU in project management, consultant assistance will be needed for specific tasks:
a) Analysis of the requirements under project management, including functions to be performed under the
LACI procedures, regarding organizational structure, staffing and relevant specialization, and
operational and monitoring tools and systems; and
b) appointment of key  PMU  staff -- project director and  engineering, procurement and
financial/administrative managers, based on conclusions reached in the analysis. The staff should be
selected on competitive basis with contracts to be signed before loan effectiveness. The Bank should
review and approve the appointment of PMU staff.
In the above context the organizational and staffing structures for project management, with key PMU staff
selected, were reviewed prior to loan negotiations. The PMU Project Director will report directly to the TSC
Managing Director. During negotiations: (i) agreement was reached with TSC that, as a condition for loan
effectiveness, contracts will be signed for the following PMU staff -- project director and engineering,
procurement, and fnancial/administrative managers; and (ii) assurances were given by TSC that it will maintain
a project management structure, as required, for the duration of project execution.
Project Financial Management System (FMS). A review and assessment of the TSC and its project FMS are
detailed in Annex 6 and summarized below. The TSC financial management capacity has been reviewed on the
basis of current organizational structure, staffing, accounting practices, financial reporting and internal controls,
auditing arrangements, and institutional framework with overseeing authorities. The major financial and
accounting functions are weak and inadequately staffed. TSC uses a chart of accounts, which has been
developed by the NWSEC for standardized use on a country-wide basis and needs to be further detailed for
recording TSC activities. Currently, TSC produces financial statements and reports once a year. Additional
statements and reports are provided at the request of the management or the Board. The 1997, 1998 and 1999
financial statements were audited by an independent auditor with a disclaimer opinion for all three fiscal years.
TSC, aware of the shortcomings of its FMS and reporting systems, is taking steps for their improvements.
Immediate steps to be taken preceding the full design and implementation of the FMS are detailed in the
assessment and action plan in Annex 6. They include the establishment of a PMU, and the preparation of a
Financial Management Manual (FMM) describing the FMS to be implemented by TSC/PMU. The FMM will
provide the tools for documenting the operation of the project including a standardization of Project



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page  7
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                          Tehran Sewerage Project
Management Reports (PMRs) constituting a key function of the LACI procedures. The FMM will cover: (i)
financial, accounting, and procurement policies; (ii) Chart of Accounts for TSC and, specifically, for the project;
(iii) accounting system and internal control mechanisms; (iv) flow of funds; (v) financial reporting (including
formats of financial management reports); (vi) auditing arrangements; (vii) budgeting; and (viii) organizational
and staffing structures for TSC's financial management functions and for project management. During
negotiations, assurances were given by TSC that a FMM will be prepared by loan effectiveness for PMU and
before July 1, 2001 for TSC, and submitted to the Bank for review.
For implementation of the above steps TSC should, immediately after Board approval of the project, start the
process for: (i) computerization of the FMS; (ii) appointment of independent auditors for the TSC's financial
statements and for the project and special accounts; and (iii) recruitment of key financial professionals. PMR-
based disbursements from the IBRD Loan would not be made unless the FMS is operating satisfactorily, and
key financial staff are in place. During negotiations, assurances were given by TSC that LACI/PMR procedures
will be operational by January 1, 2002, after further review of the FMS by the Bank to ensure accuracy and
reliability.
Furthermore, prior to loan effectiveness the financial management for the project will be thoroughly reviewed
by the Bank team to ensure that more significant weaknesses have been addressed and that the FMS situation
has improved. In addition, a management letter from the auditor, to be submitted prior to effectiveness, will
outline the remedial actions already implemented and remaining deficiencies to be addressed.
Auditing Arrangements. As stated above, TSC accounting and financial management capacity is weak.
Strengthening of TSC/PMU staff will take place only after Bank approval of the loan. An action plan should be
prepared with its focus on developing financial and accounting policies for the project based on international
standards. These policies will be included in the FMM. Audits should be carried out annually by independent
auditors following international standards --IASC. During negotiations, assurances were given by TSC that: (i)
it will have its accounts audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, who will, in addition
to TSC audited financial statements, prepare and submit separate opinions on the accuracy and appropriateness
of the project accounts, Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and Special Account (SA); (ii) the annual audit
reports and the report on project and special accounts will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the
end of each fiscal year; and (iii) the first audit reports will be prepared for the fiscal year ending March 20,
2000, and submitted as a condition of loan effectiveness.
Project Implementation. The TSC/PMU will use a local consulting firm for engineering design and
construction supervision, for which there is an ongoing contract. The Bank has, jointly with TSC, reviewed the
capacity of the local consultant and concluded that the assistance of an international consulting firm (ICF) is
required. The ICF, which will work directly for TSC/PMU, should cooperate with the local consultant with
assignments to be reviewed and agreed as needed. For the ICF, the particular focus of the assignments and
relevant responsibilities should refer to:
*  for the wastewater treatment works: standards, treatment process, design and lay out; cost estimates and
tender specifications; evaluation report and contract documents; and specific issues to be identified
during construction; and
* for the eastern trunk main to be executed as a tunnel: the adequacy of the geotechnical surveys; design
and proposal to construction methods and tender specifications; cost estimates, tender evaluation report
and contract documents; and specific issues to be identified during construction.
A draft request for proposals (RflP) for the ICF has been reviewed by the Bank, and expression of interest from
potential consulting firms has been received. Consultant proposals are in the process of being invited with
award of contract to take place as soon as possible after Board approval of the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page  8
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                         Tehran Sewerage Project
Wastewater Treatment Works. The southern wastewater treatment works (including secondary treatment) are
proposed to be executed in two phases (phase 1 and 2) with each phase to include four modules (one module
could include primary settling tanks, aeration tanks, secondary settling tanks, and sludge handling facilities, but
this will finally be decided upon through tendering). The treatment works, including all four modules, will be
financed under the Bank loan. For subsequent phase a BOT contract would be considered. This matter will also
be further reviewed during a proposed World Bank Institute (WBI) seminar on private sector participation,
which is tentatively scheduled to take place end of year 2000. The contract for the wastewater treatment works
will be awarded on a design-build-operate bases with operation and maintenance to initially cover a time period
of about 5 years. This implies that the design for the treatment works, based on stipulated performance criteria,
will be proposed by the bidders and reviewed at tender evaluation.
For achieving satisfactory effluents for use for irrigation the number of intestinal nematode eggs should,
according to WHO guidelines, be reduced to less than 1/1000 ml. Testing of untreated and treated sewage has
taken place at an existing treatment plant in Tehran -- located in a low income area and presently overloaded by
about 100 percent. The results have consistently shown that the number of nematode eggs for untreated sewage
were below 100/1000 ml and for treated sewage below 1/1000 ml. A testing program, with samples taken at the
influent only (at an existing treatment plant in Tehran), for a 12-month period for coverage of a full annual cycle
is ongoing. By the end of 2000 better data will be available for conclusions to be drawn on the need for any
specific restrictions in the reuse of treated effluents -- to be blended with river water in the proportions of about
1:3 -- for irrigation. Once the treatment works have been commissioned testing for nematode eggs will be
done on regular basis and monitored. During negotiations, assurances were given by TSC that required effluent
and sludge quality standard will be maintained by the contractor for the treatment works.
Implementation Schedule. The extension of interceptors and laterals (referred to as network) will proceed as a
continuous process with connections to be made in pace with network completion. Based on actual experience,
it is assumed that 5 years after a network has been completed in a specific area, 90% of the population will have
connected. The western and the eastern trunk mains will likewise be extended in pace with network completion.
The wastewater will initially be received at temporary treatment works constructed at the site for the permanent
treatment works for a capacity corresponding to the flow from about 200,000 people. Once this capacity has
been exceeded, temporary discharge of untreated wastewater into existing canals will occur. In order to limit
such discharges to a minimum the first two modules of the treatment works, which are on the critical path,
should urgently be commissioned. This is scheduled for 2004 with subsequent two modules to be operational
about one year later. Immediately at the commissioning of the first two modules, monitoring of their
performance and compliance with relevant criteria will commence.
The construction works under the project are scheduled to be completed before end-2005, and the closing date
has been determined to June 30, 2006. The project implementation period should also enable about one year of
operation and maintenance of the first two modules of the treatment works and the achievement of a connection
rate of about 90%. A 95% connection rate is only expected to be achieved by about 2010.
Project Monitoring. A project monitoring and reporting system will be established to additionally include
performance indicators relevant to the project objectives and conclusions reached from the social and
environmental assessments, currently being developed. The terms of reference for the consultants and further
studies to be developed during implementation are shown in Annex 9 and include monitoring of impacts and
benefits on the targeted poor population as well as steps to be taken to ensure that the disturbance and disruption
due to construction are kept within acceptable limits. Such indicators were reviewed and agreed at loan
negotiations and will be further refined under consultant studies to be carried out, which will include monitoring
requirements on industrial effluents, incoming wastewater to the treatment works, and treated wastewater
effluents and sludge and their application for irrigation and soil conditioning. The consultant for construction
supervision will submit weekly/monthly progress reports to PMU, which will be summarized by PMU in
monthly, quarterly and annual reports. The monitoring and reporting system, which will adapt to the
LACI/PMR procedures, will be performance oriented with actual data to be compared with projections made,



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page  9
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                          Tehran Sewerage Project
with justifications to be given for any diversions and with specific issues to be addressed separately. The
monitoring of environmental indicators will be the responsibility of the Department of Environment (DOE),
which is being strengthened to perform such duties (Annex 8). During negotiations, assurances were given by
TSC that (i) quarterly progress reports including environmental and performance monitoring indicators will be
submitted to the Bank for review within 45 days after the end of the reporting period; and (ii) a mid-term
review will be carried out by no later than February 2004.
Land Acquisition. The site for the treatment works has already been purchased and fenced. The acquisition
procedures, as applied, have been reviewed by the Bank and concluded to be acceptable. No resettlement was
required for the treatment site and neither will it be required for other works to be carried out under the project.
In order to create a buffer zone with a depth of up to 500 meters around the treatment site, no housing
development will be permitted in this area according to established local ordinance. The canal for treated
effluents from the treatment site to the Varamin irrigation system has already been constructed and is partly in
use. For tunneling and pipe laying no land acquisition will be required.
Procurement. For project components to be financed by the Bank, the following number of contracts for goods
and works are envisaged: (i) one design-build-operate contract for the wastewater treatment works; (ii) two
contracts for the tunnel, the eastern trunkmain, and 1 contract for the western trunkmain; (iii) about 15-25
contracts for interceptors and laterals (this is out of a total number of about 50-60 contracts); and (iv) about 5-
10 contracts for operation and maintenance and office equipment and vehicles. All goods and works should be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines: Procurement under the IBRD Loans and Credits, January 1995,
revised January and August 1996 and September 1997.
For works, ICB procedures should be applied for contracts with a value exceeding US$5 million, with NCB
procedures to be acceptable for contracts with a value of below US$5 million. For goods, corresponding
limitation for ICB and NCB procedures should be US$0.35 million. For contracts below US$100,000 National
Shopping may be used. For contracts for interceptors, tunnels, and treatment works pre-qualification should
take place.
Consultant services/technical assistance should be procured under the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank/IDA Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997. For contracts with a value
exceeding US$200,000 intemational competition will take place, while for contracts below US$200,000 local
competition will be acceptable.
Thresholds for prior review by the Bank should be: for works -- US$500,000; for goods -- US$350,000; and for
consulting services/technical assistance -- US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individual consultants. For
works the prior review should also include the contract for the western trunk main and for the first two contracts
for interceptors and laterals. Thereafter, post review will take place on a random basis. The TSC/PMU capacity
in handling procurement matters is being developed, and with the implementation of proposed actions for its
strengthening, it should be fully adequate for the project.
Disbursements. Disbursements under the Bank loan will take place against direct foreign expenditures and
local expenditures representing indirect foreign costs. For the conversion of local expenditures into equivalent
US$ amount the TSE rate should apply. During negotiations, assurances were given by the Government that for
disbursements in local currency the TSE rate, prevailing at the time for disbursement, should apply.
A SA will be opened by TSC in a commercial bank (affiliated with the Central Bank of Iran) and will be
operated by the financial manager of PMU. The authorized allocation of the SA will be US$10 million, which
represents, on the average, about 4 months of estimated disbursements from the Bank Loan. The authorized
allocation will be US$3.5 million until the aggregate disbursements from the Bank Loan has reached the
equivalent of US$35 million. The SA should be operated in accordance with the Bank's operational policies.
The replenishment applications should be supported by the necessary documentation, bank statement of the SA



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page  10
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                           Tehran Sewerage Project
and a reconciliation bank statement of the SA against Bank records. The minimum amount for applications for
direct payment and for special commitment will be 20 percent of the authorized allocation to the SA.
The Bank will disburse against SOEs for the following types of expenditures: (i) on contracts for works and
goods not exceeding US$500,000 and US$350,000, respectively; (ii) on contracts for consultants services not
exceeding US$100,000 in case of consulting firms and US$50,000 in case of individual consultants; and (iii) for
PMU contracted staff and training.
Disbursements will initially be made using the Bank's existing disbursement procedures but these should
subsequently be converted and based on the submission of quarterly PMRs with information to be provided
through a FMS that will be developed. During negotiations, assurances were given by the TSC that from
January 1, 2002, Bank's disbursements should be based on the FMS/PMR system. During negotiations,
agreement was also reached on retroactive financing up to an amount of US$8 million for eligible expenditures
incurred after July 1, 1999, on contracts procured according to the Bank acceptable procedures.
Project Supervision. The project is geographically concentrated with one authority responsible for project
implementation. The project is technically complex and institutional development will be needed for achieving
satisfactory capacity in project management and works operation. The requirements on Bank supervision will
initially be significant, but would be less demanding during the latter years of project execution. On average,
three Bank missions per year should be budgeted for with staff, to be involved at various occasions, specialized
in engineering, financial analysis, environmental and social matters, operation and maintenance, and
institutional/privatization development. The total input would be an estimated 140 staff weeks with about 30
staff weeks annually during the first two years and 20 staff weeks annually during succeeding four years.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.
In the preparation of the development program options were evaluated on number and location of treatment
works, alignments for the trunk main systems, and the phasing for program implementation. The proposed first
phase covers high priority areas in the south and north of Tehran. The possibility to reduce the scope of works
under phase I by excluding the northern areas -- which are more affluent than the southern areas -- has been
reviewed but rejected by TSC for reasons such as: present environmental conditions and the high potential for
fund generation to cover the investment requirements. For the project, the following alternatives have been
considered:
a) The construction of trunk mains through the laying of pipes in open trenches or through the
construction of tunnels. It was concluded -- through cost considerations, land availability and traffic
conditions -- that the western trunk main should be laid as pipes, while the eastern trunk main
should be constructed as a tunnel;
b) For the wastewater treatment works alternative treatment processes -- activated sludge, oxidation
ditches, oxidation ponds and aerated lagoons -- and sites were evaluated with the activated sludge
method proved to be the least cost solution. The treatment process will finally be decided upon
through bidding. The site has already been purchased and fenced. Secondary treatment with
proposed chlorination is required because of recipient conditions and the proposed use of treated
effluents, after dilution with river water in the proportions of about 1:3, for irrigation or ground
water infiltration. The river water emanates from the mountains and is in its upper reach used for
Tehran water supply and is when reaching the Varamin plain of satisfactory quality for unrestricted
irrigation, as presently taking place. The blending of river water and treated effluents would not
significantly affect current river water quality;
c) According to required standard/guidelines for use of treated effluents for irrigation, intestinal
nematode eggs should for treated effluents be less than 1/1000 ml, and based on available test



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page  11
County: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                           Tehran Sewerage Project
results this could be expected to be complied with. However, this will be further verified after an
extended 12-month testing period and during regular monitoring to take place after the
commissioning of the treatment works, and in case of any deviations, steps will be taken on the&
possible need to impose restrictions in relevant irrigation practices;
d) Various options have also been analyzed on the handling of sludge, which will be treated
sufficiently to ensure its use for soil conditioning;
e) For the wastewater treatment works considerations have also been given to conventional financing
versus a BOT contract. Although conventional financing is presently decided upon, the TSC is
expected to consider a BOT contract for subsequent extensions under phase 2. For phase 1, it was
also decided to apply the design-build-operate approach in order to optimize the design and to
ensure proper operation and maintenance of completed works; and
f) International standards/guidelines (developed by WHO, EU and FAO) for the discharge of
industrial effluents into the wastewater collection system and for the use of treated effluents and
sludge for irrigation and soil conditioning have been and will be applied.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector issue                     Project                    Latest  Supervision  (Form   590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Improved flood protection for human  Tehran Drainage Project    S           S
life, property and infrastructure.
Improved flood protection for human  Sistan River Flood Works  S            S
life and agricultural areas.     Rehabilitation Project
Other development agencies
N/A
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HIU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learned from ongoing projects have been incorporated into project design and implementation with
particular focus on the following aspects:
a) To establish a strong project management capacity with the use, as feasible, of the private sector;
b) To divide the procurement of the tunnel works into portions to enable local competition, which was
shown under the Tehran Drainage Project to have significant cost advantages;
c) To apply the TSE rate in all transactions; and
d) To ensure adequate cost recovery and counterpart funds.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The borrower commitment is evidenced by: (i) the high priority given to this project by the Government; (ii)
investments already made under phase 1 -- although on a piecemeal fashion because of lack of funds -- covering
extension of wastewater collection systems and temporary wastewater treatment works; (iii) the early purchase
of land for the wastewater treatment works; (iv) the sector reforms that already have taken place (B2 above),



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page  12
Country: Iran. Islanic Republic of                                             Tehran Sewerage Project
and the establishment of the TSC with the main objective to be responsible for implementation of the
development program and for provision of wastewater collection and treatment services in Greater Tehran; (v) a
commitment and willingness to cover full operation and maintenance and investment costs; (vi) the intention to
consider the participation of the private sector in works operation and in investment financing; and (vii)
commitment to proceed with sector reforms as outlined in a letter of sector policy submitted at negotiations.
The borrower ownership is evidenced by: the approach to project preparation that is being carried out through
local funding and mainly through local consulting firms; and the fact that substantial tariff increases have
already been introduced as recommended by the Bank during project preparation. Connection fees were raised
between 100% to 300% and volumetric charges by about 22%, both made effective as of April 1999.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added of Bank support would mainly refer to: (i) addressing a long standing problem i.e. lack of a
wastewater collection system for Tehran within an appropriate policy and financial framework; (ii) its
contribution to institutional and organizational development of the sector, particularly, in strengthening or
developing the capacity of TSC and PMU; (iii) the promotion of private sector participation and the
involvement of international consultants; (iv) the provision of foreign exchange that is essential for the
purchase of mechanical and electrical equipment for the wastewater treatment works; (v) raising the level of
awareness and attention to environmental and social issues; and (vi) the competition to be created by
international contractors for major civil works contracts.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV= between US$ 153 million and US$385 million; ERR= between 17 and 25%.
Economic Justification. The proposed project has an economic rate of return of between 17% and 25%. The
lower estimate is derived from a benefit stream which excludes cost saving for absorption well rehabilitation and
construction and includes only estimated revenue from connections to the system (as an indicator of willingness
of customers to pay) and additional output from increased acreage irrigated by treated effluent minus input
costs. The higher estimate is based on an assumption that cost-saving benefits are additional to the revenue
benefits.
TSC has provided impressive evidence that there is sufficient consumer demand and willingness of consumers
to pay expected connection and usage charges to justify the use of expected revenue as a proxy for user demand
and willingness to pay. This evidence is based on experience from wastewater networks that have been
constructed in different geographical areas with different population mixes in terms of socio-economic
characteristics. In each case, 95% of the eligible households have connected to the sewers within 5 years. Many
people will avoid future costs associated with absorption wells as a result of the project. Since this benefit is, to
some extent, responsible for the willingness to pay, the lower estimate of economic return is provided.
Since TSC, with the project, will be operating close to the financial margin (See Tariff Analysis) in the early
years, the rate of connection to the system is the most sensitive risk factor affecting the project. TSC is aware
of this risk and is prepared to manage the physical components of connecting customers using contractors for
the purpose. The residual risk is that potential customers will not connect at the anticipated rate. This risk is
mitigated by the evidence from experience cited above and the unsatisfactory performance and excessive cost of
the existing on-site facilities.
The financing plan for the project does not call for any direct subventions from government. TSC has made
substantial tariff increases during project preparation. Projections made based on the new tariffs show that there
would be no need for any bridging finance, for both operations and investments, in the first few years of the
project as previously envisaged.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page  13
Country: Iran. Islamic Republic of                                          Tehran Sewerage Project
The conclusion reached is that the evidence of a substantial demand for sewer connections is supportable by
willingness to pay of potential customers. The recommended tariff scenario will result in lower real charges for
connections over time and TSC has already arranged to finance household connections on credit terms to be
repaid as part of the sewage bill. During negotiations, assurances were given by the Government that financing
of household connections on credit terms will be continued, as required, through project implementation.
Tariff Analysis. The tariff analysis which resulted in recommendations to substantially increase the volumetric
tariff and simplify the existing tariff structure has both an economic and financial justification. The current
tariff does not match the average incremental cost (proxy for the marginal cost, including planned investments)
and should be increased further in order for customers to take this cost into account in their usage choices. As
mentioned above, TSC has significantly increased its connection fees and tariffs during project preparation
(between 100% to 300% for connections and about 22% for volumetric charges, both made effective as of April
1999). The Bank acknowledges the efforts made in adjusting tariffs and Government objective to ensure full
cost recovery as stated in the Letter of Sector Development Policy dated March 4, 2000 (Annex 2.1). In
addition, it was agreed to introduce a more appropriate tariff structure from March 21, 2002 to be based on
recommendations to be made in a tariff study that will be carried out.
2. Financial (see Annex 5); FRR= 12 %
Past and current financial performance: The review of audited financial statements of TSC, the Borrower,
and TPWSC , the mother company, for the years 1997-1999, summarized below, indicates that both companies,
despite their insufficient internal cash generation, have positive cash position, and have a debt-equity ratio of
about 25 percent, reflecting a sustainable debt to capital structure. The above performances are due to the
importance of revenues collected from connection fees, which (recorded as equity) represent the main sources
for investment activities. In addition to the connection rights, TSC receives transfers from the mother company,
TPWSC, representing 15 percent of its total annual operating revenues and connection fees.  During
negotiations, assurances have been obtained from the Government that an annual transfer from TPWSC to TSC
of, at least, 15 percent of its total annual revenues and connection fees will be maintained during implementation
of the project Both companies have good collection rates and their arrears owed by private consumers are less
than 3 months of billings, while those due by Government administration are higher. The total amount of
arrears represents about 5 months of billing for TSC and 8 months for TPWSC. However, the audited financial
statements show operating losses, despite the annual increase of tariff of about 22 percent during the last three
years. The main reason for this low operating performance is the complexity of the tariff structure and its
inadequate level, and the accounting treatment of some major transactions such as connection fees and
depreciation. One should note that the cash flow has remained positive despite operating losses. A summary of
the last three audited financial statements for both TSC and TPWSC is presented in the following table.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page  14
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                                            Tehran Sewerage Project
Tote reues                         2088ut       1959           318031         116057           144659            2099701
Total expenses                     32 | 43      3786          48309           1422887          170377            2149614
Operating loss                    -1157 |      -1827 |        -5129 |-16919 |-17292 |-60364
Internal cash feneration m   ng739 1           13415 s       -2864s  i       -123407 4          -51771 ra-1t07e a      1
Connectionf ghts                   3113    Ti20065 w          22211 b         207796 b         167537 w          332233 o
transferafrom   Th tTPWSC650 a21654 l                         57708 o  a  a                           l c
Investments    h                  14772 a      63604 p        86839 t          81641 t         145828   i        o146027na
Cash                                789        1818           8100              3933             7827             13765|
ICudrent Assets  e                16545 t      41798 a        86295 d         223935 r         311838 r e450411en
Fixed Assets                      17733        81176         136053 |1513695                  1621046           1767073|
ITotal Assets              1       34363 1     123044 1       248884 11737630 11932884 12217484|
Current Liabilifies                9809 11     18221 c        24903 |          45422 1          80000 o           102226 T
Long tenTn debt                    5600        15100 1        56950 1          26480 1          60439             45237
Equity                            18954        89722 1       167031          1665728 1        1792445           2070021 
1Total Equity & Liab       |       34363 |     123043 |       248884 |1737630 |                1932884 |2217484|
The TSC financial management system, as stated in paragraph 4 and detailed in Annex 6, remains the weakest
aspect of TSC organization and structure. This weakness has been highlighted by the auditors, whose opinion on
TSC's financial stat-ements is a disclaimer. This includes issues of assets' ownership, revenue recognition,
transactions  with  the TPWSC, and lack  of appropriate accounting procedures and intemal control. TSC
management has agreed and prepared an action plan to address this situation taking into account intermational
standards, including the introduction of adequate procedures to meet the requirements under the LACI. This also
includes measures to address auditors'comments and recommendations.
Future financial performance: An analysis to assess the TSC future financial position and performance was
carried  out for the period 2000-2011 covering the first two phases of the Teheran wastewater development
program. The financial projections were prepared on the basis of assumptions detailed in Annex 5. These
assumptions are concentrated on the first phase (2000-2006) with focus on the detailed implementation program
for connections/network and related fees, anticipated transfers from TPWSC, and tariff adjustments. The model
applied for the financial projections will be used as the basis for monitoring TSC financial performance and
future projections.
The results of the analysis, sumnarized in the table below, assume: a decline of the inflation rate from 24
percent in 1999 to 8 percent in 2004 and with 15, 20, 20 and 15 percent for the years 2000, 2001, 2002 and
2003, respectively; and an exchange rate of 8,200 Iranian Rials to US$1 in year 2000, about 15,366 in year
2006, and 20,564 in year 201f1. The total number of connections for water and wastewater would increase from
834,108 and 21,127 in 1999 to 992,647 and 234777 in 2006, respectively, and the total disposal of wastewater
and volume of water sold would increase from 11.36 mnillion m3 and 616.55 million m3 in 1999 to 125.87 and
735.17 million m3 in 2006, respectively. Volume of wastewater to be disposed of would represent 17 percent of
water sold in 2006. Unaccounted for water is assumed to remain at 30 percent over the project implementation
period. Operational revenues are derived from monthly fixed and volumetric charges. The fixed charge for
wastewater is equal to the fixed charge for water supply for each category of customers, while the charge for
wastewater is proportional to the volumetric charge for water supply (from 70% for residential customers to
100% for industrial and commercial customers).



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page  15
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                          Tehran Sewerage Project
Increases in connection fees (between 100% and 300%) and volumetric charges (22 percent) became effective in
April 1999. Additional annual increases are also projected with 22 percent for the period 2001-2005 and 30
percent in 2006. Operational expenses, including depreciation, for TSC would be totally covered from year 2007
onward by revenues. Income before depreciation will remain positive from 2001 to 2011. The working ratio
will improve steadily from 141 per cent in 1997 and 208 per cent in 1999, due to adjustment made in 1999, to 92
per cent in 2000 and 43 percent in 2006. The operating ratio will deteriorate, due to provisions for assets
depreciation and exchange rate losses, from 155 percent in 1997 to 261 per cent in 1999, but will improve
thereafter to reach 93 percent in 2007 and 39 per cent in 2011.
In addition -- provided that TSC will achieve its target on number of connections and that TPWSC will regularly
transfer to TSC 15 percent of its total revenues including connection fees -- TSC would reach its objectives on
self-financing, servicing its debt, and covering its operating costs including depreciation and financial charges.
The 15 percent from TPWSC has so far been paid to TSC on a regular basis. The projections also show that TSC
would have a positive cash situation during the period 2000 to 2011, and consequently it would not require any
additional sources besides the Bank loan for executing its investment program. Debt ratio is expected to improve
over time. It will go up from 23% in 1997 to 42% in 2004, and then decrease to 37% in 2006 and remain at an
acceptable level thereafter. During negotiations, agreement has been reached that TSC will not contract any
other medium or long-term debt (other than to finance commitments under the project) during the project
implementation period, unless TSC's financial position indicates that it has the capacity to do so.
The internal sources, which will contribute to the financing plan, will depend on actual collection of connection
fees for water, as well as wastewater, and on the TPWSC revenue situation. The financial performance of TSC,
as mentioned above, very much depends on capital ("Public Rights") contributions from TPWSC over the
period 2000 to 2011. Revenues collected from these two sources represent the bulk of TSC internal cash
generation, and the principal source of self-financing. The pace of connecting subscribers to the wastewater
collection network has been reviewed with TSC's technical department and consultant and appears to be
feasible. Connections to an area, where a wastewater collection network has been conmmissioned, will be
installed over a six year period as follows: 5% the first year, 30% the second year, 20% for the third and fourth
years, 15% the fifth year, and 10% the sixth year. In addition, alternative solutions have been reviewed with
MOE and TSC in case of cash shortages during project execution. Two of these alternatives, which have been
elaborated upon in Annex 5, consist of issuance of bonds and provision of credit facilities by TSC to assist new
subscribers to connect to the network. In 2006, the net internal cash generation represents -114.72 million Rials,
while for the same year resources from TPWSC and connection fees are projected to reach 911.77 million. It
was also agreed during negotiations that TSC will provide the Bank, on or about February 1, 2004, a foreign
exchange risk scheme to protect itself from potential depreciation of Iranian Rials against the US dollar or any
other currency. Over the project implementation period, additional financing for investments would be a loan
of US$145.0 million from the Bank. A summary of TSC financial statements is presented below:



TSC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(In Millions of Current Iranian Riala)
Description             19I7        1998        1999       2000        2001        2002        2003        2004        2005        2006         2007        2008        2009        2010        2011
Audited    Audited     Audited    Estimate    Foeast    Fomast    Forecast    Forecast    Forecast    Forecast    Forecast    Foreast    Forecast    Forecast    Forecast
Income Statement Items:
Unit Volume(000 m3)                         4,000       8,500      11,361      17,614      29,920      43,726      61,939      82,830     104,519     125,870     146,428     166,517     186,112     205,746      225,682
Revenues                                    2,088       1,959     _ 3,180       9,704      20,818      37,225      64,573     105,638     163,124     255,765     364,196     506,968     693,620     938,670    1,260,437
Operating exp. before dep.                  2,947       3,617       6,609       8,894      16,024      29,515      49,307      70,580      96,231     109,367     119,938     131,845     144,988      156,938     164,371
Total operatmg expenses                     3,245       3,786       8,309      16,713      30,085      58,682     106,863     170,874     245,266     300,344     339,569     374,660     413 ,762    454,052      487,676
Operating Income (loss)                    -1,157      -1,827      -5,129      -7,009      -9,266     -21,456     -42,290     -65,236     -82,142     -44,579      24,627     132,308     279,858     484,618      772,761
Net Income (loss)                           -1,090     -1,257      -3,145     -33,476      -9,266     -21,456     -42,290     -65,236     -82,142    -176,024     -131,500     -26,180     122,066    326,922      614,522
Funds Statement Items:
Intenal Sources                            13,024      55,134      51,271     184,323     232,728     397,590     514,072     685,118     766,213     797,052    1,016,244    1,247,742    1,527,164    1,869,619    2,321,294
Bonrowings                                  5,600       9,500      41,850          0       44,690     240,075     526,296     585,617     320,452     321,327     256,524           0           0           0           0
Total Sournes                              18,624      64,634      93,121     184,323     277,418     637,664    1,040,368    1,270,735    1,086,665    1,118,379    1,272,769    1,247,742    1,527,164    1,869,619    2,321,294
Capital Expenditures                       14,772      63,604      86,839     105,454     309,758     637,986    1,041,265    1,268,212   971,461     600,597     439,600     498,340     549,900     459,000      169,650
Loan repayment                                 0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0      152,999     152,999      152,999     152,999     152,999
. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
Total Applications                         14,772      63,604      86,839     105,454     309,758     637,986    1,041,265    1,268,212   971,461     600,597     592,599     651,339     702,899     611,999      322,649
Change in cash                               789        1,030       6,282      25,935     -32,340       -322         -897       2,523     115,204     517,783     680,170     596,403     824,266    1,257,620    1,998,647
Balance Sheet Items:                                                                               _
Cash                                         789        1,818       8,100      34,035       1,695       1,373        476        2,999     118,203     635,986    1,316,156    1,912,559    2,736,825    3,994,445    5,993,092
Cument Assets Ltess C. L                    6,736      23,577      61,392      36,072      71,209      67,045      93,961     157,508     384,595    1,024,385    1,763,074    2,420,647    3,322,311    4,710,512    6,903,314
Net Fixed Assets                           17,730      81,173     136,050     261,016     557,980    1,169,189    2,157,046    3,331,341    4,162,739    4,584,652    4,820,568    5,096,773    5,404,677    5,601,109    5,491,816
Total Assets                               34,363     123,044     248,884     352,221     690,584    1,354,756    2,438,242    3,714,502   4,726,496    5,729,116    6,705,303    7,655,830   8,881,714   10,459,414   12,503,152
Debt                                        5,600      15,100      56,950      30,483     101,640     341,715     868,011    1,453,628    1,774,080    2,095,407    2,272,665    2,045,934    1,892,935    1,739,936    1,586,937
Accumulated sumplus (loss) & Reserves       -809       -2,641      -5,253     -38,152     46,773      -66,951    -107,026    -169,047    -247,105    -418,503    -544,974    -565,674    -437,630    -104,314      516,769
Connections rights & TPWSC transfers       19,763      92,363     172,284     304,827     574,391     961,540    1,490,091    2,204,338    3,020,428    3,932,201   4,856,021   6,037,229    7,271,752    8,676,068   10,291,493
Total Liabiltin and Equity                 34,363     123,043     248,884     352,221     690,584    1,354,756    2,438,242    3,714,502    4,726,496    5,729,116    6,705,303    7,655,830    8,881,714   10,459,414   12,503,152
Financial indicators                                                                                         .
Working ratio                               141%        185%        208%        92%         77%1        79%         76%         67%         59%         43%          33%         26%         21%         17%          13%
O3perating ratio                            155%        193%        261%        172%       145%         158%        165%       162%         150%        117%         93%         74%         60%         41%         39%
Debt Service Coverae                 I       NA          NA          NAI         NA         22.52       19.03       11.03        8.27        6.83        6.97        3.13        4.68        5.79        7.22         9.17
1Cusrent Ratio                               1.69        2.29        3.47        1.66        2.16        1.57        1.50        1.70        3.15        9.54       15.50        18.50       22.48       32.891      64.95
Debtasof total caPital                       23%         14%         2%1%                   16%/        28%         39%         42%         39%         37%          35%         272%                    17%1         13%
Expenditurasfinanced by l . S                81%N         8     7%   59    4   100%         69%1        64%         52%1        58%         898%        100%       1001%       100%1        0          10%         100%
-1
Op s
CDs
an
CD



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page     17
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                               Tehran Sewerage Project
Sensitivity Analysis.
A sensitivity analysis has been carried out to test the TSC financial capacity to achieve its project implementation
and development objectives. The analysis considers four scenarios, which are: the first one, a 15 percent instead of
a 22 percent (the base scenario) tariff increase; the second one, a 22 percent tariff increase and a 20 percent
reduction in number of connections; the third one, a 22 percent tariff increase and a 20 percent reduction of
TPWSC's transfers; and the fourth one, a 22 percent tariff increase and a 20 percent reduction in number of
connections and in TPWSC transfers. The analysis indicates that the financial performance of TSC is more
sensitive to changes in number of connections and tariff adjustments, than to amounts transferred from TPWSC.
The results, summarized in the table below, show that the TSC performance will be very sensitive in all the
scenarios and, especially, for the one combining reductions in number of connections and TPWSC transfers. It is
expected that TSC would run operating losses throughout the projection period. However, its working ratio (total
expenses before depreciation and interest charges) will remain positive. In terms of cash position, TSC will have
cash shortage from 2001 to 2005 in all scenarios. In all cases, TSC will be able to service its debt and to keep its
debt ratio below 50 percent with a maximum of 46 percent.
Working ratio %                       92       82       89     92      85     80      65     54     45
Operating ratio %                    172      153      178    198    205    203    178    150    126
Cash (billion Rials)                  34      -7.3   -38.6  -110   -244   -327    -82    242    377
Debt ratio %                          10       17      30      42     46      44     44      42     35
Workina ratio %                       92       83       89     88      79     70      51     39     31
Operating ratio %                    172      156      178    192    191    179    141    112       89
Cash (billion Rials)                  34       -16     -58   -126   -226   -243    117    614    996
Dset ratio n                          10       17       30     42 ts46 fm43          44      39     32 a
Working ratio %                       92       77       79     75      67     59     43      33     26
Operating ratio %                    172      145     158    165    162    150    117        93     7.4
Cash (billion Rials)                  34       -15     -40    -73   -108    -39    423   1036   155.2
Working ratio %                       92       83       89     88      79     70 1 51        39     31
Operating ratio %                    172      156      178    192    191    179    141    112       89
Cash (billion Rials)                  34       -32    -100   -199   -337   -400    -96    334    636
Debt ratio %                          10       17       30     42      46     43      44     39     31 
Conclusion.
Analysis of current financial situation for both TSC and TPWSC as well as of projections regarding their revenues
and expenditures, shows that there is sufficient cash generation to finance the operations of TSC including debt
service resulting from a Bank loan. This is, however, subject to regular transfers from TPWSC to TSC and annual
tariff and connections fees increases of about 22 percent during project implementation.
Fiscal impact:
The project has no net fiscal impact on the Government. It is assumed that the project would be self-financed and
does not require any subsidies from Government budget.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page      18
Country: Iran. Islamic Republic of                                                Tehran Sewerage Project
3. Technical:
The project is technically sound, and the only technical issue that remains, and that will be further clarified as more
data will be made available, refers to the possible need to impose restrictions in the use of treated effluents for
irrigation. The design is based on applicable intemational standards/guidelines and on demand projections that are
acceptable, and relevant project components represent least cost solutions. Although the treatment works have
already been designed, this may change and will be subject to an evaluation of different proposals to be submnitted
through tendering. This process will ensure the selection of the most feasible solution taking into account
investment as well as subsequent recurrent costs.
In case projected number of connections will not materialize, the extension of the second phase for the wastewater
treatment works will be delayed correspondingly. The quality of treated effluents is expected to be maintained,
since a treatment process, to be selected, would be able to handle potential variations in the quality of incoming
wastewater. The discharge of toxic/harmful industrial effluents into the wastewater collection system will be
regulated with the provision of, as required, on-site pretreatment facilities or avoided through the relocation of such
industries. At present, there is no nationally established standards/guidelines on the discharge of industrial effluents
into a wastewater collection network. The issue is being addressed with relevant international standards/guidelines
expected to be adopted. During negotiations, assurances were given by the Govemment: that appropriate
standards/guidelines on the discharge of industrial effluents into a wastewater collection system will be adopted
prior to January 1, 2003 and subsequently enforced; and that no industries should be connected to the wastewater
collection system discharging for the treatment process toxic substances.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
TSC has a sound institutional structure, committed management and Government support. However, it is a small
and recently created organization, and its ability to manage a major investment program and a fast-growing asset
base and to mobilize required financial resources remains untested. The TSC recognizes its shortcomings, which
are expected to be corrected through technical assistance and training, that might be provided through a twinning or
similar arrangement. This would enable TSC to reach its full potential as necessitated by the project.
b. Project management:
Although a major objective for the establishment of the TSC was to provide project management, this capacity
remains to be strengthened, since major investments have still to materialize. However, the structure for project
management is being established. During negotiations, it was agreed that contracts for key PMU staff, to be
approved by the Bank, should be signed prior to loan effectiveness, with PMU to be fully operational shortly
thereafter. In the meantime, project management is handled through an interim arrangement including consultant
assistance that, for the purpose of project preparation, is acceptable.
5. Social:
The project will have its main emphasis on the southern part of Tehran, where the majority of low income people
reside. It is also in the southern part where the enviromnental conditions are most precarious with poorly
performing on-site sanitation facilities with wastewater overflowing into the streets and severely polluting surface
waters. In conclusion, the project is properly targeting the poverty groups, to which most of the benefits will
accrue. An action program, included in the environment management plan will address the specific social issues
(as outlined in Annex 9), to be developed and implemented during project execution, the action program has been
reviewed by the Bank. The action program will include: (i) comprehensive surveys on ability and willingness to
pay; (ii) identification of relevant indicators; and (iii) monitoring of such indicators to assess the social impacts of
the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page    19
Country: Iran. Islamic Republic of                                          Tehran Sewerage Project
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category [x] A [ ] B  []C
Major: Major environmental issues are: (i) until the wastewater treatment works have been commissioned,
untreated wastewater, from the collection system to be constructed under the project, will be discharged into
surface water canals; however, the time period should be limited to 1-2 years and present water quality in the
canals, which are virtually functioning as open sewers, is not expected to be unduly affected; (ii) the possible
discharge of toxic/harmful industrial substances into the public wastewater collection system because of lack of
enforcement on the provision of required pre-treatment facilities; and (iii) the use of treated effluents for irrigation
and of treated sludge for soil conditioning could, in case of any adverse diversions in effluent quality, cause a health
threat to people and livestock.
Other: Other issues would mainly refer to inconveniences to be experienced during construction such as traffic
diversions, truck movements, noise and dust, which are common to all construction sites.
a. Environmental category:   [X] A    []   B    []   C
b. Justification/Rationale for category rating: The A rating would refer to the construction of major wastewater
treatment works and the use of treated effluents and sludge for irrigation and soil conditioning.
c. Status of Category A assessment:  EA start-up date: 1993
Date of first EA draft: 1993
Current status: An updated EA report, dated September 1999, has been
prepared.
d. Proposed actions: Proposed mitigatory actions will ensure that potentially adverse environmental impacts are
reduced to acceptable levels. These actions include:
*  Enforcing, if need be, restrictions in the use of treated effluents for irrigation in case relevant WHO
Guidelines cannot be complied with;
*  Drying of sludge for one year, before its use as a soil conditioner, to achieve an elimination in
nematode eggs. Otherwise, the TSC would finance the construction of sand filters. This was agreed
during negotiations;
*  Providing connections only to those industries where the effluents, in case of toxic/harmful substances,
will be effectively pre-treated; and
*  Coordinating with the Tehran Transportation and Traffic Organization of the Municipality of Tehran to
assure proper planning in traffic diversions to facilitate the laying of pipes.
Environmental issues and proposed mitigatory measures with appropriate institutional and monitoring
strengthening are addressed in the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) shown in Annex 8. The main
Environmental Assessment report, prepared by TSC with the assistance of international consultant, is included in
the Project File. An Environmental Monitoring Committee (EMC) composed of members from concerned
Government authorities, will ensure the implementation of the mitigatory actions and will address any additional
issues that might be identified during project execution. An environmental consulting firm will be hired to design
and implement an environmental management system, which will include environmental monitoring and
institutional strengthening. During negotiations, assurances were given by TSC on the implementation of the EMP,
as well on the environmental indicators attached in Annex 1.2.
e. Status of any other environmental studies: A survey has been carried out on industrial effluents with an
assessment of on-site pre-treatment requirements. This has concluded that only 33 major industries (with a
discharge exceeding 5m3/day) are located in the project area, and these will not discharge any substances that may
impact on the performance of the wastewater treatment works or the use of treated effluents and sludge for
irrigation and soil conditioning.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page    20
Country: Iran. Islamic Republic of                                           Tehran SeweTage Project
f. Local groups and NGOs consulted:
The project has been discussed with representatives from municipalities, industry, and local NGOs. Public
meetings were held in April and September 1999 (with Bank missions being present) with the participants
expressing their support and the following major viewpoints: (a) the project is urgently needed; (b) TSC should
ensure that quality work will be carried out; (c) the capacity of TSC/PMU will need to be enhanced; and (d) proper
arrangements should be made for effective inter-agency coordination. The need to hold public participation
workshops on a more regular basis was also emphasized, and this is proposed to be institutionalized by TSC/PMU.
g. Resettlement
[ ] Summarize issues below (e.g., resettlement planning, compensation)
[]To be defined (indicate how issues will be identified) [X] None
No resettlement will take place and the site for the treatment works (110 hectares) has already been purchased and
fenced. The land was voluntarily sold by the farmners over a long period ending 1992. The farmers were paid the
fair market value of the land, produce and buildings (no dwellings were present), with payments agreed in a
consultative manner with cornmunity leaders taking the initiative to conclude a deal. A judicial appeals process
was available and a representative of the judicial system supervised the transfer of land.
h. Borrower permission to release EA:   [X] Yes    [] No  []N/A
i. Other remarks:
Around the site for the treatment works, a buffer zone up to a depth of 500 m has been created by local ordinance to
avoid any future developments. Furthermore trees and bushes will be planted to provide the required buffer space
to reduce the effects of odor.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if participatory
approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Discussions are continuously taking place with property owners on the extension of interceptors and laterals and on
payment of connection fees.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Farmers' associations have been consulted regarding present irrigation practices and any changes that might occur
with the availability of treated wastewater effluents and sludge. The farmers have expressed a demand for
additional irrigation water and for treated sludge.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project would be ensured through: strengthening the capacity of the TSC and
introducing its operation on commercial basis with full cost recovery; involving the private sector in operation and
maintenance of the wastewater treatment works; a demand for treated effluents and sludge for irrigation and soil
conditioning; and commitments made reflected in local contributions for covering the investment costs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page    21
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                               Tehran Sewerage Project
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                                             Risk Ratine    Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
That an efficient project management capacity can M             To be provided  through the
be established.                                                 recruitment   of   individual
consultants   on   competitive
basis.
That TSC can be properly prepared for its future M              Contracting to the private sector
role in the area of large-scale operation  and                  will take place, as appropriate,
maintenance.                                                    and technical assistance will be
provided, as needed.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
That local sources of financing will be made MIS                As need arises, bridge financing
available as needed, that connection rates will be              or issuing of bonds should be
achieved as projected, and that appropriate tariffs             resorted to, and credit facilities
are maintained to ensure cost recovery and financial            will be  made  available  for
viability of TSC.                                               payment of connection  fees.
Appropriate  covenants  have
been included in the loan
agreement.
Overall Risk Rating                              M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk                                       Type of Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
Risk
The creation of traffic congestion through the 0    M             Careful planning  and  close
massive construction  of interceptors and                         coordination     with    the
laterals.                                                         Municipality of Tehran.
The discharge of harmful industrial effluents P      M            Industries are presently being
into the wastewater collection system.                            relocated from the city center
to outside Tebran. Regulations
would be in place to enforce
the   construction   of  pre-
treatment   facilities   where
needed.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Govemance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other),Risk Rating -
H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page    22
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                         Tehran Sewerage Project
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
o TSC will formalize the arrangement regarding the Project Management Unit with the appointment of key staff:
project director and engineering, procurement, and financial/administrative managers;
a  TSC will prepare and implement a Financial Management Manual (FMM) for the PMU to include: Chart of
Accounts for the Project; procedures to enhance its internal control capacity to ensure accuracy and
appropriateness of project accounts;
 TSC will provide a detailed procurement plan for the project for the first year of project implementation; and
* TSC will provide an audit report acceptable to the Bank for the fiscal year ending March 20, 2000, and a
management letter from its auditor on the implementation of the above actions.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
During negotiations, assurances were given:
a By TSC that it will maintain a project management structure, as required, for the duration of project execution.
* By TSC that LACI/PMR procedures will be operational by January 1, 2002.
 By TSC that: (i) it will have its accounts audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, who
will, in addition to TSC audited financial statements, prepare and submit separate opinions on the accuracy and
appropriateness of the project accounts, SOEs and SA; and (ii) the annual audit reports and the report on project
and special accounts will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
3 By TSC that it will ensure that required effluent and sludge quality standard will be maintained by the
contractor for the treatment works.
*  By TSC that: (i) quarterly progress reports including environental and performance monitoring indicators will
be submitted to the Bank for review within 45 days after the end of the reporting period; and (ii) a mid-term
review will be carried out by no later than February 2004.
e By the Government that for disbursements in local currency the TSE rate, prevailing at the time for
disbursement, will apply.
*  By the Government that financing of household connections on credit terms will be continued, as required,
through project implementation.
o By the Government and TSC that a more appropriate tariff level and structure will be introduced from March
21, 2002, to be based on recommendations to be made in a tariff study that will be carried out (provided for in a
supplemental letter).
a By the Government that it will ensure that TPWSC will transfer to TSC annually, at least, 15% of its total
revenues.
*  By TSC that it will not contract any other medium or long-term debt (other than to finance obligations under
this project) during the project implementation period.
* By the Government that the availability of local funds other than those generated by TSC will be assured.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page    23
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                          Tehran Sewerage Project
*  By the Government that appropriate standard/guidelines on the discharge of industrial effluents into a
wastewater collection system will be adopted by no later than January 1, 2003 and subsequently enforced; and
that no industries should be connected to the system discharging for the treatment process toxic substances.
*  By TSC that it will implement the EMP.
*  By TSC that it will provide the Bank, on or about February 1, 2004, a foreign exchange risk scheme to protect
itself from potential depreciation of Iranian Rials against the US dollar or any other currency.
During negotiations, agreements were also reached on:
*  Project's performance and monitoring indicators (provided for in the Minutes of Negotiations).
*  Retroactive financing up to an amount of US$8 million for eligible expenditures incurred after July 1, 1999 on
contracts procured according to Bank accepted procedures.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are being completed and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[x] The draft Project Implementation Plan has been reviewed and concluded to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:  The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader: Mohammed Benouahi (MNSID)
Sector Dir    . Jean-Claude Villiard (MNSID)
Country Director: Inder Sud (MNCMS)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page          24
Country: Iran, Islamnic Republic of                                               Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Su,mmar               Key&,     i       1uARd                               CriiA"            ussompti0n2
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                              (Goal to Bank Mission)
I Improvements in public health    1. I Decline in water-related  Health statistics.  1.1 That priorities are established
through the provision of        diseases.                                             and funding can be generated.
satisfactory sanitary and
environmental conditions.
2. Achievement of adequate cost   2.1 Number of utilities to    Statistics issued by the   2.1 That adequate support will be
recovery in the provision of utility  achieve financial self-sufficiency.  NWSEC.     provided by the MOE and
services.                                                                             NWSEC.
Project Development Objectives:                                                       (Objective to Goal)
1. To provide satisfactory     1.1 Area and population         Progress and           1. I That the demand for
wastewater collection and       coverage.                       monitoring reports    connections will be sustained.
treatment.
2. To provide treated wastewater   2.1 Quantities to be delivered                     2.1 That satisfactory effluent
for irrigation.                 and areas to be covered.                              quality can be maintained.
2.2  Reduction in nematode
eggs for treated effluents and
sludge.
2.3  Increase in irrigated areas.
3. To safeguard ground water    3.1 Quality of ground water                            3.1 That absorption wells can be
sources for water supply use.   source at individual wells.                           closed and eliminated as planned.
4. To develop the TSC into an   4.1 Training to be carried out                        4.1 to 4.3 That Government
autonomous entity to be operated    4.2 Tariffs to be adjusted as                     support will be forthcoming.
on commercial basis.            required.
4.3 TSC to maintain positive
cash flows
5. To facilitate private sector  5.1 Private sector inputs.                           5.1 That private sector interest
participation.                                                                        can be promoted.
Outputs:                                                                              (Outputs to Objective)
1. Construction of interceptors  1.1 Construction of about 2390    Progress and       That an efficient project
and laterals.                   kms of interceptors and laterals.   monitoring reports.  management capacity can be
established.
2. Construction of western and  2.1 Construction of 10 km of
eastern trunk mains.            pipeline (western trunk main) and
of 21km of tunnel (eastern trunk
main).
3. Coristmction of wastewater   3.1 Provision of a treatment
treatment works.                capacity of 450,000 m3/day.
See Annex 1I.1 for quantified indicators



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page          25
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                               Tehran Sewerage Project
4. Strengthening of the TSC     4.1 Development and                                  That TSC can be properly
capacity.                      implementation of: a business                         prepared for its future role in the
plan; operations and maintenance                     area of large-scale operation and
guidelines; and cost recovery and                    maintenance.
tariff policy.
4.2 Recruitment of high level
professionals in
financial/economic and planning
units.
4.3 Number of employees per
1000 connections
4.4  Implementation of FMS
4.5  TPWSC transfer of funds
4.6  Debt service coverage
4.7  Internal cash generation
4.8  Debt to equity ratio
Project Components/Sub-         Inputs: (budget for each                             (Components to Outputs)
components:                     component)
1. Interceptors and laterals.  US$209.3 million               Project                That local sources of financing
implementation and    will be made available as needed,
2. Western and eastern trunk    US$46.6 million                disbursement reports.   that connections will be achieved
mains.                                                                               as projected, and that appropriate
tariffs are maintained to ensure
3. Wastewater treatment works.    US$64.0 million                                    cost recovery and financial
viability of TSC.
4. Operation and maintenance    US$2.7 million
equipment
5. Technical assistance,        US$17.4 million
consultant services, PMU and
training.



Annex 1.1
Key Performance Indicators
(Target versus Actual)'
Base line       2000         2001          2002         Mid-term        2004       End of Project
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators            1999               _                                    2003                         2006
Target  Actual      T    A     T      A       T      A       T      A     T       A      T       A
Proiect DeveloPment
Obiectives
1. To provide satisfactory  1.1 Areas covered (ha)                     2,500     3,500      5,300         7,300          10,100        13,100         16,500
wastewater collection and  1.2 Population served ('000)                 639        654        756           927           1,211          1,592         2,003
treatment.                1.3  Number of service connections
('000)                                    21        33          55            81            115            154           195
1.4 Decrease in diarrhea occurrence (%l)                                                                                       10
(Pilot area south Tehran)
2. To provide treated     2.1  Quantities of treated effluents                                                                           225            280
wastewater for irrigation.    ('000 m3/day)
- Nematode eggs in treated effluents
(nos/1000 ml)                                                                                                          <1
- Nematode eggs in treated sludge
(nosi100 g)                                                                                                            <1
- Increase In Irrigated areas (ha)       35,000                                                          40,000         45,000
3. To develop the TSC into an  3.1  Training to be carried out
autonomous entity to be       - annual budgeted amount spent (%)                  100        100            100            100           100            100
operated on commercial    3.2 Tariffs to be adjusted
basis.                        - tariff increases: volumetric
charges %                                 22       22         22             22             22            22             22
- connections fees %                     100-300    22         22             22             22            8              8
3.3 TSC to maintain positive cash flow                  +           +             +              +             +              +
4. To facilitate private sector   4.1  Private Sector Inputs
partidipation.               -construction (% of total)                  100      100        100            100            100           100            100
- technical assistance/consultant
services (% of total)                     80      100        100            100            100           100            100
- Project management (% of total)          NA       100        100            100            100           100            100
D)ata given refer to tbe end of respective calendar year,



Base line        2000          2001            2002          Mid-term        20004        End of Project
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators           1999                                                         2003                            2005
Target  Actual    T      A      T       A       T      A       T       A       T       A       T       A
1. Construction of         1.2  Construction of laterals &
interceptors and laterals  interceptors (km)                                      308         469             548            610             436             20
2. Construction of westem  2.1  Western trunkmain (km)                              5           5
and eastern trunk mains.   2.2  Eastem tunnel (km)                                  3           5               8              5
3. Construction of waste   3.1  Wastewater treatment work
water treatment works           (000 m3/d)                                                                                                   225            450
4. Strengthening of the TSC    4.1  Submission of:
capacity.                       - Operation & maintenance
guidelines                                                                   X
- Cost recovery & tariff policy                                 x
4.2  Recruitment of high level
professional staff
- Chief Financial Officer                         X
- PMU staff                                       X
4.3  Number of employees per 1000
connections                              9       6             4               3              3               2               2
4.4  Implementation of FMS                                                          X
4.5  TPWSC transfer of funds (%)                      15            15             15              15              15              15
4.6  Debt service coverage                    N.A    N.A           22.5            19.3           11.03           8.27            6.83
4.7  Internal cash generation %               59     100            69             64              52              58             89
4.8  Debt to equity ratio %                  25.4    10.3          16.2            27.6           38.6            41.7            39.0
Inputs
1. Interceptors and laterals    1.1  Costs (US$ million)         .               26.83        40.80           47.74          53.06           37.94           2.45
2. Westem and eastern trunk  2.1  Costs (US$ million)                             4.44        13.89           17.27          10.99
mains.
3. Waste water treatment   3.1  Costs (US$ million)                                                           11.45          20.68           20.91          10.92
works
4. Operation and           4.1  Costs (US$ million)                                                            1.34            1.37
maintenance equipment.
S. Technical assistance and    5.1  Costs (US$ million)                          2.25          3.76            4.08            3.14           2.19            2.08
consultant services.
.  .                 _    _          _             .               _ ...                          _               _                W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
r ne



Annex 1-2
Tehran Severage Project
Performance Indicators
Years                                  1999        2000        2001        2002         2003        2004        2005         2006        2007
(base case)
Operational
Number of employee (TSC)                   200         205          229         258         295         338          383         427          470
Nunmber of sewer connections             21127       33127       55227        80927      114777       153827      194527      234777      273727
Totalpopulation (Tehran)               7031902     7172540     7315991    7462311    7611557        7763788      7919064     8077445     8238994
Population witi sewer connections       639129      653639      755630       926640     1211318     1592346      2003414     2399668     2692799
Waste ater cqllected (m3/year)        11360963    17614033   29920228   43725552    61938984    82830429   104519299   125869777   146427647
Waste water treated (m3/year)          1265248     1761403     5984046    13117666    18581695    74547386    99293334   125869777   146427647
Population vith sever connections(%)         3           5            7           9           9           20          10           10          10
Wasteswater collected(%)                     2           3            5           7           9           12          is           17          19
Wastewater treated (%)                      II          10          20           30          30          90           95         100          100
Number of employee per sewver consectic      9           6            4           3           3            2           2           2            2
% Wastewater being rcuse                                                                                 200         1OO          200         100
Lengh of new networks (km)                 170         370          300         400         450         450          400         250          400
Number of new sewer connections           4254       12000       22100        25700       33850       39050        40700       40250        38950
Finanjcial
Average tariff/watcr (rials/m3)            418         526         644          788         964         1179        1533        1875         2293
Average tariff/sewerage (rials/n3)         458         586         718          880        1078         1319        1718        2103         2574
Average subscription late (rialstconinecti(  46012   56957       70026        85901      105215       128756      167537      204860      250456
Connection fee iiglhtsper unit)        5944120     7251697     8847070    10793426    13167980    14221418    15359131    16587862    17914892
Average cOst forsewage(rialsnm3)           582         505         536          675         796         852          921         869          829
TPWSC transfert (nillions rials/year)    65288       87683       109302      133312      163193      200038      237279       293568      351454
Working ratio (%)                          208          92          77           79          76          67           59          43           33
Operatingratio(%)                          261         172          145         158         165          162         150         117           93
Debt covelage seCvicC                      NA          NA          5.60       19.03        11.03        8.27        6.83         6.97        3.83
Inten1al cash generatios (%)                59         100          69           64          52          58           89         200          100
New inestelcnts (billions rials)                                    299         617         995         1185         859         230
Ilealtli
Decrease in dianihea occurrence (pilot area sotitl Teltran)                                TBD                      10%                      30%
Envlronimellt
BOD level for treated effluents (mg/1)                                                       NA                      25                       25
Coliform level for treated effluents (mpn/lOOmml)                                           NA                    c1000                    c1000
Cadmium level in treated sladge (mg/Kg)                                                     NA                       20                       20
Nenatolte eggs in treated sludge (MPN/IOOg dry solids                                       NA                       <1                       <1
Neniatodc eggs in treated effluents (g/1)                                                   NA                       <1                       c1
IncreasO in irrigated area in Varamin .  5000                                                                     40000                    45000
QuantilY of wastewater reuse (MCM/4          0                                                                       80                      120
ODs'
C oo,



Prqect Appraisal Document                                                 Page 29
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                               Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 2
Tehran Sewerage Project
Detailed Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$209.3 million
INTERCEPTORS AND LATERALS
The laterals and interceptors will collect wastewater in the northern and southern areas and partly
in the central area for discharge into the western and eastern trunk mains. Areas to be covered are
5 ,600 hectares (in the north), 10,000 hectares (in the south) and 900 hectares (in the center) with
a total population of about 2.1 million. The laterals will include connections up to the property
line with remaining portion of the connection to be carried out by individual property owners and
at their costs. Specific characteristics for laterals and interceptors are summarized as follows:
*  The diameters for the laterals vary between 150 to 300 mm and for the interceptors between
400-800 mm.
*  The pipe material will be PVC or concrete as to be decided through bidding.
+  The total length of pipes to be laid is about 2390 km as divided between interceptors about
116 km and laterals about 2274 km.
*  The local pipe manufacturing capacity is adequate for the requirements under the project.
*  The number of contracts to be awarded is estimated at about 60 for an average contract
amount of about US$3.5 million.
Project Component 2 - US$2.9 million
WESTERN TRUNKMAIN
The total length of the western trunk main, which has been or will be laid as a pipe, is about 24
km out of which about 14 km have already been laid. The remaining portion of about 10 km will
be constructed during 2000/2001. The trunk main, to be made of reinforced concrete, varies in
size between 900 to 2400 mm.
Project Component 3 - US$43.7 million
EASTERN TRUNKMAIN
The eastem trunk main, to be constructed as a tunnel, starts at the junction of Shariate and
Pasdaran roads and moves down to Shahr-e-Ray, where before reaching the treatment works it
connects to a culvert with a length of 4 km, that already has been constructed. The total length of
the tunnel is about 20 km. The size of the tunnel is: 2000 mm (length about 4 kim) in the northern
part with the proposed construction method to use mobile road header with cast in-situ concrete
lining; and 3000 mm (length about 16 km) in the southern part with proposed construction
method to use shield with built in road header and pre-cast segmental linings. This will not
exclude any bidder from submitting alternative options, which may also result in the reduction of
the size of proposed 3000 mm tunnel.



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 30
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
The tunnel will be constructed at depths ranging from a minimum of 9 meters to a maximum of
35 meters. At three points the tunnel passes under metro stations, and there are several direction
changes and vortex drops along the route. The fall along the total length of the tunnel is about
300 m with a gradient of 0.3 to 0.5 percent. The tunnel is proposed to be constructed with 7 drop
structures, because of the steep gradient, and with 49 shafts for access during construction and
maintenance.
Project Component 4 - US$64.0 million
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS
The wastewater will be treated to a quality that after dilution with surface water would enable
unrestricted irrigation. If this cannot be achieved consistently, rules and regulations for restricted
irrigation will be enforced. Secondary treatment has been proposed with chlorination for
disinfecting treated effluents, with provisions made for the extension of tertiary treatment, if
required. The standards of effluent quality have been determined to be: faecal coliforms less
than 1000/100 milliliter (ml) effluent; intestinal nematode eggs less than 1/1000 ml; total
nitrogen not to exceed 30 mg/l; and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and suspended solids
(SS) not to exceed 25 mg/l and 35 mg/l respectively. The required microbiological standard for
treated sludge would be less than 1 intestinal nematode egg per 100 grams of dry solids. The
chemical standards are based on the EC directive on waste water treatment, while the
microbiological standards are based on the WHO guidelines for the safe use of wastewater in
agriculture. The effluents must also comply with the limits on potentially toxic elements (PTE)
for irrigation waters as set by FAO.
The treatment works will in the first phase be constructed for a capacity of 450,000 m3/day or 5.2
m3/second. This capacity will be doubled with the extension of the second phase. The
wastewater will be collected and flow by gravity to the site for the treatment works where inlet
pumping plants will be located, which, in case of secondary treatment only, will enable the
treated effluents to flow by gravity to the Varamin irrigation system through the existing outlet
canal. If tertiary treatment will be added, an outlet pumping station will be needed to lift the
water to the outlet canal.
A least cost analysis has been carried out of 4 different treatment processes, i.e., activated sludge,
oxidation ditches, oxidation ponds and aerated lagoons. All processes would be suitable for
producing an effluent of adequate quality for unrestricted irrigation, but with the possibility that
the process with activated sludge may not achieve required reduction in number of nematode
eggs. A comparison was made using the present worth method taking into account investment
and long-term operation and maintenance costs as well as evaporation and seepage losses for the
different alternatives. The activated sludge process tumed out to be the least cost and most
feasible solution. This process has been used successfully for large populations worldwide and
based on results from pilot plants in Tehran and from actual operation in Esfehan, it should
satisfy the local conditions. However, the tendering for the treatment works will be done on
design-build-operate basis, and the treatment process to be finally decided upon will be subject to
conclusions to be reached at tender evaluation. Present design is based on the activated sludge
process, which is also described in more detail in below paragraphs.
For the treatrnent of sewage sludge the following options have been analyzed: the application of
mesophilic and thermophilic anaerobic digestion or pre-pasteurization with mesophilic anaerobic
digestion; and the use of mechanical dewatering devices or open drying beds. It was concluded
that mesophilic anaerobic digestion with open drying beds represent a least cost solution and has



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 31
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                     Tehran Sewerage Project
been proposed for implementation. The treated sludge would also be stored for one year before
its application.
Treatment works based on activated sludge will consist of: inlet works with preliminary
treatment; primary sedimentation tanks; aeration tanks;  secondary sedimentation tanks;
disinfecting facilities; and thickeners, digesters, drying beds and storage areas for sludge
handling. The aeration tanks are designed on a plug flow basis with preceding anoxic zones to
allow nitrification (conversion of ammonia to nitrate) and partial denitrification (conversion of
nitrate to gaseous nitrogen). This will ensure effluent quality, as required, and good settling of
the sludge in the secondary sedimentation tanks.
The treatment works will be constructed in 4 modules or parallel trains including the following
components:
*  Inlet works comprising: an inlet pumping station with because of the hydraulic conditions
separate sumps and pumping plants for the western and eastern trunkmains; and bar screens,
detritors and Parshall flumes for flow measurements;
*  Preliminary treatment works including aerated grit chambers with screenings and grits to be
washed and de-watered on site for disposal to a controlled landfill site;
*  Circular settling tanks with co-settled primary and surplus secondary sludge to be scraped to
central hoppers for desludging;
*  Aeration tanks including preceding anoxic basins that will receive settled sewage and return
activated sludge. The anoxic basins will provide for a relatively short period of low intensity
mixing without the introduction of additional oxygen;
-  Circular secondary settling tanks with the sludge to be recycled to the aeration tanks and with
surplus sludge to be conveyed to the primary settling tanks;
-  Effluent disinfection will take place through chlorination with an average dose of about 5
mg/l and with the first portion of the existing canal for treated effluents to provide for
adequate detention time;
*  Sludge thickening tanks with succeeding holding tanks and digestion tanks. Gas produced by
the anaerobic digestion process will be used for heating the sludge, with excess gas to be
vented to the atmosphere;
* Sludge drying beds with succeeding storage bays for one year storage;
* The power requirement for phase 1 is estimated at 14 MVA to be supplied from the power
station close to Shar-e-Rey. Three diesel standby generators are proposed to be installed for a
total output of 4.8 MW to provide sufficient power for the operation of essential equipment
during main power failures; and
* The laboratory, to be a part of the treatment works, will ensure monitoring of effluents for
pollution indicators (BOD5, COD, suspended solids, ammonia, nitrogen, phosphorus, and
heavy metals), operational parameters of the activated sludge process, and the quality of the
sludge.
Preliminary studies, including analysis of samples taken on raw and treated sewage (from existing
treatment works in Tehran), have indicated that there would be no need for tertiary treatment with
the main objective to reduce the number of nematode eggs to an acceptable level. Similar tests
have been carried out for existing activated sludge treatment works in Esfehan with the same
conclusion reached as in Tehran. Tertiary treatment, commonly designed as a filter plant, would
also necessitate the construction of an outlet pumping station. However, based on available date
tertiary treatment cannot be justified at present stage, but if data from actual operation -- once
when the treatment works have been commissioned -- would show unacceptably high level of



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 32
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                Tehran Sewerage Project
nematode eggs, a decision will then have to be made on tertiary treatment or as an option to
enforce restrictions in the use of treated effluents for irrigation.
EFFLUENT REUSE
The treated effluents will be utilized under the existing Varamin irrigation scheme. Out of 70,000
hectares (ha) identified as suitable for irrigation on the Varamin plain an area of 50,000 ha has
already been developed, although only about 35,000 ha are currently cropped. The treated
effluent will enable the full utilization of the 50,000 ha, which, of its kind, will become one of the
largest irrigation schemes in the world. Altematively, the cropped area could remain at its
present size with the treated effluents enabling increased volumes of raw water to be diverted
from the Jaj-e-Rud for potable water supplies.
The following summarizes salient data on the use of treated effluents for irrigation:
*  The water to be used for irrigation emanates from surface water from Jaj-e-Rud - which is of
good quality -- ground water, and treated effluents. The average dilution of treated effluents
to surface/ground water would be about 1:2.6. During the non-irrigation season surface water
and treated effluents (about 40% of annual production) will be used for ground water
recharge;
+  According to proposed cropping pattem, wheat will cover 27% of total area, cotton 30%,
cantaloupe melons 8%, and sunflowers and alfaalfa 6% each; and
*  It is assumed that irrigation will continue to be carried out by surface irrigation methods, with
minimal or no use of sprinkler or drip irrigation. The latter methods are also restricted by the
seasonally high silt loads in the Jay-e-Rud River.
USE OF TREATED SLUDGE
The close proximity of the proposed treatment works to agricultural areas provides a useful
output of sludge to be produced. The sludge, that should be applied to cotton and cereal crops
only, will be applied at a rate of 8 tons per hectare per year, the lowest rate which is considered
feasible. The strategy would be to maximize the area, to which the sludge will be applied, to
about 12,000 ha or about one-quarter of the irrigation scheme. It is proposed that sludge will be
applied to a different quarter of the land area every year, so that a particular field would only
receive sludge every 4 years. This would ensure that over a long period of time, the sludge
should be applied uniformly to all land, while at the same time it will minimize the application
per hectare of potentially toxic elements.
Project Component 5 - US$2.7 million
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
Operation and maintenance for the treatment works will be contracted for as well as for portions
of the wastewater collection system. TSC will supervise the contractors and through its own staff
operate and maintain remaining works. This project component would thus cover operation and
maintenance equipment for works to be operated by TSC and possibly for equipment to be owned
by TSC and to be leased to operation and maintenance contractors (particularly for the collection
system) as needed. The funding requirements for this component is tentative and will be
analyzed more in detail by TSC in the context of preparing an operation and maintenance strategy
for works to be constructed under the project. The equipment would mainly include: water jets,
closed circuit television equipment, rods and pumps. Furthermore, funds will be made available
for office equipment and vehicles.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 33
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
Project Component 6 - US$17.4 million
CONSULTANT SERVICES/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Objectives and scope of works under various consultant assignments are briefly summarized as
follows:
Project Management:
Objectives: to use the private sector to the extent feasible; to strengthen the TSC\PMU in areas
where in-house capacity would not readily be available; and to provide flexibility in staff
deployment.
Scope of works: to appoint staff on contract basis with required specialization; to establish and
implement a project management and reporting systems; to review and comment on reports to be
prepared under different consultant assignments; and to advice TSC in its decision makings.
Strengthening of TSC:
Objectives: to develop TSC into an autonomous entity to be operated on commercial basis; to
expose TSC to operational procedures applied by well experienced public utilities; and to
provide for in-house as well as overseas' training.
Scope of works: to analyze for TSC present and future functions and present and required future
capacity; to analyze the extent to which experience, working approaches, and procedures in other
utilities would be applicable to TSC; to develop a strategy and work plan for transfer of
knowledge; and to implement the work plan.
Engineering:
(relevant only to the international consultant)
Objectives: to complement the local engineering capacity in areas where shortcomings have been
identified; to introduce recent technological developments in advanced wastewater treatments;
and to ensure that treatment process, design and specifications for treatment works and tunnels
are appropriate and up to date.
Scope of works: to prepare for the treatment works turnkey tender specifications, evaluate
proposals and assist in the preparation of contract documents; to review contractor's design
proposals; and to review design and tender specifications for tunnels.
Construction Supervision:
(relevant for both the local and international consulting firms)
Objectives: to ensure that contracts are executed according to specifications; through a reporting
and monitoring system, to keep the TSC informed on progress made and on issues encountered;
and to make revisions in design as needed.



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 34
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
Scope of works: to provide an organizational and staffing structure compatible with changing
requirements; to prepare and implement a reporting and monitoring system; and to perform all
functions required under construction supervision.
Preparation/Implementation of Environmental Monitoring Systems:
Objectives: to ensure that standards on environmental protection will be maintained; to develop a
monitoring system that can give early warnings for corrections to be made; and to provide the
basis for sustainable development of wastewater collection and disposal works.
Scope of works: to establish a comprehensive monitoring and reporting system with emphasis on
wastewater and sludge treatment and reuse; to develop an organizational and staffing structure
for monitoring and reporting; and to develop a framework for coordination among concerned
sector authorities.
Updating Sewerage Development Program:
Objectives: to review recent developments and future demands; to project future requirements;
and to provide an updated framework for developments to take place.
Scope of works: to review projections made on population growth, urban development, industrial
relocations, and water demand; to assess works carried out and proposed for implementation; to
update the demand; to prepare an implementation schedule with phasing of works to be executed;
and to prepare cost estimates and economnic and financial analysis.
Engineering Phase 2:
Objectives: to provide for a continuation of works completed under phase 1; and to ensure
optimal utilization of works under phase 1.
Scope of works: to review experience made under the execution of works for phase 1 and the
extent to which this should be incorporated for phase 2; to establish design data and criteria; to
prepare drawings and tender specifications; and to update cost estimates and implementation
schedule.
This could also include the preparation for a BOT contract with objectives and scope of works as
follows:
Objectives: to appoint a fully qualified consultant for the preparation of RfPs for invitation of
proposals from pre-qualified BOT contractors; to prepare RfPs for attracting wide interest and
for enabling the submission of appropriate and adequate proposals; and to ensure that fully
adequate contract documents can be prepared.
Scope of works: to mobilize a fully qualified team with required specialization in legal matters,
finance and engineering; to prepare RfPs and draft legal agreements; to pre-qualify potential
BOT contractors; to invite and review proposals; and to prepare contract documentation.



Coun(2': 1"lrn. lsl:mrn,A RePublic 01=                                       Tehran   Page 35
.Anne-x  21                              erage project
Letter of Sector Polic.
~      ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~A .
r. Villiard
Dir-sor
InfrastCture Developrnent Group
Middle East & North Afica R2gion                   --
The World Ba.ikzk
tr Seet, N. W,                                                       -
Wasji tcin D.C. 20433                                                    .Ct7. P  
''. ' iWJlOn>peab~~~~~~~~  .' .l t ;  :, ,-J-~_r_
CC: .lr-. Inder sud                     j                           -
Ar. 3cnouahi
Dear.    Viflj:d
2ro?s c T=7Ihran Sewage Project - Sector Objectives
you Lue aware the  .ehran Sewage Copany affiiated to this fisny has been working wich
Wio g            : e pDopose  Jehran Sewage Projct During the preparion we havi;er wir=
varous WB mission's. Thc purpose of hIs letler is to ser out our obj crivesn;hewranWas-
and Sewage sector ard iri4j':4cx cO clmiotnent bowards their aawnm                   Wae
c~- 9overnrr.ent's S-yew D>eCptr m    eima       E eoea1p;nt.e   ft  Denet
As   enqphasi ne!lt  S-e ~  D    ~     pai~   1  c   the  O v er0                c~~
As emph3sl tfherel, the wider provision of potable water and sanitation in both vumal and
urba^n areas both as a  eans of tacking one of the ror causes of poverry and as a rneans of
ibijpevt   public health, vs a high pnitraioor the govem'memn   n foulanpg Policis &r this
sectort'w  erefbrej tomwir3dsnx, ince to'beaiseg tahecu . SOW(I Our main
objective is therefore tr incsgase the avai1abidiby of all water and sanitation servi es, and to do so
effic                    eand f-or serv-     iQ= 
innay ande suthaisnauiditd by dchevan fors levces frorn users. and encourages economic
efIcaiaedc atd -Sto lst apPriit opt  xranhievethion obectjve' we recOgSnize that service3 need to be
xnaog ed  t heloerapronae                     le'vel, that aLre accoluntable to user-s for g~ood an-d



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 36
CouLntry: Iran. Islamic Republic of                                          Teran Sewerage Project
.............    ......
Until the early 1990's the sector was centralized and largely dependent on govemment fiunds for
investment, however a program of reforms implemented during this decade as detailed below has
placed services provision on a more commercial and user orientated basis, and established a
sound platform for firther policy development:
MOCLk-round:
Total Population of Iran                  60,055,488 (1996 STATISTICS)
Number ofLUrban Areas                    : 614
Population of Urban Areas                 36,817,789
Number of villages                       : 68,122
Population of Villages                   : 23,026,293
Unsettled population                     : 21 1,406
Urban Water Supply Coverage               96.2%
Urban sewage collection Coverage         :14.6%
Nation wide Health Statistics Vs Urban water and sewage network expansion:
year              | 1991 [ 1992   9i3    1994    1996    1996   1S97
__ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ __   __ _ ___ tS .    _1_2..4_1
1Populatlon (1000 people)        !3,892 1*55.   -56,356 |57,588  -58,820  60,055 |51.2s7
Urban Water Networic (Km)          52,0G0  53,200  54,720  57,450  S1,100  63,950   i719
Urban Sewer Network (Km)-          2,500   2,769  3.013   3.653    4.653   5,703   6.903
No. of contagious disease cases   1 9            1
diagnosed in clinical examination  I              ,         3      9       7        .
No. of corisgious disease cases   65--  2         6 I2  452,30   432,093262           6S
diagnosed In laboratories        161,892         586,    452,30   432,509 352.42 2
population conTtagions diise ses tot25%j2.% 
Fa                     ~      ~~ -     -    . -          _ -_ -.  
1popuiatlon                      X 4.7 7%         3 34% ! 2. S9%    2.42%   1 36s .  t.25%
Estimated population
The figures are for modem ser network. There are also about 4000 Km of traditional sewers whicn
are not inciuded in above d=.
The expansion of water and sewer networks may not be crcdited for the entire drop in contagious
disease cases which has many contributing factors, but the network's growth and the resulting
increase in sanitation, ha6 certainly a major share in reducing the disease cases.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 37
Co)untry: Iran, Islsk,mc Repuiblic of'                                   Tehran Sewerage Project
A,~~~~~~~~~~~    
i..oSYAso.....
he 1991 Act
Background of Government policies:
Before the 1991 Act, lihe water and sewage sector from source to end use and in both urban and
rural areas was being governed by eleven water boards each covering one ofthe river basins in
the country. With the growth of population especially in urban centers, this proved to be too largc
a division to attend to every localized need and shortcomings especially in large urban cenLers, In
addition the urban water and sewer networks and treatment plants did not have a unified set of
standards and regulations, and since many different private and public companies and
organizations were involved, it was almost imposible to regulate and control the quality of
services. Therefore to overcome that problem and be able to attend to the shortcomings in
localities, on the one hand, and to have people and tnunicipalities involved in water and sewage
matters, on the other hand, and expand and rehabilitate the networks witl the help and finances of
people, smaller divisions were needed. The 1991 Act set the ground for creation of provincial and
municipal water and sewage companies who are responsible to deal with the sectors
requirements aL the local level, and the water boards which were left to deal with water resources
and supply, in a broader contet.
Descriptioa and major clauses under the Act:
*The 1991 Act on the establishment of water and sewage companies reorganized the II
Regional Water Boards (previously in charge of urban water and sewage services together
with water resources management) into entities focused only on resource development and
management in each of the country's 11 river basins. The RW13s manage catchments and
multi-purpose dams, allocate water resources permits, and provide raw water to industrial,
agriculumi and muocipal wers.
The 1991 Act also provided the basis for creation of Water and Sewage Companies
(WSCs), for every province in the country, along with smaller companies at city level. T'he
Act provides for the WSCs to be set up as financially autonomous corporate bodies,
operating under Iran's commercial code. WSCs are responsible for transfer, treatment and
distribution of water along with collection and treatment of sewage.



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 38
Tehran Sewerage Project
Country: Iran, Islamuic Rcpuhlic *ot
S. 2=o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
' )-gos-I ...  .J ,,,0
...................  ... , .j;
 To increase and improve service levels and standards;
* To promnote eflluemt reuse;
 To prote  the environmernt; and
 To encourage and facilitate private sector partciat^iorL
c) Based on issues and sftrategy thec following development objectives have been established:
lThe major development objc2tive of thc proposed Telu-an Swcvveage Pfroject is to improve te
environmental conditions in Greater Tehnria with a presenit population of about 8 mlillion, to
be achieved thuough:
tProvision of satisfactory waste water collection and treatment facilities for about 2-
million poeople covrering an area of about 16,500 hectares;
Improvements in public healthl and reduction of surface and ground water pollution;
-Plrovision of trea:ed waste water for irrgation of about 15,000 hectares on the Varamin
Plain;
 Development of the Tehran Sewagxe Company(TSC) into a fuslly autonomous entity to be
operate on commercial basis, and
 Faciltation of private sector partcipation in the sector through contracting out most of
TSC operations, including works, supcsision and studies.
d1 Basedt an the development objectives the Governent is coinmitted to:
* Increase, as required, connection fees and tariffs to ensure adequate recovery of operation
and investment costs;
* Ensure transfirs from TPWSC: to TSC of 15% of its total revenues.
+ Plrovide ,uaarantews to enable TSC to issue bonds or raise commercial loans for potential
bridge fianacing in case of any temporary inadequate revenue generation-, and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 39
Country: Iran. Islamic Rcpubli: ot
.................... .  r,,
* MaintaininS and olTering a credit Aacility for house connecuons.
With best regards.
Yours Sincerely,
GH.R. Manouchehri
Deputy Minister for Watcr and Wastewater Affairs
finistry of Eney



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 40
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 2.2
Tehran Sewerage Project
Sector Institutions and Strategy
Sector Organization and Policy
1.   Water and wastewater services in Iran are under the purview of the Ministry of Energy, with a
Vice-Minister specifically in charge of the sector. Until the early 90's the sector was centralized,
engineering-driven and largely dependent on Government funds for investment.  The legacy of that
period is still perceptible (for instance, through low tariffs), but a program of reforms implemented
through the decade has placed service provision on a more commercial and user-oriented footing, and
established a sound basis for fturther policy development:
* The 1991 "Act on the establishment of water and sewerage companies" reorganized the 11 Regional
Water Boards (RWBs) (previously in charge of most urban water supply and wastewater services
together with water resources management) into entities with focus on water resources development
and management in each of the country's 11 river basins. The RWBs manage catchments and multi-
purpose dams and sell raw water - at a token m3 rate so far - to industrial and municipal users.
* The same Act also provides for the creation of a Provincial Water & Sewerage Company (PWSC) for
each of the country's 21 provinces. Smaller Water and Sewerage Companies (WSCs) could also be
created for limited geographical areas within a Province. The Act enables the establishment of
PWSCs/WSCs as financially autonomous corporate bodies, operated under Iran's Commercial Code.
Under the Act, common stock in a PWSC/WSC can be held by private investors with prior approval
by the Minister of Energy, though so far most shares are held by sub-national government (provincial
and municipal) or state-owned entities - a situation likely to persist, as the PWSCs/WSCs, which
have been exempted from paying corporate income tax for their first 15 years of operation, are also
barred from paying dividends.
- To promote the development of the incipient PWSCs, the State Water and Sewerage Engineering
Company (SWSEC) was restructured by the Act into a supporting body, responsible for setting
engineering and customer service standards in the sector, proposing organizational models,
developing training programs for sector employees, promoting exchange and dissemination of best
practices, monitoring utility performance indicators, and advising utilities on demand for major
development projects. SWSEC is chaired by the Vice-Minister for water resources (Ministry of
Energy), and finances its operations mainly from a 1% charge on the revenues of affiliated utilities.
SWESC plays an informal role in rates regulation, by advising the Ministry on tariff adjustment
proposals submitted by the PWSCs.
* Under the 1991 Act, price regulation for the PWSCs was to be performed by the cabinet-level
Economic Council.  This was found to be cumbersome, and led to serious under-pricing as the
Council was more focused on keeping inflation indicators down than on keeping the utilities financed.
A 1998 Act (on financing sewerage) streamlined the rate review process. Rates proposed by a PWSC
are now reviewed by a 3-member advisory committee at the Province level, and finally approved by
the Minister of Energy. The 1998 Act also authorized PWSCs, which have sewer expansion, sewage
treatment, or water supply network renewal projects (essentially all PWSCs/WSCs), to collect a 10%
surcharge on all their service bills and connection fees, with the proceeds earmarked for capital
expenditures.
2.   Given its macro-economic constraints, the Government is keen to ensure that its development plans
for the sector - top priorities in urban systems, acute in Tehran, are extension of wastewater collection



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 41
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
and disposal services, water conservation and wastewater re-use for agriculture - can be accomplished
with minimal fiscal outlays, and preferably through mobilization of long-term private and foreign direct
investments. This strategy, though it builds on the accomplishments of the 1991 Act, will require further
change including:
*  Likely a gradual real increase in user charges, combined with streamlining the overly complex tariff
structure, re-balancing across categories (most residential users are now subsidized), and rebalancing
from fixed connection charges to variable consumption charges. Policies being drafted for the next
5-year plan would go in this direction.
*  More predictable price regulation, either by formally indexing tariffs on inflation, or by pre-agreeing
on a multi-year schedule of real tariff adjustments, enabling utilities to plan ahead and to take long-
term financial commitments;
* Facilitating private investment in the sector, which could be done initially through Government and
multilateral support to a few pilot projects. These pilots would help build investor interest, identify
roadblocks requiring legal or regulatory reforms, and prepare models which could be subsequently
applied in other cities or projects.
The proposed Tehran Sewerage Project will help develop and initiate this strategy.
Water and Sewer Utilities in Tehran Province
3.   The Tehran Province Water and Sewerage Company (TPWSC) is responsible for water and
wastewater in the capital city and its surrounding province. TPWSC is a corporate utility, as per the
1991 Act, with shares held by provincial cities (33%), SWSEC (10%), TRWB (39%) and SatKap, a
private company, (18%). Its accounts are audited by independent, private auditors. It has competent
technical staff and management, and benefits from relatively low costs of a gravity water supply system
(using the city's natural slope) and drawing water resources with low treatment costs from mountain dams
operated by the Regional Water Board. Labor productivity (at about 5 employees per thousand water
connections) is mediocre by world standards but best in the MENA region. Main areas for performance
improvement include:
*  Service pricing: TPWSC's revenues are sufficient to support the company's operations, but generate
little cash in view of its large investment needs in system renewal and modernization, and - because
metered consumption tariff for most residential users are extremely low - do not encourage water
conservation. As discussed in Annex 4, gradual but significant adjustments in both tariff levels and
structure would support the Government's objective of making the utilities self-reliant, mobilizing
investment resources with no fiscal outlays, and encouraging a rational use of water.
*  Unaccounted-for- Water (UFW). TPWSC does not have a good control over its UFW, that in the
absence of reliable production metering, is estimated at about 30%. Local surveys suggest that
fraudulent or unregistered taps exist but are not a widespread problem. More critical areas include
pressure management and meter quality/adequacy. The lack of systematic pressure monitoring and
management, given the city's terrain, results in locally very high pressures which promote early asset
wear, leaks and customer wastage.  Many meters have passed their useful life, are of mediocre
quality, or may not be best fit especially for industrial users, leading to significant under-registration.
These two areas have been identified by TPWSC management as priorities for future action.
*  Non-core businesses.  TPWSC owns equity in a number of companies. Most of them fit its core
business of W&S services (e.g. decentralized municipal or zonal WSCs, as discussed in the next
section) but some do not: for instance, divesting shares in its construction, engineering and chemical
affiliates would free capital which could be used for infrastructure investment. In addition, it would
enhance transparency in procurement decisions for inputs sold to TWPSC by these affiliates, and help
develop a domestic private industry in the sector.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 42
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                Tehran Sewerage Project
4.   Two organizational features in TPWSC are of interest:
*  Corporate decentralization.  To promote accountability and autonomy of its line management,
TPWSC commenced in 1996 a program for "spinning off" line units into affiliate companies to
operate as independent profit centers, but with TPWSC retaining majority shareholdings. These
include, in addition to non-core businesses mentioned above, municipal WSC in three towns of the
Tehran province (these three operate essentially as independent utilities, with technical support and
guidance from TPWSC), six zonal distribution companies within Greater Tebran, and the Tehran
Sewerage Company (TSC).  The zonal water companies are each in charge of a section of town
including 1-2 million population and operate as service contractors to TPWSC (who keeps user
revenues). The services include registering new customers, reading meters, distributing and
collecting bills, and maintaining networks, and are paid according to an established schedule of unit
fees out of which the zonal company has to meet its costs. The transparency and incentives created
by this new arrangement have boosted performance in key areas of customer management: for
instance, bill collection efficiency increased from 75% in 1995 to 95% in 1998.
*  User equity. TPWSC's policy for new connections requires customers to make a significant up-front
payment, which for most user categories exceeds the irmediate costs of a connection. The proceeds
of these excess payments support system-wide development costs. In turn, the customer acquires
"rights" in the company. These rights, accounted for as a class of equity, do not create voting rights
and are not tradeable (other than by transferring the property which has the connection) or redeemable
(50% gets repaid in the unusual case of a connection being removed, rather than transferred to another
user). To emphasize the "cooperative" nature of the company, the entire re-valuation surplus in a
recent major asset revaluation was credited to this user equity account (rather than to reserves or
common stock). As a result, TPWSC's balance sheet has a negligible amount - in current rials - of
shareholder funds and a mass of user rights, which may affect perceptions about its creditworthiness.
A similar structure is expected for TSC.
The Tehran Sewerage Company (TSC)
5.   TSC, the executing agency and operator for the proposed Project, is a subsidiary established in
1996 by TPWSC to carry out its ambitious program of wastewater collection and treatment service
expansion, and to operate such facilities once they are built. Like TPWSC, TSC is a corporate utility set
up in accordance with the 1991 Act. It operates under Iran's Commercial Code, financially autonomous
and audited by independent private auditors. TSC's common stock is owned to 80% by TPWSC, with
the remaining 20% owned by two of the municipal WSCs in the province (which are controlled by
TPWSC). In addition, sewer connection suscriptors have non-voting, non-tradeable "user equity" rights
on the company's balance sheet, as discussed above for TPWSC and detailed in Annex 5.
6.   TSC has started its operations on a small scale, with a population of only about 640,000 connected
to sewers, and currently about 150 staff (70 in O&M of nine existing small wastewater treatment plants
and sewer networks, and the rest in administrative and project units). As it grows to a much larger
operation - with an objective to increase its number of users 40-fold -- TSC has the option of evolving
either into a ponderous public enterprise doing most things in-house, or a much leaner structure focused
on planning, finance and project management and contracting out execution and operation tasks to private
firms. Experience from other countries suggest that the second route, which TSC management prefers, is
more effective.
7.   TSC is already contracting out all studies, works supervision and construction, and has started to
experiment outsourcing of some maintenance work, and intends to try farming out the extension of
networks (including registration of customers and collection of connection fees) in a pilot area. To
expand on these concepts, TSC intends to (a) adopt and adhere to a high labor productivity (connections
per employee) target; (b) develop its cost accounting capacity, and use it to keep subjecting its internal
units to market tests at all time; and (c) take the lead in private-public partnerships possibly by developing
the first Build-Operate-Transfer infrastructure project in Iran.



Project Appraisal Document                                                Page 43
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                               Tehran Sewerage Project
8.   Even with significant private involvement, TSC will need strengthening to perform its core
functions of service planning, resource mobilization and project management. The company has a highly
competent and motivated management and advisory team, as evidenced by progress made in preparing
the project. However, its ability to grow at the pace foreseen in the project is untested. The internal
organization of TSC has been modeled initially on a one-size-fits-all model chart for WSCs (prepared by
SWSEC), which is complex and may not fit well its specific business needs, and TSC management is
considering possible streamlining.  TSC's small existing scale gives it an opportunity to adjust now,
which may become more difficult in a larger company. In addition, TSC has already identified a few
critical functions which need an immediate boost. These include financial/economics planning, financial
management, and procurement/contracts management. A technical assistance and training program under
the Project, and early recruitment of trained staff for key positions, will focus on addressing these needs.
9.   Considering the recent creation of TSC and the fairly limited experience that Iran has in terms of
the management of large wastewater systems (except in Isfahan), TSC might benefit from a twinning
arrangement with foreign utilities recognized for their good levels of performance. This arrangement
could then have a duration of about three years or longer if found feasible. This arrangement would have
the purpose to provide support in tackling immediate issues that TSC is facing such as: project
management; initial organizational development including the establishment of an effective
administration and finance department; and technical problems related to the management of a network
expanding rapidly. A twinning arrangement would thus, to be most effective, focus on a few topics where
an immediate impact can be achieved. Proper targets will have to be identified and quantified as well as
an action plan to monitor the progress.
Private sector participation
10.  The first phases of TSC's development program foresee expansion of the wastewater collection
network in critical areas of town, to cover a population of about 4.2 million in about 12 years.
Wastewater captured through this network would flow by gravity and be brought through a system of
trunk mains to the outskirts of Tehran in the south, Shahr-e-Ray, where it would receive primary and
secondary treatment, enabling safe agricultural re-use of the treated effluent for selected crops
downstream.  The Southern Wastewater Treatment Plant would have an ultimate capacity of about
900,000 m3/day, and will be implemented in two phases with four modules in each phase. The timing for
the second phase will depend on progress made in connections to the collection network.
11.  For the first phase extension of the treatment works, the TSC is proposing a design-build-operate
contract with the contractor to be made responsible for the design and also for operation and maintenance
during an initial period of about 5 years. This approach will imply that criteria will be given on
performance requirements with penalties to be imposed in case of non-compliance. To support TSC in
the preparation of tender specifications, tender evaluation and contract documents and, as required, in
subsequent construction supervision an international consultant will be appointed.
12.  For the second phase extension of the treatment works, the TSC has shown an interest to consider
private investments through a Build Operate Transfer (BOT) or similar (BOOT, BOO) approach.
Consultant services for the preparation of relevant Request for Proposals are included under the project
and will be used as appropriate.



TSC Organization Chart of Main Office
Managing Director
.L1~~~~~._   _                                                                                    _ Ii.~ 
Accuuntin_g and                   Av                                      _. Pr 
Finaca oft                        Advisors                                                                       Office Slalf                       mu staUt
Piojecl Contiol                 Contiacts and  I                                                               Public Relations                SecuLity Dept,
_._._i.__e                   Legal Affairs Offc                                                                anid Traiming _  .
Deputy of Finance              Deputy of Planning                   Deputy of Revenue                              Deputy of                      Deputy of
and Suppoiting                and Management                        and Subscriber's                           Engineering and                 Operation and
Allairs                     Improveinent                            Affairs                                 Developerrients                 Maintenance
-- - 1-- ----------I_
K..      11    1 ..                         _  _                     [ . la r                  ~~Z                            . L.             .-          ..... ..__ 
r  Praining and                                                                    Technical and                  Maintenance
Fjinancial Dept.              COrganizational                                                                    Engineering     .           Allairs of Noithern
Office                                                                         Services                       Tehran
L______ __                .                   _Tarrit and                          ____.  .   _ .              ...
Economnical   At
I---                          ~~~~~~~~~Analysis Group                   --1__ _                                    _ 
I  Personal and   Z         |Inforriiation and                          y   Group                             Supervisionlof 11. ||Mailiteiane
Public Services ,               Manageneriri   4                                                             | Telirari Sewage              | Allaiis of Southeril 
|  Depth.  l             |    Serices    l                                                                 Collection Proiect                 Tehian 
L ._ _  _     __ .......... .. ..i                                     Supervision Group                             .. .
for Revenue s4
r-~~- __ ...... I __ __ X |Collection                                                           __- ------. -.-  I.   l     -      .i
I~  ~ ~ Plni  an    I                           I                 I                        Supervision of15. |              Maintenlance        
ICommercial Dept. |           |   lnig an       4^--~----                                                        Tehran Sewage  4<             Allair of Waster 14r
.-----..                            udget      l                      ------1|Collection Project                                                  Tehrarr     l         
F                      X                       r u X Affairs                       Supervisionof                               *1
Sewage Treatment                Sewage Quality
Warelhouse   ri           tDevelopernent                                                                      and Disposal                Control Dept (Labnr
1Group                                                                               Projects



TSC ORGANIZATION TOP CHART WITH
INTEGRATION OF PMU
MANAGING
DIRECTOR
PMU
DEPUTY OF     DEPUTY OF          DEPUTY OFDEUYODPTYF
FiNANCE &         PLANNING &         REVENUE &          ENGINEERING &      OPERATION &
SUPPORTING        MANAGEMENT         SUBSCRIBER'S       DEVELOPEMENT        MAINTENANCE
AFFAIRS         IMPROVEMENT           AFFAIRS
.~~~~



PMU ORGANIZATION CHART
PROJECT DIRECTOR
ENG                PROC.             PLANNING             FINJ ADM7
MANAGER            MANAGER             MANAGER              MANAGER
0 a



Annex 2.4 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1999     1     2000           2001           2002           2003            2004           2005
ID    Task Name                                                                   Start      Finish   Q2|Q3|Q4 Q1|Q2|Q3[Q4lQ1|Q2|Q3|Q4 Q1|Q2|Q3|Q4 Q1|Q2|03|Q4 Q1|Q2|Q3|Q4 Q1|Q2|Q3|Q4
I    Project Execution                                                          Tue 611199   Thu 12/15f6/
2         Engineering & supervision                                             Tue 611199  Sun 12111105
3              Local Consultants                                                Tue 6/1199   Thu 6/30/05
4              International Consultant Services                                Wed 3M100   Sun 12/11/05
5                   Preparation & submission of RfP & short list                Wed 3/1/00   Mon 511/00
6                   W. B. review & receipt of no objection                      Tue 512/00    Fri 612/C0
7                   Invitation of Proposals                                     Sat 6/3/00    Tue811/00
8                   Evaluation of Proposals & Report Preperation                Wed 8/2/00    Sat 9/2/00
9                   W.B. review and approval                                    Sun 9/3/00   Sun 9/17/00
10                  Award of Contract & Contract Preperation                    Mon 9/16/00  Wed 10/4/00
11                  Implementation of Services                                  Thu 10/5fOO   Sun 1211105
12         Western Trunk main (NCB)                                             Tue2/15/00   Mon 4/23/01
13              Preparation of tender doc.s                                     Tue 2/15/00   Sat 4/15/00
14             W.B. Review & no objection                                       Suni/16/00   Mon51/00
15              Invitation of tenders & tender preparation                      Tue 5/2/00   Tue 5/16/00
16              Evaluation of tenders with report submitted to Bank             Wed 5/17/00  Tue 5/30/00
17             W.B. Review& no objection                                        WedS31/00  Thu6/15/0O
18              Preparation of contract doc.s & Award of Contract               Fri 6116/00   Thu 6/29/00
19             Contract execution                                               Fri 6130/00   Mon 4/23/01
20         Eastem Trunkmain (TUNNEL)                                            Wed 9/1/99    Fri 4/2104    _
21              Northern Portion (ICB)                                          Mon 5/1/00    Fri 4/2104                                                                                              -1
Task                   |                  Summary                  w                Project Summary
Date: Fri 3/31/00                         Progress                                  Critical Task                             Split
Milestone                                 External Tasks                            Rolled Up Split            ,



Annex 2.4 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1999           2000           2001            202032004                                      20
ID  Task Name                                                                      Start   Finish  Q2|3Q4Q1|Q2|3Q4Q1|Q2Q3Q4Q1|Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4Q1 Q1Q1Q30
22                   Preparation of documents for pre-qualification with          Mon 5/1/00   Tue 7/18/00
submission for W.B. approval (1)                                                                        l
23                  Invitation for prequalification & submission of doc.s        Wed 7/19/00  Thu 8/31/00
24                   Preparation of evaluation report with submission fo W.B.    Fri 9/1/00   Wed 10/18/00
approval
25                  World Bank's reply                                           Thu 10/19/00  Wed 11/1/00
26                  Completion of design & preparation of tende do.               Thu 8/3/00    Sat 3/3/01
27                   Review by international consultants                          Sun 3/4/01   Sat 3/31/01
28                   Revisions with submission of tender documents for W.B.    Sun 4/1/01    Sat 5/19/01
approval.ll
29                   Invitation of tenders & tender preparation                  Sun 5/20/01   Fri 7/20/01
30                   Evaluation of tenders with report submitted to Bank          Sat 7/21/01   Fri 8/31/01
31                  Award of contract & preparation of contract doc.s             Sun 9/2/01   Mon 10/1/01
32                   Contract execution                                          Tue 10/2/01    Fri 4/2/04
33              Southern Portion (ICB)                                           Wed 9/1/99    SetM 3103     _
34                  Preparation of documents for pre-qualification with           Mon 5/1/00   Thu 6/1/00
submission for W.B. approval (1)l
35                  Invitation for prequalification & submission of doc.s         Fri 6/2/00    Sun 7/18/00
36                  Preparation of evaluation report with submission for W.B.   Mon 7/17/00  Wed 8/16/00
approval
37                  World Bank's reply                                           Thu 8/17/00   Thu 8/31/00                   i
38                  Completion of design & preparation of tender doc.s           Mon 5/1/00   Wed 11/1i/00
39                  Review by international consultants                          Thu 11/2/00   Fri 12/1/00
40                  Revisions with submission of tender documents forW.B.    Set 12/2/00   Sun 1231/00_
approval                                                   I                                                   l
41                   Invitation of tenders                                        Mon 1/1/01   Thu 2/15/01
42                  Evaluation of tenders with report submitted to Bank &         ri 2/16/01    Set 3/31/01
Bank's approval
Task              \                       Summary               y-                   Project Summary   _
Project: WB-SCH--rev3                     Pors                                        rtclTs
Date: Fri 3/31/00                         Progress CriticalTask                                                                 Split
Milestone                                 External Tasks                             Rolled Up Split  ,.



Annex 2.4 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
11999        ~2000             2001                                          _ 02   032004     205
ID    Task Name                                                                      Start       Finish   Q2|Q30Q4 Q1 |Q2           4         Q014                    01 I2Q3104 Q1 Q21 Q3Q4 01 02 Q3 04
43                   Award of contract & preparation of contract doc.s             Sun4/1101    Wed 5/2/01
44                   Contract execution                                            Thu 5/3101    Sat 513/03
4S                   Execution of 1 st section of southern Tunnel (2600 meters)  Wed 9/1/99    Fri 12/1/00
46                   Execution of 2nd section of southern Tunnel (2600             Tue 2/1100    Tue 5/1/01
meters)                      ___
47         Interceptors & Laterals                                                 Tue 611/99    Fri 7/1105
48              (NCB & ICB)                                                        Tue 611i99    Fri 711105
49                   Preparation of tender doc.s                                   Tue 611199    Mon 311104
50                   W.B. Review & no objection                                    Tue 6/1/99    Thu 4/1/04
61                   Invitation of tenders & tender preparation                    Thu 7/15199   Thu 4115104
52                   Evaluation of tenders with report submitted to Bank           Mon 8/16199   FnS/14/04
53                   W.B. Review & no objection                                    Wed 9/15/99   Tue 6/15/04
54                   Preparation of contract doc.s & Award of Contract              Fri 10/1/99    Fri 7/30/04
55                   Contract execution                                            Mon111/99   Fri71/05
66         Sewage Treatment Works (ICB)                                             Mon 5/1/00   Thu 12115105
57              Preparation of documents for pre-qualification                     Mon 9/1/00    Thu 6/1100
68              W B. review & no objection                                          Fri 6/2/00  Sat 7111/00
69              Invitation for prequalification & submission of doc.s              Tue 7/4100    Fri 911/00
60              Evaluation & Preparation of report for the Bank's approval          Sat 9/2/00   Wed 11/1/00
61              W.B. review and approval                                           Thu 11/2100   Fri 12/1/00
62              Preparation of tender doc.s                                        Sun 10/1/00   Mon 1/1/01
63              W.B review and approval                                             ue 1/2/01    Thu 2/1/0
=       _   _    _   _    _   _    _ _    _   _    _   ____ _ __ _                 ._   _                   .__       _   _    _   _    _ _   _    _   _   _    _   _ _    _   _   _    ___ .   :  .          1
Cr0
Task                        R        \   Summary                 y-                    Project Summary                                                               0 
Project: WB-SCH-rev3
Date: Fri 3v31/00                           Progress                                   Critical Task                         j    Split
Milestone                                  External Tasks                              R       UpiSplit



Annex 2.4 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1999           2000           2001           2002           2003            2004           2005
ID  Task Name                                                                     Start   Finish  Q2Q3Q4 Q1|Q2Q3Q4   Q2Q304Q1 Q203Q4Q1 Q2Q3Q4QI Q2Q3Q4Q1 Q2Q3Q4
64              Invitation of tenders                                            Fri 212/01    Mon 4/2/01
65             Evaluation of tenders with report submitted to Bank              Wed 4/4101    Fn 611/01
66             W.B. review and approval                                          Sat 6//01    Sun 7/1/01
67             Award of contract & preparation of contract doc.s                Mon 7/2/01   Wed 8/15/01
68             Contractor review and preparation of design                      Fri 8/17/01   Mon 10/15/01
69             Review and approval of design                                    Tue 10/16/01  Wed 11/14/01
70             Contract execution (first two modules)                          Thu 11/15/01  Sun 11/14/04
71             Commissioning                                                   Mon 11/15/04  Sat 1/15/05
72             Start of Operation & Maintenance                                 Sat 1/15105   Sat 1/15/05
73             Contract execution (second two modules)                         Tue 10/15/02  Fni 10/14105
74             Commissioning                                                    Sat 10/15/05  Thu 12/15/05
75             Start of Operation & Maintenance                                Thu 12/15/05  Thu 12/15/05
76         operation & Maintenance Eqpt.                                        Thu 11/1/01   Tue 8/30/05                                   _
77             Identify requirements                                            Thu 11/1/01   Sat 12/13/03
78             Invitation for prequalification & submission of doc.s           Sat 12/15/01   Sun 2/1/04                                       t_\\\\\\\\\\\\\\_\
79             Preparation of report for the Bank's approval                    Sun 2/3/02    Mon 3/1/04
80             Preperation of tender documents                                  Tue 4/16/02   Tue 6/1/04                                                       X
Evaluation of tenders with report submitted to Bank             Mon 613/02   Tue 8/30/05
82             Award of contract & preparation of contract doc.s                Thu 4/4/02    Tue 6/1/04
83             Contract execution                                               Sun 6/2/02   Wed 6/1/05
Task                                      Summary                                  Project Summary X
Project: WB-SCH-rev3                      Progress                                 Critical Task                             Split
Date: Frit 3,31100
Milestone                                External Tasks                            Rolled Up Split   ....    ...



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 5P1
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerge Project
Annex 3
Tehran Sewerage Project
Estimated Project Costs
Proiect Comvonent                                          Local           Foreign       Total
------------------US $ million----------------
1. Interceptors and Laterals                                    131.40          48.60     180.00
2. Western Trunlanain (laid as pipe)                              1.66            0.9       2.56
3. Eastern Trunkmain (constructed as tunnel)
- southern portion                                             7.28          10.92      18.20
- northern portion                                             7.28          10.92      18.20
Sub-total                                                    14.56          21.84      36.40
4. Sewage Treatment Works
- civil works                                                  8.46          12.69     21.15
- E&M Equipment                                                              32.56     32.56
Sub-total                                                     8.46          45.25      53.71
5. Operation and Maintenance Equipment                                           2.56       2.56
6. Consultant Services and Technical Assistance
-Project Management                                           0.68            0.17      0.85
-Strengthening of TSC                                         0.34            1.01       1.35
- Engineering                                                  0.47           1.90       2.37
- Construction Supervision                                     7.97           0.89       8.85
- Preparation/Implementation of Environmental
Monitoring System                                            0.36           0.09       0.45
- Updating Sewerage Development Program                       0.80            0.20      1.00
- Engineering Phase 2                                          0.83           0.68       1.50
Sub-total                                                    11.44           4.93      16.37
Total Baseline Cost                                             167.53         124.07    291.60
Physical Contingencies                                        16.33           12.75     29.08
Price Contingencies                                           11.08            7.70     18.78
Total Proiect Cost                                              194.94         144.52    339.46



Annex 3 - Table A 1
Tehran Sewerage Project
Estimated Project Cost (US $ - million)
Project Componenit                                  2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005 Total    Local    Foreign  %Foreign
i Interceptors and Laterals                     24.15   36.00  41.30  45.00  31.55    2.00   180.00   131.40    48.60         27
2 Western Trunkimain (laid as pipe)              1.28    1.28           .-                       2.56      1.66    0.90       3S
3 Eastern Trunkmain (considered as tunnel)
- southern portion                              2.60    6.50    4.55    4.55           .       18.20     7.28    10.92       60
-northern portion-                                    4.10    9.74    4.37            .       18.20     7.28    10.92      60
Sub total                                      2.60   10.59   14.29    8.92    .       .      36.40    14.56    21.84        60
4 Sewage Treatment Works
- civil works                                                 4.21    6.96    6.81    3.20    21.15     8.46    12.69      60
- E&M Equipment                                 .              5.70   10.58   10.58    5.70    32.56             32.56      100
Sub-total                                                     9.91   17.54   17.39    8.90    53.71     8.46    45.25       84
SUB TOTAL (1,2,3,4)                              28.03  47.87  65.49  71.46  48.94  10.90   272.67   156.08   116.59           43
5 Operation and Maintenance Equipment1            -       .      1.28    1.28    -      -        2.56              2.56      100
6 Consultant Services and Technical Assistance
-Project Management                            0.10    0.15    0.15    0.15    0.15    0.15    0.85     0.68     0.17        20
- Strengthening of TSC                         0.10    0.34    0.34    0.34    0.24    -       1.35     0.34     1.01        75
- Engineering                                  0.70    1.20    0.47    -       -               2.37     0.47     1.90        80
- Construction Supervision                     1.21    1.72    2.23    1.91    1.09    0.69    8.85     7.97     0.89        10
- Environmental Monitoring System              0.10    0.20    0.15    .       .       .       0.45     0.36     0.09        20
- Updating Sewarage Development Program         -       -      0.50    0.50    -       -       1.00     0.80     0.20        20
- Engineering Phase 2                           -       -       -             0.50    1.00     1.50      0.83     0.68      45
Sub-total                                       2.21    3.60    3.84    2.90    1.97    1.84    16.37    11.44   4.93       30
Total Baseline Cost                                 30.25   51.48   70.61   75.64   50.92   12.74   291.60   167.53   124.07     43
Physical Contingencies
- 15% Tunnel                                   0.39    1.59    2.14    1.34    -       .        5.46     2.18     3.28       60
- 10% Other works                               2.54    3.73    5.12    6.25    4.89    1.09    23.63    14.15    9.47      40
Price Contingencies                             0.33    1.72    3.96    5.98    5.20    1.59    18.78     11 08  7.70       41
Sub-total Contingencies                         3.27    7.03  11.22   13.57   10.10    2.68    47.86    27.42    20.45      43
Total Project Cost                                 33.51   58.51   81.83   89.21   61.02  15.42   339.46   194.94   144.52       43
1) Also including office equipment and vehicles.
Note: Differences in total project costs between Table Ai and Al-a are due to rounding.
plunits/idledwise/lran2-Cost iii.xis
vH
(d D
CDp
a4
(DV,



Annex 3 - Table A 1-a
Tehran Sewerage Project
Estimated Project Cost Including Contingencies (US$ - million)
Proect Corn one_ t                               _2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005 Total                   Local     Foreign   %Foreign
1 Interceptors and Laterals                             26.83    40.80    47.74    53.06    37.94   2.45    208.81    153.14      55.62        27
2 Western Trunkinain (laid as pipe)                     1.42     1.45     -                                   2.87       1.87      1.01        35
3 Eastern Trunkmain (tunnel)
- southerm portion                                    3.02     7.58     5.50    5.61      .                 21.71      8.68     13.03        60
- northern portion                                     -       4.86    11.77    5.39                        22.01      8.81     13 21        60
Sub-total                                             3.02    12.44    17.27    10.99                      43.72     17.49     26.23         60
4 Sewage Treatment Works
- civil works                                                          4.87     8.21    8.19     3.93      25.19     10.07     15.11        60
-E&M Equipment                                        -        -      6.59    12.47    12.72    6.99      38.78                38.78       100
Sub-total                                                              1 -  11.45    20.68    20.91    10.92  63.96  10.07     53.89        84
SUB TOTAL (1,2,3,4)                                      331.27    54.69    76.46    84.73    58.85    13.37    319.37    182.04    137.33      43
5 Operation and Maintenance Equipment                    -        -      1.34     1.37      -       -         2.71                2.71        100
6 Consultant Services and Technical Assistance
- Project Management                                  0.10     0.16     0.16    0.16     0.16     0.17      0.91      0.73      0.18         20
- Strengthening of TSC                                0.10     0.35     0.36    0.36     0.26      .        1.43      0.36       1.07        75
- Engineering                                         0.71     1.24     0.50     -        -        -        2.45      0.45       1.96        80
Constiuction Supervision                             1.22     1.77    2.34     2.04     1.19    0.77       9.33      8.40      0.93         10
- Environmental Monitoring System                     0.10     0.21     0.16     -        -                 0.47      0.38      0.09         20
- Updating Sewerage Development Program                -        -      0.53     0.54      -       -         1.07      0.86      0.21         20
Engineering Phase 2                                       -        -            -       0.55    1.12       1.67       0.92      0.75        45
Sub-total                                              2.23     3.73    4.05     3.10    2.16     2.06      17.33     12,18      5.19        30
Total Project Cost                                          33.52    58.45    81.85    89.20    61.05    15.43    339.41    194.76    144.65       43
PIUNITS/IDIEDWIGEICOST iii.Xl S - March 24, 2000
uS
0.
C    wJ



Annex 3 - Table A 2
Tehran Sewerage Project
Estinated Project Cost (Rial - billion)
ProXect Cornonent                                  2000      2001      2002       2003       2004      2005       Total        Local  _  Fojta_   %Foreign
1 Interceptors and Laterals                         198.0     295.2      338.7      369.0     258.7      16.4       1476.0     1077.5        398.5        27
2 Westertl Trunkmain (laid as pipe)                  10.6      10.5                                                   21.0        13.6          7.3       35
3 Eastern Trunkmain (considered as tunnel)
- southern portion                                 21.3      53.3       37.3       37.3                            149.2        59.7         89.5       60
- northern portion                                  0.0      33.6       79.8       35.8                            149.2        59.7         89.5       60
Sub-total                                          21.3      86.9      117.2       73.1                            298.6       119.4        179.1       60
4 Sewage Treatment Works
- civil works                                       0.0       0.0       34.5       57.1      55.8       26.2       173.7        69.5        104 2       60
- E&M Equipmenit                                    0.0       0.0       46.7       86.8      86.8       46.7       267.0                    267 o      100
Sub-total                                           0.0       0.0       81.2      143.8     142.6      73.0        440.6       69.5        371.2        84
SUB TOTAL (1,2,3,4)                                  229.9      392.6     537.0      586.0      401.3      89.4       2236.1     1280.0        956.1        43
5 Operation and Maintenance Equipment 1)                                  15.6       17.0                             32.6                     32.6      100
6 Consultant Services and Tecinical Assistance
- Project Management                                0.8       1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2       1.2         7.0         5.6         14        20
- Strengthening ot TSC                              0.8       2.8        2.8        2.8       1.9                   11.1         2.8          8.3       75
* Engineering                                       5.8       9.8        3.8                                        19A4         3.9         15.5       80
-Construction Supervision                           9.9       14.1      18.3       15.7       8.9        5.7        72.6        65.3          7.3       10
- Environmenlal Monitoring System                   0.8        1.6       1.2                                          3.7        3.0          0.7       20
Updating Sewarage Development Program                                   4.1        4.1                              8.2         6.6          1.6       20
- Engiheering Phase 2                                                                         4.1        8.2        12.3         6.8          5.5       45
Sub-total                                          18.2      29.5       31.5       23.8      16.2       16.1       134.2        93.8         40.4       30
Total Baseline Cost                                    248.0     422.1      584.1      626.8     417.5      104.5      2402.9      1373.8       1029.1       43
Physical Conlingenicies
15% Tunnel                                         3.2      13.0       17.6       11.0       0.0       0.0         44.8        17.9         26.9       60
-10% Other works                                   20.9      30.6       43.5       53.0      40.1        8.9       197.0       125.4         85.0       43
Price Contingencies                                27.2     149.0      353.6      498.9     393.6      114.4      1536.6       906.6        630.0       41
Sub-total Contingencies                            51.3     192.6      414.7      562.8     433.7      123.3      1778.4      1050.0        741.9       42
Total Project Cost                                     299.3     614.7      998.8    1189.6      851.2      227.8      4181.4      2383.4       1798.0        43
1) Also lincluding office equipment and vehicles.
Note: Differences in total project costs between Table A2 and A2-a are due to rounding.
plunils/mnsidledwige/lrani2-CosI iii.xis
-1
9D



Annex 3 - Table A2-a
Tehran Sewerage Project
Estimated Project Cost Including Contingencies (Rial - billion)
Project Component                                     2000      2001      2002       2003      2004      2005 Total        Local      Foreign      %Foreign
1 Interceptors and Laterals                      239.6     428.5      577.4      698.0     529.3      36.3       2509.0     1854.5        654.4       27
2 Western Trunkmain (laid as pipe)                12.7      15.2                                                   27.9       18.2          9.8       35
3 Eastern Trunkmain (considered as tunnel)
s southern portion                               27.0      80.9      66.5       73.8                            248.1       99.2        148.9       60
- northern portion                                0.0      51.0     142.4       70.9                            264.2      105.7        158 5       60
Sub-total                                        27.0     131.9     208.9      144.6                    |       512.4      204.9        307.4       60
4 Sewage Treatment Works
- civil works                                     0.0       0.0      58.9      108.0     114.2       58.0       339.1      135.6        203.4        60
-E&M Equipment                                    0.0       0.0      79.7      164.1     177.5      103.3       524.6                   524.6       100
Sub-total                                         0.0       0.0     138.6      272.1     291.7      161.3       863.7      135.6        728.0        84
SUB TOTAL (1,2,3,4)                                279.3     575.6      924.8    1114.6      821.0     197.6       3912.9     2213.2       1699.6       43
5 Operation and Maintenance Equipment                                  16.3       18.1                             34.3                    34.3      100
6 Consuitant Services and Technical Assistance
-Project Management                               0.9       1.6       1.9        2.1       2.3        2.5        11.3        9.0          2.3       20
-Strengtening of TSC                              0.9       3.7       4.3        4.8       3.7                   17.4        4.3         13.0        75
- Engineering                                     6.3      13.0       6.0                                        25.3        5.1         20.2       80
-Construction Supervision                        10.9      18.6      28.3       26.9      16.6       11.4       112.8      101.5         11.3        10
* Environmental Monitoring System                 0.9       2.2       1.9                                         5.0        4.0          1.0       20
- Updating Sewarage Development Program                               6.4        7.1                             13.4        10.7         2.7        20
- Enginieerinig Phase 2                                                                    7.6       16.5        24.1        13.3        10.8        45
Sub-total                                        19.9      39.1      48.8       40.9      30.2       30.3       209.2      147.9         61.3        29
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                   299.2     614.6      989.9    1173.6      851.2     227.9      4156.4      2361.2       1795.3       43
plunltsildledwigelcost iii.xis
0.'-



Project Appraisal Document                                          Page 56
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                          Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 3.1
Tehran Sewerage Project
Projected Number of Sewer Connections for Phase 1 and 2
(2001 - 2011)
TSC was created by TPWSC in 1996 to implement the development program for the extension
of wastewater collection and disposal facilities, to operate the works when commissioned, and to
provide for connections to the collection systems. The initial number of connections handed
over from TPWSC to TSC was 12,000. By the end of the current Iranian year (March 1999 -
March 2000) TSC will reach approximately 33,000 connections.
The installation of connections takes place on a continuous basis in pace with the extension of
the wastewater collection systems. On an average, about 10 meters of collection pipes would
provide for one connection. TSC contracts out all of its operations including the network and
connections. Currently about 200 private contractors are working with TSC. Local capacity for
executing such works is available in Iran. The pace of building the network and consequently
the connections will depend mainly on financial resources made available to TSC. As mentioned
in Annex 5, a credit system is in place to finance connection fees.
Implementation of connections is based on a conservative assumption and discussion with TSC
and Government. The execution would be over six years (after completion of network): 5% the
first year, 30% the second year, 20% the third and fourth year, 15% the fifth year and 10% the
sixth year. It is expected that about 235,000 connections will be installed by the end of phase I
and 425,000 by the end of phase 2.



Annex 3.1 - Table Al
Tehran Sewerage Project
Schedule for Installation of Connections and Network
(1996.2011)
Year         Initial    1998    1999      2000    Subtotal   2001    2002      2003      2004      2005      2006    Subtotal  Total       2007      2008      2009      2010      2011    Subtotal   Grand
stock                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
______   1996                                                                                                           1                                                                      3____ ____27
TSC          actual   Actual  (actual)  estimate  33127                                                                        33127                                                                  33127
11716   5157    4264       12000
Phase 1                                                     22100   25700   33850    39050    40700    40250    201650    201650
Phase 2                                                                                                                                  38950     38250    37500    37750       38500      190950    19950
Total        11716   5157    4254       12000    33127    22100   25700   33850    39050         40700    40250    201650    234777    38950       38250    37500      37750      38500     19950    425727
Commutative   11716   16873   21127    33127                55227   80927   114777    153827    194527   234777                          273727    311977    349477    387227    425727
Total
Variation (%)         44.0%    25.2%    56.8%               66.7%    46.5%    41.8%    34.0%     26.5%     20.7%                         16.6%     14.0%     12.0%      10.8%     9.9%
Commutative           44.0%    69.2%    126.0%              192.7   239.3   281.1%    315.1%    341.6%    362.3%                         378.9%    392.8%    404.9%    415.7%    425.6%
Variation                                                   %        %
Network      200      120      170      370       860       300      400     450       450       400       250       2250      3110      400       400       400       400        400       2000      5110
(km)
P,
C _



Annex 3.1 - Table A2
Tehran Sewerage Project
Number of Connections to be Installed'
(2001-2011)
Year                     2001       2002      2003      2004       2005      2006       Subtotal   2007      2008      2009       2010       2011      Subtotal   Grand
I' Phase                                                       2nd       Total
____________  ____________                                                                                                       Phase    _
2000        370 km       11100      7400      7400      5550       3700                 35150                                                                     36150
Previous     2000       1500      1000
2001        balance_
300 km       1500      9000       6000      6000       4500      3000
Subtotal     3500      10500      7000      6000       4500      3000      34500                                                                      34500
Previous     2400      2400       1800      [200
2002        Balance
400 km                 2000       12000     8000       8000      6000                 4000                                                 4000       4000
Subtotal     2400      4400       13800     9200       8000      6000      43800      __                                                              43800
Previous     5100      3400       3400      2550                                      1700                                                 1700       1700
2003        Balance
450 km                            2250      13500      9000      9000                 6750      4500                      .,               11250      11250
Subtotal     5100      3400       5650      16050      9000      9000      48200                                                                      48200
2004        450 km                                      2250       13500     9000       24750     9000       6750      4500                            20250      45000
2005        400 km                                                 2000      12000      14000     8000       8000      6000       4000                 26000      40000
2006        250 km                                                           1250       1250      7500       5000      5000       3750       2500      23750      25000
I' Phase                 22100     25700      33850     39050      40700     40250     201650
2007        400 km                                                                                2000       12000     8000       8000       6000      36000      36000
2008        400 km                                                                                           2000       12000     8000       8000      30000      30000
2009        400 km                                                                                                     2000       12000      8000      22000      22000
2010        400 km                                                                                                                2000       12000     14000      14000
2011        400 km                                     .                                                                                     2000      2000       2000
2F` Phase                                                                                         38950      38250     37500      37750      38500     190950    392600
Assumptions:
*   10 mn of network per connection.                                                                                                                                                  0
+   Pace of installation; 5% first year; 30% second year; 20% third year; 20% forth year; 15% fifth year; and 10% sixth year.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 59
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 4
Tehran Sewerage Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Economic Evaluation and Tariff Recommendations
The current project will provide sewerage services in northern, central, and southern sections of
Tehran. It will also provide treated effluent to irrigate additional acreage of crops. The areas to
be provided with sewer services discharge their raw wastewater into groundwater or surface
water with deleterious environmental and health effects. These effects will be alleviated by the
proposed project. The beneficial effects of the project go beyond the directly beneficial effects
for those who receive sewerage service and make use of the treated effluent. These externalities
are a major reason for the underprovision of services of this type if only direct user benefits are
taken into account.
Nevertheless, putting a value on the externalities is extremely difficult. Some would argue that
the implicit value of the externalities is so high that there is no necessity to justify investments in
such public goods in a benefit-cost framework. In this project, a different approach has been
taken. Since the positive externalities of the project are likely to substantially exceed negative
externalities (of which there are some, including traffic disruptions, noise, and inconvenience
during construction), these benefits are additive to the direct benefits which are more easily
estimated. If the net present value is positive and the economic rate of return on the direct
benefits is sufficiently large, the project is justified and the externalities strongly support the
justification.
That is the case with this project. The economic rate of return on the project has been estimated
to be between 17% and 25%, depending on the assumptions about direct benefits used as will be
explained below.
The direct user benefits which have been estimated include the revenue from connection and use
of the system as a proxy for user willingness to pay, costs-avoided when comparing the with and
without project scenarios, and the value of net incremental output from irrigation of additional
agriculture made possible through the use of treated effluent. The rationale for these three
benefit streams is provided below. The lower estimate (17%) is based on the use of agriculture
gain and revenue only, since there is a partial overlap between the willingness to pay for
connection and use of the system and awareness of the costs, which can be avoided with the
project. The higher estimate (25%) treats these benefit streams as independent.
During the pre-appraisal missions there was extensive discussion about the use of the revenue as
a proxy for willingness to pay, since there is an obligation to connect to the system when it is
possible. There is also the possibility of opting out and a partial return of the connection fee if
this is elected. Nevertheless, the use of the revenue as a proxy for willingness to voluntarily pay
for connection and use of the system requires some additional justification.
This additional justification comes from a variety of sources. In the first place, there is
widespread awareness of the problems with the current arrangement, including dissatisfaction



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 60
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
with the use of absorption pits in all parts of the city affected by the project. In the southern zone
of Tehran the proportion of fine materials in the soil increases making the absorption pits
unstable. This problem affects large areas, with a total population in excess of 2.3 million
people. In the northern portion of the city, major problems are experienced because of the
impervious nature of the ground due to geological outcroppings. In some areas of this zone the
water table is encountered within two meters of the surface. Wells in these areas fill rapidly and
require emptying every three to six months to avoid overflow into surface streams. In the central
areas of Tehran, the groundwater level has been and is kept lower by pumping since 1976.
Buildings in these areas are still subject to water penetration in basements and this water is
polluted. In spite of the pumping the water table is on the rise in many areas of the central zone.
These problems increase the demand for a sewered solution.
In addition, the experience with small local systems strongly supports the willingness to pay
voluntarily for a sewer connection when given the opportunity. A time trend analysis of
connection rates to these systems in four recent cases has fitted a regression equation for the first
five years that shows that 90 to 95% of the eligible population has opted to connect within this
time period. The r squared on this regression is 0.984.
Moreover, the connection experience in Esfahan, which has a sewer system, has been for an
equally impressive rate. The conclusion from these investigations is that there is strong demand
among users for connections and that this willingness to connect is strong justification that
potential users of the system value the opportunity to connect at least this highly. This analysis
does not account for consumer surplus in excess of the willingness to pay.
The avoided costs for pit construction, emptying, and relocation of pits made possible by the
project undoubtedly contributes to the willingness to pay and, therefore, reinforces the above
finding, but overlaps with it. The other costs avoided are for pumping of groundwater and
dredging of brooks and streams affected by raw wastewater flows and overlap less with
individual household willingness to pay. For this reason, two bounds are put on the reported
rates of return. In the case of the lower estimate (17%), it is assumed that there is complete
overlap between the revenue and cost avoided benefit streams. In the higher estimate (25%) the
two benefit streams are considered independently.
The amount of increase in land area under cultivation is directly proportional to the volume of
treated effluent and has been estimated over a 30-year-period. The yield has been estimated for
three crops which may be irrigated with the treated effluent and has been valued using
international prices. After deducting input costs, the net incremental value of the crops is
included in the benefit stream.
The estimated benefits are sensitive to the rate at which connections are made, which govern the
effluent flow and the treatment of the effluent. The estimated rate of return is, however, robust
and does not take into account either consumer surplus or the net value of externalities. It is
concluded, therefore, that the project is economically justified.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 61
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                          Tehran Sewerage Project
Cost Benefit Analysis - Table 1
Year                Costs                         Benefits                Total       Net    Total       Net
Investment Operation    Total  Revenue Cost Avoided Agriculture   Benefitsl   Benefitsl Benefits2  Benefits2
1999      19.54      0.18    19.72      1.48         0.19       0.09       1.57     -18.15     1.76  ($17.96)
2000      51.28      0.48    51.76      8.21         1.42       0.75       8.96      -42.8    10.38    -41.38
2001      71.46      0.84     72.3     13.91         3.47       1.29       15.2      -57.1    18.67    -53.63
2002      76.46       1.2   77.66      23.51         6.88       1.29       24.8     -52.86    31.68    -45.98
2003      65.87      3.16    69.03     32.86         11.5       6.15      39.01     -30.02    50.51    -18.52
2004      28.02      4.11    32.13     38.64        16.37        8.8      47.44      15.31    63.81     31.68
2005      26.51      5.71    32.22     43.76        21.34      11.45      55.21      22.99    76.55     44.33
2006      50.67      6.64    57.31     49.11        26.01        14       63.11        5.8    89.12     31.81
2007      53.46       7.5    60.96     53.42        30.26      16.23      69.65       8.69    99.91     38.95
2008      57.84      8.41    66.25     64.25        34.61      18.59      82.84      16.59   117.45      51.2
2009      47.36      9.39    56.75      80.7        39.38      21.17     101.87      45.12   141.25      84.5
2010      17.15     10.38    27.53     87.95        44.35      23.82     111.77      84.24   156.12    128.59
2011                 11.3     11.3    93.09         52.64      26.38     119.47     108.17   172.11    160.81
2012                11.96    11.96     90.19        55.75      28.26     118.45     106.49    174.2    162.24
2013                12.36    12.36     84.74        55.96       29.4     114.14     101.78    170.1    157.74
2014                12.59    12.59     79.29        55.96      29.94     109.23      96.64   165.19     152.6
2015                12.59    12.59     74.64        55.96      30.06      104.7      92.11   160.66    148.07
2016                12.59    12.59     73.24        55.96      30.06      103.3      90.71   159.26    146.67
2017                12.59    12.59     73.24        55.96      30.06      103.3      90.71   159.26    146.67
2018                12.59    12.59     73.24        55.96      30.06      103.3      90.71   159.26    146.67
2019                12.59    12.59     73.24        55.96      30.06      103.3      90.71   159.26    146.67
2020                12.59    12.59     73.24        55.96      30.06      103.3      90.71   159.26    146.67
2021                12.59    12.59     73.24        55.96      30.06      103.3      90.71   159.26    146.67
2022                12.59    12.59     73.24        55.96      30.06      103.3      90.71   159.26    146.67
2023                12.59    12.59     73.24        55.96      30.06      103.3      90.71   159.26    146.67
2024                12.59    12.59     73.24        55.96      30.06      103.3      90.71   159.26    146.67
2025                12.59    12.59     73.24        55.96      30.06      103.3      90.71   159.26    146.67
2026                12.59    12.59     73.24        55.96      30.06      103.3      90.71   159.26    146.67
2027                12.59    12.59     73.24        55.96      30.06      103.3      90.71   159.26    146.67
2028                12.59    12.59     73.24        55.96      30.06      103.3      90.71   159.26    146.67
npv    $152.72      npv   $385.28
err      17%        err     25%



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 62
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                   Tehran Sewerage Project
Cost Benefit Analysis - Table 2
(US$ million, base year 1999)
Present Value of Flows              Fiscal Impact'
Economic        Financial
Analysis       Analysis2       Taxes            Subsidies
Benefits (two versions)   561.5         425.70
809.0
Costs                   384.7           420.70
Net Benefits:           152.7           5.00
385.3
IRR:                    17%             12%
25%
Summar of Benefits and Costs:
The project produces benefits of two kinds:
In the conservative estimate: revenue from sewerage services and agricultural output
from additional acreage irrigated by treated effluent.
In the high estimate: costs which will be avoided are added to the two benefit streams
above.
For the economic analysis, allowances for inflation are removed from the financial costs.
Main Assumptions:
The key assumption made in this analysis is that the connection of users will be made
rapidly as the system (which has no significant technical problems in its construction--
other than handling the disruptions necessary for laying pipes) is developed. The
additional two benefit streams, other than revenue, are dependent on this assumption as
well.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The project's economic benefits are all sensitive to the rate of connection to the sewer.
The rate of connection depends on two factors, the rate of completion of the trunks and
laterals making connection possible and the willingness of people to connect. Using the
The project has no net fiscal impact on the govermnent.
2 Basic case scenario



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 63
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                Tehran Sewerage Project
conservative estimate of an IRR of 17%, a delay of two years in construction reduces the
IR to 12% and by three years to 11%.
Regarding willingness to connect, a reduction of 10% and 20% reduces the EIRR to 15%
and 13%, respectively. In a worst case scenario, which is extremely unlikely, a
combination of a slowdown in construction of two years and a 20% reduction in
anticipated connections pushes the IRR to below the assumed 10% opportunity cost of
capital.
The financial IRR is 12%: the value of financial benefits is less than that of economic
benefits because of externalities that are not estimated in the financial model. Our
calculations take into consideration only the cash flows generated by the utility using its
own resources. Projections of the revenues and costs beyond 2007, end of project
implementation, are estimated to increase by the local inflation rate.



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 64
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 5
Tehran Sewerage Project
Financial Projections: Main assumptions
A. Base case.
The financial model (see attached table) is built to assess the situation of TSC (Tebran Sewerage
Company). The model provides tables of the data used as the basis of computation of the financial
information included in the financial statements. Ancillary schedules are provided in the model for
computation of depreciation and interest expenses on long-term borrowings. The Financial model covers
the period of 2000-2011 (current year 2000, and the next 10 years). Audited financial statements for FY
1997 to 1999 are also provided. The main assumptions used in the Financial Projections are as follows:
1. Currency and inflation: the projections are established in current Iranian Rials. The exchange rate is
1US$ = 8200 Iranian Rials as of March 31, 2000. The local inflation rate is expected to be equal to 20
percent in year 2001, 20 and 15 percent in 2002 and 2003, and will be kept at 8 percent thereafter. The
inflation rate for the dollars will be 2 percent over the forecast period.
2. Income Statement Items
 Sewage Revenues: they result from the monthly standing charges and from the volumetric charges
paid by the customers. The sewage standing charge is equal to the water standing charge for each
category of customers and number of units by connections. Its rate is assumed to increase at the same
percentage than the tariffs for volume consumed. The volumetric charge is a fraction of the water
tariff (from 70 % for Residential customers to 100% for Industrial and Commercial customers), the
volume of water sold, the number of sewerage connections, and the evolution of sewerage
connections compared to water connections. In 1999 sewage connections represent 2.5% of water
connections. They are expected to reach 23.7 at the end of phase 1 and about 38% at the end of phase
2. Tariffs and the monthly standing charges have been increased effective April 1999 by an average
of 22%. It is assumed that they will increase by 22% from 2000 to 2005, by 30% in 2006, and by 22%
thereafter. These tariff increases will cover operating expenses and provide a positive cash position.
* Payroll. The number of staff is a proportion of the numnber of sewage connections in use; the target is
to reach 2 staff/1000 connections in 2004 (5.3 presently) onward. The projections for payroll
increases are equal to general inflation increases. The number of staff will increase by 535 over the
period, from 200 staff in 1999 to 427 in 2006 and to 638 in 2011.
* Energy. The energy varies according to the volume of wastewater treated starting from 2004 onward.
In Tehran the geography of the city minimizes the needs of boosting stations. The projections for
energy tariff increases are equal to general inflation increases.
* Chemicals. The chemical expenses vary according to the volume of wastewater treated starting from
2004 onward. The projections for the increases in chemical expenses are equal to general inflation
increases.
* Maintenance and parts. These represent 1.63% of Gross fixed assets in operation. This percentage is
based on TSC's expenses of prior years and engineers' evaluation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 65
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
*  Other expenses are based on the general inflation increases and on variation in the volume of activity
as relevant.
*  Depreciation. Straight-line basis is applied. A flat rate of 4% has been applied as per the statistics of
the State Engineering Company and as per the new assets to be created through the project, using half
a year convention (interceptors and pipes represent the bulk of the amounts projected).
*  Bad Debt Provisions. The amount of arrears (bad debts) has been set up at 3%, based on the current
level of arrears in TPWSC financial statements that carries out the billing and collections duties on
behalf of TSC.
*  Interest Expense rate for long-term loans is based on an average of 7% on the disbursed amount and
0.75% on the outstanding balance. The interest charge during construction period is capitalized.
*  Foreign exchange loss. It is based on the variation of local currency in comparison with US$.
Starting rate Rial/US$ is 8200 in year 2000, and will reach 15366 in year 2006, the end of the first
phase, and 20564 at the end of the second phase.
3. Cash Flow Statement Items
- Internal sources of cash: they include in addition to the internal cash generation sources of cash from
subscribers and TPWSC, the mother company. These sources are accounted for as equity - "Public's
Rights" - in the balance sheet of TSC:
t Sales of sewage connections: relate to the connections of customers to the sewerage system. The rate
of connections is assumed to increase at 22% from year 2000 to 2005 and at the inflation rate there
after. These funds are recorded as contributions from subscribers in the Balance Sheet. The pace of
connections is based on the following assumptions, reviewed and verified by the mission and its
counterpart in TSC and the consultants: the capacity of connections for each year will be
implemented as follows: 5% the first year, 30% the second year, 20% the third and fourth year, 15%
the fifth year, and 10% for the sixth year. TSC has established a credit system that allow subscribers
to pay their connection fees over 24 months with an interest rate based on market.
t A proportion (currently 15%) computed on the total amount consisting of (i) the operational revenues
billed by TPWSC: monthly standing charge, volumetric charge and separation charge, and of (ii) the
sales of new water connections made by TPWSC. This amount has been regularly paid by TPWSC.
*  Capital Expenditures. They represent mainly the investment program for the Tebran Sewage Project
(Phase I and Phase II; the former starting in 2001, the latter starting in 2006), and the implementation
of TSC own program.
*  Financing
>  Long Term Loan: IBRD loan of $145 million to be disbursed over the implementation period. A
grace period of four years starting 2002 is considered.
>  Other Local Financing: the tariffs for sewage operating revenues would be set at a level to cover all
TSC cash needs as described in para 2 above.
4. Balance Sheet Items
* Opening Balance Sheet. Since the creation of TSC in 1996, the accounts have been audited by
Mokhtar Associates. The auditors have qualified opinion on 1997 accounts, and disclaimer opinion on
1998 and 1999 accounts. The most significant issue besides the discrepancies in the accounting and
intemal control procedures is the ownership and transfer of assets to TSC. This issue is being



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page .66
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
discussed between TSC, the State Engineering Company and the auditors. It is expected to be settled
soon.
* Public Rights: include the subscriber's contribution for sewage connections and transfer of funds
from TPWSC, as described in para 3 above. These contributions are recognized as public rights and
are treated as investment funds/equity.
* Capital Expenditures are incorporated in fixed assets in the years they are comnmissioned.
* Accounts Receivables consist of a fraction (3 to 4 months, then 3 months starting from 2004 onwards)
of (i) net TSC operating revenues, (ii) transfers from TPWSC, and (iii) the sales of sewage
connections by TSC.
* Inventory: the operational inventory (excluding materials to be incorporated in the investment
program) consists of 6 months of maintenance and parts annual expenses.
* Accounts Payable are estimated to equal 2 months of (i) the cash expenses, excluding payroll and (ii)
the expenses related to the investment program.
- Long-term loans: consist of Government and IBRD loan.
B. Sensitivity analysis.
Sensitivity analysis is carried out to test the TSC financial performance as regards to reduction in tariffs,
reduction in connection rights and reduction in the amount to be transferred to TSC from TPWSC.
Result of analysis shows that TSC finances are very sensitive to number of connections and
TPWSC transfers.
C. Financing Procedure for New Sewage Connections.
The MOE has authorized a new credit scheme to customers (to be financed from TSC resources)
summarized as follows:
In case of cash payment:
* For first three million Rials of any connection right value, there will be a 10% discount. This
does not include the connection cost.
* For second three million Rials of any connection right value, i.e., three million Rials up to six
million Rials, there will be a 15% discount. This does not include the connection cost.
* For any part of connection right value exceeding six million Rials, there will be a 20%
discount. This does not include the connection cost.
Example:
total connection        category          discount   payable share    total payable in
right value                                                            cash
x<3,000,000 Rials       10%     2,700,000 Rials
7,000,000 Rials  3,000,000 Rials<x<6,000,000   15%    2,550,000 Rials  6,050,000 Rials
6,000,000 Rials<x      20%   I 800,000 Rials



Prqect Appraisal Document                                             Page 67
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                            Tehran Sewerage Project
In case of installments:
I.    Payment in advance       :10%
Installments            : up to 18 months
Service charge rate     : 0%
II.    Payment in Advance      :10%
Installments            : more than 18 months up to 36 months
Service charge rate     : 6%
Note                    : every extra 10% Advance Payment will reduce the
service charge rate by 0.8%
Im.   Payment in advance      :10%
Jnstallments            : more than 36 months up to 48 months
Service charge rate     : 8%
Note                    : every extra 10% advance payment will reduce the
service charge rate by 1%
[V.   Payment in Advance       :10%
Installments            : more than 48 months up to maximum 60 months
Service charge rate     :16%
Note                    : every extra 10% advance payment will reduce the
service charge rate by 2%



Annex S
Tehran Sewerage Project
General Data (base case)
Years Ending March 1997 through 2010
1997       1998       1999       2000       2001       2002        2003       2004        2005         2006        2007         2008         2009        2010         2011
Actuais    Aetuasi    Actuals    Estimate    Project    Project    Project    Project     Project      Project      Project     Project      Project      Project     Project
INFLATION %                                                   24%        15%        20%        20%         15%         8%          8%           8%           8%          8%           8%           8%           8%
Compounded Inflation Rate                                                1.00       1.20       1A4         1.66       1.79        1.93         2.09         2.25        2.43         2.63         2.84         3.07
WAGE INFLATION %                                              15%        15%        10%         9%          8%         8%          8%           8%           8%          8%           8%           8%           8%
OTHER PAYROLL ITEMS INCREASE %                                 0%         0%         0%         0%          0%         0%          0%           0%           0%          0%           0%           0%           0%
INCREASE IN ELECTRICITY COST %                                24%        15%        10%         9%          8%         8%          8%           8%           8%          8%           8%           8%           8%
S INFLATION %                                                  2%         2%         2%         2%          2%         2%          2%           2%           2%          2%           2%           2%           2%
INCREASE IN CHEMICAL COSTS %                                  15%        15%        10%         9%          8%         8%          8%           8%           8%          8%           8%           8%           8%
EXCHANGE RATE RiaVS EOYr(endofycar)                         6,903       8,200      9,676     11,418      12,902     13,676      14,497       15,366       16,288      17,266       18.302       19,400      20,564
GDP GROWTH %                                                   2%         0%         2%         3%          3%         3%          3%           3%           3%          3%           3%           3%           3%
TOTAL WATER CONNECTIONS             801,339    820,016    834,108    855,575    876,686    898,675    921.235    944,409       968,207      992,647    1,017,746    1,043,523    1,069,997    1,097,189    1,125,119
TOTAL SEWAGE CONNECTIONS             11,716     16,673      21.127     33,127     55,227     80,927    114,777    153,827      194,527      234,777      273,727     311,977      349,477      387227       425727
TOTALNEWCONNECTIONS WATER            26,481     26,801     21,179      21,467     22,043     22,608     23,198      23,804      24,427       25,069       25,728      26,406       27.103       27,821       28,559
TOTAL NEW CONNECTIONS SEWAGE         11,716      5,157       4,254     12,000     22,100     25,700      33,850     39,050      40,700       40.250       38,950      38.250       37,500       37,750       38,500
TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER DISTRIBI            0          0         709        714        729        744         761        779         797          S15          834         S53          873          893          914
TOTAL UNACCOUNTED FOR WATER            34%        32%         30%        30%        30%        30%         30%        30%         30%          30%          30%         30%          30%          30%          30%
PRODUCTIONOFWATER/MilliotiM3            842        846        886        893         911        930        952        974          996        1,019        1,043       1,067        1,091        1,117        1,142
TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER SOLD/Mi           556        572        617        625         655        670        686        702          718          735         752          770          788         806          825
TOTAL VOLUMEOFSEWAGEDISPOS                4          9         11          18         30         44         82         83          105          126         146          167          186         206          226
TWSC AMOUNT TRANSFERRED TO T'             0          1     65,288      87,683    109,302    133,312    163,193    200,038      237,279      293,568      351,454     422,232      508,970      615,494     746,572
TOTALRATEOFTRANSFERFROMTV               0%         0%         15%        15%        15%        15%         15%        15%         15%          15%          15%         15%          15%          15%          15%
SUBSCRiPTION SEWAGE TSC-                  0          0        647       1,524      3,146      5,667       9,859     16,185      25,047       39,334       56,076      78,137      106,999      144,918      194,745
VOLUME SEWAGE TSC *                       0          0       2,438      8,071     17,542     31,401     54,532      89,258     137,866      216,203      307,874     428,566      586,334      793,442    1,065,358
USER CONTRIBUTION SEWAGE TSC(             0          0     22,211      71,329    160,263    227.370    365,357    514,210      578,812      618.205     646,097      685,245      725,553      788,821     868,853
SEWAGE:
SALES VOLUME RESIDENTIAU M3                                         3,652,432   6.061,297   8,837,907  12,472.204  16,631.484   20,925,235   25,125.794   29.143,221   33,043,043   36,820,994   40,582,974   44,380,549
6,756,999 11,213,400  16,350,127 23,073,578 30,768,245   38,711,686   46,482,720   53.914,959   61,129,630   68.118,838   75,078,503   82.104,015
2,191.459  3,636,778  5,302,744   7.483,323  9,978,890   12,555,141   15,075,477   17,485,933   19,825,826   22,092,596   24,349,785   26,628,329
12,600,891  20,911,476 30,490,778 43.029,104  57,378,618   72,192,062   86,683,991  100,544,113  113,998,500  127,032,428  140,011,261  153,112.894
SALES VOLUME PUBLIC AND GOVERNMENT/M3                               1,074,245  2,078,159   3.059.920  4,381,817   5,896,931    7,489,898    9.078,956   10,630.757   12,167,945   13.688,102   15,230,079   16,813,630
SALES VOLUME INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAUM3                            1.432.326  2,770,879  4,079,893   5,842,422   7,862,574    9,986,531   12,105,275   14,174,343   16,223,927   18,250,803   20,306,772   22.418,173
SALES VOLUME SIIORT TERM /M3                                        2,506,571   4,159,714   6,094,962   8,685,640  11,692,305   14,850,807   18,001,556   21,078,434   24.126,335   27,140,470   30,197,867   33,337,698
TOTAL VOLUME OF SEWAGE DISPOSED/M3                                 17,614,033 29,920,228 43,725,552 61.938,984  82,830.429  104.519.299  125,869,777  146,427,647  166.516,706  186.111.03  205,745,979  225,682,395
TOTAL EMPLOYEES                                               200        205        229         258        295        338          383         427          470          512          553          595         638
H
(a
O oo



Annex S
Tehran Sewerage ProJect
Financial Statements Summary for Tebran Sewerage Company (base cmle)
Years Ending March 1997 through 201 I
(In Millions o(Current Irnian Riab)
Description                 1997       1998        1999        2000        2001        2002        2003        2004        2005        2006        2007         2008        2009        2010        2011
Audited    Audited     Audited     Estimate    Forecast    Forecast    Forecas     Forecast    Forast    Forecast    Forecast    Forecast    Forecast    Forecast    Forecast
Income Statement Items:
Unit Volume(OOO no)                         4,000       8,500      11,361      17,614      29,920      43,726      61,939      82,830     104,519     125,970     146,428      166,517     I16,112    205,746      225,682
Revenues                                    2,089       1.959       3,180       9,704      20,88      37,225     64,573      105,638     163,124     255,765     364,196     506,968     693,620     938,670    1,260,437
Operating exp. before dep.                  2,947       3,617       6,609       8,894      16,024      29,515      49,307      70,580      96,231     109,367     119,938     131,845     (44,988      156,938     164,371
Total operating enpases                     3,245       3,786       8,309      16,713      30,085      58,682     106,863     170,S74     245,266     300,344     339,569     374,660     413,762     454,052     487,676
Operating income (toss)                    -1,157      -1,827      -5.129      -7,009      -9,266     -21,456     -42,290     -65,236     -82,142     .44,579      24,627     132,308     279,858     484,618     772,761
Net Inconie (Ioss)                         .1,090      -1,257      -3,145     -33,476      -9,266     *i2A456     .42,290     -65,236     -82,142    -176,024    -131,500     -26,180      122,066    326,922      614,522
Funds Statement Items:
Intenal Sources                            13,024      55,134      51,271     (84,323     232,728     397,590    514,072      685,118     766,213     797,052    1,016,244    1,247,742    1,527,164    1,869,619    2.321,294
Borrowings                                  5,600       9,500      41.850          0       44,690     240,075     526,296     585,617     320,452     321,327     256.524           0           0           0           0
Total Sounes                               (8,624      64,634      93,121     (84,323     277,418     637,664    1,040.368    1,270,735    1,086,665    1,118,379    1,272,769    1,247,742    1.527,164    1,869.619   2,321,294
Capitai Expenditures                       14,772      63.604      86,839     105,454     309,758     637,986    1,041,265    1,268,212   971,461     600,597     439,600     498,340     549,900     459,000      169.650
Loan repayment                                  0          0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0            0     152,999      152,999     152,99      152,999     152,999
Total Applications                         14,772      63,604      86,839     105,454     309.758     637,986    1,041,265    1,268,212   971,461     600,597     592,599     651,339     702,899     611,999      322,649
Change in cash                                789       1,030       6,282      25,935     -32,340       -322        -897        2,523     115,204     517,783     680,170     596,403     824,266    1.257,620    1,998,647
Baliance Sheet Ibtms:
Cash                                          789       1,818       8.100      34,035       1,695       1,373        476        2,999     1(8,203     635,986    1,316,156    1,912,559    2,736,825    3,994,445    5,993.092
Current Assets Less C L.                    6,736      23.577      61,392      36,072      71,209      67,045      93,961     157,508     3S4.595    1,024,385    1,763,074    2.420,647    3,322,311    4.710,512    6,903,314
Net Fixed Assets                           17,730      81.173     136.050     261,016     557.980    1,169,189    2,157,046    3,331,341    4.162,739    4,584,652    4,820,568    5,096,773    5,404,677    5,601,109    5,491,816
Total Assets                               34,363     123,044     248,884     352,221     690,584    1,354,756   2,438.242    3,714,502    4,726.496    5,729,116   6,705,303    7,655,830    8,881,714   10,459,414   12,503,152
Debt                                        5,600      15,100      56,950      30,483     101,640     341,715     868,011    1,453,628    1,774,080    2,095,407    2,272,665    2,045,934    1,892,935    1,739,936    1,586,937
Accumulatcd surplus (Ioss) & Reserves       -809       -2.641      -5,253     -38.152     -46,773     -66,951    -107,026    -169,047    -247,105    *418,503    -544,974    -565,674    -437,630    -104,314      516,769
Connections rights & TPWSC transfcrs       19,763      92.363     172,284     304,827     574.391     961,540    1,490,091    2,204,338    3,020,428    3,932,201    4,856,021    6,037,229    7,271,752    8,676,068   10,291,493
Total Liabilities and Equity               34,363     123.043     248,884     352,221     690,584    1,354,756   2,438,242    3.714,502    4,726,496    5.729.116   6,705.303    7.655,830    8,881,714   10,459,414   12,503,152
Financial Indicators
Worxing ralio                                41%        (85Y%       208%         92%         77%        79Y         76%          67%         59%         43%         33%         26%         21%         17%          13%
Operating ratio                             155%        193%        261%        172%        145%        158%        165%        162%        150%x       117%         93%         74%         60%         48%          39%
Debt Srvice Coverage                          NA          NA          NA         NA         22.52       19.03       11.03        8.27        6.83        6.97        3.83        4.68        5.79        7.22         9 17
Current Ratio                                1.69        2.29        3.47        1.66        2.16        1.57        1.50        1.70        3.15        9.54       15.50        18.50      22.48       32.89        64.95
Debt as oftotal capital                      23%         14%         25%         10%         16%        28%         39%         42%          39%         37%         35%         27%         22%         17%          13%
ExpeFditures rancedbyl.S.                   S8%          87%         59%        100%        69%         64%         52%          58%         89%        1000%       100%        100%        100Y        100%         (00Y.
en 
0  .



Annex s
Tehran Seweage Prject
Ireome Siateamet Tebran Sewerage Company (base ease)
Years Eading March 1997 tbrmgh 2011
(to Mitia of Canvt Irana Riab)
1997       im         999        2000       2l0o       2012       2003       2004       2C65       2006        2007       200t       2009       2610        2011
Atnuab     Actai      Aetnab    ottnate    prect       Prjeet      roett     PJeCt       ret        Project     rjet       rrject     Project    Projet     Proje
Sewage Revenues                     2.074      1.8t2      3,085      9,696     20.687     37.068     64,392    105.442    162,913    255,537    363.949    506,702    693,332    938,360   12610,102
ODher ncome                            13        77          95        109        131        157        181        195        211         228        246        266        287         310        335
Total Revenu_                       2,,08,     1,15       3.180      9.704     20,811      37,225     u4,573    105,638    113,124    255,765    364.166    506,916     6S3,620    936.678  11268,437
Payroi (wag 6 asaanesfthargeslpens  1.235      2.149      4.233      3.337      4.094      4,999      6.162       7,605      9.284     11,169     13,257      15.585     18.173     21,086     24.461
Energy                                69         120        132        136        149        163        176        190        991       1,070      1.158       1,248      1,348      1,456       1,572
Cheicais                               0          0          2          8          9         10         10         11       5,992      6,472      6.990       7.549      8,153      8.805       9,509
Maintenance and Parts                884         744      1,941      5,045     11,309     23,758     42,240      61.941     79,002     89,550     97,270    106,022    115,679    123,740    126,720
Other Efpenses                        757        606        301        368        463        586        718        832        962       1.106       1,265      1.441      1,636      1.852       2.109
Total Drect Exponees                2,947      3,617      6,609      6,894     16,024     29,515     49,307      70,580     96231    109,367    119.938    131,845    144,988    156,938    164,371
Gross income                         *859     .1,668     *3.429        810      4,794      7,710      15,266     35,058     66.893    146,398    244,258    375.124    548.631    701,732   1,006,066
Deprecation                           67         178      1.630      6,965     12.794     26,777     53.409      93.918    140,063    178.664    203.664    222,134    241.996    262.568    278,943
ProvisionsforBadDebis                  0           0         0         288        621      1,112       1,932      3.163      4,887      7,666     10.918      15.201     20,800     28,151      37,803
Other Provisions                     231          *9        70         576        646      1,278      2,216       3.215      4.084      4.627      6,028       5,480      5.978      6,395       6.559
Total Operating Expenses            3,245      3,786      8,300     16,713     30,085     58,682    106,863    170,874    245,266    300,344    339.569    374,660    413,762    454,052    487,676
Operating Income                   -1,157     -1,827     *5,129     -7,009     -9,266    .21,456    *42,290    465,236    .82,142    .44,579      24,627    132,308    279,858    464,618      772,761
Financiaiexpenselloans                 0          0          0           0          0          0          0          0          0     131,446    151,670    144,584    133,874    123,164    112.454
Non operational Inconle(Loss)         67         570      1,984    -26,467          0          0          0          0          0           0      4,456      13.904     23.918     34.533      456785
Surpls (Deficit) for the year      *1,090     -1,257     -3,145    -33,476      *9,266    .21,456    .42,290    .65,236    *82,142   -176,024   -131,500    *26,180    122,066    326,922    614,522
Depreciation                          67         178      1.630      6,955      12,794    26,777     53,409      93,916    140.063    178.684    203,684    222.134    241.996    262,568    278,943
income (toss) before depreciation  -1,023     -1,079     *1,515    -26,521      3,528      5,320      11,119     28,680     57,921      2,659     72,18S    195,955    364,062    589,489    693,465
Ratios
Working rato                        141%       185%       208%        92%        77%        79%        76%        67%         59%        43%        33%         26%        21%        17%         13%
Operating raaon                     155%       193%       261%       172%       145%       158%       165%        162%       150%       117%        93%         74%        60%        48%         39%
on
t0 



Anuec S
TeRraik Seweae Projet
Cuh Flw Sttemnt for rehr  Sewerage Comtpany (bas case)
Yar EndIng March 1997 trough 2011
(Ia MOile  OtCumrrct Irania Risb)
1997      1998      1999       2000       2001      2002       2003       2004      20l0       2006       2007       2008      2009       2010       2011
Actual    Actl,b    Actash    Eatae    Project    Projet       Projct       tj       Projet     Prject    Projec     Project    Project    Projct    Prjtct
+I-St,pLus (Deficit) for the Year  -1.090     -1,257     -3.145    -33.476    *9,266    -21,456   -42,290    -65,236    -2,142   -176.024   -131.500    -26,180    122.066    326.922    614.522
t Depreciation                         67       178      1.630      6,955     12.794    26,777     53,409    93.916    140.063    178,684    203,684    222,134    241.996    262.568    278,943
+ Other Provisions                   231      .2.699        70       576    27,113      27,745      2,215     3,215      4,084      4.627      5.028     S,480      5,978      6.395      6.559
+1- chge In current liabilitieslassets  -5,947  17,192    -27,132  51,255    -67,477     3,843    -27,813    -61,024   *111,883   -122.007    -58,520    -61.169    -77.399   -130.581   -194.155
Cash Flow from Operations           6,739     13,415    .28,648    25,310    438,837    36,908    .14,479    -29,130    -49,877   -114,721    18,603    140,266    292,641    465,303    705,870
+ TfSC Amount transferred to TSC   16,650     21.654    57.708     87,683    109.302    133,312    163,193    200,038    237,279    293,568    351,454    422,232    508,970    615.494    746,572
USer Conijibution Sewage TSC       3,113     20,065    22,211     71,329    160.263    227,370    365,357    514,210    578,812    618.205    646,097    685,245    725,553    788.821    868,853
- Ivestment New ProjecV Phasel         0          0          0         0    299.423    617,096    994,674  1,185,382    859,269    229.946        0          0          0          0          0
Other lnvestments                 14,772     63,604    86,839    119,886         0          0         0          0          0    237.510    439,600    498,340    549,900    459.000    169,650
-Capitalizedinterest                   0          0          0     12,035     10,335    20.890     46,591    82,830    112.192    133,141         0          0          0          0          0
Cash Flow " mnvestment              1,878    -21,885     46,920    27,091    .40,193   -277,305   -512,715   -553,964   -155,371    311,176    557,951    609,136    684,623    945,316  1,445,775
+ LT borrowing IBRD Loans              0          0          0         0     44.690    240,075    526,296    585,617    320,452    321.327    256,524        0          0          0          0
+ Other LT Sorrowng                 5.600      9,500    41,850    -26,467         0          0         0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0
-IBRDloan repayments                   0          0         0                    0          0          0         0          0          0   -152,999   -152,999   -152,999   -152.999   -152,999
+ BOT financing                         0         0          0         0          0          a         0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0
Cash Flow from Financing            5,650      9,500    41,650    -26,467     44,690    240,075    52S,296    588,617    320.452    321,327    103,526   -152,999   -152,999   -152,099   -152,998
Change In cash                        789      1,030     6,282     25,935    -32.340      -322      -497      2,523    115,204    517,783    680,170    594,403    824,266  1,257,620  1,998,647
Ratio,
Debtservice                           NA         NA        NA         NA     2252%       19.03      11.03       8.27      6.83       6.97       3.83       4.68      5.79       7.22       9.17
Cash generation                      88%        87%        59-/     100Y%       78%       64%        52%       5S%        89%        100%      100%       100%A      100%       200%      100%
CA



Annex S
Tethan Sewerge Proect
Balance Sheet for Tehran Sewerage Company pbase case)
Years Ending March 199 ttwough 2011
pin Millions of Current tranian Rtats)
1197      1998      19"       2000       2001      2002      2003       2004      2005       2006      2007       2008      2009       2010
Actuals   Actuals    Actuals   Estinate   Project    Project    Project    Project    Project    Project    Project    Project    Project    Project
Cash                                           789      1,818     8,100    34,035      1,695     1,373       476      2,999    118,203    635,986  1,316,156  1,912,559  2,736,825  3,994,445
Trade Accounts ReceIvables                       0      2,556    10,099     3,139      6,733    12,038    20,880     25,619    39.559     62,025    88,319    122,942    168,205   227,630
Net Funds to be transrerred from TWSC          913    33,004     44,436    39,753    107.457    147.013   223,477    307,114    348,726    382,494    410,912    448,180    490.019   546,284
OtherCunent assets                          10,934      2,378    20,003     9,163     10,996    13.195    15,174     16,388    17,699     19,115    20,644     22.296    24.080     26,006
Inventory                                    3,909      2.042     3,651     5,045      5,655    11,879    21,120     30,971    39.501     44,776    48,635     53,011    57,840    61,870
Current Assets                     16,54S    41,798     86,295    91,135    132,535   185,498   281,128    383,091    563,688  1,144,395  1,884,667  2,558,968  3.476,988  4,858,235
Gross Fixed Assets                          17,800    81.371    137,678   269,796    579,554  1.217,540  2,258,805  3,527.017  4,498.478  5,099,074  5,538,674  6,037.014  6.586,914  7,045,914
(Accumulated Depreciation)                   67       195      1,825     8,780    21,573    48,350    101,759    195,675    335,739    514.422    718,107    940,241   1,182,237  1,444,805
Net Fixed Assets                            17,733    81,176    136.053    261,016    557.980  1,169,189  2,157.046  3.331.341  4,162,739  4,584,652  4.820.568  5,094,773  5,404.677  5,601,109
Other Assets                                    85        69    26,536         69        69        69         69        69         69        69         69        69         69        69
TotalAssets                                 34,363    123,044   248,884    352,221   690.58,4  1,354,756  2,438,242  3,714,502  4,726,496  5,729,116  6,705,303  7,655,830  8,881,714 10,459,414
TradeAccounts Payable                           56       228        96    20,907      51,892    106.935    172,970    208,059    157,703  94,276    91,047    102.433    112.786    99,142
OthercurrenttiabiltieslAdvances              9,753    17,994    24.807     34,156      9,433    11.518    14,197     17,523    21,391     25,735    30,546     35.908    41,871     48,561
Current Liabilities                 9,809    18,221     24,903    55,063    61,325    118,453   187,167    225,583    179,093    120,011    121,592    138,341    154,657    147,723
LT debt IBRD                                     0         0         0          0    44,690   284,765    811,061  1,396,678  1,717,130  2,038,457  2,215.715  1,988,984  1,835,985  1,682,986
LT debt Others                               5,600    15.100    56,950    30.483      56,950    56,950    56,950     56.950    56.950     56.950    56,950     56,950    56,950     56,950
Provision Reserves                             231       223       830      1,406      2,052     3,330     5,545      8.761    12,845     17,471    22,499     27.980    33,957     40,352
Publics Right$                               19.763    92,363    172,284    304,827    574,391    961,540  1,490,091  2,204,338  3,020,428  3,932,201  4,856,021  6,037,229  7,271,752  8,676,068
Accunmulated Surplus (Deficit) previous years  -1.040    .2,864  -6,083    -39,559    -48,825    -70,281   -112,571   -177,808   .259,950   -435,974   -567,474   -593,653   -471.587   -144,666
Total Liabilities & Capital                 34,363   123,043   248,884    352,221    690,584  1,354,756  2,438,242  3,714,502  4,726,496  5,729,116  6,705,303  7,655,830  8,881,714 10,459,414
Ratios
LT Debt/(LT Debt+Equity)                      23%        14%       25%       10%        16%       28%       39%        42%       39%        37%       35%        27%       22%        17%
7
as,!



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 73
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                      Tehran Sewerage Project
ANNEX 5.1
Page 1 of 2
Water Tariff for Residential Connections
Monthly Water usaze     Price/m3 (Rials) in year 1999  Price/rn3 (Rials) in 1999
X<5                     Y=O                           Y=O
5<X<18.5                Y=O.041X2-0.328X+41           Y=O.041X2-0.328X+41
18.5<X<22.5            Y=0.0533X2-0.426X+53.3        Y=0.0533X2-0.426X+53.3
22.5<X<35               Y=16.25X-203.125              Y=13X=162.5
35<X<45                 Y=17.5X-218.75                Y=14K-175
45<X<75                 Y=18.2X-205.66                Y=14X-158.2
65<X<75                 Y=0.3808X2-630                Y=0.2898X2-469
75<X                    Y=1512                        Y=1162
Sample Cases
Rials/m3                        Percentage of
Price/Year                     1999                   1998                  Increase
Water Usage m3                                 _
X=10                   41.82                  41.82                   0%
X=20                   66.1                   66.1                    0%
X=30                  284.375                 227.5                  25%
X=40                  481.25                  385.0                  25%
X=55                  795.34                  611.8                  30%
X=70                  1235.92                951.02                  30%
X=75                  1512.0                  1162.0                 30%



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 74
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                Tehran Sewerage Project
ANNEX 5.1
Page 2 of 2
WATER TARIFF FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL CONNECTIONS
DATED APRIL 1999
CODE            CODE DESCRIPTION    WATER BILL      SUBSCRIPTION    SEASON TARIFF
(RIALS)          TYPE
I               RESIDENTIAL      RESIDENTIAL      RESIDENTIAL      NONE
TABLE
2               PUBLIC &         700              GENERAL          YES
GOVERNMENTAL
3               BATHS            80               GENERAL          NONE
4               RELIGIOUS UNITS   80              GENERAL          NONE
5               COMMERCIAL &     800             INDUSTRIAL        YES
INDUSTRIAL
6               MIX              RESIDENTIAL      SERVICES/RESIDEN   NONE
TABLE           TIAL
7               MULTI UNIT       RESIDENTIAL      RESIDENTIAL      NONE
RESIDENCE       TABLE
8               FIRE STATION     800              GENERAL          YES
9               UNDER            1.600            RESIDENTIAL      YES
CONTRUCTION
10              VOLUMETRIC       470              GENERAL          YES
11              EDUCATIONAL      44               GENERAL          NONE
CENTERS PRIVATE
PUBLIC, SPORTS, &
CULTURAL
12              PUBLIC HEALTH    700              GENERAL          YES
CENTERS                                             .-
13              PRIVATE HEALTH   800              SERVICES         YES
CENTERS
14              BAKERIES         80               SERVICES         NONE
15              PRIVATE          340              SERVICES         NONE
CULTURAL
CENTERS
16              ORPHANAGE        80               GENERAL          NONE
1 7             COMMERCIAL &     370              NONE             YES
INDUSTRIAL RAW
WATER          _
18              NON-             215              NONE             YES
GOVERNMENTAL/
GOVERNMENTAL
RAW WATER
19              FORESTRY RAW     80               NONE             NONE
WATER
20              NONE BILLED RAW                   NONE             NONE
WATER
21              TEMPORARY        1.400           INDUSTRIAL        YES
WORKSHOP
22              PARK             400              GENERAL          YES
CONNECTIONS
WITH COUNTER
23              PARK             Dia. 0.5 inches per    NONE       YES
CONNECTIONS W/O  month 182
COUNTER         dia. 0.75 inches per
month 290
24              SPECIAL          770              GENERAL          YES
VOLUMETRIC
CONNECTIONS
25              WATER BY TANKER  1.400            NONE             NONE



Project Appraisal Document                                                Page 75
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                               Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 6
TEHRAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Assessment of Financial Management System:
Background
The project aims at: (i) improving the environmental conditions in the Greater Tehran, (ii)
strengthening the Tehran Sewerage Company (TSC), a revenue earning entity, organization and structure
through improving its accountability, its financial viability and autonomy, and involvement of private
sector participation in the development and management of the sanitation sub-sector. TSC will
implement the project through a Project Management Unit (PMU) to be created and adequately staffed.
TSC is a private company and as such abides by the commercial code. Nevertheless considering its close
links with the public administration as its shareholders including the State Engineering Company, TSC is
applying mixed standards to meet their request. The company has a highly competent and motivated
management and advisory team.
TSC is a subsidiary established in 1996 by the Tebran Province Water and Sewerage Company
(TPWSC) to carry out its program of sewerage collection and sewage treatment service expansion, and to
operate the new and existing wastewater facilities. TSC is a corporate utility set up in accordance with
the 1991 Act. It operates under Iran's Commercial Code, is financially autonomous and is audited by
independent private auditors. TSC's equity is owned up to 80% by TPWSC, with the remaining 20%
owned by two of the municipal WSCs in the province (themselves, controlled by TPWSC). In addition,
sewerage subscriptors have non-voting, non-tradable "user equity" rights on the company's balance sheet.
Current Financial Management Systems (FMS) issues:
A review of the accounting system indicates that TSC's FMS has limitations. Regarding the chart
of accounts, TSC use a chart derived from the one designed by the State Company (in charge of
accounting standards) for the country which, given recent audit reports, is not in total concordance with
the international accounting principles and standards recommended by the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants (AICPA). Discrepancies in the accounting system, related mainly to fixed assets
computation, have been highlighted by the auditors audit report produced at the end of February and
October 1999.
Currently TSC is using a PC accounting package and produces accounts, financial statements, and
reports on an annual basis as generally requested by the State Company that focuses only on annual
accounts and monitoring. Monthly, quarterly or semi-annual closing and reporting are produced as they
are requested by the management or by the Board. Systematic production of such periodic reports and
accounts, will allow during project implementation to monitor the Project and TSC's activities.
The review indicates also that: (i) TSC's computerized accounting system and accounting
procedures have limitations. They need to be improved to easily generate financial statements and
reports, and to ensure that all TSC-related activities are reflected in its accounts and financial statements;
(ii) staff need additional training to carry out its accounting functions; (iii) internal controls need major
improvement so that checking and accounting of expenditures incurred by TSC will be verified in a
systematic way. In addition, the review reveals that to ensure clear, simple, user-friendly, and consistent
form of presentation of financial information there is a need to: (i) develop a Financial/Accounting



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 76
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
Management Manual (FMM) and a Management Information System (MIS) which document the various
accounting systems and procedures; (ii) undertake and provide on time internal and external audit that
improve management accountability, enhance the credibility of financial statements and financial
reporting, and enhance the transparency and the consistency of activities and expenditures charged as
TSC expenditure.
Remedial actions
To fulfill its new obligations and improve its FMS, TSC intends specifically to: (a) adopt a high
labor productivity (connections per employee) target; (b) develop its cost accounting system; and (c) enter
into a contractual arrangement with professional operators as well as in private-public partnerships, to
enhance its capacity and financial and technical performance. TSC intends also to strengthen its core
functions of service planning and budgeting, resource mobilization, financial and projects management,
and procurement/contracts management by producing the FMM and MIS.
A technical assistance and training program under the Project, and early recruitment of trained staff
for key positions, will focus on addressing these needs. The contractual arrangement with foreign
utilities, recognized for their good levels of performance, would last for a few years, and it would have
the objective to provide support in tackling immediate issues that TSC is facing or will have to face in the
future such as: (i) project management; (ii) optimal organization of the Company during this development
stage; (iii) technical problems related to the management of a network expanding rapidly, to the treatment
per se of wastewater, and to the disposal of sludge; and (iv) organization of an effective administration
and finance department.
The above actions would be developed by TSC with the assistance of consultants. The FMM and
the MIS would be prepared then formally adopted by TSC and particularly the PMU, as the document
which would govern all financial management aspects of TSC and the project. The FMM would cover
the following aspects: (i) financial and accounting, and procurement policies; (ii) Chart of Accounts for
TSC as well as chart of accounts specific to the project activities; (iii) accounting system and internal
control mechanisms;  (iv) flow of funds; (v) financial reporting (including formats of financial
management reports); (vi) auditing arrangements; (vii) budgeting; and (viii) organization and staffing for
TSC's financial management functions as well as for the PMU.
More specifically, in order to ensure adequate financial management of the project, as regard to use
of funds, and accuracy and appropriateness of expenses during the period preceding the full design and
implementation of the project FMS, the following actions are being agreed with TSC: (i) formalizing the
arrangement regarding the PMU with the appointment of key staff including: Chief Financial Officer,
competent administrative manager and financial experts and accountants, project Director and
engineering, and procurement specialist; (ii) development and adoption of chart of accounts specific to
the project; and (iii) designation of high level staff within the General manager office to carry out and
develop internal control procedures to ensure that, at the project level, checking and accounting of
expenditures incurred by the PMU are accurate and reflect project activities. TSC would provide the
Bank with a management letter from its external auditor certifying that the above actions have been
fulfilled. All those actions and corresponding target dates are given in the action plan (Annex 6.1).
Flow of Funds:
The execution of the project is the responsibility of TSC which will implement it through a PMU
created and well staffed to this purpose. The allocation of funds would include both counterpart funds of
TSC and funds from TPWSC, the IBRD and Co-financiers Loans. Annual budgetary allocations would
be based on the annual budget for project activities prepared by PMU/TSC. All funds for the project
would flow through TSC Bank accounts and one Special Account opened at a commercial bank (affiliated



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 77
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
with the Central Bank of Iran). Deposit into and payments out of the SA will be made in accordance with
the provision of the Loan Agreement. Withdrawal applications and replenishment of the SA would be
prepared by the PMU and sent to the Bank under authorized signature.
Financial and Accounting Policies:
Financial and accounting policies and procedures of TSC and for the project would be developed
and included in the TSC FMM. These policies and procedures should be clearly stated to ensure
transparency and uniformity, enforce accountability, and provide clarity regarding financial aspects to the
various stakeholders, lenders, and finance staff. These policies and procedures will cover, in addition to
the detailed explanation of the accrual accounting basis, chart of account, and financial statements, the
following aspects: (i) expenditures which would be treated as project expenditures including their
classification; (ii) expenditures which would be eligible for reimbursement from the IBRD loan; (iii)
provision of advances to TSC, and accounting of funds provided to it; and (iv) project accounting
policies. These would be gradually expanded and refined to include aspects such as efficient management
and deployment of funds, internal control policies, etc.
Project Accounting System:
PMU would be responsible for overall project financial management and accounting. PMU would
maintain books of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate Financial Statements (FS) and
Financial Management Reports (FMR), and ensure that timely audit of the project FS and related reports
are included in the TSC financial statements audit reports. A Chart of Accounts for the project will be
prepared as part of the Chart of Accounts of TSC.
The overall principles for project accounting would be derived from TSC general accounting and
are outlined below:
(i)    Books of accounts for the project would be maintained by PMU using the computerized
accounting system to be developed then operated in TSC. The computerized accounting system
is a networked system connecting all TSC's organizational structure including PM-U, capable of
producing financial reports for TSC and the Project separately. The current structure is able to
produce the minimum reporting formats for SOE procedures under traditional disbursements and
for operation of the SA. However, a detailed action plan has been discussed and agreed upon to
ensure that PMR reporting formats will be effective by January 1, 2002.
(ii)   Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds (including beneficiary contributions),
and all utilization of project funds. All project-related transactions would be accounted in the
books of accounts. Disbursements made by the Bank and the Special Account maintained by
PMU would also be included in the project accounting system. Funds received from different
sources - Bank, lenders, and beneficiaries would be identified separately and reflected in the
project accounts and financial statements.
(iii)   The account chart would allow to distinguish from other activities of TSC, at the data-capture
stage, the project-related transactions and activities. A Balance reflecting all transactions for the
project would be prepared quarterly and as requested. The Chart of Accounts is to be set up in
conformity with the classification of expenditures and sources of funds indicated in the project
documents (Project Implementation Plan, Project Appraisal Document, Project costs). The Chart
of Accounts enables data to be captured in a manner as to facilitate financial reporting of project
expenditures by: (i) project components and sub-components; (ii) contracts; and (iii)
disbursement categories.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 78
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                Tehran Sewerage Project
(iv)   Project Financial Statements and financial reports would be fully based on the project books of
accounts, and substantially generated from the financial accounting system.
(v)    Physical key performance indicators which can be linked to financial ratios and indicators would
be maintained as part of the project financial management system. Both types of indicators have
been identified and would be in the Project implementation plan, in the FMR, and in the FMM.
This list would be expanded as needed during implementation.
Information Flow for Accounting Purposes:
(i)    The PMU would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures
on activities of the project. The PMU would provide a summary statement of expenditure
monthly based on the books of accounts, along with other information and documents (details
given in the FMM).
(ii)   All expenditures incurred during project implementation would be audited by the independent
auditors; and
(iii)   This system would be periodically reviewed during implementation experience, and improved as
necessary.
Internal Controls
The project financial management system would include the following internal control
mechanisms:
(i)    operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with
budgets and targets;
(ii)   adoption and operation of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which
would govern financial management of and accounting for the project (as described earlier).
These policies and procedures would be included in the FMM.
(iii)  at the transaction level, establishment and operation of policies, procedures and systems for
ensuring standard internal controls such as monitoring of expenditures, appropriate
documentation, levels of authorization, divergence of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical
verification, etc. These policies and procedures should be included in the FMM and Procurement
Manual of TSC and would be reviewed and updated periodically; and
(iv)   establishment and operation of a comprehensive audit mechanism, including concurrent audit (as
described below).
Financial Management Reports
Quarterly. FMR for the project would be generated by the PMU each quarter and sent to the Bank 45
days following the closing of each quarter. These reports would summarize all transactions and would be
used for project management by TSC. The reports would include: (i) budgeted and actual expenditures
with an analysis of major variances on sources and application of funds by components, expenditure
categories, and physical parameters and financial targets; (ii) expenditures by disbursement categories;
(iii) forecasts for the next 2 quarters. Formats of the reports are given in the FMM.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 79
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
Annually: Audited reports on TSC and Project FS would be submitted to the Bank no later than
September 20 of the following year. For the report related to fiscal year ending March 20, 2000 the audit
report will be made available and reviewed by effectiveness. The reports would include: (i) a statement
of sources and utilization of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds received from various sources,
project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project. This would also include: (i) appropriate
schedules classifying project expenditures by components, and expenditure categories; (ii) a Special
Account Reconciliation Statement; and (iii) a Statement of Withdrawals from the IBRD Loan made on
the basis of SOE and/or on PMR.
Auditing Arrangements
The accounts and FS of the project would be audited by an independent auditor. The report and the
annual project FS audited would be submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the close of TSC fiscal
year. The Terms of Reference (TOR) and qualifications of the auditor are included in the FMM and
would be reviewed by the Bank prior to their issuance.
The audit by the Project Auditor would be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e.,
all sources and utilization of funds, and expenditures incurred by all implementing agencies). The audit
will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing. The Terms of Reference of
the auditors includes both audit of financial transaction, and an assessment of the operation of the
financial management system per se, including review of internal control mechanisms. The Project
Auditor would be appointed before the start of the project. The auditor would initially be appointed for
one year with a possibility of an extension to two more years depending on satisfactory performance of
the auditor. To ensure rotation of auditors, a different firm would be appointed for the subsequent period.
Staffing
Currently the key staff in the finance and accounts function of TSC is comprised of a Manager-
Finance, who is supported by an Accounts Officer. To enhance its financial management capabilities,
TSC plans to recruit the following qualified professionals: (i) an experienced Accountant or Cost
Accountant who would be acting as a Financial Controller. The Financial Controller would head PMU
Finance and Accounts function; and would provide the necessary support to the Financial Director in
modernizing the financial function in TSC, including for the project per se; and (ii) a qualified middle-
level professional accountant or Cost Accountant who would be acting as a Financial Officer. The
appointment of these two additional qualified professional staff is crucial for the satisfactory operation of
the financial management system for the project.
TSC has in its Financial Department 13 staff headed by a Director. Among these staff, 6 have a
bachelor degree level. The others have a high school level. The main duties performed relate to:
* Checking and recording of the contractors' documents (3 persons)
* Miscellaneous tasks related to the management of the contractors' activity(l person)
* Drawing checks and perform duties related to bank accounts reconciliation (I person)
* Computer management (I person)
* Storage (1 person)
* Assets (1 person)
* Income (1 person)
* Filing and general tasks (1 person)
* Secretary (1 person)
* Human Resources accounting (I person)



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 80
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                   Tehran Sewerage Project
*  The manager in charge of the section is responsible to put together the financial statements and the
related documents and to ascertain that the required level of quality is reached.
Areas for Improvement
Overall, as said earlier the financial management system currently in place will be redesigned and
adapted to fulfill FMS requirements and ensure satisfactory implementation of the project. The creation
of the PMUJ, conception and implementation of the FMS, recruitment of the qualified professional staff
with the necessary training and experience in the operation of modem FMS, along with inputs by the
project auditors, would provide within the first 18 months of project implementation the necessary
foundations for financial management improvement and soundness.  In summary the areas for
improvement are: (i) sensitization and training for TSC professional staff in financial planning and
management, operation of 'system-based' internal controls, financial policies, etc., (ii) training of
financial staff in basic computer operations (spreadsheets, word processors, databases, operation of the
computerized financial management system, etc.); (iii) ensuring better linkages between physical and
financial activities, including expanding the items for which physical data is captured in the financial
management system (e.g., creation of new assets, inventories, etc); (iv) developing better linkages
between financial functions in TRWSC and TSC, especially since these functions are closely related (on
aspects such as water sold, tariffs, funds earmarked, etc.); and (v) improvement and development of
internal service standards for all finance and accounting functions. These as well as other improvements
of weaknesses described in the paras above would be addressed during project implementation on a
continual basis.
Readiness for Implementation and Next Steps
Financial Management System: The design of the FMS is underway. A FMM documenting the
financial management system is also being prepared; and will be finalized and submitted to the Bank
before effectiveness for PMU and before July 1, 2001 for TSC. The computerization of the FMS
(modifications to the existing computerized system) will also begin and is expected to be completed by
January 1, 2002. During the interim period preceding the FMS/PMR based disbursement a chart of
accounts for the project, distribution of responsibilities among General Manager, the financial officer and
the PMU Manager, and designation of staff to be in charge of internal control would be a Condition of
effectiveness of the Bank Loan.
Appointment of Auditors: Draft Terms of Reference for financial audit of the project have been
prepared; and the process of recruitment of a firm of independent Accountants as project auditors for the
first year has begun. The auditors are expected to be appointed by effectiveness.
Recruitment of Key Staff: The process for recruitment of the two additional key financial staff
(Financial Controller and Financial Officer) has started. The Financial Officer and the Financial
Controller are identified and their appointment confirmation is expected by effectiveness.
Risks
There are two main risks relating to financial management aspects: (i) unsatisfactory internal
control and accounting and financial procedures, and inadequate staffing of the PMU; and (ii) delays in
preparation and implementation of the FMS and of PMRs. These risks and the risk-mitigation measures
are outlined below. Both risks are considered manageable due to the various risk-mitigation measures
taken. Nonetheless, these are highlighted here in view of their potential for adversely affecting project
performance. These aspects will be monitored closely as part of project supervision.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page .81
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
Internal control mechanisms for expenditures on activities need strengthening. This risk is
mitigated by the following factors: (i) commitment to create and maintain well staffed PMU; (ii)
establishment of financial policies and procedures which would govern TSC management as a whole and
project expenditures in particular; (iii) audit of expenditures, including concurrent quarterly audit, by the
project auditor; and (iv) provision to modify these arrangements based on implementation experience.
There is a risk that preparation of the PMRs would be delayed and that the quality of the reports
may be of inadequate or unsatisfactory quality, especially given that PMU and TSC have no experience in
such activities and have not previously prepared project financial statements. Timely preparation and use
of the PMRs, and satisfactory quality of these reports, are essential to facilitate effective project
management. The risk-mitigation factors are the substantial urgent actions which are being taken on: (i)
design of a comprehensive FMS; (ii) computerization of the FMS; (iii) recruitment of key financial staff
to augment financial management capabilities.  Pending the fulfillment of the above measures,
disbursements from the Bank Loan will not be made on the basis of PMRs, but will rather be made on the
traditional reimbursement basis. Disbursements will be converted to the PMR-based method, after the
key professional staff have been recruited and the FMS is satisfactorily operated, and has been reviewed
by a Bank FMS for reliability and accuracy.
Disbursement:
A Special Account would be maintained in a commercial bank (affiliated with the Central Bank of
Iran); and would be operated by the Finance Department of TSC. The authorized allocation of the Special
Account would be $10 million which represents about 4 months of estimated disbursements from the
Bank Loan. The authorized allocation would be $3.5 million until the aggregate disbursements from the
Bank Loan reaches the equivalent of $35 million. The Special Account would be operated in accordance
with the Bank's operational policies.
Disbursements would be made against Withdrawal Applications for reimbursements of
expenditure with full documentation, reimbursement of expenditures against Statements of Expenditure
(SOE), and direct payments. The Bank would disburse against SOE for the following types of
expenditures: (i) on contracts for works, goods not exceeding $500,000 and $350,000 equivalent
respectively; (ii) on contracts for consultants services not exceeding $100,000 in the case of consulting
firms, and not exceeding $50,000 in the case of individual consultants; and (iii) training expenditure.
Although disbursements would initially be made using the Bank's existing disbursement
procedures (as described above), it was agreed at Negotiations that TSC would operate the project
financial management system and produce quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) from the
system; and that TSC would take necessary steps (especially the recruitment of the Financial Controller
and Financial Officer as indicated above) to enable conversion of disbursements to the Bank's new PMR-
based disbursement procedures as soon as possible. The target date for this conversion would be January
1, 2002.  An assessment of the project financial management system, and actions to be taken, are
explained above.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 82
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 6.1
Islamic Republic of Iran
Tehran Sewerage Project
Action Plan to improve TSC's FMS
Introduction
1.   The Operational Policies and Bank Procedure (OP/BP 10.02) on Financial Management, and the
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), require that the Borrower and the executing agency
should have adequate financial management and efficient internal control capable to produce sound
financial statements based on international standards, project management reports, and to meet agreed
upon financial targets and Bank requirements. In addition the financial statements and information of the
Borrower as well as those related to the project should be certified by an independent auditor. The auditor
reports should be annually sent to the Bank for review. The above referred guidelines state that if the
Borrower financial management, accounting and auditing practices, and internal control arrangements are
not adequate, the Borrower and the Bank should agree on an action plan with clear remedial actions and
the timetable for their implementation in order to strengthen the Borrower financial management and
reporting system and meet the Bank requirements. These requirements consist mainly on the adequacy of
the Executing Agency and the Project's Financial Management System, and the Financial Management
Report (FMR) and the Project Management Report (PMR), on which disbursement will be based. The
PMR would be provided quarterly, and would reflect actual data related to project implementation and
progress, procurement activities, flow of funds, disbursements, and expenses and disbursements forecast
for the next semester.
2.   Summary of the FMS assessment
Accounting and FM systems have limitations. Regarding the chart of accounts, TSC use a chart
derived from the one designed by the State Company for the country which is not in total concordance
with the international accounting principles and standards. Currently TSC is using a PC accounting
package and produces accounts, financial statements, and reports on an annual basis. Monthly, quarterly
or semi-annual closing and reporting are provided upon request from TSC's Board and management.
Such periodic reports and accounts will be introduced during implementation to allow for systematic and
adequate monitoring of the TSC and Project's activities.
Remedial actions
To fulfill its new obligations, TSC intends specifically to:
(a)  staffing of project management unit;
(b)  recruitment of trained staff for key positions; develop its cost accounting system;
(c)  enter into a contractual arrangement with professional operators;
(d)  undertake optimal organization of the Company during development stage, including
Financial Management Manual (FMM) and an MIS;
(e)   organization of an effective administration and finance department, including internal
control, chart of account for TSC and the project;



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 83
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
(f)  engage external auditor;
(g)  hire consultant and technical assistance; and
(h)  procurement plan for the first year.
In order to ensure adequate financial management of the project, during the period preceding
FMS/PMR based disbursement, the remedial actions that TSC is committed to implement before
effectiveness consist of: (i) establishment of the PMU staffed with competent financial experts and
accountants; (ii) development and adoption of chart of accounts specific to the project; and (iii)
designation of high level staff within the General manager office to carry out internal control procedures
to ensure that checking and accounting of expenditures incurred by the PMU are accurate. TSC would
provide the Bank with a management letter from its external auditor certifying that the above three actions
have been fulfilled.
Timetable. The above remedial actions will be implemented as follows:
Actions                                       Date                Responsibility
1. Staffing of PMU                            Effectiveness       TSC
2. Financial Management Manual for the project   Effectiveness    TSC
3. Chart of accounts and FMS for the project  Effectiveness       TSC
4. Internal control (accuracy & appropriateness of Effectiveness  TSC
project accounts)
5. Hire financial staff (controller and fin. Officer)  Effectiveness  TSC
6. Hire consultants                           Effectiveness       TSC
7. Management letter                          Effectiveness       TSC
8. Procurement plan for the first year        Effectiveness       TSC
9. External audit                             Effectiveness       TSC/Consultant
10. Computerized   accounting   system    and  07/01/2001         TSC/Consultant
accounting procedures
11. Financial Management Manual for TSC       07/01/2001          TSC/Consultant



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 84
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 7
Tehran Sewerage Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
TSC/PMU will be responsible for all procurement matters and will prepare with the assistance of
consultants bid documentation and requests for proposals and proceed with the invitation of bids
and consultant proposals. Bids and consultant proposals will be opened in the presence of an
evaluation committee, which will also prepare an evaluation report to conclude with
recommendation for award of contract. The evaluation reports should, for contracts financed by
the Bank and subject to prior review, be submitted to the Bank for no objection before decision
has been made on contract award.
The following bid documents should be used:
a)        For works and goods to be procured under ICB:
*  The documents that have been prepared under the Bank financed Irrigation
Improvement Project could be applied as an option to Bank standard sample bid
docurnents;
*  For the treatment works the contract should include design, construction (including
supply and installation of mechanical and electrical equipment) and operation and
maintenance during a initial period of about 5 years; and
* For pre-qualification the Bank's sample documentation should be applied.
b) For works and goods to be procured under NCB:
*  The same documentation as to be used under a) could be applied;
* Alternatively, TSC could use the General Conditions of Contract (GCC) prepared
for works by the Planning and Budget Organization (PBO), but this should be
translated into English for review by the Bank prior to application;
*  For goods, the PBO's GCC prepared for works could be used after necessary
modifications. This version should likewise be translated into English for review by
the Bank prior to application;
*  Pre-qualification for supply and laying of interceptors and laterals should be done
with categorization of contractors into small, medium and large (amounts to be
established), which should be up-dated on an annual basis. Advertisement will take
place but only contractors pre-qualified in relevant category will be accepted for
bidding; and
* The two-envelope system, presently applied, with the envelopes to be opened
sequentially will not be accepted for Bank financed contracts.
c)   For consultant services and technical assistance:
* For contracts with a value exceeding US$50,000 the Bank's sample documentation
should be used; and



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 85
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
* For contracts with a value below US$50,000 the PBO's GCC for consultants could
be applied. This should be translated into English for review by the Bank prior to
use.
Following clarifications are given to enclosed tables:
Procurement methods (Table A)
*  The contract for treatment works will be tendered on a design-build-operate basis. The costs
for operation and maintenance are not shown under estimated contract costs, since these will
be covered by tariff revenues.
+  The tunnel will be divided into two contracts, which, based on present experience, would
enable local competition.
+  Under laterals and interceptors, contracts under Bank financing would, primarily, include
interceptors exceeding 500 mm in size.
+  Bank financing will also cover laterals and interceptors (with a size below 500mm) to the
extent funding will be available. This implies that number and size of contracts will remain
flexible and adjusted to actual situation.
*  Supply and laying of pipes should be included under one contract.
*  Operation and maintenance equipment will mainly cover water jets, rods and pumps for pipe
cleaning with number of contracts and approach to contracting to be adjusted to available
sources for procurement.
*  Ongoing consultant services for engineering and their continuation for construction
supervision cannot be financed under the Bank loan, since the consultant Mahab Ghodss was
not contracted according to Bank procedures. Other consulting services/technical assistance
are expected to be procured following Bank procedures QCBS -- or QBS/CQ/sole source (as
justified) for contract values below US$50,000 -- and thus eligible for Bank financing.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
*  The value for contracts under interceptors and laterals are all expected to be below US$5
million, and in case this amount will be exceeded, ICB will apply. Contracts with a value
exceeding US$500,000 will, initially, be subject to prior review, but this may change once the
procurement procedures have been satisfactorily installed. Thereafter, random reviews will
take place.
* For consultant services with a contract value of less than US$10,000 no prior review will be
required.
Disbursements
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
+  For civil works, Bank financing of 75% has been proposed on the following basis: the
income tax being paid by workers is insignificant; and there is no sale tax on building
materials. This would conclude that the tax proportion of a civil works contract would be less
than 25%;
*  Import of equipment will be exempt from import duties; and
+  The allocation for the treatment works will be made under Works even if it includes a
sizeable amount of mechanical and electrical equipment. Proposed Bank financing of 85%
averages 75% financing for civil works and 100% financing for equipment.



Project Appraisal Document                                                 Page 86
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                Tehran Sewerage Project
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
The Bank would disburse against SOEs for the following types of expenditures: (i) on contracts
for works and goods not exceeding US$500,000 and US$350,000 respectively; (ii) on contracts for
consultant services not exceeding US$100,000 in case of consulting firms and US$50,000 in case
of individual consultants; and (iii) for PMU contracted staff and training.
Special account.
A Special Account will be opened by TSC in a commercial bank (affiliated with the Central Bank
of Iran) and will be operated by the financial manager of TSC. The authorized allocation of the
Special Account would be US$10 million, which represents about 4 months, on the average, of
estimated disbursements from the Bank Loan. The authorized allocation would be US$3.5 million
until the aggregate disbursements from the Bank Loan has reached the equivalent of US$35
million. The Special Account should be operated in accordance with the Bank's operational
policies.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 87
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 7, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Categoiy                              Procurement Method                         Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB           NCB           Other          N.B.F
1. Works
Treatment works                    64.0                                                         64.0
(54.4)                                                      (54.4)
Trunknmain and Tunnels             43.7            2.9                                          46.6
(32.7)         (2.2)                                        (34.9)
Laterals and Interceptors                        57.9                        151.5            209.4
(43.4)                                        (43.4)
2. Goods
Operational and                     1.3            1.2           0.23                            2.7
Maintenance Equipment                  (1.3)          (1.2)         (0.2)                           (2.7)
3. Services
8.2           9.1             17.3
(8.2)                          (8.2)
4. Miscellaneous
Total
109.0          62.0            8.4         160.6            340.0
(88.4)        (46.8)          (8.4)                        (143.6)4
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies under
trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).  TSC is laying more laterals and
interceptors than can be included under Bank financing.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
3 Goods for contract values below US$50,000 could be procured through national or international shopping. Direct procurement
could be made for contracts with values below US$10,000.
4Excludes Front-End fee of US$1.45 million.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 88
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                         Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 7, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$rnillion equivalent)
Selection Method                             Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                          (including
Expenditure Category                                                                        contingencies)
QCBS       QBS      SFB      LCS        CQ       Other    N.B.F.
A. Firms
Engineering              1.5                                                         0.7      2.2
(1.5)                                                               (1.5)
Construction Supervision   1.0                                                       8.4      9.4
(1.0)                                                               (1.0)
Other Services           4.35       0.5                                                       4.8
(4.3)     (0.5)                                                     (4.8)
B. Individuals                                                  0.9                           0.9
(0.9)                        (0.9)
Total                    6.8        0.5                         0.96                 9.1      17.3
(6.8)     (0.5)                        (0.9)                        (8.2)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ =Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
5 This includes: TSC strengthening including PMU, environmental and monitoring systems, updating of sewerage
master plan, engineering for phase 2.
6 This includes: selection of individual staff members for PMU and of individual consultants for specific
assignments.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 89
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                     Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 7, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure            Contract Value           Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category               (Threshold)              Method         Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
US $                                     US $ millions
1. Works
>5.0 million                ICB                3/107.8
<5.0 million               NCB                 7/20.0
2. Goods
>0.35 million               ICB                4/ 1.3
<0.35 million        NCB/Other                 3/ 0.2
3. Services
Firms                                >100,000                QCBS7                 5/7.3
<100,000             QBS/CQ8                  8/0.7
Individuals                        >50,000        See Section V of                 3/02
Guidelines
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to pnor review:                                 137.50
7For consultant contracts with a value below US$200,000 the short list of consultants may be limited to local finns.
8 Sole source mnay be used in justified cases.



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Page 90
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                 Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 7, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category               Amount in US$    Financing Percentage
million
Civil Works:
- treatment works (including M&E equipment)            49.50              85%
- tunnels and trunkmain                                30.30              75%
- interceptors and laterals                            39.40              75%
Sub-total                                             119.20
Goods:
- Operation and Maintenance Equipment                   2.70
Consultant Services/Technical Assistance
- Project Management (consultant assistance)            0.91             100%
- Strengthening of TSC                                  1.43             100%
- Engineering (foreign consultant)                      1.50             100%
- Construction Supervision (foreign consultant)         1.15             100%
- Preparation of Environmental Monitoring               0.47             100%
System
- Updating Sewerage Development Program                 1.07             100%
- Engineering Phase 2                                   1.67             100%
Sub-total                                               8.20
Unallocated                                            13.45
TOTAL                   143.55
Front-End Fee                                            1.45
GRAND TOTAL                     145.00
100 % of foreign expenditures; 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs); and 80% for items procured locally.



Project Appraisal Document                                            Page .91
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                            Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 8
Tehran Sewerage Project
Summary of Environmental Assessment
The Environmental Review and Assessment
The proposed project has been reviewed, screened, and designated as Category A consistent with
the provisions of Operational Directive 4.01, Annex E, "Environmental Assessment". The
project addresses the surface and groundwater quality in Tehran through extension of the
wastewater collection and disposal systems. Its overall impact is expected to be an improvement
in environment compared to the baseline.  However, the major issues addressed in the
Environmental Assessment (EA) Report are: (a) treated effluents and sludge should be of
acceptable quality for use for irrigation and soil conditioning, which necessitates compliance
with the World Health Organization's Guidelines of less than 1 nematode per liter of effluent and
1 egg per 100 grams of dry solids for sludge; and (b) the industrial effluents to be discharged into
the wastewater collection system should, where required, be effectively pre-treated. There is no
need for any further land acquisition, and the site for the treatment works, which is properly
fenced, was purchased before early 1990s following acceptable land acquisition procedures.
Further, there are no involuntary resettlement, indigenous people, or cultural heritage issues, and
the project has no effect on international waterways. The EA Report was prepared by the
Borrower with the assistance of international consultants and is available in the Project File, the
InfoShop, and TSC. It covers three major subject areas:
(a)   Project Description; Policy, Legal, and Administrative Framework; Baseline Information;
(b)   hnpacts; and
(c)   Environmental Management Plan including Analysis of Alternatives to the Project.
In the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), extensive use has been made of inputs provided
by stakeholders during various meetings.
Maior Environmental Issues and Mitigation Measures
Major adverse impacts and relevant mitigation measures are presented below:
Effluent Quality. The effluent should be of acceptable quality to be used for irrigation and to be
recharged into groundwater. This means that the effluent quality should meet relevant WHO's
guidelines. Major concerns are to maintain the level of nematodes to less than 1 egg per liter,
and to control the concentration of toxic substances, such as cadmium, at acceptable limits.
Sludge Quality. Unless proposed mitigation measures are complied with, sludge application
rates on agricultural soils could exceed the limit values for cadmium. Based on the ongoing
relocation of industries and the control of industrial discharges to the wastewater collection
system, the levels for toxic substances (including heavy metals such as cadmium) is not expected
to exceed the EU and FAO guidelines for the use of treated sludge in agriculture. Monitoring
and assessment of heavy metals in sludge and soils and the preparation of a sludge reuse strategy
would ensure that established limits are not exceeded.



Project Appraisal Document                                           Page 92
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                           Tehran Sewerage Project
Other Impacts
The wastewater treatment works at Shahr-e-Rey will not have any significant noise, vibration,
odor or visual impacts on the few nearby residents. Adverse impacts during construction are such
as dust, traffic congestion, and disturbances to the general public, but these are expected to be
maintained within acceptable levels. The adverse impacts will also be minimized by the
implementation of effective mitigation measures.
The project would have no significant adverse impacts on the economy, cultural sites, biological
environment, air pollution, climate, or other development activities.
Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
The EMP covers mitigation measures, monitoring, and institutional strengthening during project
implementation and subsequent operation of works to reduce adverse environmental impacts to
acceptable levels. The mitigation measures include: (a) identification of a set of responses to
potentially adverse impacts; (b) determination of steps required for these responses to be made
effective in a timely manner; and (c) description of the means for meeting such requirements.
Mitigation of Major Adverse Environmental Impacts
The EMP includes mitigation measures to ensure that the defined objectives of the Tehran
Sewerage Project are achieved whilst preventing and reducing potentially adverse environmental
impacts. Tables 1 and 2 provide a summary of mitigation and monitoring measures for the major
environmental issues as discussed below. The mitigation measures are to be carried out by the
TSC. Monitoring will be carried out by TSC with Quality Assurance and Quality Control
(QA/QC) monitoring performed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Cooperation (MARC),
the Ministry of Health, Department of Environment (DOE), and the Tehran Regional Water
Board (TRWB).
Effluent Quality. The activated sludge process is capable of reducing the concentration of
intestinal nematode parasite eggs to less than 1 % of the concentration in the wastewater entering
the treatment works. A UNDP mission has indicated that based on analyses of wastewater from a
restricted area of Tehran, the proposed process is capable of producing an effluent which will
comply with the WHO guidelines for intestinal nematode eggs in effluent to be used for
irrigation. From the outset of operation, a program for monitoring of effluent egg concentrations
will be initiated.
TSC will also provide secure fencing along the first 2 km of the Tehran-Varamin Canal starting
from the Wastewater Treatment Plant to ensure sufficient detention time after chlorination.
The Department of Environment has issued guidelines for conducting Environmental
Assessments and promulgated standards for effluent discharges. In addition, there are standards
for ambient dust, noise, and odor. Furthermore, the treated effluent will meet the WHO's
guidelines for treated effluents to be used in agriculture. These guidelines specify a nematode
level of less than 1 egg per liter and total fecal coliform level of less than 1000 MPN per 100 ml.
The BOD level of treated effluents would not exceed 25 mg/l.



Project Appraisal Document                                            Page 93
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                            Tehran Sewerage Project
Sludge Quality. For the use of treated sludge, including a drying period of one year, as soil
conditioner in agriculture, the guidelines established by the European Union (EU), Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO), and WVHO -- stipulating less than 1 intestinal nematode egg per
100 g of dry solids -- will be complied with.
Industrial Discharges. Severely polluting industries are being relocated, and remaining 33 major
industries (with discharges of more than 5 m3/day) will have to comply with the DOE's limits on
toxic substances for effluent discharge. These regulations are being consistently enforced. In
addition, the TSC will only provide connections to industries that do not discharge toxic
substances, which may affect the performance of the Wastewater Treatment Plant. The TSC will
ensure that industrial effluents are pre-treated, as required, to levels, which comply with the
World Bank's Environmental Guidelines issued under the "Pollution Prevention and Abatement
Handbook". In summary, the project will comply with internationally accepted Good Practices
and also applicable Iranian regulations.
Other Mitigation Measures. The general disruption to be caused during construction will be
mitigated by coordinating with the authorities from the municipality, transport, police,
electricity, telephones, gas, and water supply. Appropriate permits will be obtained. Other
adverse impacts during the construction phase -- namely noise, vibration, and dust -- will be
mitigated by careful design of project components and adoption of Good Practices. These will
include: providing wind breakers and wetting of spoil to prevent fugitive dust emissions; limiting
noisy activities to day time and by providing mufflers; enforcing safety measures for workers
such as wearing overalls, safety hats, boots, and gloves; controlling and diverting the traffic;
placing warning signs at construction sites; and securing the sites (especially where trenches are
cut) by fences, brick, or prefabricated partition walls. The contract documents will specify these
measures, which will be monitored by the Environmental Safety Officer to ensure contractors'
compliance.
Odors from the treatment plant will be minimized by careful planning and implementation of
good operation and maintenance practices. The established buffer zone will ensure that visual,
noise and odor impacts will be acceptable for adjacent areas. Screenings and grit from the inlet
works will be disposed of in an environmentally acceptable manner at a municipal landfill.
TSC, jointly with relevant contractor, will establish suitable procedures for operation and
maintenance of the Wastewater Treatment Plant. The employees will be provided with safety
equipment and get appropriate training in emergency, occupational health and safety procedures.
Monitoring and Evaluation
In order to adequately control the environmental effects under the project, DOE has prepared a
strategic monitoring plan with the purpose to produce periodic reports throughout project
implementation to the Minister of Energy and the Governor of Tehran. A summary of major
monitoring activities also to include during construction dust and noise, as discussed below, is
shown on Table 2. The periodic reports will include data on BOD, COD, suspended solids,
cadmium (and other heavy metals as necessary), fecal coliform, and nematode eggs for the
treated effluents. The sludge will be monitored for nematode eggs, coliform, toxic metals
(including arsenic, cadmium, chromium, lead, and mercury, as needed). In addition, odor, noise,
and vibration will be monitored at receptor sites to ensure that these are at acceptable levels. Soil



Project Appraisal Document                                           Page 94
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                           Tehran Sewerage Project
and agriculture produce from Varamin plain will be monitored for significant pollutants
including heavy metals such as cadmium (for soil and produce), and fecal coliform & nematode
eggs (for agriculture produce). The surface water in Varamin canal will also be monitored for
chlorine.
The DOE will review baseline data and implement its own environmental monitoring program;
TRWB will monitor groundwater resources; and Ministry of Agriculture will monitor the
agriculture produce from Varamin Plains. The monitoring will indicate changing environmental
conditions and identify impacts, as they occur. If the monitoring agencies will identify
significant adverse impacts, appropriate mitigation measures and institutional changes will be
made. Arrangements for amendments to the EMP would then also be made.
The monitoring will conclude on the effectiveness of the EMP for mitigation measures, such as:
the revision of legislation to improve environmental protection; measures to minimize
disturbance due to construction; development of re-use strategies by the Ministry of Agriculture;
occupational health and safety training; procedures for emergencies during construction and
operation; public health education by the Ministry of Health; control of industrial discharges by
the Environmental Protection Guards of DOE and TSC; and water conservation and waste
minimization programs.
Institutional Needs
The existing institutional framework -- relating to wastewater treatment, control of
environmental pollution, industrial discharges and the reuse of effluent and sludge -- has been
assessed with the objective to identify shortcomings and to propose steps to be taken for
institutional strengthening. As a result of this assessment a training program has been prepared
with a summary shown on Table 3.
While the Environmental Protection Guards of the DOE are to perform monitoring, the DOE has
also established a Strategic Unit to develop environmental standards, to review legislation, and to
implement the strategic monitoring plan. An environmental consulting firm will be contracted to
design and implement an environmental management system including monitoring and
institutional support.
The Ministry of Agriculture will establish a Varamin Plain Unit to manage the reuse of treated
effluent and sludge in agriculture. This will include providing advice to farmers and monitoring
agriculture produce to ensure that reuse practices are properly applied and in accordance with the
EU/WHO/FAO guidelines.
A Tehran Sewerage Project Liaison Committee has been established to liaise and coordinate
between the Project Management Unit, the TSC, and relevant government and other agencies on
as needed basis. Government and other agencies include: DOE, MARC (the Varamin Plain
Unit), Tehran Municipality, various ministries including Ministry of Industry, Ministry of
Health, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, and authorities for
transport, electricity, telephone, and gas supply services. Subcommittees will deal with matters
relating to planning, agriculture, working conditions, public health, and industry.



Project Appraisal Document                                          Page 95
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                          Tehran Sewerage Project
Implementation Schedule and Cost Estimates
For implementation of the EMP (comprising mitigation, monitoring, and institutional building
measures) investments of about US$2 million might be required, as shown in below table. In
addition, US$0.1 million would be required annually for operation and maintenance of proposed
investments in environmental mitigation and monitoring measures. These have been included in
the project costs. Furthermore, a total budget of US$0.25 million will be provided for
environmental monitoring by other associated agencies (such as MARC, DOE, TRWB, and
Ministry of Health).
Item     Capital Cost ($ million)   0 & M Cost ($ million)
Additional
Treatment 1.5
Laboratory
Equipment 0.32               0.05
Training  0.18               0.05
Total     2.0                0.1
Public Participation
Numerous non-governmental organizations and independent experts were consulted over the
period 1992-99 in matters of project justification, planning and impacts. The comnmon view held
was that the project should be implemented as soon as possible and without further protracted
delays. A need was expressed for strengthening of the recently created provincial water and
sewerage companies and their affiliates such as the TSC. There was a concern that the project
should be managed in an environmentally acceptable way, and the need for inter-agency
coordination, training, public awareness, high quality construction, monitoring, and good
management was widely seen. Recently held public meetings also confirmed these views.
Surveys of stakeholders including affected residents, industries, and farmers have also been
conducted and their suggestions noted.
The farmers of Tehran and Varamin Plains emphasized the need to improve the quality of
surface water in the canals of Tehran, which, despite heavy pollution, is used for irrigation. They
see the benefits in the use of treated sludge for soil conditioning, provided that consumers of
their crops will be reassured of its safety.
Details of the project have been presented at several recent conferences (including those in April
and September, 1999, when Bank missions participated) and seminars in Iran. A TV and radio
campaign of public awareness is scheduled to take place on a regular basis. Public consultation
and information campaigns (at least one information dissemination workshop every 6 months)
will continue throughout project execution.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 96
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                     Tehran Sewerage Project
Table 1: Major Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
Significant Adverse Target                Mitigation                    Responsibility
Environmental                             Measures                      for
Impact                                                                 Implementation
Effluent reuse in    The risk of public    * Adequate residence time   Environment
agriculture         and farmers           will be provided to control   & Safety Officer
acquiring infection   the number of Nematode
from contact with    eggs
effluent and produce
is adequately
controlled.
2   Sludge reuse in      The risk of public    The sludge after dewatering  Environment
agriculture         and farmners          and digestion will be bio-    & Safety Officer
acquiring infection   degraded and dried for one
from contact with    year.
sludge and produce
is adequately
_________________    controlled.



Project Appraisal Document                                          Page 97
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                          Tehran Sewerage Project
Table 2: Treated effluent
quality monitoring
program
Parameters to be analyzed Location of     Frequency of       Responsibility (Standard)
monitoring points   sampling & analysis
BOD5, COD, pH, Oil &   At STP site        Every day          DOE/ESO (DOE &
grease, TSS, TDS, Cl, Ca,                                    WHO)
Mg, MPN, Nematode                                            BOD <=25 mg/l
eggs, Fecal coliform                                         Nematode eggs <=1/liter
Phosphate, S04, S03,    At STP site       Every week         DOE/ESO (DOE &
H2S, N03, N02, CH20,                                         WHO)
C6H5OH, NH4, Dye, Mn,                                        Cd <= 0.01 mg/l
CN, Heavy metals (Cd,
Ni, Fe, Al, Cu, Co, Hg,
Zn, Pb, As, Cr)
Chlorine               Two km from        Every week         DOE/ESO (DOE &
the STP                              WHO)
Nematode eggs <= 1/lOOg
dry solids
Total fecal coliform
l ___________________   ________________   ________________   <=1000   M PN/lOO m l
Treated sludge monitoring
programn
Parameters to be analyzed Location of     Frequency of       Responsibility (Standard)
monitoring points   sampling
& analysis
Nematode eggs, Coliform, At STP site      Every batch        DOE/ESO (DOE &
Arsenic, Cadmium,                                            WHO)
Chromium, Lead, Mercury                                      Nematode eggs <= 1/lOOg
dry solids
Total fecal coliform
<=1000 MPN/lOOml
Cd <=20mg/kg



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 98
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                    Tehran Sewerage Project
Table 3. Training
1   Persons to be trained          Duration       Subject
2   Operation and maintenance       1 day / year   Occupational health & safety procedures
staff
3   Construction staff              1 day / year   Occupational health & safety procedures
4   Operation and maintenance       1 day/8       En. Mgt./O&M
staff                          weeks
5   Environmental monitoring       1 week         Environmental monitoring, QA & QC
staff
6   Laboratory staff               1 week         Samplin  and analytical procedures, QA &
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ Q C



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 99
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                     Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 9
Tehran Sewerage Project
Social Assessment
Objectives
The main objectives of the Social Assessment (SAS) are:
a) to provide sufficient information for determining that land acquisition for the site of the proposed
treatment works, which has already occurred, was carried out in compliance with OD 4.30;
b) to ensure that the construction of interceptors and laterals does not cause temporary or long-term
adverse impacts on the livelihood of people living and working in the vicinity of the proposed sites;
c) to assess the willinaness and ability of the different, dis-aggregated categories of the target population
to pay, with special attention being paid to the ultra-poor, who may not be able to pay;
d) to provide mechanisms for systematic feedback and the flow of information from project authorities
(the Tehran Sewerage Company) to the targeted population and from the targeted population to the
project authorities;
e) to identify mechanisms for the participation of the targeted population in the implementation phases
of the project;
t) to ensure that the distribution of treated wastewater for irrigation is equitable;
g) to establish baseline indicators to enable the assessment of project impacts; and
h) to establish mechanisms for ongoing monitoring and evaluation during project implementation and to
explore the possibility of a participatory evaluation by the targeted population.
Land Acquisition
A plot of land (110 hectares) to the south of Tebran was acquired for the proposed wastewater treatment
works from the original owners in stages between 1975 and 1990. It is evident from past records and
present queries (including interviews of farmers around the site), that: (a) the transfer of land was a
voluntary sale; (b) fair prices were paid for the land, developments and produce; (c) the process was
official, legal, documented, consultative, without any coercion or compulsion, with a formal appeals
process, and with provision for legal representation of the farmers; (d) the process was fully acceptable to
the owners and occupants then and now, to the extent that farmers are prepared to sell more land to the
company if it is needed (it is not), their primary requirement being treated agricultural water; (e)
residences were not affected; (f) the effect of land acquisition has been neutral or beneficial (farmers have
either acquired other agricultural land or have taken the opportunity to settle in town, market farming not
being viewed as a particularly high status or profitable occupation); and (g) the effect of the project on
farm livelihoods will be positive (treated wastewater available for agriculture). Land acquisition was
completed before the Bank began discussions on this project (1992). No further land acquisitions will be
made under the project. The project therefore complies with OD 4.30 and no further actions are required.
Project authorities have assured the Bank that as the construction of trunk mains, interceptors and laterals
takes place in existing roads, there will be no resultant acquisition of new land or adverse impacts on the
livelihood of people living in the vicinity of the proposed sites. Nonetheless, the construction will be
monitored to ensure that this is the case.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page .100
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                   Tehran Sewerage Project
Social Issues
During project preparation meetings and consultations with the beneficiaries of the project were held as
part of the environmental assessment. This initial data gathering effort will now be followed with the
social assessment which will be a more in depth investigation of the issues affecting the poorest
beneficiaries. This component of the SAS will contribute to poverty alleviation by dis-aggregating the
target population in order to ensure that the needs of the poorest are properly addressed. It will do so in
part by addressing in detail the above-listed project objectives. More specifically, the SAS will contribute
to the appropriate sequence of interventions relating to the extension of the waste water collection system
with particular attention to the negotiation of connection fees in poorer areas and when dealing with
poorer households and groups. Systematic information will also be collected; an indicative list of
questions to be refined during project implementation and to serve as initial guidance for terms of
reference to be drafted for the social assessment follows:
*  What are the main demographic and socio-economic characteristics of the targeted population?
* What significant differences in the social characteristics and social problems of different project areas
might impact project implementation?
* Is there a possibility that the project will displace poorer people through gentrification of any specific
areas? (upgraded sanitation raises land and building costs, poor tenants could move to unserved areas)
 What is the reaction of households to the project? To what extent does this project address a need that
is felt to be a high priority among the residents?
* What are the actual costs (medical and others) to residents related to the lack of satisfactory
sanitation? Are the residents aware of these costs?
* What is the estimated capacity and willingness to pay and share costs of house connections on the
part of residents? How will cost-sharing be determined? What are the expectations for the effects of
the project? Are they realistic?
* Are patterns of housing and building ownership and occupancy conducive to installations and
decisions on cost-sharing, particularly in cases where there are several owners, shares, or collective
ownership/tenancy?
* What are the existing patterns of community self-organization and participation in the delivery of
publicly managed social services?   What opportunities exist for developing a participatory
framework? What local community involvement could be expected and how could it be organized at
the local level?
* How could popular support for and involvement in this project be maximized?
A combination of quantitative and participatory appraisal methods will be used to gather and analyze
relevant information.   Participatory appraisal methods include, among others, semi-structured
interviewing, wealth ranking, participatory mapping, institutional diagramming, matrix scoring, and focus
groups. Quantitative methods include, among others, reviews or other surveys, study of maps and census
information and a survey of a representative sample of households to be determined during
implementation conducted according to the multi-stage cluster sampling method.
The project implementation plan will be modified as needed to respond to the findings of monitoring and
evaluation, mitigate adverse impacts (especially those tied to economic disruptions that result from the
construction of interceptors and laterals), and ensure the proper targeting of the project on the poorest
segment of the population.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 101
Country: Iran, Islarnic Republic of                                              Tehran Sewerage Project
Project Impact Indicators
In order to assess the project impacts (both positive and negative), a small set of indicators will be
established based on the household surveys. The measurement of baseline indicators will be done shortly
before actual household connections are established. Thereafter, the project impacts will be regularly
monitored using these indicators.
A local consulting company has been appointed for the preparation of the SAS with a draft report to be
submitted for review by end-2000.



Project Appraisal Document                                           Page 102
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                           Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 10
Tehran Sewerage Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)9                 Planned             Actual
(At final PAD stage)
400                338
B. Project Schedule                         Planned             Actual
(At final PAD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     6                  17
First Bank mission (identification)        09/09/1998          11/23/1998
Appraisal                                  04/15/1999          02/23/2000
Negotiations                               05/03/1999          03/13/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness              09/09/2000         07/01/2000
Prepared by: Tehran Sewerage Company
Preparation assistance: Swedish Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                 Specialty
Mohammed Benouahi                         Team Leader
Fathi Ben Slimane               Financial Management Specialist
Lars Rasmusson                        Sanitary Engineer
Maurice Gress                       Procurement Advisor
Sanjeev Aggarwal                    Environmental Specialist
Vincent Gouarne             Institutional and Private Sector Specialist
Gilles Fabre-Rousseau                   Financial Analyst
Harvey Gam                             Economist
Marie Ange Le                        Operations Analyst
Thouria Nana-Sinkam                 Language Program Assistant
Vijay Jagannathan               Peer Reviewer Finance/Economics
David Hanrahan                    Peer Reviewer/Engineering
Guillermo Yepes                    Peer Reviewer/Engineer
Richard Verspyck                Peer Reviewer/Financial Analyst
9 Excludes Swedish Trustfimds: Planned US$80,000 and Actual US$74,000



Project Appraisal Document                                          Page 103
Country: Iran, Islarnic Republic of                         Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 1 1
Tehran Sewerage Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
B1. Memo dated May 17, 1999, on Mission Findings on Procurement.
B2. Reports on the Assessment of Project of PMR-Based Disbursement, dated January 6,
2000:
* Procurement/Contract Management System.
* Financial Management System.
* Physical Monitoring Indicators and Overall Assessment.
C. Other
Cl. Environmental Assessment of Proposed Sewerage Project and Effluent Re-use.
Main Report dated August 1993.
C2. Environmental Assessment of Proposed Sewerage Project and Effluent Re-use.
Executive Summary dated August 1993.
C3. Pre-appraisal Report, February 1998, prepared by TSC.
C4. Industrial Effluents, February 1999, prepared by TSC.
C5. Peoples Willingness to Pay for Sewer Connections (a survey study), December 1996,
prepared by TSC.
C6. Summary Report of Economic Study of Tehran Sewerage Project, 1999, prepared by
TSC.
C7. Action Plan for Implementing LACI Procedures.
C8. General Data and Assumptions.
C9. Financial Model.
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 104
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of                                                     Tehran Sewerage Project
Annex 12
Statement of Loans anid Credits
Operations Portfolio
(As of November 5, 1999)
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Million                 and actual
Project ID    Fiscal  Borrower                Purpose                                                                   disbursernents al
Year
IBRD         IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed    Orig.    Frrn Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 34
Active Proiects
IR-PE-5212   1993  GOI               IRRIGATION                   157.00        0.00         0.00         99.79         66.60     0.00
IMPROVEMENT
tR-PE-5215   1993  GOI               POWER SECTOR EFFICIE         165.00        0.00          0.00        30.60         30.59    t1.59
IR-PE-5222   1993  GOI               HEALTH AND FAMILY PL          141.40       0.00          0.00        65.70         65.71      0.00
tR-PE-5213   1992  GOVERNMENT   SISTAN FLOOD CTRL                  57.00        0.00         0.00         32.36         32.35     Z.84
IR-PE-5216   1992  GOVERNMENT   TEHRAN DRAINAGE                    77.00        0.00          0.00        22.36         22.32      8.13
Total                                                             597.40        0.00          0.00       250.81        217.57    22.56
Active Proiects     Closed Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):            346.61               1,268.20            1,614.81
of which repaid:                         60.93               1,096.72            1,157.65
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:            536.47                171.49               707.96
Amount sold:                                 0.00                 78.55                78.55
of which repaid:                          0.00                78.55                78.55
Total Undisbursed:                         250.81                  0.00               250.81
a. Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note: Disbursement data is ucpdated at the end of thefirst week of the month.



Annex 13                Page I of 2
Tehrar Sewerage Project
Iran, Islamic Rep. at a glance                                                              912219S
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         & North   middle-
Iran    Africa  income      Development dlamond'
1998
Population. mid-year (millions)                      81.9      285       908                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                  1,770     2,050     1,710
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                    109.6      586     1,557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (/0)                                       1.6       2.2       1.1     G                              G
Labor force (%)                                       4.4       3.0       1.5     GNP                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available. 1992-98)                            capita                       enrolment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population ( of total population)              61        58        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      69        67        68
Infant mortality (per 1 000 live births)              26        49        38
Child malnutrition ('% of children under 5)           16        14         ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                90        81        75
Iliteracy (% of populaUon age 15+)                    27        38        14
Gross primary enrollment (t of schoolage population)  98        96       103              Iran, Islamic Rep
Male                                               102       103       105              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              95        89       100   I
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1997       1997     1998
Economic ratloe
GOP (USS billions)                          76.0    137.7     102.0    100.3
Gross domestic lnvestmentGDP                32.3    25.5       17.2      21.9                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           32.7      4.2      17.9      14.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  37.0    24.9       20.8      19.8
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..    25.0       20.8      19.8
Current account balance/GDP                  3.7    -1.5        1.5      -2.1
Interest payments/GOP                         ..      0.0       0.8       0.5     Domesgc    -ne h
Total debt/GDP                                ..      4.5      11.8               Savings
Total debt servicelexports                    ..      3.6      31.3
Present value of debUGDP                      ..       ..      11.0        ..
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..      55.9
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                -0.1      4.7     3.0        1.7       3.5        -Iran, Sk/mJ 'Rep
GNP per capita                     -3.6      2.8      1.4      -0.3       1.9              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      -8.4      1.7   -12.5      -30.9       4.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997     1998      Growth rates of output and Investment l)
(% of GDP)
Agricuiture                                 10.0    25.4       20.8      16.4     t  .
Industry                                    51.3    21.8       18.6      18.9    100
Manufacturing                              9.3      9.5         .       13.1     so
Services                                    38.7    52.8       60.6      64.7      o
Private consumption                         42.1     61.5      65.1      68.4    -so
General government consumption              21.0     13.8      14.1      11.8                    Got       C-GDP
imports of goods and services               28.0      4.8      14.3      16.2   1                           G
(average annual growth)                  1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  5.3      4.4       1.5       5.0     4
Industry                                    -3.4      5.3       5.1       0.8    20
Manufacturing                               2.8      6.9       8.2               0                     A
Services                                     0.7      5.7       4.8       1.8
-20
Private consumption                          3.9      4.1       2.3      12.5    40
General government consumption              -4.3      5.6       3.2    -11.3
Gross domestic investment                   -0.7      4.6      22.9       1.7   *60 
imports of goods and services               -4.9    -5.4       -4.6      -3.9         *        ExpWS      a  imports
Gross national product                      -0. 1     4.8       3.1       1.4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, Ihe diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 13                Page 2of2
Tehran Sewerage Project
Iran, Islamic Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflatlon (if.)
Domestic pnices
(% change)                                                                      so
Consumer prices                             27.1    27.7       17.3     14.7    40
Implicit GDP deflator                       19.3    22.9       14.1     16.5
20      0
Govemment finance                                                                2
(% of GDP. includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                               ..      ..       25.0     18.8             93   s4   0s   96   17   so
Current budget balance                        ..      ..        6.3      -.3                   GDP deflator  - O-CPt
Overall surplus/dericit                     .4.9    *7.1       -2.7     -6.6
TRADE
(US$millions)                             11977    1987        997      1998      Export and Import levels (US mitlons)
Total exports (fob)                       23,917   11,918    18,375    12,997    25.000
Fuel                                    23,501   10,800    15,464     9,900
Textiles                                     -62                                2.0
Manufactures                                                            587     2000
Total imports (cif                        16,636   12,005    14.598    13,765      oob
Food233
Fuel and energy                              .     400        300       289      5,0C 
Capital goods                               ..       ..        ..    5,499         0
ExportPriceindex(1995w100)                   67       94       112       119            92  93  94  SS  9r   7   is
Import price index (1995e 00)               59       91        92        88               aEvaons      O Imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                       114     104       122       135
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio)
Exports of goods and services             27,775   12,147    19,566    14,119     10
Imports of goods and services             24,919   14,377    18,018    16,210
Resource balance                           2,856   -2,230     1,548    -2,091      s
Net income                                   85      140       -258     -493
Net current transfers                      -125        0       288       497       o -          _
Current account balance                    2,816   -2,090     1,578    -2,087
Financing items (net)                      -728    1,866    -5.546       969
Changes in net reserves                   -2,090     224      3,968     1.118    .10
Memo:                                                                                ,_._.__                         _
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..    4,984      3,893
Conversion rate (DEC, 1ocaWJSO)             70.6   144.9   2,751.0   3.316.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ mllIons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          ..   6,144    11.816
IBRD                                        ..    317        421       433                       A: 421
IDA                                                  0         0         0                               10
Total debt service                             ..    442      6,274                    G: 3.354
IBRD                                        ..      99        55        69
IDA                                         ,        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             *-       7        51                                               E 5.258
Official creditors                          ..    -84    *4,045
Private creditorS                                 -119       -353
Foreign direct investment                   ..   -308         50
Portfolio equity                            ..       0         0         ..           F: 2.675
World Bank program
Commitments                                 ..       0         0         0      A - IBRD                    E- Bilateral
Disbursements                               ..       0        78       204      B - IDA    D. Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..      74        29        so      C  IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                   ..    -74         49       153
Interest payments                           ..      25        26        19
Net transfers                               ..    -99         23       135
World Bank                                                                                                        9/22/99



IBRD 30287
o v:,o
This mop ssos produced by    <        ~        {                          
the Map Design Unit of Theovo                                 
WorldEaonk. ThebIoondaries, 0toAIJ s.  nOM_ 
colors, denominotiono and                                                                                   azm.sr{                         '                                s2
ony other ;oforanofon shown                                                                            *t \                 iCs;ss . AURKME,I'lI,hTAt-*'l o   5              6
on sis mapdo sot imply, on                                                               >                       ;Fi;,sZr   .                          UKANSA
stse pont of The World book                                      _                                                                      tIs"
Groop. any ludgment on the -5_tI ) '5 s,-. ._, 
legal stosos of any temtry  i  tom,. '--,.9 ' 
or 00T endorsement or
houndories.                     OU       A     E    CI                     KILOMETERS                         i *5             (iTehron                           >'         '
~~~~~~~~~~ ISLAMIC   REPUBLIC OFIA                    l<AQSX<<o   CaRF                          lBLiC          tAFGHANIsTAN
f           ~TEHRAN SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                                      f < 
t ~~~~~~PROJECT lOCATION                                                                                       3t/>'\tFKSTAN
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A     PROJECTAREAS                                                              s A U- A DAIA\-           k3i
_ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~__ _                      _        _        _ _           _                     AA        
JN ..99






15LAMIC REPUBUC OF IRAN
TEHRAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT LAYOUT
[01- PROJECT AREAS
-TRUNK SEWERS
SELECTED MAIN ROADS                                                                    5  H
-| s X L a M X CR                                                      Souer Sewag         
OF I R A___ ,, N                                                   Treatment Pant                                              - '



