Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4551-IRN
Guarantee Agreement
(Tehran Sewerage  Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 26, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4551-IRN
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 2000 , between The ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and the Tehran Sewerage Company (the Borrower), having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan equivalent to one 
hundred and forty five million dollars ($145,000,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency  Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the 
Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Preamble to 
and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, 
and the following additional term has the following meaning:
“TSE” means the Tehran Stock Exchange.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, 
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set 
forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the 
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet 
such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall ensure that for disbursement in local 
currency, the TSE rate, prevailing at the time of disbursement, shall apply.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall ensure continuation through Project 
implementation of the financing of household connections on credit terms, as agreed 
with the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall ensure that TPWSC: (a) takes all measures to 
secure full recovery by the Borrower of its total operations and maintenance and debt 
service, in accordance with the procedures set forth in Article 4.03 of the Loan 
Agreement, and (b) transfers annually, until completion of the Project, at least 15% 
of TPWSC total annual revenues to the Borrower.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall ensure that TPWSC and the Borrower: (a) carry 
out a study of the structure and levels of the Borrower’s tariffs, and furnish to the 
Bank such study for review and comments; and (b) introduce a new tariff structure 
reflecting the results thereof, all in accordance with Section 4.04 of the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall: (i) maintain the EMP at all times during 
Project implementation; (ii) adopt, no later than January 1, 2003, and thereafter duly 
enforce, appropriate guidelines, agreed with the Bank, on the discharge of industrial 
effluents into a wastewater collection system; (iii) ensure that no industries 
discharging toxic substances for treatment processes are connected to the system; and 
(iv) maintain quality level acceptable to the Bank for effluent and sludge, including 
that generated from the sewerage treatment plant, and reused in agriculture.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Page  3
Section 4.01. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
Davar Avenue
Tehran
Islamic Republic of Iran
Facsimile:
98 21 39 17 043
98 21 39 01 033
98 21 39 10 024
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
By /s/ Mohammad Khazaee Torshizi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder K. Sud
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
