Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4551-IRN
Loan Agreement
(Tehran Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE TEHRAN SEWERAGE COMPANY (TSC)
Dated June 26, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4551-IRN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 2000, between the TEHRAN SEWERAGE COMPANY (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Islamic Republic of Iran (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement of even date between the Guarantor and the Bank (the 
Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the 
Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan) and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
Page  2
through December 2, 1997) with the modifications set forth below in Schedule (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
"'Euro' and 'EUR' each means the lawful currency of the member states of 
the European  Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty 
establishing the European  Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union."
(b)
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Bank shall at any time receive less than the full amount then due 
and payable 
to it under the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall have the right to allocate 
and apply the 
amount so received in any manner and for such purposes under 
the Loan Agreement as the Bank 
shall in its sole discretion determine.”
(c)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
“radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Action Plan” means the action plan referred to in Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
“Chart of Accounts” means the list of account codes to be used for 
recording and classifying all transactions related to the activities of the Project;
(c)
“DOE” means the Guarantor’s Department of Environment of the Tehran 
Province or any successor thereto;
(d)
“EA” means the Borrower’s Environmental Assessment for the Project, 
including the EMP, as hereinafter defined;
(e)
“Eligible Categories” means categories 1, 2 and 3 set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for works, goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(g)
“EMC” means the Borrower’s Environmental Monitoring Committee, 
responsible for monitoring the implementation by the PMU of the mitigating actions 
provided for in the EMP;
(h)
“EMP” means the Project Environmental Management Plan satisfactory to the 
Bank;
(i)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period starts on March 21 and ends on March 20 in 
each calendar year;
(j)
“FMM” and “Financial Management Manual” mean the manual, acceptable to 
the Bank, setting forth guidelines and procedures for the financial management of the 
Project;
(k)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit;
(l)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(m)
“Project Area” means the greater Tehran, as defined under ministerial 
Page  3
council approvals N. H119T/942 dated June 29, 1990.
(n)
“Rial” means the lawful currency of the Borrower;
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(p)
“TSC” and “the Borrower” mean the Tehran Sewerage Company, a Joint Stock 
Company established on March 16, 1995 and registred with the Tehran Registry of 
Commerce under number 120196 and
(q)
“TPWSC” means the Tehran Province Water and Sewerage Company, a Joint 
Stock Company established on April 13, 1992 and registred with the Tehran registry of 
commerce under number 89561.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred and forty five million dollars (US$145,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On, or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay commission on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Commission 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Commission Period" means the initial period from and including 
the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Commission 
Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each 
period from and including a 
Commission Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Commission 
Payment Date.
(ii)
"Commission Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Commission Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Commission Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Commission Period, for value 
the Commission Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of 
such Commission 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Commission Period: (A) 
Page  4
three-fourths of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for 
such Commission Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, 
or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Commission Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the commission rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the commission of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the commission rates applicable to the Loan other than 
as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the 
commission rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the 
notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Commission and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, sanitation, environmental 
and financing practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance 
with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
Page  5
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound Action Plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order 
to enable the Borrower, not later than January 1, 2002, or such later date as the Bank 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, 
each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
Page  6
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
take all measures to secure full recovery of its total operations and maintenance and 
debt service;
(b)
before December 21 in each Fiscal Year, the Borrower shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such Fiscal Year 
and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review 
upon its completion;
(c)
if any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Year covered by such review, 
the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, recommendation for adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in 
order to meet such requirements;
(d)
for the purposes of this Section, the term "total operations and 
maintenance" means all expenses related to operations and maintenance, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes excluding 
provision of depreciation; and
(e)
the term “debt service” means the aggregate amount of repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and commission and other charges on, 
debt.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than September 1, 2001, carry 
out a study of the structure and levels of its tariffs, and furnish to the Bank such 
study for review and comments; and (b) not later than September 1, 2002, introduce a 
new tariff structure reflecting the results thereof and Bank's recommendations.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not, until completion of the Project, incur any debt other than that to 
finance its obligations under this Project.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms 
more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that:
(a)
the Borrower shall have established and staffed the PMU with a Project 
director, an engineering manager, a procurement manager and a financial and 
Page  7
administrative manager, all under contractual arrangements and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
the Borrower shall have provided the Bank with a detailed procurement 
plan covering the first year of Project implementation;
(c)
the Financial Management Manual including the Chart of Accounts and the 
procedures to enhance PMU’s internal control capacity has been approved by the Bank; 
and
(d)
an audit report on the financial statements of the Borrower covering the 
Borrower’s Fiscal Year ending on March 31, 2000 has been received and approved by the 
Bank.
Section 5.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Chairman and Managing Director of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Tehran Sewerage Company 
N0.14 Andisheh Street,  
Dr. Beleshti Avenue 
Tehran Islamic Republic of Iran
Facsimile:
00-9821-8409194
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
TEHRAN SEWERAGE COMPANY
By /s/ Mohammad Khazaee Torshizi
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder K. Sud 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
 (i)
treatment works
49,500,000
85%
(ii)
other works
69,700,000
75%
(2)
Goods
 2,700,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures
ex-factory cost); and
80% for items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants'
8,200,000
100%
services, including
PMU contracted staff
and training
(4)
Fee
1,450,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
      13,450,000
TOTAL
     145,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Guarantor is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
and
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals for Eligible Expenditures in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
$8,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that 
Page  9
date but after July 1, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (i) goods not exceeding US$350,000; 
(ii) works not exceeding US$500,000; and services under contracts costing less than 
US$100,000 equivalent for firms; US$50,000 equivalent for individual consultants each, 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower; 
and (iii) PMU operational costs, including remuneration for contracted staff and 
training.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into 
said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the  Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Page  10
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $3,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of $35,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the said 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special 
Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  11
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of  $10,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is (i) to improve the environmental and public 
health conditions in greater Tehran through the provision of satisfactory waste water 
collection,  treatment and disposal facilities and reduction of surface and ground 
water pollution; (ii) to provide treated waste water for irrigation; and (iii) to 
develop the Borrower into a fully autonomous entity to be operated on a commercial 
basis.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Interceptors and Laterals
Supply and installation of about 2390 Kms of pipes divided between about 116 Kms 
of interceptors and about 2274 Kms of laterals, in the Project Area, to be connected 
to the western and eastern trunk mains.
Part B: 
Trunk mains
1.
Supply and installation of about 10 Kms of pipes for completion of the western 
trunk main.
2.
Construction of the eastern trunk main as a tunnel of about 20 Kms of length, 
divided between the northern part of about 4 Km and the southern part of about 16 Km.
Part C:
Waste water treatment works
Construction of wastewater treatment works, including supply and installation of 
mechanical and electrical equipment, for a capacity of 450,000 m3/day and for the 
provision of secondary treatment of adequate standard to enable the use of treated 
effluents, after dilution, for unrestricted irrigation and the use of treated sludge 
for soil conditioning in agriculture.
Part D:
Operation and maintenance
Acquisition of operation and maintenance equipment, including water jets, closed 
circuit television, rods and pumps.
Part E:
Institutional Strengthening and Technical assistance
Page  12
1.
Development of the PMU project management capacity through the appointment of 
staff on contract basis, the establishment and implementation of project management 
procedures and reporting systems, and the provision of equipment and vehicles.
2.
Strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity to move towards an autonomous entity to 
be operated on commercial basis through the introduction of appropriate working 
procedures and training and the provision of equipment.
3.
Preparation of request for proposals for the wastewater treatment works, 
following a design-build-operate approach, evaluation of proposals and design and 
construction supervision.
4.
Preparation and implementation of an environmental monitoring system including 
relevant organizational development.
5.
Development of appropriate environmental guidelines and preparation and 
implementation of an environment management system, including reuse of treated waste 
water and sludge.
6.
Updating of water and sewerage development programs and preparation of, inter 
alia, feasibility studies, engineering design, tender documents, economic, legal and 
financial studies for new water and wastewater projects in greater Tehran.
7.
Engineering design for subsequent phase implementation possibly to include 
preparation for a Build, Operate, Transfer (BOT) contract for the wastewater treatment 
works.
8.
Construction supervision for works to be executed under the Project.
9.
Carrying out of a study on structure and levels of water tariffs, wastewater 
charges, connection rights and subscription rates.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 2005
6,040,000
through December 15, 2016
on June 15, 2017
6,080,000
Page  13
_____________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for goods and works shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.42 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost less 
than $5,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  14
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more, each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Parts E 1 and E 2 of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts E 1 and E 2 of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for short term technical assistance under Part E of the Project may, 
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultants’ Guidelines.
Page  15
4.
Single Source Selection
Services for short term technical assistance under Part E of the Project which 
are estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultants’ Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
Responsibility for the overall planning, coordination, monitoring, reporting and 
management of the Project shall be vested with the PMU. The Borrower shall maintain 
the PMU during Project implementation with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank 
and shall provide it at all times with such staff, functions and authorities as to 
carry out the aforementioned responsibility.
2.
The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and update on a regular basis, as agreed with 
the Bank and on the basis of the EA, an EMP acceptable to the Bank including (i) 
mitigation measures for potentially adverse environmental impacts, (ii) monitoring 
schemes to review the efficacy of the EMP in relation to mitigation measures, and 
(iii) institutional strengthening through the establishment at DOE of a unit to 
develop environmental guidelines, review and enforce environmental regulations and 
legislation; and (b) implement the EMP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank especially 
the establishment of standards for industrial effluent discharges to the sewerage 
network and maintenance of acceptable quality level for effluent and sludge, including 
that generated from the sewage treatment plant, and reused in agriculture.
3.
The Borrower shall, starting three months after Project effectiveness and 
thereafter for every 3 month period, provide the Bank, for its review and approval, 
with progress reports, including environmental and performance monitoring indicators. 
Such reports shall be provided to the Bank no later than 30 days after the end of each 
such reporting period.
4.
The Borrower will:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
Page  16
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about February 1, 2004, a report integrating (i) the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and (ii) a scheme regarding the 
protection against any potential foreign exchange risk; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by July 1, 2004, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
