Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20064
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(34940; 3494A; 3494S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$58 MILLION
TO THE BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
FOR A
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
June 27, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Bs
Bs. 1 = US$ 1/628.5
US$ 1 = Bs. 628.5
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CORDIPLAN                 Ministry of Coordination and Planning
(Ministerio de Planificaci6n y Coordinaci6n)
FEGS                      School of Social Sector Management
(Fundaci6n Escuela de Gerencia Social)
FGMA                      Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho
GOV                       Government of Venezuela
IESA                      Institute for Graduate Studies in Administration
(Centro de Estudios Superiores de Administraci6n)
LASPAU                    Latin American Scholarship Program in American
Universities
MOE                       Ministry of Education
(Ministerio de Educaci6n)
OCEI                      Central Office of Statistics and Information
(Oficina Central de Estadistica e Informatica)
PMU                       Project Management Unit
OPEC                       Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Andres Solimano
Sector Manager/Director:   Xavier Coll
Country Sector Leader:   Constance Corbett
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Michael Crawford



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
(LOAN 3494-VE)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               10
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  15
9. Partner Comments                                                                 17
10. Additional Information                                                         23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               34
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Student Loan Reform Project in Venezuela, for which
Loan 3494-VE in the amount of US$58 million was approved on June 23, 1992. The Loan was declared effective
on June 30, 1994, after a long approval process in Venezuela. The Loan closed on December 31, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Michael Crawford (Science & Technology Specialist, ESDVP), Maria Elena Anderson
(Consultant, LCSHD), and Birgit Zischke (Consultant, LCSHD) of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office. It was reviewed by Constance Corbett (Country Sector Leader, LCC4C), Jamil Salmi (Education Sector
Manager, LCC3C) and Hongyu Yang (Operations Officer, HDNED). The Borrower provided comments that are
included in the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was started by a Bank completion mission in September 1999. It is based on documents
avaiiable in the project flies, in addition to discussions with representatives of the Borrower, universities.
beneficiaries, and Bank staff. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by presenting views reflected
in the mission's aide-memoire, compiling statistical data, and commenting on the draft ICR.
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008226                                     Project Name: VE STUDENT LOAN REFORM
Team Leader: Michael F. Crawford                        TL Unit: ESDVP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 19, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: VE STUDENT LOAN REFORM                       L/C/ITF Number: 34940; 3494A; 3494S
Country,Department: VENEZUELA                                         Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: ET - Higher Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 05/21/91                                Effective: 08/31/92          06/30/94
Appraisal:  08/06/92                                MTR:                      06/02/97
Approval: 06/23/92                               Closing: 06/30/99            12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF FAMILY (Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de
Ayacucho, Fundaci6n Escuela de Gerencia Social)
Other Partners: United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
STAFF               Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     David De Ferranti                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:    Andres Solimano                          Ping Loh
Sector Manager:     Jamil Salmi
Team Leader at ICR:   Michael F. Crawford                    Cecilia Valdevieso
ICR Primary Author:   Michael F. Crawford
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project were to: (i) strengthen and reform the Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho
(FGMA); (ii) improve the level of professional, technical and managerial skills in both the private and
public sectors; and (iii) strengthen policy research on human capital and higher education issues in order to
provide a solid base for future reforms in higher education finance and management.



3.2 Revised Objective:
n/a
3.3 Original Components:
Rating        Component                                 Sector       Cost
U             Student Loan Program                      ET            82,200,000.00
U            Institutional Development                  ET             3,400,000,00
Total         85,600,000.00
The project was designed with two major components: i) reform and strengthening of the student loan
program (95% of total costs); and ii) institutional development for two human resource
development-related institutions (5% of total costs): the Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho (FGMA)
and the Fundaci6n Escuela Gerencia Social (FEGS).
The Student Loan Program consisted of two subcomponents: the open program and the institutionally
sponsored program.
-      The purpose of the open program was to provide student loans for selected individuals, covering
professional development in various academic fields. The project would finance student loans for 900
student-years for domestic undergraduate studies, 900 student-years for domestic graduate studies, and
1200 student-years for overseas graduate studies.
*      The intention of the institutionally sponsored program was to support management development
in key institutions, covering higher-level human resource development for both the public and private
sectors, with special attention to the fields of management and finance. The project would finance
student loans for selected personnel in the public and private sectors, under institutional sponsorship,
for 1,800 student-years of domestic graduate studies and 900 student-years of overseas graduate
studies.
Institutional Development: This project component was to strengthen two institutions engaged in human
capital formation, the FGMA and the FEGS.
*      The capacity of the FGMA to support the development of highly skilled professionals was to be
strengthened by thoroughly reforming student loan terms and improving cost-recovery mechanisms,
while enhancing its administrative capacity to effectively select students and ensure debt repayment.
The program included: i) the establishment of a management information system to monitor student
progress and to support the preparation of reports for planning, policy formulation and the evaluation
of institutiona! perfor:mance; i) the prevision of training-to.professiof a!, frcbniCal 2Pd su-ppnr staff of
FGMA in various areas of institutional management; and iii) the carrying out of operational and policy
studies.
*      The operational studies included: i) quality assessment and classification of graduate school
systems in Venezuela as a basis for an eventual accreditation system; ii) technical evaluation of
screening examinations and procedures by FGMA in student selection; iii) cost-benefit analysis of
altemative repayment mechanisms; and iv) evaluation of the impact of FGMA's program of student
-2 -



loans. The policy studies covered: i) labor market analysis; ii) education policy and analysis; and iii)
impact analysis of vocational and technical education and training on productivity and industrial
development.
*      The FEGS was to be supported in its endeavor to develop: i) linkages with similar established
institutions elsewhere in Latin America; ii) curricula aimed at practical issues facing social sector
administrators at the state and municipal levels; iii) development of capacity for social service
programs administration; and iv) training programs for public officials at multiple levels. The capacity
of FEGS was to be strengthened by: i) supporting information collection through exchange with similar
public training programs; ii) designing and implementing training programs for state- and local-level
managers in the social sectors; iii) developing curriculum materials for training and reference manuals;
and iv) providing technical assistance to social sector managers and administrators at the local level.
3.4 Revised Components:
Amendments to Loan Agreement and Project Agreement
In December 1996, the Loan Agreement and Project Agreement were arnended to: a) increase the B3ank
disbursement percentage for local studies under the student loan component from 10% to 30%; b) eliminate
the distinction between the Institutionally Sponsored Program and the Open Loan Program, include a
program for specialized professional short courses in selected areas, and consolidate the targets accordingly
(comp. Annex 1); c) include a public awareness campaign in the Institutional Development component; and
d) revise the due dates for the operational and policy studies.
T-he percentage change for student loans was a shift in emphasis towards enhanced equity considerations to
increase the incentives for students from lower socio-economic backgrounds who generally tend to apply
for less costly domestic studies.
The distinction between the Institutionally Sponsored Loan Program (FIDEREM) and the Open Loan
Program (FINAB) was eliminated due to a lack of demand for the former and to improve the potential for a
more equitable distribution of loans. The overall monitoring indicators for the number of student-years did
not change. The public awareness campaign sought to make the benefits of student loans known to a more
geographically and economically diverse pool of potential beneficiaries. The due dates for the operational
and policy studies were adjusted to take into account the later-than-expected effectiveness date.
In addition, new regulations, reflected in the revised Reglamento (Student Loan Regulations) were
introduced. These were aimed at improving selection procedures, strengthening repayment policies,
reducing subsidy levels, and improving the overall financial viability of FGMA. From August 1996, all
new student loan contracts were carried out under the new Reglamento.
Further amendments to the Loan Agreement included: i) in February 1998, provisions of prior review
thra5holds as zxccpions to the-Consultant Guidelines; ii) in March 1998, change of currency from pool to
single currency, and other financial terms; and iii) in November 1999, modification of persons who are
authorized to send withdrawal applications. These amendments were the result of substantial proactive
efforts by the Borrower and the Bank teams to overcome a poor start to project implementation. In
addition to the delay in effectiveness, early project implementation was hindered by a serious economic
crisis and devaluation soon after the project was approved.
- 3 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
Rating: Unsatifactory
The principal reason for the overall unsatisfactory rating of this project is the poor quality at entry. The
project's basic orientation seems to have been to take an expensive and inefficient institution (FGMA) and
make it less so, rather than to design an intervention to solve a problem. While the political realities of the
sector may have limited the options, the quality of the project (and, more importantly, the decision on
whether to do the project at all) suffered significantly because of this apparent predisposition toward
partially "fixing" a costly and inefficient institution. In at least seven major aspects, the quality at entry was
inadequate:
(a)    Weak or insufficiently demonstrated rationale for undertaking the project. A basic assumption
of the project was that the Venezuelan economy and society was suffering due to lack of highly trained
human resources. However, the SAR provides no evidence or examples to justify this claim. Likewise, the
project rationale relies on an implied argument that improving the supply of trained human resources will
improve government and private sector performance, without exploring the other complex factors that
affect these outcomes. Although the SAR states that "without sufficient numbers of highly trained
personnel in both the public and private sectors, it is unlikely that the Government's new economic policies
can be sustained" (para. 1.3), it does not give any numeric estimates of how many individuals are needed.
Nor does the SAR explain why emphasis was placed on graduate education, to which 74% of the loan
program's resources were to be devoted, nor how the balance between extremely expensive foreign graduate
education (where loans could exceed $100,000 per individual) and less expensive domestic graduate
education was chosen. Nor does it establish the rationale for continued public subsidy to higher education
and advanced training.
(b)    Poor assessment ofpotential impact. Despite having exceeded the projected SAR goals for the
number of beneficiaries (actual: 6,334 vs. target: 3,513) , the project still served a relatively small
percentage of the tertiary sector (excluding training under the School of Social Management). Given this
small pool of beneficiaries, each one would need to have a large individual impact for the project to yield a
positive return. No attempts were made to measure or ascertain the size of the impact. However, it should
be noted that this project was one of the first to attempt a reform of a student loan program. In addition,
techniques now used to measure impact of investments in human development were not common at the time
when the project was designed. Also, economic analysis of project costs and benefits was not required for
education projects when the project was appraised.
(c)    No consideration of the counterfactual. Three-quarters of project resources were destined for
graduate education, and academic excellence was the principal criterion for selection. This was true
despite the fact that excellent candidates for graduate education normally come from wealthy families, and
have benefitted previously from costly private educaton. Therefore, a significant number of these
candidates would havz had the means to pursue graduate education in the abscence of FGMA support,
either with personal or family resources or through private borrowing. Even granting that the project
objectives were worthwhile and the impact could be significant, the project documentation fails to
demonstrate that this particular public intervention is the right way to provide these benefits. Given that
equity was a secondary selection criterion, it is reasonable to assume that some percentage of project
beneficiaries could have financed their education through other means (i.e., without public resources). This
implies that project impact and cost-effectiveness are in reality lower than they appear as measured by the
number of beneficiaries cited in paragraph (b) above.
-4 -



(d)    Critical project design decisions made on the basis of poor or seemingly contradictory data.
The SAR states in paragraph 1.10 that private returns to higher education in Venezuela are 12%. If true,
the average degree recipient should be able to repay educational loans with positive real interest rates up to
that amount, and therefore not require the 50% subsidy that the program had as its target. Likewise, the
SAR states in paragraph 22 of Annex 5 that "reliable data on graduate income are not yet available," and
then goes on to calculate likelihood of repayment based on preliminary data. Again, neither ability to pay
from other sources (family income and assets) nor need for loan financing (given that public domestic
undergraduate institutions charged no tuition) seem to have been examined closely.
(e)   Incongruent policies of FGMA were not addressed by proposed reforms. First, the loan program
made academic merit rather than need the principal basis for selection. During project implementation, need
became a more important criterion, as a result of substantial effort by the Bank and the Borrower, but need
never replaced academic merit as the fundamental critierion for selection, and loan forgiveness of up to
75% was granted on the basis of academic performance. This figure was reduced to 15% under the 1996
Reglamento. This emphasis on academic excellence/performance over financial need strains the rationale
for public financing of higher education in a country with many competing social needs for public
resources. Second, the cost-effectiveness of graduate versus undergraduate and overseas versus domestic
training appears not to have been considered (this was remedied during implementation, when much greater
efforts were made to provide for domestic undergraduate studies). Third, undertaking policy studies and
preparing the ground for future reforms was an objective of the project, yet FGMA pertained to the
Ministry of the Family, not the Ministry of Education, which is responsible for higher education policy. No
measures appear to have been suggested to bridge this gap.
(f)    Unrealistic assessment of risk Two major risks were identified: (i) that beneficiaries might not
return to Venezuela upon completion of their studies abroad, and (ii) that the financial position of FGMA
might be unsustainable. The former was downplayed by observing that Venezuelans seem to have high
return rates (no figures were given) and "high return rates are likely to persist if economic growth
continues, since employment generation accompanies growth and is one of the most important determinants
of skill retention" [SAR p.31. No consideration was given to the relative attractiveness of foreign and
domestic opportunities that graduates might have, nor to the historical trend indicating that up to 50% of
students from developing countries educated in the developed world do not return home. The latter was to
be mitigated by regular reporting requirements for FGMA.
(g)    Poor matching of resources to tasks and poor allocation of resources among components. The
SAR does not explain why project design set the counterpart contribution at only 1/3 of total project costs
(US$27 million of US$85 million). Nor does it explain why US$11 million of the recurrent costs of running
FGMA qualified for inclusion as counterpart funding in an investment project. Subtracting recurrent-costs,
planned government funding amounted to only 22% of investment costs. This disproportionate contribution
may have signalled a lack of government commitment to the reform objectives of the project. Also, it
seems that the project could have been planned to begin with the less expensive institutional development,
iG rais;cthv cffei cnc-,;. .fFGNA, prior t ^committing large amounts of resources to newi nvestments.
-5 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the project was mixed. It achieved many of the targets when judged by those perfornance
indicators that measure inputs, but seems to have failed to meet its overall development objectives.
Therefore, the overall outcome is rated unsatisfactory.
*   Reforming and strengthening the FGMA student loan program. The student loan program
improved in several key aspects, such as communications, recovery rates, and geographic diversity
and equity among beneficiaries, but it worsened in other, more important areas: most especially
financial management and long-term sustainability. Financial management capacity improved
temporarily in 1997, due to Bank insistence that the FGMA hire a qualified financial manager.
However, these gains were subsequently reversed. The lack of financial management capacity was
especially in evidence in 1999, when FGMA thrust itself into crisis by accepting 12,000 students
for loans, several times more students than it could safely provide with loans. On balance,
FGMA's loan program was not significantly improved after the project.
*   Improving the overal level of professional, technical, and managerial skills in both the
Venezuelan public and private sectors. Strictly speaking, the project no doubt did raise these
skill levels by some amount. However, as no quantative goals were set, and as the number of
beneficiaries is modest with respect to the size of the labor force, this technical success is likely to
have little impact. With respect to the public sector, no evidence exists of a strong trend for
FGMA-supported graduates to move into key positions in government. The private sector may
have benefitted more, as a number of students have found employment upon graduation.
e  Policy research on human capital was strengthened under the project, and dissemination efforts
were strong and often included key stakeholders and well-received seminars and conferences.
However, these achievements may have fallen short of providing a "solid base for future reforms"
due to minimal coordination between the Ministry of the Family (under whose jurisdiction FGMA
operated) and the Ministry of Education, responsible for higher education policy. Under the
current government, FGMA has become an administrative dependency of the Ministry of
Education, yet the studies conducted under the project do not appear to be influential in inducing
reforms or shaping the direction of policy toward the higher education sector.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Student Loan Program
Rating: Unsatisfactory
This component met and mostly cxceeded its targets for number of loans made, and had qualitative success
in related areas. It seems not to have met its modest target of reducing the overall subsidy r-ae oni its loans
to 50%.
Provision of loans. Here, the project vastly exceeded its goals for domestic undergraduate studies, and
substantially exceeded those for foreign graduate studies, but fell a bit short of the mark for domestic
graduate studies (Table 1).
- 6-



Table 1: Performance Indicators for Student Loan Program
Actual Student Years  Planned Student     Percentage
Years           difference
Domestic Undergraduate               9,420                900               +945
Domestic Graduate                    1,721              2,700                -36
Foreign Graduate                     3,070              2,120                +45
Change in Public Awareness and Growth in Loan Applicants. The project seemed to achieve wide
dissemination and acceptance of loans instead of scholarships, which had been the norm for student
assistance in Venezuela. This was especially true following the public awareness campaign in 1997/98,
after which the number of loan seekers jumped four-fold (Table 2).
Table 2: Students Applying for FGMA Loans (Undergraduate and Graduate)
1995         l        1996         l        1997          l        1998
6,140                 7,366                 8,925                 30,666
Increase in Geographic and Socio-Economic Equity. By launching the public awareness campaign in
1997, the FGMA increased the number of students in its portfolio from rural areas and low-income families
who traditionally lacked access to information and support for higher education financing (comp. Tables 3,
4). The publicity campaign was not part of the original project components, revealing that the project
design failed to adequately include equity criteria. It could be argued that increasing equity in access to
higher education financing is an implicit part of every student loan program and does not require explicit
mentioning in the project design. Since the project provided flexible arrangements for modifications,
introducing the publicity campaign during the project implementation stage supported the initial objective
of strengthening the student loan program.
Table 3: Selection of Students by Socio-Economic Status (in percentages)
1994        1995        1996         1997        1998         1999
Upper              n/a         65.0        51.4         27.0        29.3         n/a
Upper-Middle       n/a         55.7        41.6         35.8        40.5         n/a
Middle             n/a         34.0         34.3        53.5        53.9         n/a
Lower-Middle       nla         19.4        25.5         69.6        73.8         n/a
Lower              n/a         12.5         14.7        80.0        86.9         n/a
Table 4: Selection of Students by Location (in number of students)
1994          1995           1996          1997          1998
Metropolitan          n/a           1,327         1,227          1,562         3,251
Rural Areas           n/a           705            986           2,191         9,956
Two important qualifiers need to be added. First, the number of students accepted for loans by the close of
the project exceeds the number of contracts signed, due to the loan processing lag. As FGMA signs
contracts with these accepted students, its overall obligations will increase, and so will the total value of the
-7-



subsidies provided. This is straining FGMA financial viability.
Second, the increase in students accepted for loans after the public awareness campaign is responsible for
the dramatic increases in overall equity. However, these figures are not disagregated by level of study, and
most of the new students were in domestic undergraduate studies, whose loans are 1/30th the cost of
foreign graduate studies. Therefore, improvements in equity as measured by the "headcount" would most
likely not be reflected in improvements as measured by total dollars spent by quintile. Nevertheless, the
total amount of fuinds devoted to domestic studies was 65% higher at project closing than originally
designed, most of which was financed through counterpart funds, indicating an earnest effort to improve the
equity of loan distribution.
Lowering the overall subsidy rate for loans. The apparent success in lowering the overall subsidy rate for
loans (reported consistently in 1998-99 PSRs) does not stand up to careful scrutiny (This probably
indicates a misinterpretation of the role of this key indicator, and the continued weakness of the technical
skills of FGMA staff). Subsidies come from four sources:
(i) Interest rate policy led to negative real interest rates. Interest rates for loans were fixed at
two-thirds of the current commercial lending rate. Inflation has been consistently higher than these
nominal rates, reducing the value of loan recoveries.
(ii) Loan forgiveness granted for academic performance. Students received a reduction of their loan
balance based on their academic performance. Initially, this could be as high as 80% of outstanding
debt, but was reduced under the 1996 Reglamento to 15%, 1 0%, or 5% for grade point averages of A,
B, or C respectively. An additional 30% rebate was granted for employment in government or
academia upon graduation.
(iii) Discounts granted for timely repayment. A 35% discount was offered for timely repayment every
month. This exoneration is additive to the forgiveness for academic performance.
(iv) Under the Graduated Repayment Mechanism, loan repayments cannot exceed 15% of income (until
1996, it was 10% of income).
Taken together, these provisions resulted in negative real interest rates, which cause each new loan to
increase the operating deficit of FGMA. The absence of complete repayment data at FGMA and reliance
on reports from the Banco Mercantil distorted record-keeping on loan recovery as full repayment from
beneficiaries abroad temporarily led to positive balances. In light of this, the tendency toward rapid
expansion at the end of the project, while it allowed the project to meet its disbursement goals, severely
worsened FGMA's financial position and long-term sustainability. This trend culminated in the 1999
acceptance of 12,000 students for loans, requiring actions to attempt to maintain the solvency of the
institution. The solvency of FGMA is still not certain.
The exact rnoint ef the Pulsidy on leans to project beneficiaries cannot be calculated due to continuling
weaknesses in FGMA's financial management system. Only basic figures on number of students in
repayment and total nominal amounts recovered were regularly reported. No attempts were made to
contrast the real value of recoveries with the cost of outlays, either for individual beneficiaries or in the
aggregate.
It should be noted that, despite probable failure to achieve the goal, FGMA's overall subsidy rate has most
likely declined substantially from its level of 120% at the beginning of the project. The project deserves
-8 -



credit for this achievement.
Institutional Development
Rating: Satisfactory
FGMWA: Measured by inputs, the component complied with the SAR targets by project completion.
Training of FGMA statf was carried out throughout project execution, with a total of 772 staff weeks
reached at completion, compared to 600 staff weeks estimated at appraisal. Further, long-term management
training achieved its SAR target of 5 staff years participating in domestic and overseas long-term
management training. The impact seems to have been small: (a) the computer-based MIS system was still
being designed and piloted at the project's close; (b) despite persistent requests during supervision for
FGMA to improve its efficiency by reducing the total number of employees, only moderate and temporary
progress seems to have been made; and (c) most importantly, judged by performance, the capability of
FGMA seems not to have improved, especially as indicated by its financial crisis of 1999.
A principal reason for the poor institutional performance of FGMA seems to have been its vulnerability to
changes in leadership. The FGMA President changed four times during implementation, and members of
the Task Team cited problems stemming from these changes as a principal source of implementation
difficulties. In an interesting contrast, FEGS had stability and continuity of leadership and much stronger
institutional performance (see next section).
School for Social Management (FEGS): Support for the School for Social Management (Fundaci6n
Escuela de Gerencia Social or FEGS) was included under the institutional strengthening plan. The project
sought to provide support to FEGS in the following areas: (i) information collection and experience
exchange between FEGS with similar public training programs and information and research centers in
Latin America; (ii) design and implementation of targeted training programs for state- and local-level
managers in the social sectors; (iii) development of curriculum materials for training and manuals to
provide ready references for local managers; and (iv) technical assistance to social sector managers and
administrators at the local level.
FEGS has successfully implemented all activities of the project and, according to some views, has become
a leading institution in Venezuela, and perhaps even the region, in the area of training and research in social
sector management. FEGS entered into about 40 agreements with national and international social sector
institutions. The strengthening of the Documentation and Information Center was done by training staff in
analysis and technical processing of information and in copyrights, introducing new technologies and
establishing a local area network to improve internal processes and communication, introducing
computerized information services, and creating in-house document editing and printing capacity. Over
6,500 bibliographic registries were added to the data base from 1994-1998. The number of
Documentation Center users increased from 450 in 1994 to about 3,550 in 1998, the number of subscribers
increased from 150 to 300, and the number of publications has ranged from 19 to 31 per year during the
project implementation pcriod
FEGS designed curriculum materials and implemented a five-module training program in social sector
management, developed a training program for trainers in preparation and evaluation of social sector
projects and trained a total of 2,453 social sector professionals at the local level, and 2,377 at the central
level. In addition, 309 professionals from Latin American countries received social sector management
training. Another 100 professionals received postgraduate training in social sector management in
programs carried out by local universities, in association with FEGS. All 27 staff who work in the
-9-



institution received training on various topics.. The SAR targets for training activities were a total of 2,100
persons trained. Actual results show a total of 5,239 persons trained, or 249% of the original target.
FEGS published and distributed, in two different editions, a program for training of trainers in local-level
management, with emphasis on the social sectors; it provided training and technical asistance to municipal
and state government institutions, as well as to other public and private social sector institutions working
with local governments; it carried out diagnostic studies related to local level education sector management.
Finally, as part of the institutional strengthening process, FEGS, with Bank loan financing, acquired
computer hardware and software and established an MIS that has helped the institution improve its
operations. All staff received training in the use of the new technology. It is important to note that, unlike
FGMA, new procedures, processes, and the technology associated with it were quickly adopted, without
signs of rejection. The reason for this may be that, compared to FGMA, FEGS is a younger institution,
with mostly professional staff, compared to FGMA. This part of the project's institutional strengthening
component has had a highly satisfactory performance and outcome, which is particularly significant in view
of the modest cost (US$600,000).
The overall rating for the institutional development component was satisfactory, which considers the
project's widely different impact and outcome for the FGMA and the FEGS. While the FGMA is the older
and larger institution, its changes towards financial and institutional efficiency were harder to implement
and faced different obstacles. The FEGS, on the other hand, had an impressive record in information
exchange with similar programs in the region, targeted training of social sector managers, and use of
computer equipment and technology.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Due to previously mentioned weaknesses in recording keeping, it is not possible to calculate the NPV of the
benefits nor the economic rate of return of the project. Although FGMA generated copious data through
various reports and evaluations, it did not produce (nor did Bank supervision require), the precise data that
would be necessary to calculate the actual subsidy rate for loans made under the project. The figures
provided on loan recovery co-mingle loans made under the existing project with earlier obligations. In many
instances, amounts recovered from the total outstanding loan portfolio were then compared with the
obligations due only under the project. That is, the FGMA report that recoveries had risen from 38% in
January 1998 to 98% in October of that year represents total FGMA recoveries as a percent of amount due
on project loans.
FGMA policy was to forgive a percentage of outstanding balances for timely repayment, academic
performnance, and employment in the public sector or academia. However, little or no information was
provided on the number and amount of exonerations granted, and how these affect the overall rate of
subsidy. Nor did supervision missions record information on the nominal interest rates (set annually at 2/3
the comrmercial hank lending rate) or its relation to the rate ofinflation for given years.
This technical failure again points to the view of the loan as a vehicle for change away from a seriously
inefficient and costly program toward one that would be significantly less so. In many instances, both the
Bank and the Borrower focused on improvements gauged against past performance rather than by objective
measures, such as NPV or IRR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
-10-



Cannot be calculated for the reasons listed above in 4.4
4.5 Institutional development impact:
While some clear improvements were made in FGMA's practices (dissemination, equity in loans, and
improved recovery), two main factors weigh against an overall positive assessment of the impact on
FGMA's institutional development. First, the data provided by FGMA often paint a one-sided and overly
positive view of the achievements of the project, while other key data for judging project success are
absent. (The Bank shares the responsibility for this shortcoming by failing to request the data required and
by paying undue attention to success in achieving targeted disbursements). Second, at the end of the
project, FGMA entered into an acute financial crisis, brought about by accepting three times more students
than it could provide with loans. Both points are evidence that FGMA did not internalize and/or put into
practice the sound technical skills needed to run a financially viable student loan program.
Field interviews tend to confirm the view of the FEGS as an efficient and effective mechanism for
providing training for public sector managers. It is, of course, extremely difficult to measure the quality of
public management in a meaningful way; no direct measure of the impact of the training on the quality of
public services was attempted. However, the speed with which the institution took advantage of the project
by establishing the MIS-based computer system and training its staff to monitor institutional and financial
performance supports this notion of efficiency. This is striking when compared to the FGMA, which was
still installing an integrated software system at the project closing.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The conditions for implementing the project were significantly worsened by the advent of an economic
crisis and a major devaluation shortly after the project became effective.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project launch was delayed by a change in the legal requirements for authorizing foreign indebtedness.
Specifically, the loan signing (April 5, 1994) was delayed substantially beyond Board approval (June 23,
1992) due to the introduction of a new requirement that foreign loans be approved in a single "Umbrella
Law" to be passed annually. After a two-year delay in loan signing, the loan became effective on June 30,
1994. This delay affected the overall timetable for project implementation, causing the closure date to be
postponed from June 30, 1997 to December 31, 1999.
The frequent changes of leadership in FGMA negatively affected the project. This was especially true
regarding the appointment, early in project implementation, of a president of FGMA who openly disagreed
with the goals of the project. From late 1996, under stronger Presidents of FGMA, stable and more
effiitient pL-ject iiiariagement improved overall project imnrplCmenrtation.
The affiliation of the implementing agency with the Ministry of Family, separate from the Ministry of
Education, prevented the integration of student loan reform into the broader context of sectoral policies.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Implementation was initially hampered by lack of effective dissemination of information about the loan
program to potential project beneficiaries. A public awareness campaign directed at potential beneficiaries
- 11 -



who were historically under-represented in the applicant pool led to huge growth in the number and
diversity of applicants.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The final distribution of project costs and financing differs from the original plan in two important respects.
First, the total amount of funds devoted to domestic studies was 65% higher than the appraisal estimate,
reflecting the effort to improve the equity of loan distribution by promoting the program to poorer students,
most of whom undertook studies within the country. All of this increase was financed from counterpart
funds. Second, the final project financing plan does not include any recurrent costs as part of the project
costs.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Rating: Unlikely
FGMA's imprudential policies in 1999 jeopardized the solvency of the institution, thereby making
sustainability of positive project outcomes uncertain. The number of students accepted for new loans was
increased seemingly without regard for the financial implications of these actions.
Analysis at the project's mid-term review in June of 1997 showed that FGMA could provide financial
assistance at 1997 levels to a maximum of 1,725 students between 1999 and 2005. Despite this, in the
1999 loan selection process, 12,000 students were approved for loan financing. This poor managerial
judgment places in jeopardy the gains in support of the loan program made through the public awareness
campaign.
Loan recovery rates may remain stable or improve further. It should be noted, however, that most of the
subsidy stems from concessionary lending policies (lower-than-market interest rates, exonerations, ceilings
on repayments as percentage of income, etc.). Default is not the bulk of loan program costs. Therefore,
bringing collection to 100% of outstanding debt would mitigate FGMA's financial difficulties, but it would
not eliminate them.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
FGMA will most likely need to use its principal endowment or get additional government transfers to meet
its obligations in the near future. In order to transition to sustainable future operations, the institution
would need to:
*   Make financial need the determining factor for loan eligibility;
*   Reduce concessionary lending policies: consider elimination of exonerations, consider lending for
only a percentage of tuition and living expenses;
*   Reevaiuate the cost-effecriveness of loans for graduaie study ouiside VenezutJa. Perihaps eliniPinaie
or substantially reduce this costly category of loans;
*   Eliminate the "open" choice of field of studies for loan recipients, and finance only those studies
which are of national priority (science, engineering, and related technical fields) and whose social
return is higher than the private return. That is, eliminate subsidized education for students who
will enter lucrative private careers upon graduation.
It may be difficult for FGMA to obtain the needed resources to meet its current obligations and institute
- 12 -



these changes in time to establish a sound financial position.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank participation in the lending process was weakest in the early phases (prior to effectiveness). During
project identification, preparation, and appraisal the Bank failed to sufficiently consider a range of issues
and/or investigate altemative, more cost-effective ways of resolving the problems of inefficiency in higher
education and student financing, as explained in section 3.5 ("Quality at Entry").
7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision initially suffered from discontinuity in task management. After two changes in task
management between 1993 and 1995, project implementation achieved some progress under a more unified
task team from August 1996 through August 1999. Stability in the task team was a key to achieving
progress under supervision. Supervision improved dramatically in late 1996, with an impressive effort to
help the program become operational and to meet its target for student lending. Recommendations of the
project team and senior Bank specialists were translated into amendments to the Loan and Project
Agreements and the Reglamento (Revised Student Loan Regulations) in 1996. The ability to meet project
goals was improved by introducing new activities, such as the public awareness campaign, which improved
the efficiency and equity of funds allocation. The immediate impact of the publicity campaign and the shift
in loan awards from overseas to domestic studies manifested itself in the exponential growth of loan
applications, which accelerated the fulfillment of targeted performnance indicators, but which raised
additional concerns over financial and institutional viability.
Nevertheless, under supervision, key deficiencies remained that are partially responsible for FGMA's
sustainability problems. The Bank paid too much attention, and provided too much praise to the
counterpart, for those aspects of the project that dealt with provision of inputs (and timely disbursement),
and not enough on strategy or management for the longer term (growth of lending, overall subsidy and its
connection to concessionary lending, graduate versus undergraduate, foreign versus domestic studies),
which ultimately placed the sustainability of project outcomes in jeopardy. During supervision, more
complete and stringent (international standard) financial accounting should have been required.
Bank performance under supervision should also be criticized for failing to view the Government's long
(two-year) delay in making the project effective as indication of insufficient ownership. The Bank missed
this signal, which might have warranted cancellation of the loan at that tirne.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was unsatisfactory. The poor quality at entry would have required absolutely
superior supervision for this project to have been successful. Supervision was successful in many aspects,
but its failures were in critical areas. The substantial effort required to make the project function seem to
have left insufficient time and energy for the policy questions that were ultimately decisive for project
success.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
- 13-



Th project design called for the establishment of a separate project coordination (PCU). While highly
efficient in a number of ways, the PCU remained isolated from the executing institution (FGMA) overall,
and therefore the benefits of this performance were not retained.
Also, the Borrower failed to provide baseline data to support the goal of skill level improvement in the
public and private sectors and to analyze the complex factors surrounding labor market requirements for
highly skilled professionals in the context of overall economic development. This oversight in project
preparation was compounded by the Borrower's lack of experience with Bank lending procedures and by
the fact that the project's implementing agency itself was to undergo institutional strengthening.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's overall performance in project implementation was unsatisfactory, but the impact of this
performance on the project varied among individual aspects.
The two-year delay in loan signing and effectiveness, caused by changes in the government's legal
requirements for authorizing foreign indebtedness, resulted in a significant gap between project appraisal
and project implementation that affected the overall timetable. Once the project workshop was launched
and the project got underway, the government displayed mixed performance in essential areas of project
implementation:
Procurement: Procurement data are provided in Annex 2. The Borrower's performance in the procurement
of goods and services during project implementation was satisfactory as it followed Bank provisions and
procedures according to the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (the
Guidelines).
Disbursement: Disbursement data are provided in Annex 2. The project had a satisfactory disbursement
performance as the loan amount of US$58.00 million was fully disbursed by June 30, 1999, six months
before the project closing date on December 31, 1999.
Funding: Shortly after project launch, the FGMA's budgetary resources were reduced in November 1995,
which caused significant problems in maintaining the institution's financial obligations towards students
abroad. In response to the funding crisis, a combination of measures was introduced in 1996, which
.included a graduated payment mechanism, proposals to amend the legal agreements and to offer new
student loan regulations, and the hiring of a financial specialist to revise the internal accounting and control
system.
Accounting and Auditing: The performance of the project's accounting and auditing procedures was
satisfactory. The Borrower commissioned private auditors for the preparation of audit reports for each year
of project implementation. The final audit reports for 1999 did not include findings or recommendations to
implement changes for the project's financial management.
Legal Covenants: The Borrower complied with the requirements of the legal convenants.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The frequent turnovers in management until mid-project hampered execution. This changed in mid-1996
with the arrival of a new president at the FGMA who initiated reform of the internal accounting and control
system, and who appointed a financial specialist with substantial private sector experience as
- 14 -



vice-president. It should be kept in mind that the performance of the implementing agency (FGMA) and the
project coordination unit (PCU) was different during implementation. While the institutional and financial
performance of the FGMA was hampered and remained weak throughout project execution, the PCU,
partly due to its independent status, was able to effectively implement project activities.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The unsatisfactory performance of the Borrower was a mixture of several factors. The details of financial,
managerial, and organizational performance did not receive enough attention during the preparation phase,
and this was reflected throughout project execution, which suffered from the unsatisfactory financial,
managerial, and organizational set-up, resulting in inefficiencies and imprudent practices.
Again, it must be noted that, given the poor quality-at-entry, superior performance would have been
required in order for the project to meet its development objectives. Borrower performance was variable in
key aspects of project implementation.
8. Lessons Learned
The project did not meet its principal objectives of reforming and strengthening the student loan program
and of improving the skill level of professionals in the public and private sector, even though the project
was successful with respect to its performance indicators. The. reform efforts did not secure the program's
financial and institutional sustainability into the future. While this experience suggests a number of lessons,
it should be kept in mind that Bank procedures and requirements at the time of project appraisal might
differ from those of today. The key causes of the problems encountered may be summarized as follows:
*   The rationale for undertaking the project lacked sector analysis data necessary to demonstrate how the
project was to be integrated within the overall sectoral policies.
-   The political environment in Venezuela at project appraisal was extremely adverse to removal or
reduction of government subisidies for higher education. This led to the establishment of sub-optimal
project objectives, but the risks they posed for even the modest project objectives were not adequately
assessed, and there is no evidence of the consideration of alternatives.
*   Most of the project's flaws can be traced back to the preparation stage, during which the Bank and the
Borrower failed to formulate realistic project objectives and to base the project components on sound
analysis of financial performance projections.
*   The project objectives did not attach sufficient importance to the specific requirements of the sector,
which resulted in overlooking flaws in the country's university system that affected higher education
financing.
*   Important risks to successful project outcome were identified, but not given enough priority in the
country's social and economic context, and mitigating measures were insufficient.
* Project design was incomplete as it lacked provisions for a financial specialist in the project
coordination unit (PCU) who would monitor and assess the project's performance throughout the
implementation phase.
- 15 -



*   The institutional set-up did not provide adequate links to the Ministry of Education, which prevented
integration of reform procedures into the larger framework of higher education reform.
*   The institution under reform suffered from institutional and financial inefficiency prior to project
launch, but the fact that it functioned as the executing agency for the project compounded existing
problems and resulted in recurrent difficulties in project funding and management.
* The project coordination unit was set up separately from the implementing agency, which prevented the
beneficial results of efficient project execution of the former to affect the latter.
* The frequent turnover of senior personnel responsible for the project, on the part of both the Borrower
and the Bank, resulted in loss of institutional knowledge, negatively affecting project implementation.
Some of these problems from the project could be avoided through improvements in project preparation
design, organizational/managerial set-up and implementation procedures. Application of such lessons could
help improve the outcome appraisal of future projects in the sector:
*   The rationale for undertaking a project, supported by sectoral analysis, should be carefully weighed
against other alternatives.
*   A Bank project should draw on previous country and sector experience and should include lessons from
similar projects. This woudl help avoid oversights in project design and improve prospects for
successful implementation.
*   Project design should propose realistic objectives and components that can be accomplished within the
available institutional framework and completed within the allotted implementation timetable. If
worthwhile objectives cannot be realistically achieved under the prevailing political and institutional
circumstances, the project should not be undertaken.
*   The fornulation of project objectives should be substantiated by baseline economic data, which reflect
expert analysis of both short- and long-term implications of the project's outcome.
* Performance indicators should not just measure short-term inputs; indicators that measure outputs with
long-termn impact are also necessary.
*   Prior to project launch, various scenarios in project funding should be contemplated to avoid
complications in allocation of budgetary resources which might hamper the project's outcome.
*   Student loan projects require excellent financial management and reporting capacity from inception. If
these are lacking, they should be improved through technical assistance before resources are committed
to lending.
* The inclusion of a financial specialist to review the internal accounting and control system and to
periodically assess the project's financial performance and sustainability is essential for successful
project outcome.
*   Project risks should be carefully evaluated during preparation and appropriate mitigating measures
identified. Risks should be monitored during implementation, and objectives and performance
indicators adjusted as necessary to reflect changes in the country's social and economic situation,
- 16-



*   Some degree of flexibility in adjusting project components and amending legal agreements is important
to adapt the project to changing circumstances and/or lessons learned through implementation.
* The institutional structure should be carefully scrutinized to maximize performance during project
implementation. In particular, it should provide for cooperation of the executing agency i) with related
ministries to integrate sectoral policies, and ii) with the project coordinating unit to achieve efficient
and integrated results.
* The outcome of a project is substantially influenced by continuity in management, on the part of both
the Bank and the Borrower. If such continuity is lacking, valuable knowledge of project management
and institutional practice will get lost, which in turn will slow project implementation, and affect
project outputs and outcomes.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1. Antecedentes
1.1.   Situaci6n Politica y Financiera de Venezuela entre 1992 y 1994.
Los inicios del Proyecto de Reforma del Credito Educativo (PRCE) se sucedieron en un ambiente
convulsionado en el ambito nacional, tanto en lo politico como lo econ6mico. Los procesos de
formalizaci6n intema a los fines de la suscripci6n del Convenio de Prestamo, aprobado en Directorio en
Mayo 1992, tuvieron como fondo el descontento social (inflaci6n, desempleo), dos intentos de golpes de
Estado, una destituci6n presidencial y la instauraci6n de un gobiemo interino. Una vez suscritos los
convenios de prestamo y de proyecto, el 5 de abril de 1994, las negociaciones para la instrumentaci6n de
los fideicomisos con la banca comercial se vieron interrumpidos por el colapso financiero que sucumbi6
parte de la red bancaria. Ademas durante los dos primeros afios de ejecuci6n, 1994 y 1995, cuando
fueron otorgados los primeros creditos educativos el pais estuvo bajo un regimen de control de cambio que
afect6, aun mas, el engorroso proceso nacional de movilizaci6n de la cuenta especial en el Banco Central
de Venezuela.
1.2.   Situaci6n Interna de la FGMA entre 1992 y 1994.
A partir de 1992 se inici6 el proceso de reestructuracion organizacional de la FGMA, establecido como
pre condici6n para la suscripci6n del prestamo. La coordinaci6n del proyecto, estaba bajo la
responsabilidad de un profesional a tiempo parcial, sin personal o apoyo intemo, pero se logr6 ejecutar
todos los procesos hasta lograr la suscripci6n de los primeros creditos educativos a fines de 1994 e inicios
de 1995 (aprobaci6n nacional de las condiciones del prestamo, suscripci6n del mismo, cumplir condiciones
de efectividad, inicio del aporte nacional, elaboraci6n de un nuevo reglamento para creditos educativos,
negociaci6n con banca comercial y suscripci6n del fideicomiso). A finales de 1994 ocurre un cambio en la
presidencia y vicepresidencias de la FGMA que se traduce en retardos en los procesos y en la ejecuci6n del
prestamo. En enero de 1996 se crea formalmente la Unidad Coordinadora de Proyecto (UPRCE).
2. Cumplimiento de Metas y Objetivos
El PRCE cumpli6 exitosamente los objetivos propuestos en los Convenios de Prestamo y de Proyecto: a)
Reformar el Credito Educativo para lograr una recuperaci6n con un nivel de subsidio maximo del 50%; b)
Otorgar creditos para estudios, principalmente en las areas de gerencia y finanzas; c) Apoyar la
investigaci6n en el area de la educaci6n superior y, d) Fortalecer institucionalmente a los entes
coejecutores: FGMA y FEGS.
- 17-



2.1. El Reglamento de Credito Educativo
La FGMA, con la no-objeci6n del Banco Mundial, aprob6, en 1994, un Reglamento de Credito Educativo
que permitiese un nivel de subsidio del 50%; tuvo ajustes en 1996 a objeto de optimizar la recuperaci6n,
como resultado de dos estudios de viabilidad financiera realizados en 1995 y 1996. Se destaca que el nivel
de repago para agosto de 1999 es del 83%, al 30 de septiembre de 199, muy superior al indicador de
70% minimo establecido en el SAR. El monto recuperado acumulado, a la fecha es de $ 5.251.107,28 se
deposita en el tideicomiso para ser reusado y otorgar nuevos creditos. A pesar de positivo de las cifras
indicadas, se considera que pudiese mejorar el nivel de repago con esfuerzos conjuntos entre la FGMA y la
entidad bancaria.
2.2. Estadistica del PRCE
Los 6.634 cr6ditos fueron otorgados entre Noviembre de 1994 y Marzo de 1999. Se superan los
indicadores de afio/estudio, especialmente en el pregrado, donde la demanda se incrementa entre los
sectores menos favorecidos. La incorporaci6n por parte de la FGMA en la toma de decisiones del factor
EQUIDAD fue reconocido por el Banco Mundial como exitoso y de gran importancia. De esta manera,
los indicadores de procedencia regional, nivel socioecon6mico y grado de estudios fueron tomados en
cuenta en el momento de hacer la selecci6n. El Anexo 1 resume los resultados del Estudio de
Selecci6n.Aunque en su fase inicial los estudios en las areas de gerencia y finanzas tuvieron prioridad
dado el objetivo del PRCE, la FGMA acord6 posteriormente con el Banco la incorporaci6n de las Areas
de ingenieria y tecnologia, salud y educaci6n como prioritarias. En el anexo 2 se detalla la distribuci6n
de los estudiantes por nivel, sexo, area y lugar de estudios. Para lograr un universo distribuido a lo largo
del pais, se Ilevo a cabo una Campafia Publicitaria de Opini6n PiTblica, en la que se inform6 respecto al
PRCE y a la politica del credito como una forma de Financiamiento para la Educaci6n Superior. Los
objetivos especificos de la Campafia fueron: a) Incrementar la demanda de uso; b) Posicionar el producto
de Credito Educativo y, c) Convertir los mercados potenciales en reales. Se utiliz6 como medios: TV,
Radio, Linea 800 y Mercadeo Directo. El impacto logrado sobrepas6 las metas en mas de 200%,
obteni6ndose un aumento mayoritario de estudiantes procedentes del interior del pais, lograndose la
democratizaci6n y regionalizaci6n del proceso. Dada la forma de contrataci6n, se pudo comprar espacios
de la TV y radio regionales, con excelente descuento de montos y bonos de minutos. Las recomendaciones
arrojadas por la Campafia Publicitaria indican que tener una estrategia comunicacional institucional
permanente en el tiempo profundiza el uso del credito educativo y rompe el paradigama de la beca.
2.3.   Los estudios, consultorias e investigaciones en el sector de educaci6n superior
Entre otros, vale la pena destacar los siguientes en el sector del Post grado en Venezuela:
Jerarquizacion Opindtica de los Estudios de Postgrado en Venezuela realizada por lo beneficiarios
directos: estudiantes, egresados y empleadores. Este estudio jerarquiz6, de acuerdo a un indice de
evaluaci6n opinatica de post-grados para cada Area de interes (en la primera fase: medicina, economia,
gerencia, educaci6n e ingenieria, y en su segunda fase: agro y mar, ciencias bAsicas y humanidades). La
recomendaci6n de la consultoria fue fortalecer y apoyar los postgrados nacionales. Este estudio fue
analizado v discutido con los Directores de postgrados de las Universidades Nacionales, publicas y
pLivdLLiS y cu uilla cisl6n dc. Liab ju dtl Nikclo de los Vke-ReCtores ^Acad nlicos.
Situation Actual, Areas y Clasificaci6n Acaddmica Oficial de los Postgrados en Venezuela. El resumen
fue folleto publicado por la FGMA como folleto prmocional para dar a conocer la oferta de los post
grados nacionales.
El Credito Educativo, Anilisis de los Estudios de Ingenieria en Venezuela y La Transformaci6n de la
Educacion Superior fueron temas de seminarios y talleres en los cuales participaron directivos de las
instituciones nacionales y extranjeras, publicas y privadas de la educaci6n superior permitiendo analizar la
participaci6n financiera de estudiantes, los cambios gerenciales en las universidades.
- 18-



La Formacion Gerencialpara Directivos de Instituciones de Educaci6n Superior, fue un curso
cofinanciado con recursos del PRCE.
Como apoyo a la investigaci6n de areas relacionadas con la educaci6n superior, como son el mercado
laboral y el costo beneficio de la educaci6n, se Ilevaron a cabo dos importantes investigaciones:
Analisis Costo-Beneficio de la Educaci6n Superior en Venezuela, incluyendo la Educaci6n Tecnica. Este
estudio analiza la estructura e inversi6n piublica del sector, las caracteristicas demograficas de los
egresados del sistema, los patrones de participaci6n de los egresados en el mercado laboral y los retornos
sociales y pnvados a la inversi6n.
Participacio6n de los usuarios en elfinanciamiento de la Educaci6n Superior. La recomendaci6n fue
iniciar el otorgamiento del cr6dito educativo a partir del 3er. aiio de carrera, manteniendo becas durante los
dos primeros afios a estudiantes de los estratos de menores recursos. En este estudio se destaca que la
procedencia, a nivel nacional, de los estudiantes de las universidades venezolanas es de los sectores A-B,
26%; C, 46%; D, 26% y E, 2%.
2.4.   Fortalecimiento Institucional de la FGMA.
2.4.1. Adquisici6n de Bienes y Servicios.
Se identificaron las necesidades de modernizaci6n de los equipos y de los medios tecnol6gicos de la FGMA,
asi como de la plataforma y software para la optimizaci6n del desarrollo de las funciones de la instituci6n.
Se realiz6 la adquisici6n a nivel nacional e intemacional de todos los bienes requeridos (hardware y
software) lo que contribuy6 a la transformaci6n tecnol6gica. Se elabor6 el Plan de Reingenieria,
contratandose para ello una consultoria que implanta el Sistema Integrado de Logistica y Operaciones
(SILO). Adicionalmente, se logr6 la instalaci6n de una central que actualiza la comunicaci6n telef6nica y la
renovaci6n del cableado intemo. Para Ilevar a cabo el trabajo previo, durante y de control posterior a la
instalaci6n, se nombr6 una comisi6n de especialistas, conjuntamente con el personal de FGMA y el equipo
de adquisiciones del PNUD, logrando una transferencia tecnol6gica en el proceso de compras e instalaci6n
del mismo.
2.4.2. Adiestramiento de los Recursos Humanos de FGMA.
Un plan de formaci6n del personal preparado por la Gerencia de Recursos Humanos de la Fundaci6n,
tomando en cuenta las recomendaciones del SAR permiti6 reealizar, en Venezuela 652 cursos que
representan 723 semanas de estudio, en el extranjero se realizaron 57 cursos, equivalente a 205 semanas
de estudio.
2.5. Fortalecimiento Institucional de la FEGS
El Componente de la FEGS incluy6: a) la dotaci6n de recursos y medios informaticos (incluido un Sistema
de Informaci6n Gerencial), a objeto de modemizar los mecanismos de procesamiento y diversificar la gama
de servicios y productos ofrecidos en el pais y en America Latina; b) capacitaci6n del personal interno y de
gerentes de los sectores sociales en los niveles central, estadal y local de gobierno; c) diseiio, desarrollo e
implementaci6n de programas de adiestramiento, materiales curriculares y manuales de apoyo para
gerentes de programas sociales y, d) asistencia tecnica para gerentes y administradores del sector social. En
lo que respecta al proceso de automatizaci6n previsto, se realizaron todas las actividades planteadas con
alucho kxitv. Subie la base de unl estudio que perrmitiu d&ten-iinar Los rcqueruiricntos de equipamiento,
considerando tanto los avances tecnol6gicos como el volumen y complejidad de las tareas y actividades de
cada una de las areas funcionales de la FEGS, se tecnific6 totalmente a la instituci6n:
2.5.1. Red LAN
Se instal6 la red que permite el manejo y transmisi6n de informaci6n intema sobre la base de una
arquitectura Cliente/Servidor en plataforma Windows NT. La instituci6n pas6 de una situaci6n de
aislamiento tecnico y heterogeneidad en los equipos, que originaba retardo en los procesos, dispersi6n de la
- 19-



data, baja capacidad de almacenamiento y retardo en los tiempos de respuesta, a una de situaci6n de
interconectividad total, con un parque informatico de alta tecnologia estructurado en una Red LAN, con
acceso a herramientas de telecomunicaci6n y sistemas en linea, que permiten coordinar dinamicamente las
areas funcionales, para un mejor control de la gestion y la prestaci6n de servicios y productos de manera
efectiva y oportuna.
2.5.2. Acceso al personal
Se estableci6 el acceso de todo el personal a herramieritas de teiecomunicaci6n y sistemas en linea, tales
como Intranet, Internet, Correo Electr6nico y Servicio de Fax (Fax Server); los dos primeros mediante la
comunicaci6n con la Red del Estado, PLATINO, via linea digital dedicada de 64 Kbps.
2.5.3.  La Pigina WEB
La FEGS instalo su pagina web que ha sido tambien alojada en el Servidor WEB de PLATINO, desde
donde se accede a las Bases de Datos (documentales, referenciales y estadisticas).
2.5.4. Sistema de Control de Gesti6n (MIS)
Permite el seguimiento, ajuste y control de las actividades, en el que se incluye los aspectos programaticos
de cada area funcional, desagregados por procesos, actividades, metas y recursos asignados seguin origen
de los fondos, permitiendo el control fisico y administrativo de la gesti6n. El mismo cubre el grueso de los
requerimientos de informacion y su implantaci6n en todas las Direcciones esta estimada para finales de
anio.
2.6. Impacto de la ejecuci6n del Componente de la FEGS.
2.6.1.Proceso de Sistematizaci6n de la FEGS: a) considerando la puesta en ejecuci6n de los sistemas
informaticos, la orientaci6n otorgada al programa de adiestramiento interno, asi como el grado de
satisfacci6n de los beneficiarios y la relaci6n entre los indicadores alcanzados y las metas de gesti6n
preestablecidas, puede afirmarse que la FEGS cumpli6 cabalmente con el objetivo de fortalecimiento
institucional definidas en el convenio con el BIRF; b) la capacitaci6n en el area de informatica apoy6
consistentemente el proceso de sistematizaci6n, potenciando el aprovechamiento de las nuevas herramientas
y aplicaciones. El entrenamiento dirigido a las areas funcionales, por su parte, logr6 un balance alineado
con las exigencias del Componente y el perfil de la instituci6n; c) el proceso de sistematizaci6n muestra un
ordenamiento l6gico y un adecuado manejo de las pnroridades, sirviendo de base para las necesidades
operacionales, en expansi6n, de la instituci6n; d) como tareas en progreso, la FEGS se encuentra en fase de
implementaci6n del Sistema de Control de Gesti6n (MIS), el cual cubre el grueso de los requerimientos de
informaci6n; e) la plataforma de sistemas instaurada muestra un riesgo moderado de obsolescencia. El"
hardware" permite crecer tanto con la adici6n de nuevas estaciones y/o de servidores, como con la
ampliaci6n de los existentes, lo que otorga un margen de maniobra adecuado ante necesidades de mayor
capacidad de c6mputo a corto plazo. De manera general puede decirse que los logros alcanzados han
permitido superar limitaciones y reforzar aspectos importantes de la gesti6n institucional. Es preciso
considerar, no obstante, que estos cambios conllevan nuevas necesidades, vinculadas al progreso tecnico, la
ampliaci6n del campo de acci6n institucional, la dinamica del pais y el desarrollo sistemAtico que demanda
el capital humano que sirve de base a la organizaci6n; todos los cuales deben ser tomados en cuenta y
programados adecuadamente a objeto de preservar en el tiempo los niveles de eficiencia funcional
alcanzados a la fecha.
2.6.2. Ejecuci6n Programitica de la FEGS: Los resultados e impactos derivados de la reorientaci6n y/o
redefinici6n de programas, la capacitaci6n del personal, la reorganizaci6n funcional y de la reingenieria de
funciones, con miras al mejoramiento en los niveles de eficiencia interna y en la efectividad de las acciones
a terceros han permitido: a) la agilizacion y aumento de la calidad de los procesos de trabajo; b) el apoyo a
- 20 -



la capacidad estrategica de la alta direcci6n; c) la contribuci6n a la especializaci6n de la organizaci6n y, d)
la contribuci6n a la consolidaci6n y diversificaci6n de las areas programAticas. Cabe sefialar, no obstante,
que dado a que el Componente, en todas sus partes, apenas se esta finalizando en el presente anio (1999), no
ha transcurrido el tiempo de maduraci6n necesario para que sea posible evaluar pormenorizadamente el
impacto en lo referente a la actuaci6n y las funciones de la FEGS. Cabe destacar, no obstante, lo siguiente:
a) en lo atinente a las actividades de capacitaci6n, la ejecuci6n del Componente permniti6 un aprendizaje que
desborda los limites de su contribuci6n directa, en la medida que permiti6 desarrollar metodos de trabajo,
modalidades de acci6n, desarrollo de nuevas ofertas, consolidaci6n y desarrollo de experticias, y
establecimiento de relaciones con docentes y contrapartes que han beneficiado a otras lineas programaticas.
b) Las investigaciones realizadas "Nuevos Modelos e Instnumentos de Gesti6n para el Mejoramiento de la
Calidad de la Educaci6n en Sistemas Descentralizados", realizada por el CENDES y "Finanzas Piblicas
Subnacionales y Analisis del Gasto Social", por el IESA. , por su parte, contribuyeron a enriquecer el
diagn6stico en areas asociadas a la gesti6n social e impulsaron el desarrollo de proyectos altamente
pertinentes para el proceso de descentralizaci6n y de areas vitales en el Ambito nacional (tales como
educaci6n), ademas de contribuir ampliamente al mejoramiento del "estado del arte" sobre los gobiemos
regionales y locales. c) El area de informaci6n y documentaci6n esta en capacidad de brindar, con recursos
propios, servicios de apoyo en el Area de gerencia social a traves de productos especializados, agrupados en
cuatro bases de datos, los cuales complementa con recursos de otras instituciones que cuentan con sistemas
con objetivos similares y complementarios. Cabe destacar el fortalecimiento logrado en la linea editorial del
CIDEGS, cuya tecnificaci6n permite no s6lo el apoyo a las dependencias internas de la FEGS sino a
organismos extemos, lo que deriva en ingresos para la instituci6n.
3. Lecciones Aprendidas
Las principales lecciones que pueden derivarse de la experiencia durante la ejecuci6n del PRCE, en la cual
participaron dos entes la FGMA y la FEGS son:
a)     se precisa del apoyo de organismos tales como los Ministerios de adscripci6n (Familia para el
presente caso), de Finanzas y de Planificaci6n y Desarrollo (CORDIPLAN), asi como del Banco Central de
Venezuela, para la ejecuci6n cabal de las acciones, en los tiempos especificados;
b)    la sincronia entre los objetivos del proyecto y la misi6n de los organismos ejecutores coadyuva de
forma importante a la aprehensi6n del proceso por parte de estos constituyendose en factor primordial para
el 6xito;
c)    la experticia gerencial, continuidad y preparacion y experiencia en la metodoogia de las normas y
procedimientos del Banco Mundial del staff a cargo de la coordinaci6n de los componentes constituy6 un
elemento agilizador de los procesos y promotor de los ajustes institucionales requeridos;
d)    la continuidad administrativa de la gerencia en las instituciones ejecutoras y de las contrapartes del
BIRF, asi como su manejo experto en el area y su identificaci6n con el proyecto, constituyen tambien
aspectos de vital importancia para el logro de los objetivos planteados; y,
e)     una campafia de promocion planificada y focalizada favorece el logro de los objetivos y la
aceptacion de la meta en el publico.
4. Conclusi6n
Este proyecto, dada las lecciones aprendidas, logra el 100% del desembolso en el tiempo previsto en el
Convenio de Prestamo; al aplicar la metodologia apropiada logra que las contrataciones y adquisiciones se
realizasen con transparencia, confiablidad y responsabilidad financiera. El PRCE recibi6 reconocimientos
por parte del Banco Mundial durante dos afios consecuitivos, 1997 y 1998, por la calidad de su gerencia.
Entre los 6 proyectos, del area de educaci6n superior en el continente americano, es el uinico que fue
calificado como Altamente Satisfactorio (HS).
(b) Cofinanciers:
- 21 -



N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Appraisal Estimate vs. Actual Performance
Monitoring Indicators                                   Appraisal        Actual        Actual as %
Estimate      on 6/30/99         of SAR
estimate
Student Loan Program*
(student-years)
Institutionally Sponsored Program
Domestic Graduate                                       (1,800)          **
Overseas Graduate                                       (900)            **
Open Loan Program
Domestic Undergraduate                                    900          9,420            1,047%
Domestic Graduate                                       2,700          1,721              64%
Overseas Graduate                                       2,120          3,070             145%
Total                                               5,720          14,211            248%
Institutional Strengthening - FGMA
Staff Training
Short-Term (staff-weeks)                                 600            772              129%
Long-Term Domestic (staff-years)                           5             5               100%
Long-Term Overseas (staff-years)                           5             5               100%
Institutional Development - FEGS***
Training at Central Level                                 600           2,377             396%
(No. of professionals)
Training at Local Level                                  1,500          2,453             163%
(No. of professionals)
Training to international participants                                   309
(No. of professionals)
Postgraduates of Social Sector Management Program                         100
*     In December 1996, the distinction between the Open Loan Program (FINAB) and the
Institutionally-Sponsored Loan Program (FIDEREM) was eliminated. The performance indicators for the
consolidated Student Loan Program were adjusted accordingly, but the overall targets were not changed by
this modification.
**    About 520 student years of graduate studies are included in the open loan program figures (315
student-years of domestic graduate studies and 205 student-years of overseas graduate studies).
***    The target units of measurement were adjusted during implementation.
( )    Original targets added to numbers in the open loan program for comparative purposes.
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
AppraIsal  ifAta/aet Pretage of
e  C    B i i ii               00       0 y Copont  VS$0 million -    USm ; lion    __________
A. Student Loan Program                                   82.20            81.32            98.9
1. Institutionally Sponsored Loans
2. Open Loan Program
B. Institutional Development                               3.40             4.28           125.8
Total Baseline Cost                                       85.60            85.60
Total Project Costs                 85.60            85.60
Total Financing Required                  85.60            85.60
1) Under the Student Loan Component, the Open Loan Program (FINAB) and the Institutionally Sponsored Loan
Program (FIDEREM) were combined in December 1996. While the Appraisal Estimate lists figures for both types
of Loan Programs, the Actual/Latest Estimate only provides one amount for Student Loans. In addition, the Bank
financing share for Domestic Studies was increased from 10% to 30% that year.
2) Sources: Appraisal Estimate: Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); Actual/Latest Estimate: Project Status Report (PSR)
of 05-21-99 and Project Coordination Unit (PCU) at FGMA on 11-02-99 and 06-05-00.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expendlture Cateory       dICB           NBhe   3                   N.B.F       Total Cst
1. Works                       0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                       1.30          0.00          0.30          0.00          1.60
(1.30)        (0.00)        (0.30)        (0.00)        (1.60)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00         73.00          0.00          73.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (73.00)       (0.00)        (73.00)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          11.00         0.00          11.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (11.00)       (0.00)        (11.00)
Total                       1.30          0.00          84.30         0.00          85.60
(1.30)        (0.00)       (84.30)       (0.00)         (85.60)
-24 -



Source: Project Coordination Unit (PCU) at FGMA on 06-05-00
Proec CtyPocuremet Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million eguival nt)
Prourement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB                                    2         NB.F.B       Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)       j9.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.30           0.00           0.60           0.00           0.90
(0.30)         (0.00)         (0.60)        (0.00)          (0.90)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00          84.70           0.00          84.70
(0.00)         (0.00)        (84.70)        (0.00)         (84.70)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.            0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                         0.30           0.00          85.30           0.00           85.60
(0.30)         (0.00)        (85.30)        (0.00)          85.60)
Source: Project Coordination Unit (PCU) at FGMA on 06-05-00
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
XIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Expenditure Category (in US$ million equivalent)
I  __ _            ry                 g                     _   P~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ilercent&  of Appraisal
Appraisal Estimate           Aetial&Ltesi Estlmate      e         o Ap_risa
Bank      Govt.     CoF.       Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank  Govt.  CoF.
Equipment                 1.80      0.60                 0.57      0.28               31.7   46.7   0.0
Loans (Overseas)         46.50      0.00                49.55      0.00               106.6   0.0    0.0
Loans (Domestic)          1.50      15.50                1.13      26.98              75.3  174.1   0.0
Staff Training            0.85      0.50                 0.38      0.14               44.7   28.0   0.0
Studies                   7.30      0.00                 6.37      0.20               87.3   0.0    0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.00      11.00                0.00      0.00                0.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL                    57.95      27.60               58.00      27.60              100.1  100.0   0.0
1) Sources: Audit Report 12-31-99, Project Coordination Unit (PCU) at FGMA on 06-05-00.
2) The Government financing for Domestic Loans under Actual/Latest Estimate includes 11.00 million for
Recurrent Costs.
3) The increase in the Bank disbursement percentage from 10% to 30% for Domestic Loans, approved in
December 1996, had no impact on the final financing plan, since the PCU financed a large number of such loans
entirely from counterpart funds.
- 25 -



Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$'O0O)
Bank Fiscal Year          Semester Ending          Cumulative Estimated        Cumulative
.________ ________ ________   ___________________A ctu al
95                December 31, 1994                  1,700                  1,000
June 30, 1995                  4,600                 2,500
96                December 31, 1995                  8,700                 6,900
June 30, 1996                 13,900                 7,900
97                December 31, 1996                 19,700                16,600
June 30, 1997                 25,500                21,500
98                December 31, 1997                 31,300                37,600
June 30, 1998                 37,700                46,200
99                December 31, 1998                 44,100                53,300
June 30, 1999                 51,000                57,200
00                 December 31, 1999                58,000                   *
* Loan was fully disbursed by June 30, 1999, and the remaining funds in UNDP (US$157,441 on September 18, 1999) were
fully disbursed by December 15, 1999.
Actual vs. Estimated Cumulative Disbursements (in
-26-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Data were not collected that would permit a quantitative assessment of the costs and benefits of the project.
Nevertheless, in view of the evidence pointing to unsatisfactory results overall, a quantitative assessment
would not have made a significant difference to the evaluation.
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
06/91                         1   System Specialist
02/92                         5   System Specialist, Student
Credit Specialist, Education
Specialist, Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
03/92                         5   Education Specialist,
Student Credit Specialist,
System Specialist,
Economist
04/92                         5   Legal, Disbursements,
Education Specialist, Economist
Supervision
09/92                         2  Student Credit Specialist,            S                  S
Economist
06-93*                                                                 S                  S
09-94                         4  Procurement Analyst,                  S                  S
Disbursement Officer, Task
Manager, Economist
06-95                         5  Portfolio Manager, Economist,         S                  S
Task Manager, Health Specialist,
Procurement Specialist
10-95                         3  Financial Analyst, Economist,         U                 U
Task Manager
03-96                         2  Task Manager, Economist               S                  U
08-96                         2  Task Manager, Senior                  S                  S
Economist
01-97                         2  Task Manager, Senior                  S                  S
Economist
06-97                         5  Senior Economnist, Task               HS                 S
Manager, Education Economist,
Banking Consultant, Information
Systems Consultant
11-97                         2  Task Manager, Financial              HS                 HS
Analyst
05-98                         4  Task Manager, Marketing               HS                HS
Specialist, Information
Specialist, Senior Education
Specialist
12-98                         4  Task Manager, Information            HS                 HS
Specialist, Financial Managemet
Specialist, Principal Education
Specialist
05-99                          3  Task Manager, Education              HS                HS
Specialist, Information Specialist
- 28 -



10-99                        3  Task Manager, Higher Education       S                 U
Specialist, Operations Specialist
ICR
06-00                        3   Task Manager, Higher                 U                U
Education Specialist,
Operations Specialist
* Update
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation              47.9                     126,147
Appraisal/Negotiation                    7.3                      22,702
Supervision                            146.2                    273,521
ICR                                      4.6                     22,790
Total                                    206                    445,160
- 29-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
EZ Macro policies
N Sector Policies                          OH  OSUOM  ON  ONA
O Physical                                 OH *SUOM ON ONA
Z Financial                                OH OSUOM ON ONA
E Institutional Development                 0 H  O SU * M  O N  0 NA
D Environmental
Social
O Poverty Reduction
Cl Gender
O Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development                O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
O Public sector management                 O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Ol Other (Please specify)
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
3 Lending                                           OHS OS   *U  OHU
[3 Supervision                                      OHS OS  *U  OHU
F Overall                                           OHS OS  * U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
* Preparation                                       OHS OS  * U  O HU
3 Government implementation performance             O HS O S  * U  0 HU
F Implementation agencyperformance                  O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS * U O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Booz Allen & Hamilton de Venezuela. Analisis de la Viabilidad Financiera de Fundayacucho bajo el
Esquema del Proyecto BIRF. Fundayacucho. 18 de Agosto, 1995.
Booz Allen & Hamilton de Venezuela. Modelo de Calculo de Subsidio. Productos Actuales de FGMA. 15
de Septiembre, 1995.
El Nacional. "Fundayacucho Muestra los Dientes y Obliga a una Repatriaci6n Forzada." 12 de Marzo de
2000.
Fundacion Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho. Convenio de Prestamo Niumero 3494 VE. Banco Internacional de
Reconstrucci6n y Fomento. Situaci6n Financiera y Contable al 31 Diciembre de 1995.
Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho. Data Estadistica 1974 - 1997.
Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho. Estudio Evaluativo de la Seleccion de Estudiantes en la Fundaci6n
Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho. Gisela Alvaray. Marzo, 1999.
Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho. Informe de los Auditores por el Anio Terminado el 31 Diciembre
de 1998.
Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho. Informe de los Auditores por el Aiio Terminado el 31 Diciembre
de 1999.
Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho. Recuperaci6n de Cr6ditos Educativos: Estadisticas y Graficos
Comparativos. Periodo: Afios 1995-1996-1997, Enero-Octubre 1998.
- 32 -



Annex 8: Studies Included in the Project
Proposed in SAR                          Studies Carried Out
Operational Studies
1.    Assessment and classification of  *Assessment and official classification of Graduate School
Graduate School Programs in Venezuela, as a   Programs in Venezuela (1997)
basis for an eventual accreditation program  *Ranking of graduate school programs in Venezuela, based on
opinion survey of students, graduates and employers (1997)
*National system of education statistics for universities (1997)
2.     Technical evaluation of screening  *Proposal for selection of students by FGMA (1999)
examinations and procedures used by the  *"Equity" Project: Proposal to provide student loans to needy
FGMA in student selection, to improve student  students accepted by the Simon Bolivar University (1998)
selec-tion processes
3.    Tracer study of FGMA-financed      *Evaluation of the Galileo Program (1996)
graduates, to evaluate impact of student loan   *Venezuelan talent in the United States, Canada and Japan
programs on future employment             (1997)
*Design, development and consolidation of FGMA's international
relations (1997)
*Impact evaluation of beneficiaries of FGMA student loan
program (1998)
4.    Cost-benefit analysis of alternative  *Analysis of financial viability of FGMA under the World Bank
repayment mechanisms, to optimize repayment  project (1995)
periods and modalities                   *Evaluation of the student loan program and propose
recommendations on the terms of the loans to assure financial
viability (1996)
Proposed in SAR                          Studies Carried Out
Policy Studies
1.    Labor market analysis, with emphasis  *Characteristics of the Venezuelan labor market (1997)
on higher education costs and returns and  *Returns to tertiary education (including technical and vocational
labor market characteristics, to provide a basis  education) (1997)
for future higher education policy formulation
2.    Analysis of education policy in    *lnternational Seminar: Student loans as an alternative for higher
Venezuela, including an evaluation of     education finance (1997)
alternative proposals for higher education  *Student loans: Alternative for participation of beneficiaries in
finance, and recommendations of alternative  higher education finance (1998)
financing policies, to provide a basis for future *Workshops: Transformation of higher education in Venezuela
changes in higher education finance and   (1997)
cost-recovery policies
3.    Analysis of the impact of vocational   *Workshops: Analysis of Engineering Education in Venezuela
and technical education and training on   (1998)
productivity and industrial development, to    *Evaluation of engineering faculties and their productivity (1999)
provide a basis for future education policy  *Management training for managers of higher education
institutions (1998)
Years when studies were completed are included in parentheses.
- 33 -



Annex 9 - Background Information
Government Priorities in the Higher Education Sector
The government had traditionally placed high priority on human resource development, with about 18% of
total government budget (4.5% of GDP) allocated to education. Enrollments in higher education had
doubled since the late 1970s, reaching over half a million students in 1990. In particular, graduate
education, relatively new in the country, was expanding faster than undergraduate education: from 1% in
1989 to 2.5% of total enrollment in 1990. The private-public mix of higher level enrollments was biased
toward the public sector, as 80% of university enrollment and 89% of total expenditures were at public
institutions. The private sector increased its share of total enrollment from 12% to 20% between 1970 and
1990. Higher education is tuition-free at the undergraduate level, with annual fees between US$400 and
US$850 being charged for graduate studies. The rapid growth of the higher education system brought
attention to the allocation of public education resources and the need to reduce high expenditures through
revised cost recovery mechanisms.
Despite the strong emphasis on higher education, the country felt a great need for highly skilled
professionals in all sectors. In the private sector, the implementation of the Decentralization Act of 1989
included the privatization of public enterprises as well as the right for local governments to basic service
delivery. In the public sector, widely regarded to be among the weakest in Latin America, large numbers of
professional, technical and managerial staff were needed at the local and central level. At the time, the
government was considering a program for selective immigration of about 50,000 skilled workers from
Europe into Venezuela over a five-year period, to compensate for the severe shortage of trained human
resources. Overall, the government sought to reform the higher education system towards institutional and
financial efficiency, and to improve higher level human capital formation as a means for the country's
development goals.
The FGMA Student Loan Program
In Venezuela, student loans are available from six different sources (FGMA, BANAP, EDUCREDITO,
CONICIT, SACEUDO, PDVSA), with the FGMA providing over 80% of total financing, offering the
most diverse sizes and types of loans, and covering both undergraduate and graduate education. It is a
well-established institution, widely recognized as a key player in the development of higher-level human
resources for Venezuela. Its mission is: i) to assure equal access to education by targeting students whose
opportunities for educational advancement had been traditionally restricted; and ii) to facilitate training for
the leadership of the country's social and economic development process, through the provision of
educational grants and loans.
Since 1975, the FGMA has provided 54,000 scholarships and loans to study both in Venezuela and abroad.
During its initial years, the organization limited support to scholarships, but in 1977, the FGMA started
offering a few loans. Since then, the FGMA has significantly expanded its student loan program, which
shifted its emphasis away from outright grants. The number of loans has increased between 1980 to 1990
from under 700 to approximately 2,000 per year. In 1990, the FGMA granted 296 scholarships and 1230
student loans for a total of about US$7 million (about 45% of their total budget).
The FGMA provides two types of loans: (i) individual loans, and (ii) inter-institutional agreements
(convenios) with public and private agencies, NGO's and post-secondary institutions. Within Venezuela,
loans for undergraduate education cover living expenses only, while loans for graduate education cover
both tuition and living expenses. Loans for overseas studies include transportation, tuition and living
expenses.
- 34 -



The convenios provide institutional support to target special categories of students who participate in
short-term, non-degree training opportunities (internships, post-doctoral studies, professional conferences,
sabbatical studies and faculty exchanges). Support usually includes a combination of scholarships,
fellowships, loans, and direct financing of training activities. During 1974-1988, the FGMA provided
about 43,250 scholarships and 7,600 student loans. The majority of the scholarships (88%) were granted
on an individual basis, and the remaining (12%) were granted through inter-institutional agreements.
During the 1989-1991 period, 1,138 scholarships (26%) and 3,185 (74%) loans were granted, with a total
estimated expenditure of 2,661 million bolivares.
In the 1990s, the FGMA funding decreased in dollar terms while overall educational expenses of the
government kept rising. The new administration introduced the LASPAU/FGMA loan program, which i)
converted loans into partial grants in exchange for employment in the public, academic, or non-profit
sector, and which ii) suspended the repayment obligation for outstanding academic performance. The
FGMA further committed itself to raising institutional effectiveness by streamlining the organizational and
managerial structure. Nonetheless, the existing loan program was in urgent need of reform to improve its
financial viability, and this reform was of the highest priority for the government as a vehicle for higher
level human capital formation.
The FEGSfor Management Training
In October 1989, the government established a foundation to upgrade the managerial and technical skills of
public officials in the social sectors. The FEGS designs, organizes and conducts workshops, seminars and
short courses focuses on technical, managerial and administrative issues facing social sector managers. In
addition, it serves as a clearing house for national and international information on social sector
management, establishes linkages with other Latin American countries to exchange experiences and
conduct joint training courses, develops curricula for public administration at the state and local levels, and
provides technical assistance in developing capacity in social sector program formulation and
implementation on all levels of government.
The FEGS directly supports the government's social development objectives by: i) establishing a permanent
system for identifying the management training needs in social development and for designing programs to
meet those needs; ii) identifying and undertaking applied studies on issues of relevance to the individuals
and institutions for social development; iii) organizing information and documentation of policies,
programs, and social management experience in public social development efforts both within and outside
of Venezuela; iv) developing technical assistance and specialized management services with public
institutions; and v) establishing linkages with national and international organizations, with particular
emphasis on Latin America, to promote exchange and joint programs in the area of social management.
The FEGS has five main areas of activities: i) training and upgrading of social management capacity; ii)
training of trainers and researchers in social management and related areas; iii) supporting and fostering
applied research and evaluations of social sector policies and programs; iv) providing assistance to public
sector institutions; and v) supporting the collection and distribution of specialized information and
documentation related to policies and programs in social development. Technical areas for activity include:
personnel management, strategic planning, development and evaluation of social programs, social
assessments, management of social programs, quality of management, public policy negotiations, and
decision-making.
- 35 -



