- -A-
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFIC9E COPY
Report No. 10474-VE
Report No. 10474-VE Type: (SAR)
VALDIVIESO/ X31981 / 17 191/ LAIHR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
YkY 27, 1992
Human Resources Division
Ccuntry Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restiricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1991)
Current Unit       =     Bolivar (Bs)
US$1.00      =      Bs 60
US$1 million       =     Bs 60 million
US$17,000      =      Bs 1 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
October 1 - July 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CDRH        Center for Human Resources Development
(Centro para el Desarrollo de Recursos Humanos)
CORDIPLAN   Ministry of Coordination and Planning
(Ministerio de Planificaci6n y Coordinaci6n)
FGMA        Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho
GOV         Government of Venezuela
IESA        Institute for Graduate Studies in Administration
(Centro de Estudios Superiores de Administracion
LASPAU      Latin American Scholarship Program in American Universities
MOE         Ministry of Education
MINFAM      Ministry of the Family
OCEI        Central Office of Statistics and Information
(Oficina Central de Estadistica e Informatica)
PMU         Project Management Unit
SSM         School of Social Management
(Escuela de Gerencia Social)



FOR OFMICL USE ONLY
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pace up,
BASIC  DATA  SHEET           ......................................... iii
LOAN AND PROJLCT SUMMARY            ..             ....... . iv
I.      BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGY .      .................... 1
Background    .     ....................................... I
Sectoral Issues       ............... . 5
Government Strategy                  ... 7
Bank Role and Strategy ................................... 7
Rationale for Bank Involvement         .     .     ........ a
Lessons Learned                   . .. . 9
II.     THE PROJECT ............................................. 10
Project Objectives and Description ....................... 10
Project Components                  ..                      11
Reform of the Student Loan Program         .     .     13
Institutional Development ........................... 14
Project Implementation and Management       .     .    ... 15
III.      PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS ..19
Costs                  .......... 19
Financing                      ....20
Procurement   ..21
Disbursements   .,                 .......................................... 24
Auditing and Reporting ................................... 25
IV.     BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................................... 26
V.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMEND' ')N          .. 27
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission which
visited Venezuela in October 1991 comprising C. Valdivieso (Mission
Leader), M. Lewis (Economist), A. Saliba (Education Specialist), D.
Albrecht (Student Loan Specialist) and D. Gonzalez-Dager (Consultant); and
an appraisal mission which visited Venezuela in February 1992 comprising
C. Valdivieso (Mission Leader), M. Lewis (Economist), D. Albrecht (Student
Loan Specialist), and C. Barandieran (MIS Specialist). The peer reviewer
was Laurence Wolff (Senior Education Specialist)
This document has a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tho performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Table of Contents (continued)
LIST OF 2ABLES IN maiN REPORT
Table 3.1t Summary of Project Costs by Component
Table 3.2:  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditur-
Table 3.3:  Financing Plan
Table 3.4:  Procurement Arrangements
Table 3.5:  Disbursemeut Forecast
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Higher Education Basic Indicators
Table 1:  Higher Education Enrollment, 199C-1991
Table 2:  Distribution of Graduates According to Knowledge Area,
1987
Table 3:  Annual Expenditures in Higher Education, 1989-90
Table 4:  Unit and Total Costs in Selected Higher Education
Institutions, 1989-90
Table 5:  Socio-Economic Status of Students Entering Higher
Education, 1986
Chart I:  Enrollment Growth in Higher Education 1960-1990
2. The Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho Foundation (FGMA)
3. FGMA - Institutional Development Component
4. School of Social Management
5.  Student Loan Program
6.  Project Cost Estimates
Table 1:  Project Components by Year, Base Costs and
Contingencies
Table 2:  Project Components by Year-Totals Including
Contingencies
Table 3:  Summary Accounts by Year
Table 4: Summary Accounts by Project Component
7. Project Implementation
Table 1: Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Table 2: Student Loan Program Monitoring Indicators
8. Project Implementation Schedule
9. Selected Documents and Data in Project Files
CHABT3
Chart 1: Organizational Structure of the FGMA
Chart 2: Project M; agement Arrangements
"a$t   IBRD No. 22154
May 27, 1992



- iii -
VENEUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
Basic Date Sheet
_____ ____D_UATA__                   YEAR
A. GENERAL COUNTRY DATA:
1.  Populatior. Estimate (million)                                                    19.2             1989
2.  Area ('000 Square Kitometers)                                                      912             1990
3.  GNP per Capita (USS)                                                             2.450             1989
4.  GNP per Capita Average Annual Growth Rate (K)                                     -1.0          1965-89
5.  Income Share of Poorest 20X (K)                                                    4.7             1987
S. DEMOGRAPHIC DATA:
1.  Crude Birth Rate (Per 1000)                                                       29.0             1989
2.  Crude Death Rate (Per 1000)                                                        5.0             1989
3.  Arwnual Rate of Population Growth (K)                                              2.8          1980 89
4.  Total Fertility Rate                                                               3.8             1987
5.  Average Rate of Population Growth                                                  2.8         10-89
6.  K of Population 0-14 years                                                        38.5             1989
C.  EDUCATION DATA:
1.  Adult Illiteracy Rate (K)                                                          9.5             1989
2.  Female Illiteracy Rate (K)                                                        11.2             1989
3. X of Age Group in
Primary Education                                                              106             1988
Secondary Education                                                             54             1988
Tertiary Education                                                              27             1988
4. K of Cohort Persisting to Grade 4
Females                                                                        82              1984
males                                                                           89             1984
5. Net Enrollment Rates:
Primary Education                                                               85             1987
Secondary Education                                                             38             1987
Higher Education                                                                22             1987
6. Public Education Expenditures:
As X of Total Central Govermnent Budget                                          21.1             1985
As K  GDP                                                            5.9              1985
In per Capita USS                                                     139             1987
SOURCES:  World Bank, Social Indicators of DeveLopment, 1989; World Bank, World Development Report. 1991;
and Mission Estimates.



- iv -
VENE8UX
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKUaBY
Borrowors         Republic of Venezuela
Beneficiariss:    Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho Foundation (FGMA) and the School
of Social Management (SSM)
Ammouts           US$58.0 million equivalent
Torms:            Payable in 15 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the
Bank standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Oblectives
and Descriotion: The main objectives of the proposed project are:  (a) to
strengthen and reform the student loan program; (b) to
improve the level of professional, technical and managerial
skills in both the private and the public sectors; and (c)
to strengthen policy research on human capital and higher
education issues in order to provide a solid base for future
reforms in higher education finance and management.
T.e proposed project will support & ' iprehensive reform of
thk FGMA's student loan program, whi.L includes the
following key elements to combine affordability and improved
loan recovery: substantially increasing the interest rate
charged, to about two-thirds of market rates; improving
selection criteria; introducing graduated L:.nthly payments,
to reflect relatively lower incomes of new graduates; a
repayment period of 15 years; a ceiling of 10% of expected
income on annual repayments; privatizing loan collections
through a commercial bank; and improving collection policies
to raise repayment to 70% of debt. It is expected that the
combined result of these activities will be to lower the
real subsidy level to a maximum of 50%, after taking into
account inflation, administrative costs, and default.
The proposed project has two major components: (a) reform
and strengthening of the student loan program (95% of total
costs); and (b) institutional development for two hman
resource development-related institutions (5% if total
costs): the FGMA and the SSM.
Within the student loan component, the proposed project
would finance institutionally-sponsored student loans to
support management development in key institutions, covering
higher level human resource development for both the public
and private sectors. The fields of management and finance
would receive special attention within each institution.
The project would also support an open program of student
loans for individuals, covering professional development in
various fields, at the graduate (domestic and overseas) and
undergraduate (domestic only) levels.



- v -
Within the institutLonal development component, the
financial and institutional capacity of the FGHA to promote
and support the development of high caliber professionals
for Venezuela's socioeconomic development would be
strengthened by entering into a fiduciary agreement to
improve its financial management and cost recovery
mechanisms, while strengthening its administrative and
management information capacity, through the provision of
equipment, software, technical assietance, and staff
training. The proposed project will also support operational
and policy studies that will feed into the dialogue on
improving the finance and efficiency of higher education.
The SSM, a new public training and documentation center,
would be supported in its endeavor to develop linkages with
similar established institutions elsewhere in Latin Americal
design curricula aimed at practical issues facing social
sector administrators at the atate and local levelsl improve
their capacity to give technical assistance to local
agencies administering socLal service programs; and offer
training programs for public officials at multiple levels.
The main benefits expected from the proposed project would
be: (a) a comprehensive reform of the student loan program
in order to increase its financial viability, administrative
efficiency, student selection, and debt collection
procedures, as a first step in improving higher education
finance and education resource management; (b) additional
cost-recovery mechanisms in higher education could be
introduced once there is a proven well-designed and
functioning student loan program, which could be expanded to
cover needy students having difficulties in meeting tuition
payments; and (c) improvement of higher level human capital
formation in Venezuela by helping the FGMA to significantly
expand and progressively target its student loan program.
The main risk is that the comprehensive reforms of the
student loan program may not be sustained. The project
would address this risk by annual reviews of the
implementation of the student loan program. Although
several studies have indicated that brain-.drain has not been
a problem in Venezuela, the deterioration of the economic
environment in recent years raises questions about the
possibility of non-returning students. The recent
acceleration of economic growth should reduce this risk,
since employment generation accompanies growth, and
employment opportunities are one of the most important
determinants of skill retention.



- vi -
Egtimated Coats: A/                                 Local       Zo2eLon     Total
- - - - US$ million - - - -
Student Loan reoc"-am
LngtitlAlonally sponsored loans           14.4          22.2       36.6
open loan program                           8.2         27.9       36.1
Institutional 4  elopment                             1.7           1.2       2.9
Total Base Costs                               24.3          51.3      75.6
Physical Contingencies                                1.1           0.2       1.3
Price Contlngencies                                   3 3           5.4       8.7
Total Project Costs                                  28.7          56.9      85.6
n/  Excluding taxes and duties, which are negligible.
EimA2niir plan:
Local       Foreion       Total
… - - - - - US$ million - - -
Government of Venezu.ela                        27.6           0.0        27.6
Proposed i£.&D Loan                              1.1          S6.9        58.0
Total                                           28.7          56.9        85.6
Estimated IBRD Disbursements (US$ million)
Bank TY                  1993     1994    1995      1996     . 1997    1998
---------------------- US$ million --------------
Annual                    4.6      9.3    11.6      12.2      13.3      7.0
Cumulative                4.6     13.9    25.5      37.7      51.0     58.0
Rate of Return:    Not applicable
s6t             IBRD No. 20575



VENEZUELA
S-TUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND. ISSUES AND STRATEGY
A.  3JgXcrounci
1.1         The Government of Venezuela (GOV) has traditionally placed high
priority on human resource development: about 21 percent of the total
government budget (5.9 percent of GDP) is allocated to education. Nat
enrollment rates at the primary, secondary, and tertiary levels in Venezuela
are 85, 38, and 22 percent, respectively. Enrollments in higher education
(which is tuition-frne at the undergraduate level, with annual fees between
USS400 and US$850 being charged for graduate studies) have doubled Lince the
late 1970's, reaching over half a mJllion students in 1990. Graduate
education is relatively new in Venezuela, and is expanding faster than
undergraduate education: from 1 percent in 1989 to 2.5 percent of the total
enrollment in 1990. The rapid growth of the higher education system has been
accompanied by a highly skewed allocation of public education resources (over
35 percent of the GOV's education budget in 1990 was for higher education).
While this reflects the high priority placed on increasing the numbers and
improving the skills of higher-level profeselonal, technical, and managerial
human resources, the GOV has now come to recognize the need to reduce the
relatively high expenditures in higher education through financial strategies
to mobilize, allocate, and utilize resources efficiently. The high political
sensitivities regarding the establishment of student fees for higher education
in Venezuela suggest that this will be a l;ng and difficult process.
1.2         Cost recovery in higher education is desirable to alleviate
budgetary pressures and increase private revenues for higher education, since
it leads to a more efficient use of public and private resources; increases
the equity of educational systems; and provides an expanded source of revenue
to support more educational opportunity and better quality. However, imposing
cost recovery has proven politically difficult, and has raised the problem of
how to relieve the pressure on students who cannot afford to pay. A well-
designed program of student loans can help solve this problem, by enabling
students to share the financial burdens for tuition and/or living expenses
with the government through payments from their future earned incomes. It
need to target effectively; to raise interest rates whilo redesigning the
repayment format so that graduates will be in a position to pay; and to use
strong institutions to manage collections, with clear incentives to collect.
1.3         Despite the heavy emphasis placed on higher education, there is
still a great need for highly skilled professionals in all sectors. Venezuela
has spent the last three years struggling to overcome an acute economic
crisis, and implementing an ambitious economic adjustment program, which
includes the privatization of a number of public enterprises. The
Decentralization Act of 1989 gave municipalities and state governments the
right to take over service delivery for a number of basic services. Given



- 2 -
that the Venezuelan p'blic sector is widely regarded to be among the weakest
of the major countries of Latin America, both at the central and the local
levels, large numbers of professional, technical and managerial staff with
appropriate qualifications are and will continue to be needed to imnplement the
economic reform, privatization, and decentralization processes. There will be
new needs for highly skilled professionals in the private sector as well.
Without sufficient numbers of highly skilled professionals both in the public
and the private sector, it is unlikely that the GOV's new economic policies
can be sustained.
1.4         A principal role of the education system is to prepare and train
the human resources which will, upon entering the labor force, contribute to
the generation of economic wealth. In that sense, the labor market can be
seen as an intermediary between the education system, which supplies trained
human resources, and firms, which demand particular skills. Currently, the
Venezuelan education system is not performing this role in a sufficiently
efficient way.
1.5         The public education system at all levels is characterized by
generally good access and equity, but low rates of graduation and poor
quality. At the primary level (grades one to nine), 9's of the age cohort
starts school at age seven. However, inadequate spending for books and
materials, inappropriate teacher training and inefficient management of a
highly centralized school system have reduced quality and resulted in high
repetition and low graduation rates (45% complete grade nine). Secondary
school is plagued by disorganization and unclear objectives and its inadequate
physical infrastructure, book supplies and teacher training have lowered
quality and efficiency. However, graduation rates are high for secondary
school (75%) and a large proportion of high school graduates go on for higher
education.
1.6         Higher education has been a clear priority of the Venezuelan
government (Annex 1). Although expenditures per student have been declining
in recent years, over 35 percent of the education budget is allocated to
higher education. The student body draws from all income groups with the
lower middle and low income students comprising half of total enrollment.
Currently almost 500,000 students are enrolled in undergraduate programs,
while approximately 13,000 students are registered (10 percent at the
doccorate level) in the 208 M.A. and 51 Ph.D programs. overseas training,
par':icularly in the U.S., has been a major component of graduate education.
In 1983-84 there were ov,  ;,000 Venezuelans studying at U.S. universities,
including about 1,100 I   raduate programs. I/
1.7         The brain -.ain facing many developing countries has not been a
serious problem in Venezuela. Although outmigration is rising, highly trained
I/    Pedereen, Paul B. "Coming Home:  An Alternative to Brain Drain,"
Ediciones IESA, n.d.



-3 -
citizens are not over-represented in the outflow.!/ Employment among
returning graduates is high, with the exception of some science and technology
fields where omployment options are limited. High return rates are like'.y to
persist if economic growth continues, since employment generation accompanies
growth and employment opportunities are one of the most important determinants
of skill retention.
1.8         Over the past two decades, the distribution of undergraduate study
areas has shiftad away from basic sciences toward the uccial sciences.
About 36% of total student enrollment is in social science programs, 20
percent in engineering and 10 percent in health. Overall there are 13
students per teacher in the public higher education system. The vast majority
of graduate students are in science fields (67 percent), incluling medical
sciences, natural sciences, engineering and tech'- l-,.
1.9         The private-public mix of higher level enr £lments is greatly
biased toward the public sector, as 80 percent of uziAvermity en-'llment and 89
percent of total expenditures are at public institutions. Between 1970 and
1990, the private sector increased its share of tctal enrollment from 12
percent to 20 percent. Although direct incentives are not offered to private
universities, the government has provided a limited number of grants to
private in6titutions and finances a broad scholarship and loan progranm for
Venezuelan students. Tuition charges for undergraduate study at public
universities are not allowed by the Constitution, although some universities
levy matriculation fees. Graduate study entails costs of between US$400 and
US$850 per semester. Public universities are developing a new source of
revenue: the sale of goods and services accounted for about three percent of
their budgets in 1990.
1.10        The private returns to education in Venezuela, as defined by
graduates' earnings, are 27.4 percent for primary education; 15.9 percent for
technical secondary education; and 12 percent for higher education. Social
returns to higher education are relatively low (seven percent) when compared
to other countries in the region due to high unit costs. 3/ High costs are
attributable to (i) inefficiency in provision of higher education; (ii) poor
incentives for graduation at universities, where most public education
resources are spent; and (iii) low quality of education at all levels that
leads to high rates of re>'tition, low graduation rates and an emphasis on
remedial work at each level of the system.
1.11        Although Venezuela allocates roughly two percent of GDP for higher
education, the ret- n on those investments and the appropriateness and nature
of subsidies are i -aes that are of increasing concern to the governmenc.
Public expenditures in higher education in 1990 were equivalent to US$628
million. The former figure translates into an annual per student cost at
2/ Malave, Jose "La Fuga de Talento en Venezuela: Tendencias y Perspectivas
para su Estudio," Ediciones IESA, n.d.
3/ Fiszbein, A. and G. Psacharopoulos "A Cost Benefit Analysis of Educational
Investment in Venezuela, 1989" A View from LATHR No. 26, November, 1991.



- 4 -
public universities of about US$1700. Although expenditures for higher
education have been rising in the aggrega-e, the physical infrastructure and
acader.ic quality of the public university system are deteriorating due to
declining real salaries, reductions in operating funds and frequent strikes
and protests.
1.12        Institutional Context.  In addition to good access to free
undergraduate training, the Venezuelan government and some parastatal and
private companies have financed undergraduate and graduate training both
locally and abroad. The largest, best known and most accessible education
financing institution is the Fundacion Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho (FGNA) that
has provided educational loans and grants for students in all fields of study
over the past sixteen years (Annex 2). It is a well-established public
institution, widely recognized as a key player in the development of higher
level human resources for Venezuela. It is attached to the Minist y of the
Family, which in turn is responsible for social policy and for the
coordination of social programs in Venezuela. The FGMA's mission is to
facilitate higher level human resource development Zor Venezuela' development
process.
1.13        FGMA has provided 54,000 scholarships and loans since 1976, and
currently has about 5,500 active student files. Over half of all awards have
been in the sciences with engineering receiving about 44 percent of the total.
Awards are made on a largely competitive basis through a systematic screening
process that emphasizes excellence. The proportion of expenditures going to
technical, undergraduate and graduate studies is 20, 50 and 30 percent
respectively. Overseas training seriously declined in the late 1980s due
largely to significant decreases in FGMA's budget in dollar terms. The number
of annual awards and the balance between loans and grants varies annually.
Historically the grant-loan mix has been roughly 80 - 20 percent; but in 1991,
almost half were loans, in keeping with recent reversals in the loan-grant
mix. Except for an undergraduate merit-based scholarship program (the Galileo
program), all new students financed by the FGMA will receive loans.
1.14        Student loans in Venezuela are available from six different
sources, with FGMA providing over 80 percent of total ,inancing, and offering
the most diverse sizes and types of loans. In 1990, a total of 1,899 students
received FGMA loans averaging over US$4,000, of which 25 percent supported
study outside of Venezuela, and about a third ware for graduate studies.
Awards cover tuition, fees, living expenses and travel for domestic and
overseas study. Student selection is based on academic records, performance
on FGMA-administered aptitude tests, interviews with staff members, and socio-
economic status.
1.15        FGMA offers a broad range of support for higher education in
addition to scholarships and loans. It has 63 active inter-institutional
agreements (convenios) with national and international institutions, including
20 public universities, four private universities, 17 government agencies,
five international agencies and several private not-for-profit organizaticns.
Convenios provide institutional support and serve as a vehicle for supporting
special categories of students, such as participation in short-term nondegree
training opportunities (internships, post-doctoral studies, professional



-5-
conferences, sabbatical studies and faculty exchanges). Support usually
includes a combination of scholarships, fellowships, loans, and direct
financing of training activities. Each combination package can include
funding for travel, tuition, subsistence, thesis writing or other
institutional needs such as visiting professors. Participant selection
conforms to the standards set by the FGMA's Student Loan Regulations.
1.16        A few convenios are service contracts through which FGMA pays for
administrative services, such as the Latin American Scholarship Program at
American Universities (LASPAU) that manages Venezuelan students in the U.S.
FGMA co-finances and assists various foreign scholarship programs such as
Fulbright and the British Council. These efforts ar'e important complements to
FGMA's major focus on student finance and these institutions represent
considerable expertise in program management. A new but growing convenio area
is human resource development targeted at strengthening higher education
institutions.
1.17        In Oztober 1989, the Government established a foundation to
upgrade the managerial and technical skills of public officials in the social
sectors. The School of Social Management (SSM) designs, organizes and
conducts workshops, seminars and short courses focused on technical,
managerial and administrative issues facing social sector managers. In
addition, the School serves as a clearing house for national and international
information on social sector management, establishes linkages with other Latin
American countries to exchange experiences and conduct joint training courses,
develops curricula for public administration at the state and local levels,
and provides technical assistance in developing capacity in social sector
program formulation and implementation for all levels of government.
B. Sectoral Issues
Student Loan Proaram
1.18        The existing student loan program is in urgent need of reform:
interest rates are too low (currently four percent), repayment periods too
short, and default rates too high. Reform of the student loan program is of
the highest priority for the GOV, as a means to begin to rationalize the use
of resources in education, contribute to the improvement of higher level human
capital formation, and lay the groundwork for future reforms in the financing
of higher education.
1.19        The viability of the existing student loan program and its ability
to expand and adapt to changing circumstances are key issues for the GOV
reform strategy in higher education finance. The financial performance of
student loans, like many in the developing world, has been disappointing
(Annex 5). Loans charge an interest rate of four percent (12 percent for
those in default) with a one-year grace period paid over ten years in equal
monthly installments. FGMA will forgive between 25 percent and 75 percent of
the debt of students with outstanding academic achievement. Students employed
in the public sector and faculty of post-secondary institutions may also be



- 6 -
exempted from repayment. FGMA surveys suggest that over 80 percent of
graduates are employed, about 60 percent in the private sector. Earnings,
however, are not available.
1.20        Although FGMA has strong powers to ensure repayment (for example,
four guarantors and legal rights to place liens on property), few incentives
to collect, concern over public backlash, and poor management infrastructure
for identifying, tracking and collecting debt have hindered collection.
Repayment may also represent a serious burden for some graduates, especially
those who borrow for overseas training over a period of years, or those who
eater the public sector where net incomes are lower than in the private
sector.  In addition, the low, fixed interest rate combined with rising
inflation (an abnormally high 40 percent in 1990) renders worthless the
amounts repaid by the minority that do so. It is important to note that the
lower the interest rate, the larger the subsidy on loans; but higher interest
rates increase debt burden and the likelihood of default. A successful loan
program will need not only to raise interest rates, but also redesign the
repayment format so that graduates will be in a position to pay.
1.21        Student selection needs to be reformed to increase the
representation of disadvantaged socio-economic groups, by placing more
emphasis on the back-r-ound of students. The distribution of loan recipients
could be improved L elevating financial need criteria to a status equal to
academic ability.
1.22        While the FGMA and other public institutions offer financial
assistance for students at institutions of higher learning, there is little
information on private returns to that investment due to lack of graduate
tracking. Private and social returns are also unavailable for domestic and
overseas graduate training. The FGMA has not been able to identify graduates
and their subsequent earnings to assess the impact of its scholarship and loan
programs. FGMA students, however, have a higher graduation rate (67 percent)
than the national norm (26 percent), and those studying in the U.S. under FGMA
sponsorship have the highest rate of graduation (87 percent).
Institutional Capacitv
1.23        FGM.  Although the FGMA is the most important institution
financing higher level human resource development, and has effectively
administered a student grant and loan program for 18 years, it still suffers
from high administrative overhead rates of 13-16 percent. Despite improved
leadership, deep staff cuts over the past two years and dedicated staff,
improvements are needed to raise staff output and effectiveness. If the
government is to successfully expand its student loan program, FOMA must:
adopt better management techniques, including management information systems;
conduct surveys of graduates; reduce operating costs; raise repayment rates
(reduce defaults); and promote equity. (Annex 3).
1.24        SSM . The School of Social Management, while a valuable
initiative to orient, inform and train managers at all levels of government,
is a new entity that fills an important management training gap.
Strengthening this program and building on it to meet short and long term



management needs of state and local governments would allow specialized,
hands-on training for social sector administrators and relieve existing
bottlenecks in a sector which is traditionally plagued with weak institutional
capacity. Decentralization of social services has enhanced the importance of
S9M funcions, and raised the need for assistance at the local level for
public management and administration (Annex 4).
C. Government Strateav
1.25        Education is of the highest priority for the Government of
Venezuela. It spends about 21 percent of total government budget (5.9 percent
of GDP) in education. Hiqh priority is placed on improvi.ig quality and
efficiency in primary education, and reducing repetition and dropout. At the
same time, there is an acute need for highly skilled professionals in all
sectors. Enrollments in higher education have doubled since the late 1970'.,
reaching over half a million students in 1990. The rapid growth of the higher
education system has been accompanied by a highly skewed allocation of public
education resources (over 35 percent of the GOV's education budget in 1990).
This reflects the high priority which the GOV places on increasing the numbers
and improving the skills of higher level professional, technical, and
managerial human resources.
1.26        The GOV realizes that, without sufficient numbers of highly
skilled professionals in both the private and the public sectors, it is
unlikely that its new economic policies can be sustained. As a short-term
measure, the GOV is considering a program to promote selective immigration of
about 50,000 skilled workers from Europe over the next five years, as a way of
compensating for the severe shortage of trained human resources. The medium-
term objective of the GOV, however, is to develop the conditions for future
reforms in higher education efficiency and finance and improve higher level
human capital formation. A reform and expansion of the FGMA's student loan
program is of the highest priority for the GOV, as a means to begin to
rationalize the use of resources in education, contribute to the improvement
of higher level human capital formation, and lay the groundwork for future
reforms in the financing of higher education.
D. Bank Role and StrateGy
1.27        In 1989, the Bank's lending program to Venezuela was resumed after
a 15 year hiatus, and agreements were reached between the Bank and the GOV on
macro-economic management, financial sector reforms, and social programs. The
Bank's human resources strategy in Venezuela aimed initially at assisting the
Governmen;- in its poverty alleviation efforts by expanding coverage of
targeted social programs, while improving institutional capacity and the
efficiency and equity of such programs. The first investment project in
Venezuela, the Social Development Project (Loan 3270-VE) effective September
1991, is strengthening and expanding targeted preschool, daycare, nutrition
and primary health care programs; and improving the planning and management
capacity in the Ministries of Health, Education and the Family. The project
was meant to help cushion the effects of the adjustment program, and set the



stage for more efficient and equitable social services. Future
recomn.endations for policy reform will emerge from planned and ongoing sector
work.
1.28        Sector work in the social sectors commenced with the Venezuela
Povertv Report: From Generalized Subsidies to Targeted Programs (FY91), which
addressed education and labor market issues in general terms. Ongoing sector
work, Education for Growth and Social Eauity, is focusing on critical human
resource development issues in the country, including issues of resource
allocation among the different levels of education, and examining key issues
in primary, secondary, and higher education. The proposed FY93 Basic
Education Reform Proiect, which would improve quality, access, equity and
internal efficiency in basic education, is undeG. preparation. A future HiLher
Education Reform Proiect would directly support reforms in higher education
managemen'.  -nd finance, emphasizing mechanisms to increase the income-earning
capacity of universities through cost-recovery. The higher education reform
agenda will evolve from the results of policy studies to be financed under the
proposed project. Greate- emphasis on cost sharing and a shift toward greater
reliance on student loans can raise cost recovery while retaining higher
education access by low income households, and provide a mechanism to both
encourage students to graduate and improve incentives for institutions to
improve efficiency and raise relative quality.
-1.29       In addition to meeting social service needs, the Bank intends to
improve human resource development and the associated educational institutions
that finance and provide training. Given the poor state of the educational
system, its inefficiency and low quality, targeted and well defined assistance
is required to improve each level.
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.30        In support of the adjustment process, the Bank's strategy for the
social sectors in Venezuela addressed poverty alleviation and expanded
coverage of targeted social programs, while improv;.ng institutional capacity
and efficiency and equity of such programs. The priorities now are to address
key social sectors to bring greater coherence to policy and programs, and
position the GOV to improve the overall financing, efficiency and
effectiveness of specific sectoral programs. In education, the priorities
encompass all levels of schooling as well as broader concerns regarding the
quality and availability of specific human resource skills. All of these will
be addressed over the long term, but pressing needs at the managerial and
technical levels have placed priority on higher level human resource
development to ensure that the design and implementation of reforms in
educational management and finance can be accomplished.
1.31        The proposed operation is of high priority, since it would: (a)
address institutional weaknesses in the training and financing of higher level
human resources; (b) expand and reform student loan financing as a first step
in the move toward greater cost recovery to relieve the pressure on government
budgets; (c) provide a vehicle to upgrade and retain public sector staff at
the central and local levels; and (d) support a series of policy studies on



the higher education system, which will be the basis for future reforms in the
finance, management and efficiency of higher education. The Bank is uniquely
placed to assist the government with the multiple objectives of higher level
human resource development. The GOV has sought and drawn on the advice of the
Bank in formulating its macroeconomic and education sector reforms, and is
relying heavily on Bank expertise in the reform and expansion of its student
loan program. The Bank views the proposed operation as a stepping-stone to
broader reforms in higher education finance.
F. LESSONS LEARNED
1.32        The FY91 Social Development Project (Loan 3270-VE) was the first
Bank-financed human resources project for Venezuela. There are no completed
projects in the country from which relevant lessons from Bank experience can
be drawn. Likewise, there are no completed projects in Latin America that
have financed large scholarship or student loan programs to improve public
sector planning, management, and implementation capacity.
1.33        However, the FY88 Education Program Preparation and Student Loan
Proiect (Loan 2899-JM) in Jamaica, financed a student loan component, mostly
for domestic higher education. The project is still under implementation,
although the Student Loan component has been completed. A valuable lesson
learned from this activity is that, when adequate collection procedures were
established, cost recovery increased substantially. The most effective
collection procedures4/ are: (a) publication of names of delinquent
beneficiaries in the media; and (b) initiating legal action against
beneficiaries and guarantors who fail to respond to correspondence and moral
suasion. The proposed project will include appropriate collection strategies
for student loans, which will be effectively monitored.
1.34        Outside the region, the ongoing Indonesia Professional Human
Resource Development Proiect (FY90) has similar objectives as the proposed
project. These include: improving human resource development policy making,
planning and implementation; and improving the quality of professional,
technical and managerial staff to ensure improved performance in policy making
and implementation in critical areas of economic development such as
industrialization, private sector development and decentralization. The
proposed project has carefully analyzed relevant design features of this
project, and will also support features such as: (a) improvement of human
resource development policy-making, planning and monitoring; (b) strengthening
of the respective overseas training office; and (c) a program of overseas
post-graduate training for key staff in central government agencies,
provincial and local governments, universities and non-governmental
organizations.
4/    Final Report: A Study of the Students' Revolvina Loan Scheme, by Paul
Chen-Young and Associates, Kingston, April 1990.



-10 -
1.35        Lessons from several completed projects in other countries have
also been taken into account in the design and conditionality of the proposed
project. These include: (a) making provisions for pre-departure language
training for prospective overseas graduate fellows /; (b) optimizing
opportunities for varied fellowship experiences through effective management
of the fellowship component 6/; (c) carefully monitoring the return rate of
overseas fellows on degree courses /(d) ensuring that the duration of
training is sufficient to permit the full attainment of the training
objectives8/; (e) having a formal monitoring and reporting system at the
outset of project implementation ; and (f) elaborating explicit project
objectives and key project indicators, incorporating them into an evaluation
matrix, and monitoring achievements on a regular basis I/
II. TEE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives and Description
2.1         The main objectives of the proposed project are: (a) to strengthen
and reform the student loan program; (b) to improve the level of professional,
technical and managerial skills in both the private and the public sectors;
and (c) to strengthen policy research on human capital and higher education
issues, in order to provide a solid base for future reforms in higher
education finance and management.
2.2         Policy Reform.  The project would support a comprehensive reform
of the student loan program as a first step in improving higher education
finance and resource management in education. The existing FGMA student loan
5/    Project Performance Audit Report: Indonesia - Fifth Education (First
Teacher Training) Project (Loan 1433-IND), SecM86-878, July 23, 1986.
6/    Project Completion Report: Indonesia - First Phase of a University
Development Program (Loan 1904-IND), May 16, 1989.
7/    Project Performance Audit Report: People's Republic of China -
Univereity Development Project (Loan 2021-CHA and Credit 1167-CHA), December
30, 1986.
U/    Project Completion Report: Egypt - Third Education Project (Credit 1069-
EGT), November 17, 1989.
9/    Project Completion Report: Indonesia - Public Works Manpower Development
Project (Loan 2258-IND), Dece.mber 5, 1990.
10/   Project Performance Audit Report: People's Republic of China -
Agricultural Education and Research Project (Credit 1297-CHA), April 24, 1991
(draft).



- 11 -
program will be thoroughly modified in order to increase its financial
viability, administrative efficiency, selection and collection procedures.
One of the main objectives of the project is to strengthen the student loan
program, while trying to reconcile two apparently contradictory requirements:
(a) obtain substantial finaacial recovery from the loans, and (b) at the same
time, assure that the recipients will je able to repay their loans without
undue strain. A viable program could intend to recover about 50 percent of
the real value of loans. This subsidy level should substantially improve the
financial viability of the program. The interest rate for loans would need to
increase substantially in order to reach this objective. Simulations of
repayment patterns show that an interest rate of at least 66 percent of the
average savings rate of the six largest commercial banks (reference rate)
would be sufficient to maintain this subsidy level, as long as effective
recovery measures are taken. With incremental payments, the monthly payments
would be kept below ten percent of expected monthly incomes. For the first
year, the annual rate would be between 18 and 22 percent (rather than the four
percent which is currently charged). This rate would blaluated annually, and
would be modified if there are substantial movements in the commercial
interest rates (or inflation). Should the Central Bank cease to calculate or
publish the reference rate, or should the reference rate for whatever reason
fail to reflect a market rate, FGMA would not grant new loans unless a new
reference rate is agreed with the Bank. There would be a fixed interest rate
for each student loan. For most loans, the repayment period would be extended
to 15 years (instead of the current ten year repayment period). An improved
loan recovery strategy, with collections handled through a commercial bank,
under a Fiduciary Agreement to carry out the Student Loan program, will be
established. Subsequent modifications, if necessary, will be undertaken
during project implementation. The above provisions will be reflected in the
revised Student Loan Regulations. Steps to be taken by FGMA to increase
recovery on loans have been included in the Student Loan Regulations.
B. Proiect Components
2.3         The proposed project has two major components: (a) reform and
strengthening of the student loan program (95 percent of total costs); and (b)
institutional development for two human resource development-related
institutions (five percent of total costs): the FGMA and the School for Social
Management (SSM). Within the student loan component, the proposed project
would finance institutionally-targeted student loans to support management
development in key institutions, covering higher level human resource
development for both the public and private sectors. The fields of management
and finance would receive special attention within each institution. The
project would also support an open program of student loans for individuals,
covering professional development in various fields, at the graduate (domestic
and overseas) and undergraduate (domestic only) levels. About 74 percent of
student loan funds would finance graduate overseas studies, 17 percent
graduate domestic studies, and 9 percent for domestic undergraduate studies.
To improve access to loan funds for lower income students, and to recognize
that a diverse set of factors (such as the need to work while studying) may
bias achievement results at universities, selection criteria will be modified
to place more emphasis on the background of students. Improving the



- 12 -
distribution of loan recipients will be achieved by elevating financial need
criteria to a status equal to the determinants of academic ability.
2.4         Within the institutional development component, the financial and
institutional capacity of the FGMA to promote and support the development of
high caliber Venezuelan professionals would be strengthened by thoroughly
reforming student loan terms, and improving cost-recovery mechanisms, while
strengthening its administrative capacity to effectively select students and
ensure debt repayment. The project would also support the design and
implementation of a management information system for the FGMA, through the
provision of equipment, software, technical assistance, and staff training.
The FGMA will initiate a technical assessment and classification of graduate
studies programs in Venezuela, as a first step towards the establishment of an
accreditation system for graduate programs. A staff training program and
terms of reference for operational studies at FGMA have been agreed. In
addition, the project would support technical assistance and studies, in order
to strengthen policy research in higher education, labor markets, education
and human resource policy, and human capital formation; training courses,
curriculum development and seminars on the design and implementation of staff
training policies; and dissemination of policy study results, strengthening
and broadening of continuing education programs for employed adults. Studies
to be undertaken by consultants such as the HRDC at IESA will feed into the
dialogue on improving the finance and efficiency of higher education. The
SSM, a new public training and documentation center, would be supported in its
endeavor to develop (a) linkages with similar established institutions
elsewhere in Latin America to guide program development; (b) curricula aimed
at practical issues facing social sector administrators at the state and
municipal levels; (c) development of capacity to give technical assistance to
municipal social service programs administration; and (d) training programs
for public officials at multiple levels. These will be achieved through the
provision of equipment, staff training, technical a3sistance and studies.
2.5         During negotiations, assurances were received that the FGMA will
submit an annual report to the Bank, for its review and comments, by May 15,
commencing on May 15, 1993, on the implementation of the student loan programs
for overseas and domestic training under the management development and
professional development programs, and other project activities, and as annual
programs of all project investments (para. 5.1), based on the implementation
plans in Annexes 3, 4, 7 and 8. The report would include: the training
programs; cost of training and allowances; selection, placement, and re-entry
procedures, and the allocation of student loans among recipients according to
various indicators. The Bank's comments would be taken into account for the
next academic year. No withdrawals shall be made for expenditures that are
not included in an annual program approved by the Bank (para. 5.3). The
annual program of activities corresponding to the first year of the project
has been agreed.



- 13 -
Reform of the Student Loan Prooram
(i) Institutionally Targeted Loans (US$41.9 million, including contingencies)
2.6         Through institutionally targeted loans, the proposed project would
strengthen Venezuela's management capabilities in the public and private
sectors, including public and private universities, in the context of economic
reform, decentralization, and privatization. This program will improve public
policy analysis in all fields of development, and will improve the
administration and management of public institutions and selected public and
private enterprises and higher education institutions. Under this program,
key institutions will identify individuals as candidates for FGMA loans for
graduate studies, following agreed criteria. Employees from the public secto.
and universities receiving student loans under this program would be exempted
from repayment after working for their sponsoring institutions for twice the
length of time they were supported through student loans, after completing
their studies. In such cases, the government agency or university would repay
these individuals' student loans.
2.7         Training would meet the institutional and higher-level staff
development needs of key ministries and agencies, focused on priority sector
programs. The FGMA will administer the student loan program in accordance
with policy guidelines agreed during project preparation and appraisal
covering such matters as selection of recipients, predeparture training,
placement, financial conditions, repayment arrangements, monitoring and
evaluation. The services of overseas agencies would be used to assist with
placement and administration of the overseas training programs. Terms of
reference for these services have been agreed.
2.8         The proposed project would finance student loans for about 900
student-years of overseas graduate studies for public sector staff (600
student-years), public and private university staff (150 student-years) and
private sector and others (150 student-years), as well as for about 1800
student-years of domestic graduate studies for public sector staff (1100
student-years), university staff (250 student-years), and private sector and
others (450 student-years), to support the management development program
described above.
(ii) Open Loan Proaram (US$ 40.6 million, including contingencies)
2.9         The project would also finance student loans to support an
expansion of the existing student loan program, which supports overseas
graduate programs and domestic undergraduate and graduate programs in various
disciplines. Under this program, individuals who wish to receive student
loans for graduate or undergraduate training may apply directly to FGMA. The
proposed project would finance student loans for about 1200 student-yuars of
overseas graduate studies, and about 900 student-years of domestic graduate
studies, as well as about 900 student-years of domestic undergraduate studies
in various fields. The Fiduciary Agency will sign with each student
beneficiary an agreement providing for the student loan. No withdrawals shall



- 14 -
be made for expenditures under the Student Loan Program unless the Fiduciary
has signed the agreement with the student beneficiary (para. 5.3).
Institutional Development (US$3.4 million, including contingencies)
FGMA Institutional Development
2.10        Even though the FGMA has been quite efficient over the last 18
years in promotional activities, selection, academic orientation and follow-up
programs, certain areas will be supported by the project: (a) establishment
of a management information system to monitor student progress and to support
the preparation of reports for planning, policy formulation, and the
evaluation of institutional performance; (b) staff training, especially in
management techniques, administration, and planning; (c) operational studies
and (d) policy studies. The project will support these areas through the
provision of computing and other equipment, 'ftware, technical assistance,
training, and studies.
2.11        The project would provide about 10 man-years of long-term graduate
management training (five in Venezuela and five overseas), and about 120
staff-weeks of training per year in short-term management training for
professional and support staff. About half (40) of the professional staff and
20 of the support staff will receive two weeks of management training per
year. Each professional staff will receive a total of five weeks of training
during the project duration. A total of 100 support staff (out of 200) will
receive training during the project duration, each receiving two weeks of
training total. Training courses would be conducted in the following areas:
(a) human resource development; (b) institutional management; (c) management
information system; (d) organization and methods; and (e) other courses. In
addition, about ten technical staff working in the management information
system would receive one week of training per year during the duration of the
project, and one third of the terminal and computer operators would receive
one week of training per year during the first three years of the project.
2.12        Several operational studies would be financed under the project:
(a) a quality assessment and classification of graduate school programs in
Venezuela as a basis for an eventual accreditation system; (b) technical
evaluation of screening examinations and procedures used by the FGM1  in
student selection; (c) cost-benefit analysis of alternative repayment
mechanisms; and (d) a tracer study of FGMA-financed graduates, to evaluate the
impact of FGMA's student loan program. Draft terms of reference for these
studies have been agreed. Completion dates for each study are: December 31,
1994; September 30, 1993, September 30, 1993, and December 31, 1993
respectively. Promptly after the completion of each study, FGMA shall furnish
to the Bank a copy of such study and its recommendations and provide to the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to review and comment. Based on the results and
recommendations of the studies and the Bank's comments, FGMA will formulate
and furnish to the Bank programs or plans of action, satisfactory to the Bank,
for each study not later than six months after the completion date of each



- 15 -
study. FGMA will implement each of the programs or plans of action in a
manner and under a timetable satisfactory to the Bank. (para. 5.1).
2.13        Three policy studies will be conducted under the projects (a)
labor market analysis, with emphasis on higher education costs and returns and
labor market characteristics; (b) analysis of education policy in Venezueia,
including an evaluation of alternative proposals for higher education finance,
and recommendations of alternative financing policies; and (c) analysis of the
impact of vocational and technical education and training on productivity and
industrial development.   Terms of reference for these studies have been
agreed. Completion dates for these studies are: June 30, 1994; December 31,
1993, and December 31, 1994, respectively. Promptly upon the completion of
each of these studies, FGMA will furnish to the bank a copy of such study and
its recommendations. These results and recommendations will be discussed by
all relevant agencies, under CORDIPLAN's coordination. No later than December
31, 1994; June 30, 1994, and March 31, 1995, respectively, for each study, the
GOV will formulate and furnish to the Bank programs or plans of action,
satisfactory to the Bank, based on the results and recommeindations of the
studies and the Bank's comments (Annex 3). These programs or plans of action
will be implemented in a manner and under a timetable satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 5.1).
School for Social Managemenit
2.14        In order to support the School of Social Management (SSM) in its
end-Avor to develop management capabilities for public sector institutions in
charge of the design and implementation of social programs, the project would
finance: equipment (including software), training, technical assistance, and
curriculum development. Specifically, activities will occur in the following
areas: (a) support for information collection, and experience exchange between
SSM and similar public training programs and informacion and research centers
in Latin America; (b) design and implementation of targeted training programs
for state and local level managers in the social sectors; (c) development of
curriculum materials for training and manuals to provide ready references for
local managers; and (d) technical assistance to social sector managers and
administrators at the local level.
2.15        The project would also support the design and implementation of
new training courses, such as: (a) public management techniques; (b) decision-
making; (c) development c'e social management cases; and (d) design of
permanent annual courses in social management for different management levels.
2.16        Annex 4 describes these activities and a timetable for the
implementation of the training programs is contained in Annex 7.
C. Proiect Imolementation and Manaaement
2.17        Implementation Schedule.  The proposed project would be
implemented over a period of approximately five and a half years, and is



- 16 -
expected to be completed by June 30, 1997. The closing date will be December
31, 1997. The cost schedules prepared for the various components (Annex 6)
and implementation schedule (Annex 8) will serve as a basis for project
implementation planning and will be updated regularly during the course of the
project. Throughout project implementation, and during regular progress
reviews with the government, the Bank would give particular attention to the
effectiveness and efficiency of implementation of project components and
agreed actions, and changes will be agreed and implemented as needed.
2.18         Project Management.  The project would have two executing
agencies: the FGMA and the SSM. The management of the student loan program
and higher education studies will be in the FGMA and the activities of the
project integrated to the extent possible with their existing procedures and
standards. The project will need to both work within the structure of the
organization and participate and guide the introduction of reforms to improve
its effectiveness and efficiency. A Project Manager reporting to the Managing
Director of FGMA will be appointed to coordinate and oversee project
implementation. The Project Manager will be responsible for overall project
management, inter- and intra-institution coordination, development of
procedures, ensuring effective and timely implementation of the student loan
expansion, and overseeing the institutional development components of the
FGMA. An individual to support the Project Manager will be assigned to the
financial management section with exclusive responsibility for project
finances. That individual will handle the financial aspects of the project,
including accounting, ICB, and disbursements. An assistant to the Project
Manager will provide support in the development of MIS and in the timely
preparation of reports, and provide a link with operations and the internal
strengthening of the institution. Another assistant would coordinate
operational matters related to the student loan program.
2.19        The institutional development components for the SSM will be
managed by a project coordinator within the SSM. Procurement of equipment for
the SSM may be undertaken by an external agent, such as the FGMA.
2.20        The Project Manager and those staff dedicated to project
implementation will: (a) monitor and coordinate overall progress and
disbursement of the Bank loan; (b) report quarterly to the Bank on the status
of the project; (c) coordinate with public and private institutions, including
orientation, functional relationships and ongoing trouble-shooting; (d)
undertake procurement under ICB procedures; (e) submit withdrawal applications
to the Bank; (f) arrange for timely audits of project accounts; and (g)
prepare the project completion report. In addition, the Project Manager will
directly execute certain activities of the project, including the
implementation of the Management Information System, coordinating the
execution of the studies, consultant services and the training programs.
2.21        As a means of drawing on the expertise of the FGMA and integrating
the operations of the loan component with the institution'a ongoing processes,
an internal coordinating body (steering committee) will be drawn upon. The
directors from each of the relevant departments in FGMA (eg., Operations,
Finance and Management, Computing Services, and Human Resources) and the
Project Manager would coordinate through monthly meetings. This approach



- 17 -
allows better integration of the project components and makes decision making
within the project a joint effort. It will ensure that all elements in the
loan selection, processing, implementation and repayment are considered and
coordinated. The group process will build on current efforts at management
coordination within FGMA, make managers jointly responsible and accountable
for project implementation, and build consensus among the members of the
management team. FGMA has is-ued the corresponding resolutions creating a
Project Unit with the appointment of a Project Manager, three assistants, and
the Steering Committee, and the SSM has appointed a project coordinator.
Assurances were reached at negotiations that the FOMA will maintain the
Project Unit and Steering Committee during the execution of the project (para.
5.1).
2.22        Terms of reference for all studies to be supported under the
project and training plans for graduate and undergraduate programs to be
supported under the student loan program, updated equipment lists, and staff
training plans were agreed at negotiations.
2.23        Polizies that will apply under the modified student loan program
were agreed at negotiations, including selection, predeparture preparation,
placement, monitoring and reporting criteria, interest rate, repayment
conditions, and collection procedures. The interest rate to be charged to
students under the student loan program will be not less than 66 percent of
the average savings rate of the six largest commercial banks, as published
weekly by the Central Bank (Reference Rate). Should the Central Bank cease to
calculate or publish the Reference Rate or should the Reference Rate for
whatever reason fail to reflect a market rate, the FGMA will not grant new
loans unless a new reference rate has been agreed with the Bank. The FGMA
will determine the intere + :.tes for the student loans on an annual basis,
but the interest rate f-" - h loan will be fixed. All these provisions will
be included in the rev-s6-i regulations regarding the policies and conditions
for the student loan program. In order to implement this interest rate
regime, the FGMA will enter into a Fiduciary Agreement with a financial
institution to carry out the student loan program. This will be a condition
of effectiveness (para. 5.2). No withdrawals will be made for expenditures
under the student loan program unless the FGMA has entered into the respective
agreement with the student beneficiary (para. 5.3).
2.24        As a condition of effectiveness, evidence will be submitted to the
Bank that the new regulations for student loans have been officially adopted
by the FGMA (para. 5.2). No withdrawals shall be maide for payments of
expenditures related to overseas training under the student loan program
unless the FGMA has entered into an administration contract for placement,
financing, and monitoring of students (para. 5.3)
2.25          Monitorina and Evaluation.  Key indicators of project
implementation, including student loan program monitoring indicators, to be
used during regular implementation reviews, are given in Annex 7.
Implementaticn of project activities would be regularly monitored, covering
not only the implementation of training programs and conduct of studies, but
also the performance of the newly strengthened student loan program, including
longer-term objectives. A mid-term evaluation of the project would be



- 18 -
conducted as a basis for decision on future modifications in the student loan
program, and, in particular, on the possibilities for further modificatlons ln
higher education finance, under the assumption of a fully vlable student loan
program.
2.26          Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the GOV, FGMA and
SSM will conduct annual reviews based on the annual reports to be presented to
the Bank, not later than June 15 each year, starting in 1993. These reviews
will focus on the evaluation of the progress in execution and on the
achievement of the objectives of the project; discussions of the proposed
annual investment progran. for the upcoming year; and any changes in project
design and implementation that may be necessary. The GOV, FGMA and SSM will
also conduct a mid-term review of the implementation of the project, in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, in conjunction
with the Annual RevLew which will take place in 1995. The mid-term review
will include, inter aliM: (a) a retrospe-tive and prospective analysis for the
past and upcoming year; (b) a retrospective and prospective review of the
project to date (June 1995) and for the remaining project period; (c) an
overall review of all operational and policy studies, their recommendations,
and action plans; (d) a review of the qualitative and quantitative indicators
of project implementation; (e) a review of the implementation of the student
loan program, and agreement on any necessary changes as a result of overall
findings (especially in respect of repayments, equity criteria for student
selection, socio-economic distribution of recipients, etc.); (f) discussion
and agreement on the Annual Programs for FGMA and SSM; and (g) a review of the
implementation of the institutional development components and their impact.
The Bank's comments, if any, will be taken into account, and any required
adjustments would be made in project implementation in order to attain the
agreed objectives (para. 5.1).
2.27          Agreements were reached at negotiations that the FGMA will
implement the student loan program in accordance with the student loan
regulations, which shall not be changed without the Bank's consent (para.
5.1). These include specific actions to improve recovery, such ast publishing
the names of defaulters in local newspapers; limiting access to other forms of
credit in the event of non-payment; use collection agencies to locate
borrowers and enforce recovery; increase the penalties for not paying on time;
and improve information gathering and continuity.



- 19 -
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Costs
3.1           Total project costs are estimated at about US$85.9 million
equivalent, excluding taxes and duties. Tables 3.1 and 3.2 summarize the
estimated costs by project component and category of expenditure. Detailed
costs are presented in tables in Annex 6.
3.2           Base Costs and Contingencies.  Base costs are expressed in
January 1992 prices, and exclude taxes and duties, which are negligible.
Equipment costs were bases on prices for similar imported or locally available
items. Overseas and domestic training and costs of foreign and local
consultants were based orn current standards.   Administrative costs were based
on current estimates of salaries and operating requirements. Total
contingencies of US$10.2 million represent 13.6 percent of base costs.
Physical contingencies (US$1.3 million) represent 1.8 percent of base costs;
price contingencies (US$8.9 million), about 12 percent of base costs, were
estimated on the basis of the implementation schedule (Annex 7) and expected
annual price increases as follows: local -- 20 percent for 1992, 15 percent
for 1993, and 10 percent for subsequent years; foreign -- 3.7 percent for
1992-97. The exchange rate estimates for the midpoint of each calendar year
were as follows: Be 67.2 for 1992; Bs 74.5 for 1993; Bs 78.9 for 1994; Ba 83.8
for 1995; Bs 88.9 for 1996 and Bs 94.2 for 1997.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT L&
Foreign   Base
Local Foreign Total      Exchanae  Cost
(US$ million)
Student Loan Program
Institutionally sponsored loans        14.4   22.2    36.6       60.6      48.5
Open loan program                       8.2   27.9    36.1       77.2      47.7
Institutional development                  1.7    1.2      2.9      43.0       3.8
TOTAL BASE COSTS                       24.3   51.3    75.6       67.5    100.0
Physical contingencies                     1.1    0.2      1.3
Price contingencies                        3.3    5.4      8.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 28.7   56.9    85.6
/a Net of taxes and duties, which are negligible.



- 20 -
3.3         Foreian Exchange Costs.  Direct and indirect foreign exchange
costs are estimated at about US$56.9 million equivalent including
contingencies. Based on a detailed analysis of expenditures of similar
projects in the region, the foreign exchange component was estimated as
follows: (a) equipment, 70 percent; (b) Eoreign consultants, 100 percent; (c)
domestic consultants, 0 percent; (d) overseas training, 95 percent; (e)
domestic training, 10 percent; (f) staff training, 10 percent; (g) studies, 15
percent; and (h) administrative costs, 20 percent.
Table 3.2   SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
%        % Total
Foreign      Base
Local Foreian Total       -Exchange     Costs
(US$ million)
Equipment                          0.3       1.1     1.4         71.0       1.8
Foreign consultants                0.0       6.5     6.5        100.0       8.6
Domestic consultants               0.2       0.0     0.2          0.0       0.2
Overaeas training                  2.2      40.2    42.4         95.2      56.2
Domeatic training                 13.0       1.4    14.4         10.4      19.1
Staff training                     0.4       0.1     0.5         12.4       0.7
Studies                            0.7       0.1     0.8         15.6       1.0
Recurrent costs                    7.5       1.9     9.4         20.8      12.4
Total base costs              24.3     51.3    75.6         67.5      100.0
Physical contingencies         1.1      0.2      1.3        17.6
Price contingencies            3.3      5.4      8.7        62.3
Total                        28.7     56.9    85.6         66.2
B. Financing
3.4         To meet a part of the total estimated project ccsts of about
US$85.6 million, the Bank would make a lo&n of USS58.0 million ecruivalent
(67.5 percent of total estimated cost). The financing plan and loan
allocations by category of expenditure are presented in Table 3.3. Venezuelan
counterpart funding requirements would be met by the Government.
3.5         Recurrent Costs.  Additional annual recurrent expenditures
generated when the program is in full operation are estimated at about US$2.4
million (including contingencies). Recurrent expenditures will consist mainly
of administrative costs for the expanded student loan program, and will be
financed entirely from the GOV budget throughout the life of the project.
Current bud-etary transfers to FGMA are about US$10 million equivalent.



- 21 -
Recurrent costs will be recovered through student loan repayments, which have
been designed so as to cover administrative expenses.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Proposed
Government      IBRD Loan     Total      IBRD M%)
Equipment                           0.6            1.0         1.6         70
Foreign consultants                 0.0           4.1          4.1        100
Domestic consultants                0.0           0.2          0.2        100
Overseas training                   0.0          50.0         50.0        100
Domestic training                  15.5            1.7        17.2         10
Staff training                      0.5           0.1          0.6         10
Studies                             0.0           0.9          0.9        100
Recurrent costs                    11.0           0.0         11.0          0
TOTAL                      27.6           58.0         85.6      67.5
C. Procurement
3.6           The procure...-ant arrangements would be as follows:
(a) Eouipment. The total cost of equipment is estimated at about
US$1.6 million, including contingencies, of which about 80
percent will be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with Bank guidelines,
and the remainder through local/international shopping (by
inviting at least three quotations). Contracts in excess of
US$200,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB.  Where ICB
procedures are used, goods manufactured locally would be given
a preference margin in accordance with Bank guidelines. To the
extent practicable, contracts for goods will be grouped into
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or
more. Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or
less, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$0.3 million
may be procured by procedures of local/international shopping
acceptable to the Bank.   Equipment lists for goods procurement
have been agreed.
(b) Consultants required for the project would be hired following
the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Foreign
consultants will not be subject to prior registration as a
condition of their participation in the selection process.
Registration would be a pre-condition, not of selection, but of
contracting of consultant services. Consultants will be needed
for technical assistance (especially for the design and



- 22 -
establishment of a management information system at FGMA);
carrying out of operational and policy studies; and training
(domestic staff training, preparation of curricula for the
School of Social Management, and administrative contracts for
the placement, financial administration, and academic
monitoring of graduate overseas students). The major
expenditure for overseas and domestic training would be through
the award of student loans, and would comprise actual costs for
tuition and international travel and authorized allowances in
accordance with the agreed unit costs. Overseas training and
administration services would be procured through a series of
contracts, normally using non-profitmaking agencies in the
countries where the training would be implemented.
3.7           Prior Bank review would be required for all contracts for
training and support agency services, and consultant services in accordance
with Bank guidelines, and for contracts for goods exceeding USS200,000
equivalent. The proposed prior review will result in a coverage of about 80
percent. Other contracts and bid evaluations would be subject to selective
post-award review by Bank staff. All ICB procurement would follow Bank
guidelines and bidding documents would use agreed models based on the Bank's
sample bidding documents for goods. Model bidding documents to be used for
the procurement of goods, as well as a project implementation schedule have
been agreed.
3.8           A Country Procurement Assessment Report was completed in June
1990. Subsequently, in August 1990, the GOV issued a Procurement Law which
expressly states that all contracts for goods, works, and services which will
be totally or partially financed by international organizations with their own
procurement guidelines will be undertaken in accordance with such guidelines.
3S.9          The main implementing agency for all procurement under the
project will be the FGMA, with a small component under the School for Social
Management. Even though these agencies have no previous experience with Bank-
financed projects, ICB procurement of goods will be conducted using sample
bidding documents already approved under the Social Development Project (Loan
3270-VE).
3.10          Procurement information will be collected and recorded as
follows:
(a)  prompt reporting of contract award information by the
implementing agencies;
(b)  comprehensive semi-annual reports by the borrower, indicating
any revisions in cost estimates for individual contracts and
the total project; any revisions in the timing of procurement
actions; and compliance with aggregate limits on specified
- methods of procurement; and
(c)  a completion report by the borrower within three months of the
closing date.



- 23 -
3.11          The aforementioned procurement arrangements are summarized in
Table 3.4.
Table 3.4s PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Catecor-y of Ex2enditure             Procurement Procedure              Total
Other/a    NBF          costs/l
1. Goods
1.1 Equipment                 1.3       -       0.3         -            1.6
(0.8)     -      (0.2)        -           (1.0)
2.  Consultancies
2.1 Technical assistance       -        -       7.3         -            7.3
(including adminis         -       -       (7.3)       -           ('.3)
tration contracts)
2.2 Overseas training          -        -      47.0         -           47.0
-       -      (47.0)       -          (47.0)
2.3 Domestic training          -        -      17.2         -           17.2
-       -       (1.7)       -           (1.7)
2.4 Staff training             -        -       0.6         -            0.6
-       -       (0.1)       -           (0.1)
2.5 Studies                    -        -       0.9         -            0.9
(0.9)       -           (0.9)
3.  Miscellaneous
3.1 Recurrent costs            -        -        -        11.2          11.2
(0.0)        (0.0)
TOTAL       1.3       -      73.3       11.0          85.6
(0.8)     -     (57.2)      (0.0)        (58.0)
/a     Other procurement procedures include: overseas and domestic training
programs (i.e., tuition fees, authorized living costs and allowances
and contracts with support agencies), contracting of studies and
recruitment of consultants in accordance with World Bank Guidelines:
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency (Washington, D.C. August 1981)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan, N.B.Fs Not Bank-Financed.



- 24 -
D. Disbursements
3.12          The proposed Bank loan of US$58.0 million would be disbursed
over a period of about six years (Table 3.5), based on the implementation
schedule and the actual disbursement performance and disbursement forecasts of
two other relevant IBRD projects (the Indonesia Science and Technology
Training Project and the Professional Human Resources Development Project),
which contain a heavy concentration of fellowships and overseas training. The
disbursement profile takes into account the fact that the student loan
components (management development and professional development programs),
comprising about 96 percent of total project costs, are expected to disburse
smoothly.
3.13          Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1997
(Closing Date) and will be made against the following categories of
expenditure covering the activities to be financed under the proposed project:
(a) equipment -- 100 percent of CIF cost of foreign expenditures; 100 percent
of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 65 percent of local expenditures;
(b) foreign and domestic consultants and studies -- 100 percent of total
expenditures; (c) overseas training -- 100 percent of total expenditures; and
(d) domestic and staff training -- 10 percent of total expenditures. No
disbursements will be made against administrative costs.
3.14          Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications for
contracts for training and support agency services and consultant services and
for goods with a contract value of US$200,000 or more will be supported by
full documentation. Contracts for goods valued at below US$200,000 and other
disbursements against activities not undertaken by contract will be made on
the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE), for which supporting documente
would be maintained by the FGMA and would be made available for Bank staff
review.  Selective review of SOE documentation covering at least 20 percent of
contracts disbursed under these procedures will be undertaken by visiting Bank
missions. A Special Account in US dollars would be opened at the Central
Bank, with an initial deposit of US$1.0 million equivalent.   Agreements were
reached at negotiations that the GOV will establish and maintain the special
account (para. 5.1). Retroactive financing will be permissible for approved
expenditures for payments made after the Venezuelan Congress approves the
Public Credit Law for the proposed project, up to an amount not exceeding US$2
million.



- 25 -
Table 3.5: DISBURSEMENT FORECAST
IBRD Fiscal Year                Disbursements
and Semester                  Semester Cumulative         1           Semester
(USS million)
1993
1st (Jul 92-Dec 92)            1.7          1.7          3               2
2nd (Jan 93-Jun 93)            2.9          4.6          8               3
1994
1st (Jul 93-Dec 93)            4.1          8.7         15               4
2nd (Jan 94-Jun 94)            5.2         13.9         24               5
1995
1st (Jul 94-Dec 94!            5.8         19.7         34               6
2nd (Jan 95-Jun 95)            5.8         25.5         44               7
1996
1st (Jul 95-Dec 95)            5.8         31.3         54               8
2nd (Jan 96-Jun 96)            6.4         37.7         65               9
1997
1st (Jul 96-Dec 96)            6.4         44.1         76              10
2nd (Jan 97-Jun 97)            6.9         51.0         88              11
1998
lst (July 97-Dec 97)           7.0         58.0       100.0             12
Closing Date: December 31, 1997.
3.15          Contracts with support agencies in the countries where loan
recipients are placed will normally include services for financial
administration such as payments to universities, training agencies, and to the
recipients themselves. Payments to such agencies would be made either from
the Special Account or by using the direct payment procedure. The FGMA has
already made good progress in loan/fellowship management, including detailed
financial administration, and has several years experiernce in working with
various support agencies in different countries.
E. Auditing and Reporting
3.16          FGMA will keep separate accounts for project expenditures in
accordance with internationally accepted accounting procedures. The accounts
would show expenditures for each project component, subdivided by expenditures
financed by tha Bank and the government. All project accounts, the Special
Account and all disbursements against SOEs will be audited annually by an



- 26 -
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the Bank's
auditing guidelines. FGMA will submit to the Bank the audit reports of
expenditure within six months of the closure of each fiscal year. The audit
reports will certify that funds were used for the purposes for which they were
provided. Through the Subsidiary Agreement, SSM will agree to provide all
necessary information to enable FGMA to comply with the accounting and
auditing requirements. Assurances were received at negotiations that the FGMA
will comply with these requirements (para. 5.1).
3.17          As a condition of effectiveness, evidence will be submitted to
the Bank that the Government has entered into a subsidiary agreement with FGMA
and SSM providing for the transfer of the loan proceeds to SSM (through FGMA)
and the obligation to be assumed by SSM regarding the SSM Institutional
Development Component as well as its commitment to take all necessary action
to enable FGMA to comply with its reporting, accounting and auditing
obligations (para. 5.2).
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1           Benefits.  The main benefits expected from the proposed project
would be: (a) a comprehensive reform of the student loan program in order to
increase its financial viability, administrative efficiency, student
selection, and debt collection procedures, as a first step in improving higher
education finance and education resource management; (b) additional cost-
recovery mechanisms in higher education could be introduced once there is a
proven well-designed and functioning student loan program, which could be
expanded to cover needy students having difficulties in meeting tuition
payments and/or living expenses; (c) improve higher level human capital
formation in Venezuela by helping the FGMA-to significantly expand and
progressively target its student loan program.
4.2           Risks.  The main risk is that the comprehensive reforms of the
student loan program may not be sustained. The project would address this
risk by annual reviews of the implementation of the student loanr-program and
its conditions, with built-in arrangements for modification of conditions as
necessary. Although several studies have indicated that brain-drain has not
been a problem in Venezuela, the deterioration of the economic environment in
recent years raises questions about the possibility of non-returning students,
especially in science. The recent acceleration of economic growth should
greatly reduce this risk, since employment generation accompanies growth, and
employment opportunities are one of the most important determinants of skill
retention.



- 27 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Aareements Reached
5.1           At negotiations, the following assurances were obtained from
FGMA and the Government:
I.       From FGMA:
(a) by May 15 of each year: (i) submit a report to the Bank, for
its review and comments, commencing on 1993, on the
implementation of the student loan programs for overseas and
domestic training, and other project activities, and (Li)
submit to the Bank, for its review and approval, annual
programs for all project investments based on the
implementation plan in Annexes 3, 4, 7, and 8 (para. 2.5);
(b) furnish completed operational studies for Bank review on the
agreed dates, as follows: quality assessment and classification
of graduate school programs in Venezuela by December 31, 1994;
technical evaluation of screening examinations and procedures
used by FGMA in student select'on by September 30, 1993;
evaluation of the impact of FGMA's program of student loans by
December 31, 1993; and cost-benefit analysis of alternative
repayment mechanisms by September 30, 1993. Action plans,
based on the results of these studies and the Bank's comments,
will be presented to the Bank not later than six months after
the completion date of each study, and implemented under
timetables agreed with the Bank (para. 2.12);
(c) furnish to the Bank for its review the following policy
studies: labor market analysis by June 30, 1994; education
policy analysis by December 31, 1993; and impact analysis of
vocational and technical education and training on productivity
and industrial development by December 31, 1994 (para 2.13);
(d) participate in annual reviews (by June 15 of each year), and in
a mid-term review of the implementation of the project (by June
15, 1995), in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank. Progress in the implementation of the project
shall be measured in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators
in Annex 7. Upon the Bank's recommendations, any required
adjustments would be made in project implementation in order to
attain the agreed objectives (para. 2.26).
(e) agree to follow Bank's rules on auditing of project accounts
and procurement. Audits will be submitted within six months
after the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.16);



- 28 -
(f) implement the Student Loan Program in accordance with the
student loan regulations, which shall not be changed without
the Bank's consent (para. 2.27); and
(g) maintain the Project Unit and Steering Committee during the
execution of the project (para. 2.21).
From the Government:
(a) establish and maintain the Special Account (para. 3.14);
(b) participate in the annual reviews and in the mid-term review
and take any necessary action to enable FGMA and SSM to
implement any adjustments the Bank may recommend (para. 2.26);
and
(c) exchange views with the Bank on the results of the policy
studies; submit to the Bank action plans based on the results
of such studies and the Bank's comments by not later than
December 31, 1994 for the labor market study; June 30, 1994 for
the education policy study; and March 31, 1995 for the analysis
of the impact of vocational and technical education and
training; and implement such action plans under timetables
agreed with the Bank (para. 2.13).
As conditions of effectiveness:
(a) evidence will be submitted to the Bank that the new regulations
for student loans have been officially adopted by the FGMA
(para. 2.24);
(b)  evidence will be submitted to the Bank that the Government has
entered into a subsidiary agreement with FGMA and SSM providing
for, inter alia, the transfer of loan proceeds from the
Government, through FGMA, to SSM, and obligation to be assumed
by SSM regarding the SSM Institutional Development Component as
well as ite commitment to take all necessary actions to enable
FGMA to comply with its reporting, accounting, and auditing
obligations (para. 3.17); and
(c) evidence will be submitted to the Bank that FGMA has entered
into a Fiduciary Agreement with a financial institution for
carrying out the student loan program (para. 2.23).
As conditions of disbursement:
(a) no withdrawals shall be made for payments of expenditures
related to overseas training under the student loan program



- 29 -
ualess the FGMA has entered into an administration contract for
placement, financing, and monitoring of students (para. 2.24);
(b) no withdrawals shall be made for expenditures that are not
included in an annual program approved by the Bank (para. 2.5);
and
(c) no withdrawals shall be made for expenditures under the student
loan program unless the Fiduciary has entered into the
respective agreement with the student beneficiary (paras. 2.9
and 2.23).
Recommendation
5.4           Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable Lk,sis for a Bank loan of US$58.0 million equivalent to
the Government of Venezuela, repayable in 15 years, including a five-year
grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
Higher Education Enrollment, 1990-1991
Type of Institution         Public         Private         Total
University                              419,993         59,654         479,647
Non-University                           78,928         80,551         159,479
Polytechnic                            11,150             0          11,150
Technological Institutes               53,698         64,616        118,314
Colleges                               14,080         15,935         30,015
Total                                   498,921         140,205        639,126
Source: OPSU (University Sector Planning Office)



-. 3 1 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
Distribution of Graduates According to Knowledge Area
Public     Private
Number                                          17,155            3,964
Percentage                                        100              100
Basic Sciences                                    2.0              0.0
Engineering, Architecture, and Technology        24.1             21.0
Agricultural Sciences                             6.5              0.4
Health Sciences                                  21.9              2.5
Education                                        14.5               7.3
Social Sciences                                  29.3              67.9
Humanities                                         1.6              0.8
Source: OPSU (University Sector Planning Office)



32
ANNEX I
Table 3
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
Annual Expenditures in Higher Education, 1989-1990
Type of Institution  Enrollment    Unit Cost     Total (US$    Percentage
198B9        (US $)       mi,lions)      of Total
Public                      386,638         1,625          628.2          89.2
University                332,091         1,747         580.2          82.4
Non-University             54,547          879           47.9           6.8
Private                     140,205           543           76.1          10.8
University                 59,654          600           35.8           5.1
Non-University             80,551          500           40.3           5.7
Total                       639,106         1,802          704.2         100.0
SoLrce: OPSU (University Sector Planning Office)



33
AjINEX I
Table 4
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
Unit and Total Costs in Selected Higher Education Institutions, 1989-90
Instittions            Enrollment       Total        Unit Costs
Expenditures    (US$ million)
(US$ million)
Central University of Venezuela         52,268           133.8         2,561
University of Carabobo                  45,854           57.3          1,250
Ubertador Pedagogical University        64,924           55.4            853
Simon Bolivar University                 7,144           32.3          4,518
Open University                         54,410           15.3            282
Andres Bello Catholic University        11,000            0.1           650
Francisco de Miranda College (private)   3,900            1.7            440
Public Technological Institutes         53,689           31.9            595
Source: OPSU (University Sector Planning Office)



34 
ANNEX 1
Table 5
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
Socio-Economic Status of Students Entering Higher Education, 1986 (%/6)
Socio Economic Status         Private         Public       Population
Institutions   Institutions   as a Whole
High                                       22.3            5.9             1.0
Middle                                     38.6           21.7             4.5
Middle-Low                                 32.4           42.9            14.1
Workers                                     6.5           27.1            42.4
Marginal                                    0.2            2.4            38.0
Total                                     100.0           100.0          100.0
Source: Mission estimates.



_ 35 -
Annex 1
Chart 1
VENEZUELA
Student Loan Reform Project
Enrollment Growth in Higher Education, 1960-90
700
600
500
400
0
0 300-
200-
100DX
t ~~1    rqlqy                            m 
Institutions    l
I  1Private [1PublicElTotal
1960       1970        1980      1990
Private           2,634      4,736      38,869    140,205
Public           22,088     70,816     296,726    498,921
Total            24,722      75,552    335,595    639,126
Source: OPSU (University Sector Planning Office)



36
Annex 2
Page I of 4
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
FUNDACION GRAN MARISCAL DE AYACUCHO
Background
1.           The Fundacion Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho (FGMA) was founded in 1974 by
Presidential Decree No. 132, in order to support a broad scholarship program, funded by oil revenues
and targeted to low-income students whose opportunities for educational advancement had been
traditionally restricted. Implicit in this assumption was the tenet that talent is to be found at all levels
of society, and government must step in to assure equal access to education. In 1976, the FGMA was
made a semi-autonomous government agency, and linked to the Ministry of the Farnily. The goals of
the FGMA were to: (a) provide low-income, middle-income, and rural populations access to post-
secondary education; and (b) establish a broad scholarship program for the formation of human
resources to respond to the manpower needs of economic development. The program entailed a large
number of scholarships and a much smaller loan program to support students for undergraduate and
graduate studies in Venezuela or abroad. At present, the FGMA aims to contribute to the
development of human resources in technical and scientific areas, especially those defined as human
capacity formation to meet the needs of economic development.
2.           The Venezuelan economy has suffered dramatic changes since the late 1970s. The
petro-bonanza ended due to a dramatic fall in petroleum prices, and a spiral of inflation and
devaluation began. Social indicators fell, while educational expenditures increased, due in part to the
rapid expansion of higher education. Although overall Government expenditures rose during the
eighties, the level of FGMA funding decreased, particularly in dollar terms. From 1986-89, few new
scholarships or loans were awarded, causing a large backlog of applications.
3.           With the new administration of Carlos Andres Perez in 1989, the FGMA received
increased attention and an injection of funds. In order to adjust to the realities of the changing
economy and the high costs of higher education, and to continue to provide highly qualified
manpower, the FGMA shifted from a predominantly scholarship program to a largely student loan
program. One of the first initiatives of the present administration was an innovative program called
the LASPAU/FGMA loan program with incentives for graduation and high performance. The
program allowed for student loans to be converted into partial grants if the graduate accepted public
sector employment, taught at a post secondary institution or worked for a non-governmental
organization (NGO). Outstanding academic performance could result in loan forgiveness as well.
4.           FGMA'S portfolio of programs includes two types of loans: (a) individual, and (b)
inter-institutional agreements (convenios) with public and private agencies, NGO's and post-secondary
institutions. During 1974-1988, FGMA provided about 43,250 scholarships and 7,600 student loans.
The majority of the scholarships (88%) were granted on an individual basis and the remaining (12%)
were granted through inter-institutional agreements. During the 1989-91 period 1,138 scholarships
(26%) and 3,185 loans were granted (74%) with a total estimated expenditure of 2,661 million
bolivares.



37
Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
Organizational Structure of FGMA
5.           In 1989, the FGMA committed itself to raising institutional efficiency and
effectiveness, and has recently put in place a streamlined and more efficient organization, as shown in
Chart 1. FGMA's organizational structure is divided into three management levels. The Managing
Director (President) responds to an inter-institutional Board of Directors. Several advisory bodies are
directly responsible to the Managing Director (legal, comptroller, personnel, planning and
coordination, inter-institutional agreements, and institutional relations). A General Manager
coordinates Finance and Administration, Operations, and Computing Services. The Office of
Operations Management is the mid-level management level that oversees operations.
6.           From 1976 to 1983, the FGMA managed its programs from its central office in
Caracas and 11 international regional offices (four in the U.S.; one each in England; France; Italy;
Spain; Mexico, etc.). The Caracas office undertook advertising, screening (through exams and
interviews), orientation, remedial student training, awarding support and backing up regional offices.
The regional offices tracked academic performance and financial flows, receiving lump sums from the
central office to pay students' stipends, insurance, tuition, etc. These services are presently either
handled directly by Operations Management or contracted out to training brokers, including: the
International Institute of Education (lIE), the Latin-American Scholarship Program in American
Universities (LASPAU), and the Council for International Exchange of Scholars (CIES).
7.           Under the FGMA Institutional Development Component, the proposed project will
finance four studies designed to improve FGMA operations, and three higher education policy studies,
which will constitute the basis for future reforms in higher education management and finance. A
description of these studies is given in Annex 3.
Staffing
8.           FGMA has a total staff of 242, comprised of 97 professionals and 145 support staff.
Given its mandate, workload and performance, the FGMA has an appropriate level and balance of
professionals (37%) and support staff (63%). The Operations Management Unit is the largest unit,
with 65% of the professional staff.
9.           Under the FGMA Institutional Development Component, the proposed project woule
upgrade FGMA staff to increase management efficiency and effectiveness (Annex 3). Although a
good number of the staff is considered professional, only 36 have had any management (or related)
training. Data management, student tracking and other monitoring and management functions have
also been hampered by the lack of an effective management information system. The lack of such an
infrastructure means that the staff is also untrained in the benefits and uses of a Management
Information System (MIS) and most functions are still handled manually.



- 38 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
Programs
10.          All FGMA programs fall under one of three categories: (a) Student Loans, (b)
Special Programs (primarily scholarships), and (c) Inter-Institutional Agreements (Convenios). The
largest is the Student Loan program which manages two subprograms: the Regular Program and the
LASPAU program. In both programs students have the option to seek self placement or receive
assistance from the FGMA or a training broker. The majority of the loans awarded during 1990-91
were for the Regular Program (a total of 243, of which 219 were for undergraduate study and the
remaining 24 for post-graduate work within the country). The LASPAU program is significantly
different, as most of its loans are for study abroad.
11.          In December 1991, there were 5,500 active student files at FGMA, of which about
4,500 were for domestic study and 1,000 for overseas study. These awards consisted of about 2,600
loans (1,700 undergraduate and 900 graduate), and 2,900 grants (2,200 undergraduate and 700
graduate). Domestic grants and loans were mostly for undergraduate studies (79%), while grants and
loans for study abroad were mostly for graduate studies (61%).
12.          The FGMA has two scholarship programs: Galileo and Premio al Talento. The
objective of these is to tap excellence at the high-school level and prep students for mostly domestic
undergraduate training and\post-graduate study in the best universities in the U.S. and Europe.
13.          Although each student's application and need are evaluated on an individual basis, the
FGMA has established a maximum loan or scholarship amount based on whether the award is for
study in Venezuela or abroad and by level of study. The maximum amounts for study in Venezuela
range from Bs6,000 a month for an undergraduate program to Bs2O,000 a month for a Ph.D.
program. For international study, the maximum amount is US$20,000 per year irrespective of level
of study. There are no supplements for spouses and children, although these did exist previously.
Successful efforts by LASPAU to gain tuition waivers, grants, and other forms of financial support
for Venezuelan students studying in the U.S. raises the total value of the scholarships for many
students. Under the inter-institutional program, FGMA contracts with various public and private
entities to provide managerial assistance. In 1990, the FGMA signed contracts with CORDIPLAN,
Fulbright, and a number of embassies (Canada, France, USA, and others). In most cases, the
services the FGMA provides to CORDIPLAN and the embassies for their international cooperation
program includes newspaper advertising, distribution of application forms and some guidance and
counseling for students. In other cases (such as the Fulbright and Canadian programs), grants are co-
financed with the FGMA.



- 39 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
14.          FGMA also has institutional agreements that provide support for teaching assistants,
sabbaticals, visiting professors, post graduate study and research. At present, there are about 63
active inter-institutional agreements between the FGMA and national and international institutions,
including 20 public universities- four private universities, 17 government agencies, five international
agencies and several private not-for-profit organizations. Negotiations are underway to finalize the
first agreement between FGMA and a private for-profit company, COLGATE. Convenios provide
institutional support and serve as a vehicle for support for special categories of students. For
example, grants are available through inter-institutional convenios to faculty and civil servants to
participate in short-term nondegree training opportunities, such as internships, post-doctoral studies,
professional conferences, sabbatical studies and faculty exchanges. Support usually includes a
combination of scholarships, fellwvships, loans, and direct financing of training activities. Each
combination package can include funding for travel, tuition, subsistence, thesis writing or other
institutional needs such as visiting professors.
15.          The existing inter-institutional programs vary significantly in the amount of direct
financing. For example, in 1990 FGMA transferred around US$3,500 to Universidad Nacional
Simon Rodriguez, US$13,700 to Universidad Nacional Abierta, US$110,000 to the Ministry of
Education, and $167,300 to Universidad Central. These have been used for a variety of programs,
including: sabbatical leave, post-graduate study, and visiting professors.
16.          As an indication of the level of activities undertaken at FGMA, during 1990-91: 5,415
loan applications were processed, 2,200 loans were awarded; 1,353 scholarship applications were
processed, and 160 repayment exemptions approved. With regard to the Galileo program, 4,973
students sat for the pre-selection exam, and 153 were selected to participate in the Selection
Workshop (held for a month, where aspirants receive intensive upgrading in the hard sciences, and
lectures from leading scientists in the country, and develop a research proposal, which they will carry
out during their last year in high school). Various inter-institutional agreements were signed, and the
Talento and Excelencia Programs were put in place. All these activities are in addition to managing
existing students. All the academic processes and tracking of student files is managed manually,
although some of the administrative tracking is becoming computerized.
Management Information System (MIS)
17.          One of the weakest aspects of the FGMA has been its inability to design and operate
an adequate and appropriate MIS. Academic tracking is performed manually. There is a backlog of
data that needs to be compiled and made available for planning and monitoring activities. It is almost
impossible to obtain timely and consistent data. Data is reported in a variety of forms-and no two
sets of data concur. A few administrative processes are computerized, however.
is.          A Manavement Information System is being designed, so as to monitor a variety of
academic and administrative processes as well as for monitoring and supervision of output indicators.
Hardware, software, technical assistance and training for staff and computer operators will be
provided under the project's FGMA Institutional Development component (Annex 3) to design and
implement an improved MIS at the FGMA.



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
FGMA Institutional Development Component
Operational Studies
Description of Study         Respo sibility          Target Date
Preparation Follow Up Completion Action Plan
1. Assessment and classification of    FGMA  FGMA    Dec 31, 1994 June 30, 1995
Graduate School Programs in
Venezuela, as a basis for an eventual
accreditation system.
2. Technical evaluation of acreening   FGMA  FGMA     Sep 30, 1993 Mar 31, 1994
examinations and procedures used by
the FGMA In student selection, to
improve student selection processes.
3. Tracer study of FGMA-flnanced  FGMA      FGMA      Sep 30,1993 Mar 31, 1994
graduates, to evaiuate impact of
student loan programs on future
employment.
4. Cost-benefit analysis of altemative   FGMA  FGMA   Dec 31, 1993 June 30, 1994
repayment mechanisms, to optimize
repayment periods and modalities.



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
FGMA Institutional Development Component
Policy Studies
Description of Study          Responsibility          Targt Date
Preparation Follow Up   Completion  Action Plan
1. Labor market analysis, with  FGMA       CORDIPLAN  Dec 31, 1993 June 30, 1994
emphasis on higher education costs
and retums and labor market
characteristics, to provide a basis for
future higher education policy
formulation.
2. Analysis of education policy in  FGMA   CORDIPLAN  June 30,1994 Dec 31,1994
Venezuela, including an evaluation of
altemative proposals for higher
education finance, and
recommendations of altemative
financing policies, to provide a basis for
future changes in higher education
finance and cost-recovery policies.
3. Analysis of the impact of vocational FGMA  CORDIPLAN  Dec 31, 1994 Mar 31,1995
and technical education and training on
productivity and industrial
development, to provide a basis for
future educational policy.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
FGMA Insfitutional Development Component
Staff Training Program
Description of Activity               Target
A. Long-term graduate management training
- Overseas                                     5 staff-years
- In Venezuela                                 5 staff-years
B. Short-term management training for Professional  120 staff-
and Support Staff                                weeks/year
Detail of Courses                                Duraton (Hrs)    Participants
B.1 ManaQement Trainino
Decision-Making                                               20            30
Negotiating Skills                                            32            30
Organizational development techniques                         24            30
'1'nagerial stress management                                 24            30
.vianagerial control                                          24           30
Corporate strategic planning                                  60           30
Management information systems                                32           30
Situational strategic planning                                60            30
Effective leadership                                          24           30
Development of supervisory capacity                           24           30
Management by results                                         32           30
Supervision and motivation                                    24            30
Integrated computer skills                                    24            30
B.2 General Training
Conflict management                                            16          150
Corporate culture                                              8           150
Time management                                                16          150
Working group communications                                  20           150
Total quality approach                                        32           150
B.3 Professional Level
Finance for non-financial executives                          32            5
Budgets as a planning tool                                    -16           10
Budget systems and cost control in service firms              32            5
Career planning                                               24             5
Collective contract negotiation                               24             5
Analysis of corporate financial statements                    24             5
Project evaluation under inflatio iary conditions             24             3
International financial instruments                           20             3
Statistical process control                                   24            15
Staff evaluation: merit, performance, and potential           24             5
Training planning and control                                  24            6
Strategic planning of human resources                          24            5



- 43 
ANNEX 3
Table 3 Cont.
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
FGMA Institutional Development Component
Staff Training Program
Detail of Courses                               Duration (Hrs)    Participants
Market research                                               24            8
Wages, salaries, and classification of positions              24            5
Labor legislation                                             16           15
Income tax                                                    16           15
Human resource management                                     16           20
Human resource benefits and social welfare                    16            5
Administrative and labor-law processes                        16            8
Project formulation and evaluation                           120           10
Statistics for market research                                24            8
Inventory management and control                              16            3
Accounting and inflation                                      24           10
Credit and recovery                                           16           10
Interviewing techniques                                       16           10
Cash management                                               24            5
Methodology for scenario building                             20            8
Planning instruments and techniques                           40           10
Client interaction                                            16          150
Software development                                          16            4
Computer networks                                             20            4
Credit management for financial institutions                  20            8
Job interview techniques                                      16            5
Internal consulting skills formation                         100            8
Methodology for prioritization of projects                    20            5
Social policy design                                          24            5
Savings accounting                                            16            2
Purchasing management                                         24            2
Intemal auditing                                              20            6
Payroll auditing                                              20            3
Computer-based systems auditing                               20           10
Manuals design and management                                 24            5
Forms design and management                                   24            5
Total quality in organization and methods                     24            5
Introduction to local networks                                32           10
Ethernet networks                                             32           16



_44 -
ANNEX3
Table 4
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
FGMA Institutional Development Component
Management Information System
Description of Activity                Targets
Management Information System
A. Acquisition of hardware and software and technical  By June 30, 1995
assistance (procurement In three annual packages)
B. Training of ten technical staff                 One week per year
C. Training of computer and terminal operators     One week per year



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page I of 2
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
School of Social Management (SSM)
1.           The School of Social Management (SSM) was founded in 1990 as part of and in
response to the government-wide decentralization process. As a public foundation linked to the
Ministry of the Family, it has the flexibility and quality control necessary to design and conduct
training for public administration and management. It directly supports the Government's social
development objectives.
2.           Its major objectives include: (a) establishing a permanent system for identifying the
management training needs in social development, and for designing programs to meet those needs;
(b) identifying and undertaking applied studies on issues of relevance to the individuals and
institutions responsible for social development; (c) organizing information and documentation of
policies, programs, and social management experience in public social development efforts both
within and outside of Venezuela; (d) developing technical assistance and specialized management
services with public institutions; and (e) establishing linkages with national and international
organizations, with particular emphasis on Latin America, to promote exchange and joint programs in
the area of social management.
3.           The SSM has five rnain areas of effort comprising teaching and related activities: (a)
training and upgrading social management capacity; (b) training of trainers and researchers in social
management and related areas; (c) supporting and fostering applied research and evaluations of social
sector policies and programs; (d) providing assistance to public social sector institutions; and (e)
supporting the collection and distribution of specialized information and documentation related to
policies and programs in social development.
4.           The technical areas for activity include: personnel management, strategic planning,
development and evaluation of social programs, social assessments, management of social programs,
quality of management, public policy negotiations, and decisionmaking.
5.           The SSM Institutional Development compcient of the project would provide
equipment and software, curriculum development, staff training, and technical assistance to enhance
SSM's capabilities to strengthen social management skills and functions, especially at the local levels.
The following Table summarizes the main activities to be supported under this component, as well as
their targeted completion dates.



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
School of Social Management - Institutional Development Component
Description of Activity                              Completion
Date
1. Program of visits and seminar attendance outside  12-31-95
Venezuela to establish linkages and to gain experience in
how public training institutions can most effectively and
efficiently identify and meet public administration needs.
Two officials participate in three visits per year, and prepare
findings and recommendations report.
2. Training for high level managers (120 officials for each of 6-30-97
the five years of the project), and mid-level managers (300
officials for each of five years), in the basics of public
administration, planning and evaluation.
3. Development of curriculum materip' with emphasis on Fe 3-31-95
construction of Venezuela-specific cabas and the
development of School of Social Management staff skills in
case-study construction and use.



_ 47 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 14
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
STUDENT LOAN PROGRAM
I. International Experience with Student Loans
Introduction
1.           The combination of rapid expansion, macro-economic difficulties, and commitments to
student support have left gover, ments seeking means to relieve budgetary pressures and increase private
revenues for higher education. Additional funds can come from two sources. Institutions can become
more efficient, and thus free up resources; or institutions can diversify their resource base by bringing
in more external funds. The most obvious source of additional income is from the direct beneficiaries of
l'igher education -- the students.
2.           In addition to the budgetary rationale for mobilizing student contributions, recent
economic analyses have demonstrated efficiency and equity rationales for recovering at least part of the
cost of higher education from students. In sum, cost recovery is believed to lead to a more efficient use
of public and private resources; to increase the equity of educational systems which tend to attract elites
or produce future high income earners; and to provide an expanded source of revenue to support more
educational opportunity and better quality.
3.           In many instances, however, imposing cost recovery - either for living expenses or for
instructional costs - has proven politically difficult, and has raised the problem of how to relieve the
pressure on students wlio cannot afford to pay. To solve this problem, much economic literature has
advocated student loans to enable students to defer payment for the costs of attending higher education
until they are earning incomes.
4.           This Annex examines the student loan program administered by the Fundacion Gran
Mariscal de Ayacucho and a proposal for reform. The first part will examine the international experience
with student loans, so that the FGMA program can be understood within this broader context, and so that
relevant strategies for improving the program can be garnered from lessons learned elsewhere.
Afterwards, the Annex will describe the FGMA program, raise general issues confronting the program,
and describe a plan for reform as part of the proposed project.
Existing Studentm 'an Promams
5.           Student loans programs have been developed in various forms in over 50 countries
throughout the world. There are 20 programs in Latin America and the Caribbean, eight in Asia, four
in the Middle East and Northern Africa, seven in Sub-Saharan Africa and 14 in industrialized countries.
Noteworthy is the large number of loan programs in Latin America and the Caribbean: first implemented
in Colombia in 1953 to assist graduate students to meet the costs of overseas study, loan programs are
now in place in most countries in the region. This contrasts with the paucity of programs in other



- AR -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 14
developing countries, especially in the Middle East and Africa, where indeed some programs have been
abandoned in recent years.
6.           With the exception of four schemes, all programs offer students credit in the form of a
"mortgage" loan. In this traditional mortgage-type loan, repayment is made over a specified period,
usually with fixed monthly payments; interest rates and the maximum length of repayment are used to
calculate the fixed periodic payments. In contrast to this regime of equal nomipal payments, most of the
universities in Chile allow graduated nominal payments: borrowers from Chile's Catholic University, for
example, pay equal real (rather than nominal) amounts, thus ensuring that the first payments are not
excessively large in real terms in relation to others. A third type of repayment mechanism is an income
contingent loan, in which loans are repaid as a proportion of a graduate's income each year. Income
contingent loans are expected to be more favorable to low-income students. Currently, such programs
have been implemented in Sweden, Australia and Ghana.
7.           A relatively higher proportion of students receive loans in industrial countries (between
20 percent and 80 percent) than in developing countries, where coverage is almost always less than 10
percent of the student population Exceptions are found in Kenya and Ghana, where all public university
students receive loans for living expenses where loans replaced outright grants. As a rule of thumb, the
higher the coverage, the lower is the average loan amount. The limitation on loan organizations in
developing countries is their overwhelming dependence on the government for their budgets: when
student repayments are relatively insignificant, total support in a given year is determined by government
allocations.
The Finandal Impact
8.           The major purpose of a loan scheme is to enable students to share the financial burdens
for tuition and/or maintenance expenses with the government through payments from their future earned
incomes. The financial efficacy of any loan scheme will depend centrally on the "loan recovery ratio" -
the extent to which the loan is repaid in full. One can consider the relationship between what
governments lend out to students and what is returned in repayments as an indicator of the loan's
efficiency. An inefficient program, where the government recovers little of what it lends out, implies
that the government continues to bear the cost burden of higher education and/or student maintenance
expenses.
9.           The efficacy of loan recovery depends on three major issues: the amount of hidden
interest subsidies on loans; repayment losses due to default; and administration costs. Student loans are
subsidized if they charge an interest rate that is less than normal market rates for borrowing; this subsidy
can be considered a "hidden grant" to students.' Of loan programs surveyed by Albrecht and Ziderman
(1991), all are subsidized, some very highly so, ranging from 13 percent subsidy in Barbados to 93
percent in Venezuela. In half of the programs examined, subsidy exceeds 50 percent of the loan,
indicating that less than half of the real loan value would be recovered if all students repaid on time.
I More precisely, even if the government were to provide loans at normal market interest rates, the
government is still providing a subsidy because loans for education investment have a higher Inherent
risk.



- 49 -
Annex 
Page 3 of 14
Table 1. Hidden Subsidies and Government Losses
on Selected Student Loan Programs
Maxinun or  Hidden    Government  Government
Nominal   Real    Projected   Grant to  loss with   loss with
Interest Interest  Repayment   students  default       default and   Year
Country        rate     rate       Period    per cent                administr-             Estimates
of loan
Cl)           (2)      (3)        (4)        (5)         (6)           (7)      (8)
MORTGAGE LOANS
Colombia 1        11.0% a -10.6%         8         73X         76X c        87%      1978 Adninistrative 2%
Coloambia It      24.0X     3.0% b       5         29X         38K c        47K      1985 Administrative 2%
Sweden             4.3X    -3.0%        20         61X         62X          70%      1988 Administrative 1%
Indonesia          6.0%    -2.3X b      10         57X         61%          71%     1985 Default 10%, Acm 2X
USA (GSL)          8.0X a   3.8K b      10         29K         41X          53%      1986 Administrative 2K
Hong Kong          0.0%    -6.3K b       5         43X         43X          47%      1985 Acdninistrative 2%
UK                 6.0%      0.0K        7         26X         30X          41K      1989 Default 5%, Adm 1%
Norway            11.5X a   5.6X        20         33X         33%          48X      1986 Administrative 1K
Derwnark           8.0K a   1.6%        10         52X         56K          62%      '986 Administrative 1K
Finland            6.5K a  -0.6K        10         45%         46%          52X     1986 Default 2%, Adc  1%
Brazil 1          15.0%   -35.0K b       5         91X         94K          98K      1983 Default 30%, Adm 2%
Brazil 11        318.0K   -14.9K         8         62K         65K          71%      1989 Default 10%, Adm 2X
Jamaica 1          6.0X   -10.7K         9         74%         84K c        92%      1987 Administrative 2X
Jamaica 11        12.0%    -5.6K         9         56K         62X c        70K     1988 Default 20X, Adm 2X
Barbados           8.0K      4.1K       12         13X         18%          33K      1988 Default 5K, Acm 2%
Kenya              2.0K    -6.9%        10         70X         94X c       103X      1989 Administrative 2X
Quebec            10.0% a   5.2K        10         31%         31%          37K      1989 Administrative 1%
Chile           varies       1.0X b     10         48K         69X c        82K      1989 Administrative 2K
Japan              0.0K    -1.4K        20         50K         51K          60K      1987 Administrative 1X
Venezuela          4.0K    -23K         20         93X         98K         108X      1991 Administrative 3K
Honduras          12.0K       3K         8         51%         53K          73K      1991 Administrative 5K
INCOME CONTINGENT LOANS
Australia       varies       0.0K       17         48X         52X          57K      1990 Evasion 3K, ado 0.5X
Sweden          varies       1.0X       10         28X         30K          33K      1990 Evasion 3%, adm 0.5K
General Notes:
All subsidy calculations use a real opportunity cost of capital according to the government rate of
borrowing or estimates used by the World Bank. Loans are assumed to be paid in equal installments over a four
year period, adjusted in size each year to keep up with inflation. Given the availability of relevant data,
Swedish income contingent calculation is based on Australia's age earning profile information;
(1)      Countries with I and 11 refer to situations where the loan program underwent reform.
(2)      Nominal interest rate refers only to the rate during repayment. 'a' refer to loans that use a different
rate during the disbursement and grace period. 'b' denotes those programs with interest rates which
are indexed.
(3)      Real interest rates use Purchasing Power Parity formula, where inflation is based on the average of
the 1980-1988 period as reported in the World Development Report, except in instances noted where a
5 year average of inflation was calculated from the data date.
(4)      The repayment length is the maximum prescribed in the loan, except for the two income contingent loans
where it is the repayment length that is implied by the average income profile of a graduate. This does
Mlg include grace periods.
(5)      The hidden grant percentage is calculated as a discounted cash flow of the student's account, and
therefore excludes default and administrative costs.
(6)      The government loss due to Jefault subtracts the % of default from each year of the repayment stream.
'c' denotes where these figures have been estimated.
For Colombia, Jamaica, Chile and Kenya the figure used is loans in arrears.
(7)      The loss with default and administrative costs subtracts an annual administrative cost related to
outstanding debt each year.
(8)      Year is date from which loan information was collected, and from which inflat;on calculations were
made.
Source: Albrecht and Ziderman 1991.



- 50 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 14
10.           The loan subsidy measures the percentage loss to the government from each loan that is
repaid according to the established loan conditions; however, it fails to reveal the overall loss to the
government from the loan program. Lending agencies receive back less than is indicated by the hidden
student subsidy because not all students meet their repayment obligations and the administration of the
program is not costless. The experience with default has been mixed, and sometimes constitutes a more
severe problem than subsidies. Administrative costs generally fall into initial processing costs, overall
maintenance costs and collection costs. In developing countries, tracking mobile students can be extremely
difficult, making administrative costs higher. The small average size of loans makes them proportionately
more costly. Programs that rely on commercial banks or taxation departments have been far less costly
to administer than much smaller autonomous loan bodies. Among the 24 programs we surveyed, overall
losses on loan programs ranged between about 35 percent of loan values (Quebec, Sweden, Barbados)
to over 100 percent (Venezuela and Kenya). In some instances, therefore. loans have been more
expensive than outright grants. The once widespread notion that large scale loan funds could be revolving
only through repayments is not a feasible possibility.
Improving Performance: Lessons Learned
11.           While this principle for student loans is well established, past experience with loan
programs has been disappointing, particularly from the viewpoint of financial efficiency. Yet, it should
not be concluded from disappointing results of past experience that loan programs should be abandoned.
On the contrary, reform and improvement in several key elements of program design can lead to well
functioning loan programs. Three major issues that require attention for programs to work well are:
targeting effectively, reducing subsidies while limiting debt burdens, and minimizing evasion.
12.           A successful support program needs to be targeted eff'ectively, to those deemed most
deserving of support. Without effective targeting, growing student numbers in the future, as well as less-
than-full loan recovery, will result in increasing, and unsustainable, pressures on limited loan funds.
13.           The manner in which interest charges are assessed is central to the balance between
efficient cash flows and equitable debt burdens. The lower the interest rate, the larger the subsidy on
loans. But higher interest rates increase debt burden and the likelihood of default. In designing repayment
plans that limit the subsidy element in the loan, it is extremely important to examine the likely range of
incomes that graduates will be earning. A successful loan program will not simply raise interest rates,
but will redesign the repayment format so that graduates will be in a position to pay.
14.           While income-contingent payments are desirable from an efficiency and equity standpoint,
they are not always feasible (because of the absence of accurate income reporting). An alternative is to
design scheduled repayments so that they approximate the growing trend in expected incomes. This
implies tilting repayment schedules so initial payments are smaller than later ones. Such graduated
repayment plans could effectively minimize burdens on students after they graduate while eliminating
subsidies.
15.           The other major problem that has plagued the finances of student loan programs has been
the failure of many students to repay their debt. Default can be divided into two problems: students who
cannot pay, and students who evade payment. Properly defined repayment plans will help students that
do not earn large salaries after graduating. In addition, using strong institutions to manage collection
(commercial banks, taxation departments, private collection agencies) with clear incentives to collect, will



51 -.
Annex 5
Page 5 of 14
boost recovery. In addition, non-payment can be reduced by deducting payments directly from payrolls,
barring access to other forms of credit, and requiring guarantois on loans.
H. Student Loans in Venezuela: A Proposal for Reform
16.           The student loan programs in Venezuela suffer from many of the fundamental problems
described in the previous section. In particular, financial returns on loans have been disappointing due
to subsidized interest rates and poor collection. In this section, the Venezuelan experience is examined
in more detail, as well as a plan for reform.
Background on FGMA
17.            Student loans in Venezuela date back to 1965, with loans from the private foundation,
Educredito. Since then, approximately six organizations have begun offering student loans, but the
largest supplier of educational credit is clearly the Fundacion Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho (FGMA),
which provides roughly 50% of all loans each year (Table 2). Furthermore, an important focus of
FGMA support has been for graduate education, as noted by the much larger average size of FGMA
loans.
Table 2. Comparative statistics for Venezuela Student Loan Organization
Number of
Annual            Loans as        Average
Number   Nuber   X of Ott         size of
Organization    of Loans of Grants   loans         Loans
FGMA              3,406     4,970      53.1X       $4,600
BANAP *           1,500        -       23.4X         $700
Educredito *
(Own funds)        75        --       1.2X         $270
(Others' funds)    400       --       6.2X         $300
Conicit             211                 3.3X
SACEUDO *           155                 2.4X
PDVSA               668                10.4X
TOTAL             6,415     4,970     100.02
* Estimated by staff members.
PDVSA (Petroleum of Venezuela) forgives the loans If students return to work
for the company. Conicit's support is a mix of toans and grants.
18.           FGMA has provided scholarships and loans to students for study both in Venezuela and
abroad since 1975. During its first years, the organization limited support to scholarships, but in 1977,
FGMA started offering a few loans. Since then, FGMA has significantly expanded its student loan
program, and shifted its emphasis away from outright grants. As Table 3 illustrates, between 1980 and
1990, the number of loans has increased from under 700 to approximately 2,000 per year. In 1990, a
total of 1,899 students received loans averaging over $4,000, of which 25% supported study outside of
Venezuela, and about a third were for post-graduate studies. The majority of overseas students study in
the United States, but FGMA also sends students throughout Europe, Asia and Latin America.



- 52 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 14
Table 3. Number and Size of FGMA Loans 1981-1990
Total     Real       Average    Average
Year   Loans      Budget       Size      Size
(m 1990 B) (1990 Bolivares) (US$)
1981      669       139      207,834  4,619
1982      667       124      185,688  4,126
1983     1456       180       123,762  2,750
1984      968       339       350,113  7,780
1985     1358       467      343,599  7,636
1986     2769       397       143,472  3,188
1987      na        424         na    na
1988      na        255         na    na
1989     1642       172       104,911  2,331
1990     1899       350       184,308  4,096
Selection of Students
19.          The selection of students to receive support depends principally on the academic
performance and aptitude of applicants. In particular, FGMA selects applicants on the basis of academic
records, performance on aptitude tests and interviews with staff members. While other factors such as
family income and place of residence are requested, these items influence decisions only in borderline
cases. The strong focus on academic criteria is believed to ensure that supported students will be likely
to complete their degree programs. FGMA attempts to respond to student demand as much as possible.
Students select their field of study, and request where they would like to study.
20.           Support covers tuition fees, living expenses and travel costs. While disaggregated data
were not available to yield average sizes, the maximum amount an undergraduate student in Venezuela
could receive in 1988 was US$ 292 per month or $3,500 for a school year. Graduate students could
receive somewhat more, approximately $5,000 per year. Students studying overseas could receive a
maximum of $2,394 per month or $29,000 per year. Costs of living are determined using information
from outside agencies that specialize in arranging overseas study (such as LASPAU or the British
Council).
Renayment Terms
21.           Since 1989, loans have carried a 4% interest charge, although students failing to repay
their loans are assessed a higher interest rate (12%) as a penalty. Students have a one-year grace period
after completing their studies before repayment begins. Payments are made in equal monthly installments
over a 20 year period. In addition, FGMA will forgive between 25% and 75% of the debt of students
with outstanding academic achievement. The changes implemented in 1989 eased the terms of repayment.
Prior to 1989, students repaid their loans over 15 years with interest rates between 7% and



- 53 -
Annex 5
Page 7 of 14
9%. Currently, inflation has been running at 35% per year and commercial banks charge 41% on their
loans (although these rates are historically high for Venezuela, which has not suffered the same
inflationary problems as the rest of Latin America).
Graduates and Their Earnings
22.           Loan recipients appear to have considerable success in finding employment after
completing their studies. Reliable data on graduate income, however, is not yet available. Tentative
results from surveys conducted by FGMA, liowever, yield information that will allow better management
of the loan program. Starting salaries of public anJ private sector employees appear to be relatively
similar, although private sector salaries rise more quickly over time. A principal difference between the
sectors, however, lies in the benefit packages of employees. Private sector employees often receive cars,
larger health care benefits, etc. This implies that they have a greater disposable income with which they
could repay a student debt. FGMA surveys reveal that over 80% of scholarship recipients. .e employed.
The distribution of graduates between public and private sectors is 41 % in the public sector and 59% in
the private sector.
23.           Preliminary results from employment surveys reveal the following information. The
minimum professional public sector starting salary is Bs. 17,000 per month. Typical private sector
salaries are somewhat higher in the private sector, around Bs. 22,000 per month, although for many
students it may be lower. For graduates with a masters or doctoral degree, salaries start at Bs. 30,000
to Bs. 50,000 per month and rise quickly. A starting university salary is Bs. 30,000 per month, with a
maximum of Bs. 60,000 per month.
Issues Confronting the FGMA Loan Program
(a) Recovery of Loans
24.           The paramount issue confronting the student loan management is poor recovery. In
nominal terms, recovery amounts have been increasing each year, from 13.5 million Bolivares in 1986
to 36 million in 1990. In real terms, however, the 1990 recovery is 36% below the 1986 figure.
Recovery in 1990 only covered about 80% of the costs of administering the loan program.
Administrative costs for operating the program are high. A survey of the years between 1981 and 1986
showed that overhead costs equaled between 13% and 16% of the total support given to students. The
recovery represents roughly 1.5% of the real value of outstanding debt. Poor recovery stems both from
the subsidy and high default rates on loans. Despite strong legal powers to recover funds, until very
recently, about 75% of graduates have not been repaying.2
2 Staff members estimate that default has been somewhat lower during the past year, although
there is no reliable data to confirm this.



- 54 -
Annex
Page 8 of 14
Table 4. Loan Recovery in Relation to Lending and Debt
(m 1990 BoHv-iees)
Recovery as  Outstanding Recovery as
Annual   % of annual debt adjusted   % of
Year Recovery  expenditures for inflation   debt
1986    56.5       14.2%      1,413      4.0%
1987    62.7       14.8%      1,781      3.5%
1988    53.2      20.9%       1,973      2.7%
1989    31.4       18.3%      2,092      1.5%
1990    35.8       10.2%      2,411      1.5%
Outstanding debt figures estimate debt repayments until 1985 and ignore
credits that have been forgiven.
25.           Low recovery stems from two principal problems. The first, is the subsidy element in
the loan implied by the low interest rate. If inflation were to remain constant, the subsidy on the loan
would represent 93% of the loan value (if inflation were to fall to 20% it would still represent 86% of
the loan value). Thus, even if FGMA were to collect all its loans on time, the majority of the income
would be eroded by inflation and opportunity costs on funds. Because interest rates are below inflation,
students have a clear incentive to delay payment as much as possible to erode the real value of their debt.
Even the penalty interest rate of 12% is well below inflation, and does not constitute a real disincentive
for not paying on time.
26.           The second problem is a weak apparatus to ensure that students actually pay. In theory,
FGMA has strong legal powers to recover funds. Between one and four guarantors are required on loans.
Guarantors are either individuals or enterprises, and can have their property seized if the student does
not pay. FGMA can also require employers to deduct payments directly from the salaries of debtors.
Three institutional causes for non-payment can be identified. First, there are no clear incentives either
for the institution as a whole, or within the institution, to collect. Within the institution itself, the
collection department is given low priority (it has no direct contact with senior management of the
foundation) and it receives no reward for recovering the loans. The recovery department tends to regard
use of its powers as "an extreme measure". Equally worrying, however, is what the institution regards
as a potential tradeoff between public and private funds: that is, FGMA fears having its public budget
cut if it were to have a significant source of outside income. Finally, the FGMA has not invested
significantly in the needed staff or equipment to manage recovery. The recovery group consists of 12
people (four secretaries, four lower level administrators and four professionals). These limited resources
are inadequate given the task demanded of the recovery department. In addition to the lack of p2rsonnel,
there is a clear need for telephonic and computer equipment. Currently paper files exist on students, and
there simply are not enough personnel to keep track of these files.



- 55 -
Annex 5
Page 9 of 14
(b) Repayment Design
27.           A third issue regards the design of repayment - that is, the financial plan of when and
what size payments are required. To avoid imposing students with debt burdens that will increase the
likelihood of default, a successful reform of a loan program must consider the relationship between
graduate income and repayment amounts. As with most student loan programs, FGMA requires a loar.
recipient to make equal nominal monthly installments. The problem raised by such payments is that
because of inflation and the tendency for an individual's salary to rise over time, students are being asked
to repay the largest amounts while earning relatively little, and repaying relatively insignificant sums
when they are earning a lot. In inflation adjusted currency, the first payment equals 250 times the value
of the last payment. If FGMA were to charge interest rates equal to inflation, and shorten repayments,
the first year's payment would be too high for most graduates.
28.           Debt burden depends on three factors. The first is the amount borrowed, which in turn
is related to the level of the course (graduate or undergraduate), the place of study (domestic or overseas)
and the length of the course. The second factor is the earnings of the graduate after completing studies.
The third factor is the way repayments are scheduled.
Table 4. Typical Loan Amounts, Debt Burdens and Starting Salaries for FGMA Loans
(thousands of Bolivares)
Low-end
Annual             Starting
Loan    Total      Annual
Amount Debt        Salary
Domestic Undergraduate (4 Years)    72     288      204
Domestic Post Graduate (2 Years)    300    600      360
Overseas Post Graduate (2 Years)    1,500   3,000   600
29.           Table 4 lists the amount of debt taken on in comparison to annual starting wages for
undergraduate students and two year post graduate students, both in Venezuela and overseas. A domestic
undergraduate borrowing for four years assumes a debt of about one and a half times a starting salary.
A domestic post graduate would borrow almost twice annual earnings, while an overseas two year
program is likely to lead to a debt of 5 times annual earnings. Graduates finding high paying jobs in the
private sector, however, are likely to have a significantly greater capacity to repay their debt.
Nevertheless, such information above is particularly important to highlight the problematic relationship
between repayment terms and debt burdens.



- 56 -
Annex 5
Page 10 o0 '4
Table 5. Implied Subsidy and Payment Burdens vs. Interest Rate on FGMA Loans
(15 year Repayments)
Maximum
% of      % of
Low-End   Moderate
LOAN                 Interest   Total    Graduate  Graduate
INTEREST RATE        Subsidy   Subsidy    Income      Income
Domestic 2 Year
Graduate Studies
Loan size B 300,000 per year
10%                 72         85          3          3
15%                 60         74          4          3
20%                  39        55          6          5
22%                 26         43          9          8
Overseas 2 Year
Graduate Studies
Loan size B 1,500,000 per year
10%                 72         85          6          5
15%                 60         74          9          8
20%                 39         55         10          8
22%                  26        43         12         10
...= == = == == == = == _= == = == ========     ==== = = = = =
Undergraduate 4 year
Domestic Studies
Loan size B 72,000 per year
10%                 75         88          4          3
15%                 62         76          6          5
20%                  41        57         10          8
22%                  28        45         12         10
Assumes commercial interest rates remain constant at 25% per year.
Repayments are in an incremental format.
Incomes Used for low end are as follows:
Domestic graduate studies -- B 600,000 per year. Real Wage growth 1%.
Foreign Graduate studies  -- B 1,200,000 per year. Real wage growth 3%.
Undergraduate -- B 180,000 per year. Real wage growth 1%.
Moderate incomes are 20% higher than low-end figure.



57 
Annex 5
Page 11 of 14
30.           Using this information, one can construct tables which illustrate the implied subsidy level
and the debt repayment burden as a percentage of salaries for several loan repayment scenarios. Table
5 illustrates the repayment burdens of loans that charge 10, 15, 20 or 22 percent interest to students in
the following categories: undergraduate domestic, postgraduate domestic and postgraduate overseas
students. The table also assume a fifteen year repayment period on ioans and a graduated payment scale
(where payments are smaller in early years, and rise throughout the repayment period). The table
demonstrates that even interest rates of 10 and 15 percent imply that the loan woul ' '-- subsidized above
50%, while rates of 20% will bring subsidies to a reasonable level (40%), wit. an overall subsidy
(because of the probabilities of default, and administrative costs) of 55%. Debt burdens on low-end
salaries would be a maximum of 9% to 10% on all loans.
(c) Size of Support
31.           The size of support offered to students should be examined more closely, particularly if
the loans remain subsidized, for three reasons: first, lending excessive amounts for living expenses may
create excessive debt burdens that cannot be repaid; second, given the subsidy, students may not make
efficient decisions about where they will study (and thus opt for more expensive programs that do not
necessarily offer better quality); third, unnecessarily large loan amounts imply that FGMA is financing
fewer students than it otherwise could.
fd) Equity
32.           FGMA has encountered difficulties achieving its stated goal of assisting lower income
students. As with most higher education systems, the applicant pool is already heavily biased towards
upper and middle income groups. Results of a five year survey show that of 1,638 loan recipients, 54%
were from the highest tercile 42% from the middle and only 4% from the bottom tercile. In addition,
none of the lower tercile group went to study outside Venezuela. It is also clear, however, that the
FGMA has not been actively soliciting students in poorer reg ons of the country. Applications are made
only by students who know about the program. Thus, there may be scope for improving the applicant
pool through information campaigns.
33.           In addition, while FGMA examines the total cost of different programs, it does not assess
student ability to contribute to costs. Currently, the SES information that students have to provide during
the application process is essentially only what the student chooses to tell. There is little effort to verify
this information, nor is this information used in determining the amount that students receive.
(e) Matching Labor Market SuppIV and Demand
34.           FGMA has begun to conduct more detailed employment surveys, but efforts iieed to be
made to use these constructively. The surveys are intended both as a means to follow up on the success
of loan recipients and to become better informed about prevailing labor market needs.  The issue,
however, is how new information on labor market demand will be used. In the past, labor market
information took the form of FGMA supplying employers with a list of scholarship and loan students to
assist these students find employment. While this information provides a valuable service, FGMA needs
to utilize



- 58 -
Annex 5
Page 12 of 14
more recent information on labor market priorities to help both employers and students make better
training decisions.
II. An Agenda for Reform
35.           In developing an effective loan recovery mechanism, FGMA must reconcile the need to
increase financial performance at the same time that is assures that students are not incurring excessive
debt burdens. Strong efforts need to be made to increase actual recovery of loans; and a more concerted
effort should be made to target needy students and link loans with priorities in the Venezuelan economy.
Increasing Cost Recovery While Minimizing Debt Burdens
36.           (a) Level of subsidy. Based on Table 5, the most reasonable combination of subsidy and
debt burden is achieved with an interest rate of 20 percent throughout the life of the loan. With this
interest rate, repayment burdens need not exceed 10% of a graduate's income. The loan program,
however, will continue to be subsidized, at approximately 40% of its value. After accounting for the
likelihood of default and administrative costs, the subsidy will total around 55% of the loan value. While
not achieving full cost recovery, this return would significantly improve the financial resources available
to FGMA, and would place FGMA among the more efficient loan organizations in the world. The
interest rate charged will be set annually at not less than 66 percent of the average savings rate offered
by the six largest commercial banks (reference rate). Loans will be made through a fiduciary agreement
with a Venezuelan financial institution, which will also undertake loan collections.
37.           The interest rate on the loan will remain fixed throughout the life of the loan, as inflation
is expected to lower in the next few years, and remain fairly stable over the medium term. FGMA will
adopt a flexible position regarding interest rates in order to respond to any significant changes in the
external environment, and will thus revise the interest rate each year (for new loans), in accordance with
the reference rate. FGMA will be free to revise interest rates in either direction, to account for changes
in market interest rates. These changes, however, will be made after considering the impact on subsidy
levels and payment burdens on borrowers.
38.           (b) Incremental Payments. To limit payment burdens, repayment schedules will require
smaller payments in the first years after graduation, gradually rising throughout over 15 year period. The
repayment plan should be designed to approximate the likely trend in a graduate's earnings. This reform
will prevent debt burdens from becoming too large in initial years.
39.           (c) Employer Contributions. Because public sector and university salaries for highest level
manpower tend to be lower than in the private sector, and since many individuals will not be able to
repay an overseas loan in full from their salaries, employers will accept a share of the repayment
responsibility. Post graduate loans will be broken into three categories: Public Sector, University Sector
and Private Sector. After completing their studies, students who work for the government or for
universities, for double the time they studied with FGMA financing (but for a total period not to exceed
five years) will have their loans paid for by these institutions. Government ministries will make annual
transfers in lieu of loan payments from borrowers, and universities will reach separate agreements with



- 59 -
Annex 5
Page 13 of 14
FGMA about financing nominees for postgraduate training. Private individuals and enterprises
sponsoring individuals must assume the entire repayment burden. Companies may, or ma;y not, opt to
assist the individual repay the loan. Private enterprises sponsoring students, however, will be required
to contribute an upfront 10% charge to support a guarantee fund to help offset losses from non-payment.
40.           (d) Student Administrative Fee. To partially offset administrative costs for processing
the loan, students will pay 3% of the loan value each year back to the FGMA. This fee will be deducted
directly from loan disbursements to the students.
RecWvryam
41.           FGMA will adopt a clear plan to increase recovery on loans. A target has been set to
limit non-payment to less than 30% of all loans. This target is roughly similar to the 12% current non-
payment rate at Colombia's ICETEX student loan program. The recovery plan will include a time-table
for implementing different penalties for non-payment, signing of a fiduciary agreement with a financial
institution, which will also take care of collections, and stepping up sanctions against non-paying students.
Tentatively, the following steps have been agreed to:
(a) Improve initial collection of information from students that will facilitate future recovery.
This information will be gathered during the first contacts with applicants.
(b) Maintain continual contact with borrowers, sponsors, and guarantors, to update addresses,
and to remind them of repayment obligations. This contact will be maintained especially during
the borrowing and grace periods.
(c) Increase the penalties for not paying on time, so that there are clear incentives to do so.
(d) The fiduciary agency will take steps to locate borrowers and enforce recovery. Any
additional costs incurred from these services will be passed on to students.
(e) Recovery will be undertaken by the fiduciary agency, which will be a commercial bank with
a larger recovery infrastructure.
(f) Publish the names of defaulters in local newspapers.
(g) Limit access to other forms of credit (car, mortgage, credit cards) in the event of non-
payment.



- 60 -
Annex 5
Page 14 of 14
Selection Criteria and Loan Size
42.           In addition to reforms in the recovery of student loans, selection will be reformed to
increase representation of disadvantaged socio-economic groups, to provide a flexible apparatus in place
to satisfy the needs of the labor market, and to ensure that loans are efficiently allocated to achieve lowest
cost training and sustainable debt burdens.
43.           (a) Equity. To improve access to loan funds for lower income students, and to recognize
that a diverse set of factors (such as the need to work while studying) may bias achievement results at
universities, selection criteria will place more emphasis on the background of students. Improving the
distribution of loan recipients will be achieved by elevating financial need criteria to a status equal to the
determinants of academic ability.
44.           (b) Labor supply and demand. Facilitating a more efficient match between labor supply
and demand will be achieved by improving communication with employers in the public and private
sectors about their needs, encouraging them to develop human resource strategies within their enterprises,
communicating information to employers about FGMA students and programs from which they and their
employees can benefit, and providing information to students about the most recent labor market
priorities.  Such procedures will take slightly different forms in the public and private sectors.
Government ministries are already being encouraged to list their priorities for higher level training so that
they can communicate effectively with FGMA about their needs.
45.           (c) Rationalizing size of support. To ensure an efficient use of funds, and avoid imposing
excessive debt burdens, FGMA is retlhinking the size and format of support given to students. Two
notable reforms will be implemented. For students studying in Venezuela, particularly undergraduates,
loan sizes will be reduced, except for the neediest students studying in Caracas. Outside of Caracas, it
is quite feasible to live on less money, In addition, for most individuals it is not necessary to provide
loans that cover the full cost of living for students, including summer vacations.
46.           For overseas students, two changes will be considered. First, FGMA will work with
overseas institutions to secure the lowest tuition possible (while also ensuring the quality of programs).
Finding lower cost programs will require opting for public universities in the United States, where quality
programs are offered, or for institutions that will offer tuition waivers to foreign students. A second
option would be to offer a few grant-loan combinations to students in order to limit their total debt
burden. This option may be particularly important for individuals who pursue more than two years of
study abroad.
IV. Conclusions
47.           FGMA loans have suffered from many of the problems encountered in student loan
programs throughout the developing world. The most notable problem has been disappointing financial
performance. International experience suggests that full cost recovery on loans will not be feasible. The
proposed reforms for FGMA, however, will significantly improve the financial performance so that
FGMA becomes one of the strongest loan programs in the developing world. In addition, it will provide
an invaluable source of future income so that programs can continue with more modest subsidies.



VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
Bs
Project Cocponents by Year
Base Costs                        Total
1992    1993    1994   19,5    1996    Bs    USS
A. INST. SPONSORED PROGRAMS
1. POSTGRADUATE OVERSEAS         307.2  307.2  307.2  307.2  307.2  1535.9   24.4
2. POSTGRADUATE DCDESTIC         154.3  154.3  154.3  154.3  154.3  771.5    12.2
.....    .... .. ... ......... . . . . . .. . ... .. ..
Sub-total                          461.5  461.5  461.5  461.5  461.5  2307.3   36.6
B. OPEN LOAN PROGRAM
1. OVERSEAS                      353.7  362.3  372.4  382.6  392.7  1863.7   29.6
2. DOMESTIC                       77.8   79.7   81.7   83.7   85.7  408.7           6.5
Sub-total                          431.4  442.1   454.2  466.3  478.4  2272.4   36.1
C. INSTITUTIONAL D' ELOPNENT        49.5   48.9   37.8   25.4    21.1   182.7         2.9
Total BASELINE CCSTS               942.4  952.4  953.5  953.2  961.0 4762.4   75.6
Physical Contingencies           17.3   17.3   16.9   16.4    16.2   84.0          1.3
Price Contingencies              87.2  254.6  385.4  521.1   675.4  1923.7    8.6
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ......... . . . . . .  ....
total PROJECT COSTS               1046.9  1224.3  1355.7  ¶zBD.6  1652.6  6770.2   85.6
Taxes                             0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Foreign Exchange                696.5  810.6  892.5  994.9  1105.9  4500.4   56.9                                                                                 -
.......... .................. ........... ...................... ... .... ... .... ..... ......... .
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 5/24/1992  19:35
0%
C
N s



VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFOR PROJECT
Projects Coponents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                            Totals Including Contingencies
as                                                        USS
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   Total            1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   Total
A. ISSt. SPONSORED PROGRAMS
1. POSTGRADUATE OVERSEAS            336.8   388.5   428.2   471.6   518.8  2143.9              5.0      5.2      5.4      5.6      5.8    27.1
2. POSTGRADUATE DOMESTIC             177.9   208.1   233.1   256.4   282.0  1157.5             2.6      2.8      3.0      3.1      3.2    14.6
.................. .................................................... .....----------.-.-.-....--.---------------------...
Sub-Total                               514.8   596.6   661.3   728.0   800.8  3301.4              7.7      8.0     8.4      8.7      9.0    41.7
B. OPEN LOAN PROGRAM
I. OVERSEAS                         385.6   4S4.9   514.4   581.9   657.0  2593.8              5.7      6.1      6.5      6.9      7.4    32.7
2. DOMESTIC                           89.7   107.6   123.6   139.3   156.9   617.0              1.3      1.4     1.6      1.7      1.8      7.8
Z ;..       ........................................  . . ............................................................................ ........................
Sub-Total                               475.3   562.5   638.0   721.2   813.8  3210.8              7.1      7.6      8.1     8.6      9.2    40.5
C. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOP1ENT             56.8    65.2    56.4    41.5    38.0   258.0              0.8      0.9      0.7     0.5      0.4      3.4
Total PROJECTS COSTS                   1046.9  1224.3  1355.7  1490.6  1652.6  6770.2             15.6    16.4    17.2    17.8    18.6    85.6
.. .................................. ............................ ......................... ... .. ......... ............. ...............
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 5/24/1992  19:35
0
o1



VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFRM PROJECT
Surmy AccowLts by Year
Totaels Including Contingencies                            Totals Including Contingencies
Bs                                                         USS
......... ............... ............. .............    . .....  ................................................................ ................. 
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   Total             1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   Total
I  INVSTMENT COSTS
... ........ ..........
A. EQUIPMENT                             28.4    32.9    20.5    22.5    17.6   121.9              0.4      0.4       0.3     0.3      0.2      1.6
B. FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                   86.6   100.1   111.6   124.9   139.6   562.8               1.3      1.3      1.4      1.5      1.6     7.1
C. DOMESTIC COfSULTMTS                    2.2      2.6      2.9      3.2      3.5    14.5          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.2
D. OVERSEAS TRAINING                    564.3   658.8   736.5   824.4   921.6  3705.8              8.4      8.8      9.3      9.8    10.4    46.8
E. DOMESTIC TRAINING                    204.8   242.3   274.6   305.4   339.6  1366.7              3.0      3.3      3.5      3.6      3.8    17.2
F. STAFF TRAINING                         7.7      9.0    10.0    10.5    11.0    48.2             0.1       0.1     0.1       0.1     0.1      0.6
G. STUDIES                               16.7    19.6    21.9        4.0      4.4    66.6          0.2      0.3      0.3      0.0      0.0      0.9
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 910.7  1065.3  1178.0  1295.0  1437.4  5886.4              13.6    14.3    14.9    15.5    16.2    74.4
C-==e--=G3=====--===-=======s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ---s=_  =======:_==_=_=
II. REOARENT COSTS
...............
A. ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS                 136.1   159.0   177.8   195.6   215.2   883.7              2.0       2.1     2.3      2.3      2.4    11.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                   1046.9  1224.3  1355.7  1490.6  1652.6  6770.2              15.6    16.4    17.2    17.8    18.6    85.6
.~~~~~~  ====__    *=m -;=========…-t
....................................................................----------------------------..-------.-----.----.---.............-------------------------------...--- .   .   .      .  
Values Scaled by 1000000.0  5/24/1992  19:36
x
0'
0 



VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
Sumary Account by Project Component
Bs
INSTITUT                 Physical         Price
POSTGRD  POSTGRAD                       IORAL                 Contingencies    Contingencies
UATE     UATE                       DEVELCPN              --------------------------------
OVERSEAS DOMESTIC OVERSEAS DOMESTIC    ENT        Total       X    Amount       X  Aamount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. EWJIPNENT                          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     87.6      87.6      5.0       4.4   34.2      30.0
S. FOREIGN cONSULTANTS              171.0       0.0    231.7       0.0      4.9    407.6       0.1       0.2   38.0    154.9
C. DMESTIC CONSULTANTS                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      9.6       9.6      5.0       0.5   45.9       4.4
D. OVERSEAS TRAINING               1137.6       0.0   1541.1       0.0      0.0   2678.7       0.0       0.0   38.3   1027.1
E. DONESTIC TRAINING                  0.0    544.2       0.0    363.2       0.0    907.5       5.0      45.4   45.6    413.8
F. STAFF TRAINING                     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     32.3      32.3      5.0       1.6   44.3      14.3
G. STUDIES                            0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     48.4      48.4      5.0       2.4   32.7      15.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             1308.6    544.2   1772.8    363.2    182.7   4171.6         1.3      54.5   39.8   1660.4
11. RECWRRENT COSTS
.........    ..
A. ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS             227.2    227.2      90.9      45.4      0.0    590.8       5.0      29.5   44.6    263.4
Total BASELINE COSTS               1535.9    771.5   1863.7    408.7    182.7   4762.4         1.8      84.0   40.4   1923.7
Physical Contingencies             11.4      38.6      4.5      20.4      9.1      84.0
Price Contingencies               596.6    347.5    725.5    187.9       66.2   1923.7       1.8      35.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                2143.9   1157.5   2593.8    617.0    258.0   6770.2         1.8    119.4   28.4   1923.7
Taxes                               0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.        .0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                 1794.2    150.4   2378.7       68.8    108.2   4500.4       0.4      20.1
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 5/24/1992 19:35
1O
m
0~
Ph.



- 65 -
ANNEX7
Table 1
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Academic Years
Monitoring Indicators             1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97     Total
Student Loan Program
(Student Years)
Institutionally Sponsored Program
Overseas Postgraduate              180       180       180       180       180       900
Domestic Postgraduate              360       360       360       360       360     1,800
Open Loan Program
Overseas Postgraduate              230       240       24G5      250       260     1,220
Domestic Postgraduate              170       175       180       185       190       900
Domestic Undergraduate             170       175       180       185       190       900
Institutional Development
FGMA
Staff Training
Long Term Overseas (staff year)      2         2         1                             5
Long Term Domestic(staff year)       2         2         1         --       --         5
Short Term (staff weeks)           120       120       120       120       120       600
Institutional Development
School of Social Management
Training for higher level managers  120       120       120       120       120       600
(staff-years)
Training for mid-level managers     300       300       300       300       300     1,500
(staff years)



_ 66 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
Student Loan Program Monitoring Indicators
Indicator                 Acceptable Range       Frequency to
measure indicator
1. ACADEMIC
Drop-out Rate                             3% maximum           semiannual
Graduation Rate                          85% minimum             annual
Completion Period                   25% maximum above the        annual
programmed length of study
Award Acceptance Rato                     80% minimum          semiannual
2. ADMINISTRATIVE
Minimum number of students under the
administration of one academic analyst
of FGMA                                    50 students          semiannual
3.FINANCIAL
Subsidy Rate (in accordance with a       50% maximum             annual
methodology satisfactory to FGMA and
the Bank)
Recovery Rate                            70% minimum             annual
4.INSTITUTIONAL
Implementation of Institutional Agreements 80% minimum of students    semiannual
(Convenios Institucionales) provided in the agreed to be sponsored
Student Loan Regulations
(students effectively sponsored)                                   __



- 67 -
ANNEX 8
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
(Cumulative Progress In %)
ProJect Component               1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998
Equipment                         25    50    69    88    95   100
Foreign Consultants               26    44    60    79    86   100
Domestic Consultants              15    33    53    75    85   100
Overseas Training                 18    37    57    78    88   100
Domestic Training                 17    36    56    77    87.  100
Staff Training                    16    35    56    78    88   100
Studies                           25    54    87    93   100   100
Administrative Costs              18    37    58    79    90   100
Overall                           18    37    57    78    88   100|



- 68 -
Page 1 of 2
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
Selected Doctments and Data Available in the Proieot File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Subsector
A.1   Oficina de Planificaci6n del Sector Universitario, Boletin
Estadistico de Mducaci6n SuDerior No. 13 (several volumes),
Caracas, 1990
A.2   Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho, La Historia v el Presente,
Caracas, 1991
A.3   Instituto de Estudios Superiores de Administracion, Centro para el
Desarrollo de Recursos Humanos, Caracas, 1991
A.4   "The Feasibility of Introducing Loan Schemes to Finance Higher
Education in Latin America: The Case of Venezuela", by Fernando
Reimers, December 1990
A.5   "ICETEX - A Student Loan Success Story in Colombia", by Samuel
Caxlson, October 1991
A.6   "A Cost Benefit Analysis of Educational Investment in Venezuela,
1989"1, by Ariel Fiszbein and George Psacharopoulos, November 1991
A.7   "Deferred Cost Recovery for Higher Education - Student Loan
Programs in developing Countries", by Douglas Albrecht and Adrian
Ziderman, 1991
A.8   "La Fuga de Talento en Venezuela: Tendencias y Perspectivas para
su Estudio", by Jose Malave, IESA, Caracas, 1990
B.  Selected Renorts and Studies Related to the Proiect
3.1   "Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho 3975-1991 - Venezuela",
Caracas 1991
B.2   "Presupuesto 1991", Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho, Caracas
1990
B.3   "Memoria y Cuenta 1990", Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho
B.4   "Memoria y Cuenta 1990", Escuela de Gere!. -'a Socie



-69 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
C. Workina Papers
C.1   Project Costa
C.2   "La Formaci6n de Recursos HumanoM de Alto Nivel para e1 Desarrollo
Econ6mico (Una Propuesta Preliminar al Banco Mundial), FGMA, May
1991
C.3   "La Formacl6n de Recursos Humanos de Alto Nivel para el Desarrollo
Econ6mico (Complemento a la Propuesta Preliminar al Banco
Mundial), FGMA, October 1991
C.4   "Lineamientos y Proyectos: Informe sobre Acti  dades a Desarrollar
para el Banco Mundial a trav6s de la Fundaci6n Gran Mariscal de
Ayacucho", IESA, Centro para el Desarrollo de Recursos Humanos,
Noviembre 1991
C.5   "Proyecto Fortalecimiento de la Escuela de Gerencia Social",
Fundaci6n Escuela de Gerencia Social, Ministerio de la Familia,
November 1991



- 70 -
CHART 1
VENEZUELA
STUDENT LOAN REFORM PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE FGMA
I  BOARD OF DiRECTORS
PROJECT      ...          I.  MAAGN  DIRECTO              ....          STEERING
COORDINATOR                                                               COMMITTEE
I                |                                                  PERSONNEL   j
aCOMiPTROLLER       _.!
.                                  | ~~~~~~~~~~~RECRUITMENT _
INSTITUTIONAL   .                                                U
AGREEMINTS
[  INSTITUTIONAL  l    ___                _
IRELATIONSl
BENEFITS    _
PLANNING
COORDINATIONl
GENN, iGERAL  |       AMINISTRATION
g                                   .                                 .                .~~~~MNAE
FINANCE &                                OPiAIN
ADMINISTRATION                                 OPERAT|    COMPUTING
S00 VI CE                                                                  INFORMATION
ADVERTISINSELECTION a       AMINI ACADEMI
PLACEMENT         CONTROL
_  ACCOUNTINa A                                                                 ORGANIZATION A _
SUOGEIINO                                                                     UErHIOOS
LABOR MARKET          COLLECTION
TRAINING
TREASUORER



- 71 -
Chart 2
VENEZUELA
Student Loan Reform Project
Project Management Arrangements
FGMA
Managing
Director
Steering
.      ~~Committee
Project
Manager
I        __  __
Financial    Program      Computing 
Management    Support        Services
(Operations)   Services__________________ 



ARUBA                                                                                                                                                                                       I
'12-.     Reek. 'GRENADA
/ 4'  ' ,h12
u-   t!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ue
TRINIDAD
Pdd  TOBAGO
-8'                                                            ,                                                                                           t         j        _      j    ;                                                 8
O   \,  /  t-  -   t,  }   (  0  eloF  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --t-~~~~~~~~~~~~l-
6>  8  2  .ef9v~-rf t~    B 4g 5>   [/I v   A                                       CG U Y A N A                                    6
VENEZUELA                                                                                               >                              ''
clF    Oilfields                                                         IN            i                   -i
lot&!NAS 
200-500
!                                %    <    7. ."                         .    .%                     .              ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~62-  60- ^2  
Major Roads                                                                                                                                                         '                     LUCA
Selected Cities and Towns                                         2                   '                                                    -         ?                           6        LUCLS
*D    State or Federal Territory Capitols               ;sINID                                                                                                                                                     AGO
*     Notional Capitals                                                                        '-
--  State or Federal Territory Boundaries                                                                                                           I/ '2 \X  U  l  -----
International Boundaries                                               a ,  ,                             ,                                                                                      s,__vv  I
B.              *4f                                      ~~~~~~~~~COLOMBIA              ~1vrS
00To               200           300)BR                                                                                            ZI  
KILCMBTERSD                                                                                                                       
72'                           UD'                           6RB'R A  Z  I L                                                                       >                        _._. - .@       ?           t        -A
72-                           70-                            69'    rrA1



