Page  1
February 13, 1998
Mr. Freddy Rojas Parra 
Minister of Finance 
Centro Simón Bolivar 
Edificio Norte, Piso 3 
Caracas, Venezuela
Loan 3494-VE (Student Loan Reform Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Mr. Rojas Parra:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Venezuela (the Borrower) 
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), dated April 
15, 1994. We are pleased to inform you of our agreement to amend the Loan Agreement by 
inserting a second paragraph in Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement to read 
as follows:
“Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions 
of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.”
If you agree with the proposed amendment, please sign the form of confirmation 
below. The amendment set forth in this letter shall enter into effect upon receipt by 
the Bank of a duly executed counterpart of this letter.
In view of his interest, we are sending a copy of this letter to the President 
of Fundación Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrés Solimano
Director
Country Management Unit
Ecuador, Colombia, Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
By /s/ Mr. Freedy Rojas Parra
       Authorized Representative
Date: March 23, 1998
Page  2
cc: Mr. José Domingo Mújica
    President of Fundación Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho
