Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15991
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
(Credit 1864 - GUI)
July 26, 1996
Agriculture
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Guinean Franc (GF)
US$1.00 = 160 GF (at appraisal, June 1987)
US$1.00 = 991 GF (at closing, June 30, 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP        Food and Agricultural Organization/Cooperative Programme
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
IRAG          Institut de recherche agrononmique de Guinee (Agricultural Research Institute)
KG            Kilogram
MAEF          Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Forestry
MDR           Ministere du Developpement Rural (Ministry of Rural Development)
NSC           National Seed Committee
NSP           National Seeds Project
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PNVA          National Agricultural Extension Service
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SNPRV         Service National de Promotion Rurale et de Vulgarisation (National Agricultural
Development and Extension Service)
SPC           Seed Processing Center
TA            Technical Assistance
UNHCR         United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
(Credit 1864-GUI)
Table of Contents
Preface   .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . . . .  . . . .  .
Evaluation Summary ...........................................                                         ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..........................................I
A. Background ............................................                                      1
B. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ...........................................1I
C. Achievement of Objectives ............................................3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project .......5....................................5
E. Project Sustainability ...........................................5
F. Bank Performance ...........................................6
G. Borrower Performance ............................................7
H. Assessment of Outcome ............................................8
1. Future Operation ............................................8
J. Key Lessons Learned ...........................................9
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES...........................................................................................................
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                  ..10
Table 2: Related Bank Credits in Guinea                             ..II
Table 3: Project Timetable                 ..12
Table 4: Credit and Grant Disbursement               ..12
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation          ..12
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation           ..12
Table 7: Studies Included in Project              ..13
Table 8A: Project Costs .....................                                                 13
Table 8B:  Project Financing .....................                                            13
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits                ..14
A. Direct Benefits .14
B. Financial and Economic Impact .14
Table 10: Status of Legal Convenants               ..14
Table I 1:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements          .        .17
Table 12:  Bank Resources - Staff Inputs            .................... 17
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions               ..18
APPENDICES
A: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ...............................                            19
B: MAP IBRD - 20468
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
(Credit 1864 GUI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Seeds
Project for which the IDA Credit 1864-GUI in the amount of SDR 7.1 million (US$9.0
million equivalent) was approved on December 15, 1987 and became effective on June
29, 1988.
The initial closing date of June 30, 1994 was extended by one year to June 30,
1995. After lengthy, unsuccessful attempts to resolve questions concerning late
submission of disbursement applications, an undisbursed balance of US$ 493,035.75 was
canceled. There was no cofinancing for the Project.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Mathurin Gbetibouo (AFTA3), Chandra
Pattanayak (formerly AF5AE), with contributions from Joseph Toledano, Agricultural
Specialist in recent mission in Guinea. It was reviewed by Messrs. Randolph L. P. Harris
(Division Chief, formerly AF5AE) and Emmerich M. Schebeck (Project Adviser,
formerly AF5).
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, July 3-16, 1995, during which many Project beneficiaries and private and public
participants were consulted. The ICR was completed after the mission of June 10- 14,
1996 and incorporated the comments of the Government of Guinea and material in the
Project files. Staff of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Forestry participated
fully in these missions and contributed to the ICR preparation by providing comments on
the draft ICR. The Borrower prepared its own evaluation of Project implementation and
outcome, which appears unedited as Appendix A to the ICR.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
(Cr. 1864-GUI)
Evaluation Summary
Credit Amount                             SDR 7.1 million (US$ 9.0 million equivalent)
Beneficiary                               Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Forestry
Credit Number                             Cr. 1864-GUI
Date effective                           June 29, 1988
Date closed                              June 30, 1996
Introduction
1.    The International Development Association (IDA) has provided substantial support to
Guinea's agricultural sector since the 1980s with credits totaling nearly US$200 million.
Initially this support was for projects that directly supported productive subsectors, later for
integrated rural development projects, and finally, for projects to strengthen national public
services that serve the agricultural sector. The design of the National Seeds Project (NSP) was
based on the experience gained under the Gueckedou Agricultural Development Project, an
integrated regional development project that emphasized rice production, and was expected to
fill the void of the lack of a national system in existing projects, help coordinate donors' efforts,
and ensure the supply of an essential input for agricultural extension messages.
Project Objectives
2.     The main objectives of the NSP were to: (a) supply the financing, assistance, and
organization needed to establish a reliable national seed production system which could be
privatized; and (b) increase agricultural productivity through the production and use of improved
seeds.  Following the mid-term  review, these objectives were further elaborated and the
following were added: the pursuit of profitability for the Seed Production Centers (SPCs), so
they would be more likely to attract private operators, reduction of seed production costs,
diversification of the SPCs seed-processing activities, and identification of suitable candidates to
manage the SPCs.
3.     Project objectives were consistent with the Borrower's overall sectoral policy, as
expressed in the country's interim national recovery plan of 1987, but they were overly
ambitious and unrealistic, given the general technical level of the rural population and the
expectation of complete privatization of the seed industry in four years, in a country that was
emerging from nearly three decades of post-colonial socialism. The objectives proved to be
premature for two reasons. First, the agricultural services that were supposed to contribute to the
production of foundation seeds (through the Institut de Recherche Agronomique de Guinee--
IRAG) and to increased demand for improved seeds (through what is now the National



iii
Agricultural Extension Service--Service National de Promotion et de Vulgarisation--SNPRV)
were not yet well-structured or functioning efficiently. Second, it was unrealistic to hope for
complete privatization of the seed industry within a four-year project implementation period, in a
country that had until recently been through three decades of centralized economic planning.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.     The Project failed to achieve its main objectives and sustainability of Project activities
under current conditions is unlikely. Seed production costs were not reduced, no potential
private investors were found to operate the SPCs, and the SPCs are not likely to become
profitable or be privatized anytime soon. If the "mini-kit" experiment, a program to distribute
complete, self-contained packages of seeds and essential complementary inputs for farmers,
planned in the follow-on IDA-assisted National Agricultural Services Project is successful, then
a greater distribution of improved seeds will have been accomplished at the farm level and the
prospects for sustainability of NSP's limited achievements could improve.
5.     Actual project costs remained within the appraisal estimates. The technical assistance
(TA) cost category had an overrun because of the transitional management contracts entered into
after the mid-term review.
6.     A major reason for the failure of the NSP to achieve its objectives was that IDA was
deficient in designing a project suited to the physical and institutional conditions in Guinea. The
lack of managerial experience in the implementing agency and the irregularity or absence of
counterpart funding compounded implementation problems and caused serious delays.
7.     IDA's performance was unsatisfactory, except for project supervision.  The project
identification, preparation, and appraisal failed to assess accurately the risks associated with
NSP's institutional environment.
8.     Project results were unsatisfactory. An ex-post rate of return was not calculated as data
were deemed unreliable, and seed production and marketing figures were so far below appraisal
estimates (less than one-tenth) that a calculation was considered superfluous.
9.     The conditions that led to the preparation and implementation of the NSP still exist in
Guinea.  NSP can point to some limited accomplishments:  building the seed-processing
infrastructure and training of local staff and seed growers/farmers.  Continuation of NSP
activities under the upcoming National Agricultural Services Project could take place in the
context of its "mini-kit" program (para. 4). However, even if this program could resolve the
short-term problems, it would not constitute a viable long-term policy. Discussions are still
ongoing with the Guinean authorities about the proper balance between public and private
interventions in seed development, processing, and marketing.
The most important lessons learned from implementation of the NSP are:
(i) any new large-scale activity should be preceded by and tested in a pilot
operation;
(ii) agricultural support services interventions should be sequenced in a logical
manner; in the NSP, production and marketing activities should have been



iv
undertaken only after an apparent increase in the demand for improved seeds, and
in the use of complementary farm inputs;
(iii) private operators should be involved from the outset in a project aimed at
developing the private sector; and
(iv) Borrower commitment to the project is essential for successful implementation and
achievement of project objectives. In the NSP, success was compromised by
Government's failure to replace NSP's weak management and to provide counterpart
funds in a timely manner.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
(Cr. 1864-GUI)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Background
1.    Since the early 1980s, IDA has supported Guinea's agricultural sector through financing for
subsectors involved in strategic food security for the Rice Development Project (Cr. 952-GUI approved
in 1980) and the Livestock Development Project (Cr. 1063-GUI approved in 1981). In the mid-1980s,
when the sectoral assistance strategy shifted to integrated regional development projects, such as the
Gu6ck6dou Agricultural Project (Cr. 1635-GUI approved in 1986), support for specific subsectors
continued since rice production was of strategic importance. IDA assistance strategy after the mid-1980s
changed in favor of strengthening of national services that support the agricultural sector: IDA credits
for the First Agricultural Services Project (Cr. 1636-GUI approved in 1986), the Livestock Services
Restructuring Project (Cr. 1725-GUI, approved in 1987), and the National Agricultural Research and
Extension Project (Cr. 1955-GUI approved in 1989). Table 2 lists the projects supported by IDA in the
agricultural sector and for Guinea's economic recovery since 1980 and summarizes their objectives.
2.    Cumulative IDA assistance for Guinea's agricultural sector since 1980 totals nearly US$200
million. Support for seed development grew out of the Gu6ckedou Agricultural Project which had
heightened farmers' awareness of the benefits of using improved seeds and IDA's 1984 agricultural
sectoral study. The National Seeds Project (NSP) was spurred especially by a 1985 survey indicating
farmers' willingness to buy improved seeds. IDA's participation in NSP was expected to fill the void in
existing projects to develop a national system and to help coordinate donors' efforts and ensure an
essential input for agricultural extension messages.
B.    Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives
3.    The NSP's main goals were to: (a) provide the financing, assistance, and organization necessary
to establish a reliable system of seed production that could be privatized, and (b) increase agricultural
productivity through the production of improved seed. NSP was to support identification of suitable rice,
maize, and groundnuts varieties and establish a seed production system, national in scope. The Project
included the following five components:
(i) Foundation Seed Production: selected research stations to identify suitable local and imported
varieties and produce foundation seed; (ii) Improved Seed Production: six Seed Production Centers
(SPCs) were to be established in different ecological zones of the country to condition and store
improved seeds and ensure coordination of contract outgrowers production at the regional level; (iii)
Quality Control: seed quality was to be controlled at the SPC level and in a central quality-control
laboratory and at the farm level by monitoring field results and acceptability; (iv) Training: local staff of
all services involved in the NSP were to be trained abroad and on site; and (v) Project Administration: a



2
Management unit and a consultative body were to administer the NSP and coordinate seed production at
the national level. Technical assistance (TA) was to provided to the Ministry of Rural Development
(MDR) and consultants were to advise on quality control, selection procedures, and processing
equipment, and a revolving fund was to be established for purchasing seed abroad as well as locally.
4.    Project objectives were consistent with the Borrower's overall sectoral policy, as expressed in
the country's interim national recovery plan of 1987. But they were overly ambitious and unrealistic,
given the general technical level of the rural population and the expectation of complete privatization of
the seed industry in four years in a country that was emerging out of nearly three decades of post-
colonial socialism.
5.    While the objective of creating a reliable national seed production system was commendable and
sound, the establishment of high-capacity SPCs and the plan to privatize seed production, processing,
and marketing was premature, since farmers were not ready to apply the full range of improved
agricultural technologies essential to reaping the full benefits of improved seeds. Farmers' needs would
have been better served by several small, mobile processing units that could have improved seed quality
while educating farmers about the role of processed seeds in increasing crop yields when used in
conjunction with improved management practices and other farm inputs.
6.    The objective of privatizing the SPCs was unrealistic. The notion of seeds as a commercial
commodity was virtually unknown among the farmers.  In addition, the farmers' rate of input
application, such as organic and/or inorganic fertilizers, was so low that it was difficult to demonstrate
the higher yield potential of processed seeds. As a result, there was no scope for ensuring profits from
seed sales. Because extension efforts were weak, the market for processed seeds of improved varieties
was minuscule. Since farmers had their own seed stocks to use for several years, the expected demand
for improved new seeds did not materialize.
7.    The objective of increased crop productivity was also unrealistic and technically unsound in light
of the low level of production technology on farms, inadequate input supply, and lack of credit. Under
these conditions, increasing productivity by means of a single factor or tactic -- improved seed
production and supply was unsustainable.
8.    After the NSP mid-term review, the initial objectives were augmented with the addition of the
following: pursuit of profitability for the SPCs so they would be more likely to attract private operators
once project implementation was over; reduction of production costs; and identification of suitable
candidates to take over management of the SPCs. Managers of the SPCs were also assigned the task of
diversifying seed-processing activities.
9.    Although the Borrower signed two-year transitional SPC management contracts with foreign
firms, it was not fully committed to the privatization and diversification objectives that emerged from the
mid-term review. Moreover, the Project Support Unit (PSU) did not have the means to monitor the
implementation of the assigned objectives, which remained problematic in any case, since the
management contracts did not include any performance guarantees, nor did they provide for any
sanctions for non-performance on the part of new managers of the SPCs.
C.    Achievement of Objectives
10.   Overall the achievement of NSP objectives was negligible. The management system in the PSU
was not conducive to privatization of seed production. As part of the Ministry of Agriculture, obliged to
work within the constraints of Government and IDA financial/procurement rules, the PSU had difficulty
in operating as a private enterprise and in managing the NSP as a private undertaking. The PSU was



3
unable to supervise the activities of the SPCs as regularly as was necessary, since they were
geographically dispersed. As a result, PSU staff had trouble carrying out their mandate.
11.    The Project made substantial headway in building the seed-processing infrastructure and in
increasing the capacity of local staff, but progress in privatization of seed production, processing, and
marketing was negligible. Three SPCs, located at Koba, Kilissi, and Bordo became operational in 1991,
two years later than planned. The staff and the seed growers/farmers were trained. Foundation seeds of
several varieties of rice, maize, and groundnuts were purchased from the research institution, IRAG,
multiplied on the farms of contract growers, and the resulting seeds were processed and marketed by the
SPCs. Rice seed production predominated, followed by maize and groundnuts. By 1992, each SPC was
processing and marketing just under 40 tons of seeds a year, compared with an annual capacity of about
1,000 tons. The PSU overhead expenses were high, as also was the cost of seed production and
processing, at about 3,500 Guinean Francs (GF) per kilogram of seed versus the sale price of 250-350
GF. Thus the SPCs were unprofitable and could not meet the requirement of privatization within the
time span specified in the Project agreement.
12.    At the mid-term review, IDA proposed that the NSP be restructured because the SPCs were
inefficient and unprofitable. Profitability of the SPCs was a prerequisite for privatization. Despite some
reservations on the part of the Borrower, management of the SPCs was transferred to three foreign
private firms for a two-year transition period with several clearly defined objectives to: (a) reduce the
cost of seed production; (b) develop a seed market and diversify allied activities to improve the SPCs'
annual turnover; (c) train SPC staff; (d) locate, by the end of the first year, a suitable private enterprise to
take over management of the SPCs; (e) and study the options for transferring the SPCs to the private
sector.
13.    Most of these objectives were not realized. In retrospect, it was imprudent to appoint the foreign
firms without enforceable conditions and guarantees in their terms of agreement. By Guinean standards,
the contracts provided for very high salaries to the expatriate financial managers, as well as flexibility in
financial management, but with no reciprocal guarantees to achieve the objectives or penalty clauses for
not achieving them. Pressure to privatize the SPCs within the short period remaining before the project's
closing date, and the lack of initial private interest in the SPCs, pushed IDA into making the contracts
overly attractive.
14.    Guinea is still far from achieving a reliable and sustainable system for producing and distributing
improved seeds. The objective of increasing agricultural productivity was onlypartially achieved. Crop
yields did increase, but the increase was geographically limited since there was little or no distribution of
improved seeds to farmers beyond the immediate vicinity of the SPCs and the seed-producing villages.
Furthermore, the true potential of improved seeds could not be exploited because there was little or no
application of supplementary inputs.
15.    The physical objectives of seed production and marketing, as well the institutional development
objectives were not met. The actual production of improved rice seed during the 1988-94 period was
around 600 tons, compared with the appraisal estimate of 5,300 tons. Marketing figures were even more
disappointing; in 1992, each SPC managed to sell no more than 40 tons, whereas the SPCs have a
processing capacity of 1,000 tons. Table 5 compares production data for rice, maize, and groundnut
seeds for the 1988-94 period with Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimates. As for institutional
development, a National Seed Commission was created (this was a condition of effectiveness), but it did
not become operational.
16.   The project can point to some limited accomplishments. During project preparation, once the
local varieties of rice, maize, and groundnuts had been identified, inventoried, and collected, their



4
adaptability was tested to identify the best performers for massive distribution to farmers. Of the 41 rice
varieties inventoried, 10 were introduced; of the 25 varieties of maize, 5 were introduced; of the 17
varieties of groundnut, 7 were introduced; and of the 14 varieties of manioc, 3 were introduced. During
project implementation, training was provided to the technical outreach staff, and the beginnings of the
"professionalization" of farmers was evidenced by their organization into groups and seed-producing
villages now evolving into agricultural cooperatives that are increasingly interested, not only in
production, but also in seed collection and marketing. Thus, the embryonic stirrings of a market for
improved seeds was observed.
17.   The ex ante economic rate of return (ERR) at appraisal was 32.4%. This figure was based on
hypotheses about seed production that turned out to be overly optimistic. For example, it was projected
that by the end of project years 4, 5, and 6, SPCs' production of improved seed by the SPCs would total
630 tons, 1,500 tons, and 3,000 tons, respectively, whereas the amounts actually produced were only 160
tons, 184 tons, and 250 tons. The expost ERR was not calculated because the data were not reliable, but
it would have indeed been very low. Moreover, to the extent that activities started during the NSP will
be continued under the upcoming National Agricultural Services Project, it would be difficult to
distinguish between the impacts of the NSP and the upcoming project.
18.   After the mid-term review and during the two-year management transition, the quantity of seeds
processed and marketed increased, but the defined objectives were not achieved despite the fact that the
firms had managerial autonomy and adequate financial support. The firms were unable to: (i) reduce the
SPCs' production costs measurably and increase their turnover; (ii) train staff adequately; (iii) identify
local private entities to take over the SPCs; and (iv) spell out a program to transfer management to the
private sector.
19.   The SPCs did a commendable job of maintaining seed quality standards. Much of the seed was
marketed through development projects financed by bilateral donor agencies and funds from the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Even so, all the processed seeds, whether marketed directly
or through the aid agencies, were grown by smallholders who were satisfied with their quality. While the
development of a national seed regulatory policy and the establishment of a central seed certification
laboratory were not realized as planned in the SAR, some progress was made on regulatory policy with
the support from the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO). Funds originally earmarked for the
construction of the laboratory were diverted to finance the two-year SPC management transition, and
IDA recommended that the Government finance the laboratory from its own resources.
D.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Subject to Government Control
20.   Delays in the Government concluding construction contracts, a year after the effective Project
start-up date, and in mobilizing counterpart funds led to lags in Project implementation. The planned
National Seed Commission, in which the regional committees were to play an important role in helping
develop seed policy, never became operational. The lack of a time interval between the creation of
IRAG, which should have occurred well ahead of starting the seed program and the NSP, gave the
research services not enough time to supply the SPCs with foundation seeds. Several implementation
problems can be attributed to the PSU. It failed to defend its own interests; for example, two technical
assistants in key positions (agronomy and administrative/financial management) were assigned, over the
Director's objections, to help with two other projects, even though their entire salaries were paid by the



5
NSP. The PSU was too preoccupied with creation of the physical facilities of the central seed
certification (quality control) laboratory, at the expense of important and substantive matters, such as
legislation and a seed-certification system. In marketing and developing liaison with other agricultural
services and projects, PSU was unable to devise a successful marketing strategy.
Factors not Subject to Government Control
21.   IDA failed to take full account of preconditions essential for a successful project. Guinea was
just emerging from a political and economic system in which the State was the main actor in
decisionmaking, even with respect to production activities; it intervened regularly through a force-
account system. One of NSP's innovations was the creation of a network of contract seed growers,
which was bound to take time to mature into a successful activity in a country in which civic affairs had
been neglected. At appraisal, the Bank estimated the local contribution to the Project's financing plan at
US$2.0 million, or 25% of the total cost. This relatively high level of contribution proved to be a
recurring constraint during Project implementation that caused significant delays. Farmers' weak
purchasing power limited their access to inputs. In addition, the delays caused by local contractors not
completing the construction of seed storage facilities as planned, and unstable weather conditions in
Koba in 1989, slowed project start-up and led to the failure in attaining production goals.
E.    Project Sustainability
22.   Under current conditions, NSP's achievements are not likely to be sustained. Aside from paying
the civil servants employed by the SPCs, Government commitment to the continuation of Project
activities has not yet manifested itself in any concrete fashion (e.g., taking over the operating costs of the
SPCs). The SPC at Koba had to be taken over by the second Guinea Maritime Development Project
under European Union financing, and the one at Kankan was able to obtain support through another
externally funded project.
23.   The sustainability of the seed system was compromised because the outreach to seed growers,
who do a good job and who constitute an important link in the sustainability of seed production, was not
carried out under the national extension services. This outreach, from sowing to harvest, was done by
PSU staff, who were too few in relation to the assigned objectives; the outreach should instead have been
carried out, or at least have been supported, by the national rural and extension promotion service
(SNPRV), which has better geographic coverage and is a more established entity. In addition, the
production of improved seeds requires the application of fertilizers and disease and pest-control
chemicals, for which no adequate distribution network exists. Finally, the incentives for contract seed
growers to continue producing improved seeds for the SPCs may have been compromised by the failure
to pay them under the last annual seed-purchase contracts. Due to some administrative confusion on the
Guinean side, these were arranged with the SPCs after the IDA Credit disbursement deadline had passed;
IDA's strict adherence to procedures did not allow the problem to be resolved in a manner satisfactory to
the seed growers. A resolution is now impossible, since the beginning of the new planting season was
missed, and the SPCs can no longer use the seed for which contracts had been arranged.
24.    The sustainability of NSP's limited accomplishments will depend on how project objectives are
pursued under the upcoming National Agricultural Services Project.
F.    Bank Performance
25.    Overall, the Bank's performance was unsatisfactory. While project supervision was satisfactory,
the Bank's specific efforts in preparation and appraisal were deficient. At the time of identification, the
concept of a seeds project was valid, since the aim of boosting agricultural productivity through
increased use of improved seeds was in line with the country's sectoral development policy and with the



6
conclusions of the Bank's Agricultural Sector Review in 1984. The project concept was also a logical
outcome of the Gueckedou Agricultural Project, which had introduced the idea of farmers as contract
seed growers (i.e., multipliers of seeds provided to them by the processing centers) and small works
executors (tacherons amenagistes-small-scale rural engineers working without benefit of high
technology). This was an innovative concept in that it represented a departure from force account
production, which had been the favored scheme for similar public sector works, and from the usual
regimen of integrated rural development projects, which tended to rely on their own structure and
resources.
26.    The Bank's performance in project preparation was unsatisfactory. Bank staff did not suggest
that the Borrower consider a less ambitious, longer-term project package, which would have been better
suited to the country's commercial and institutional realities. This failing was only partially offset
during appraisal when, at the Bank's insistence, the number of SPCs was cut in half to three.
Nevertheless, despite good skills mix within the appraisal team and a well-designed
production/multiplication/dissemination scheme, the NSP project design was too ambitious in scope.
The production capacity and equipment of the three SPCs were excessive. The Bank failed to take
accurate measure of the risks of failure in achieving NSP's quantitative objectives. The sensitivity
analysis indicated an ERR of over 11% for the worst case scenario (i.e., one in which a 50% drop in
economic cash flow and a 50% increase in costs would be realized). The same analysis, assuming a
discount rate of 10%, projected that the NSP would reach the break-even point even if economic cash
flow dropped by 70% or costs increased by 220%. These hypotheses proved to be highly optimistic.
27.    Bank supervision in monitoring the implementation plan and the Borrower's adherence to
procedures and covenants in the credit agreement was satisfactory. Supervision missions did not have
latitude to change the Project design during implementation, but the Bank could have taken the
opportunity at the mid-term review to question the timetable and scale down specific objectives. Instead,
the Bank opted for the costly alternative of hiring expatriate firms for the transitional management period
and did not take care to negotiate contracts to ensure good performance.
28.    The Project design can be criticized for its basic concept, focus on privatization, as well as its
beneficiary focus.
(a)    NSP's basic concept was supply-driven in three ways. First, without a comprehensive
analysis of the extension system, the Project could not be based on farmers' real needs.
Second, it was inappropriate to create a national seed system in isolation from the
extension and research functions that are basic to agricultural development. Third, the
SPCs' processing capacity was based on an estimate of national seed requirements,
rather than on a realistic assessment of the market for processed seeds and the prospects
for growing demand. Strategic planning for market expansion was wanting.
(b)    Privatization requires autonomy and flexible management, but the management practices
in PSU and the SPCs were typical of an inflexible public administration. Staff
employment and promotion were subject to Government personnel policies rather than
to individual productivity and performance assessments.  Finally, private sector
involvement was absent in the design phase.
(c)    Beneficiary focus was also weak in the NSP. Smallholders' lack of knowledge of the
value of processed seeds and the low level of application of improved crop and soil
management techniques, including fertilizers, were major constraints to seed market



7
expansion. Extension and research services were not able to overcome these constraints.
Smallholders were scattered in areas remote from the SPCs and did not have easy access
to services and inputs because of the poor state of rural transportation.
G.    Borrower Performance
29.    Borrower's performance was deficient in the identification and preparation phases of the Project.
In the absence of an effective national extension system, it was premature to give priority to a national
seeds system. Since Government staff did not have sufficient capacity to conceptualize the project and
prepare an operational plan, they readily agreed to appoint consultants and seek help from the Bank, The
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), and other donor agencies involved in various rural
development projects. The result was a project that was beyond local implementation capacities.
30.    During implementation, Borrower performance was mixed.  The PSU did a good job of
organizing construction and equipment installation at the three SPCs. It also performed satisfactorily in
training staff, providing them with incentives and maintaining quality standards at the SPCs and in the
field. It followed up on loan covenants. The financial difficulties encountered in 1991 and 1992 were
remedied by the Borrower in the following years. The Borrower was unsuccessful, however, in fostering
meaningful collaboration between the NSP and the research and extension services. It did not recognize
the need to organize the PSU as a commercial enterprise and lacked commitment to achieve the objective
of privatizing the seed system. As a result, the PSU did not assign high priority to cost-effectiveness and
was imprudent in managing its expenditures.
31.    Government's commitment to the Project was unclear. Counterpart funding was irregular during
1991 and 1992, and difficulties were also encountered with accounting and auditing. Contrary to what
was envisaged in the SAR, monitoring and evaluation of NSP by the Ministry of Agriculture was
nonexistent. Contractors and consultants performed satisfactorily, although TA was ineffective during
1991 and 1992; efforts at skills transfer and improved management did not produce the desired results.
The PSU followed Bank policies and procedures on procurement and disbursements without significant
problems. It created a difficult situation, however, by failing to adhere to the disbursement time limit
after the NSP closing date of June 30, 1995.
H.    Assessment of Outcome
32.    The overall outcome of the NSP was unsatisfactory for several reasons. First, the institutional
setting of the seed enterprise, i.e., as an independent project standing apart from the extension and
research services, generated more apathy than enthusiasm. Second, the priority attached to launching a
national seeds system was premature; market demand for processed seeds was not strong enough to make
the seed enterprise profitable. Since the SPCs were not profitable, they could not be privatized. Third,
Project management was not equipped for managing a private enterprise focusing on staff productivity
and cost-effectiveness.  Fourth, although the potential for improving farm productivity by using
processed seeds existed, the impact on grain production could not be realized in the absence of improved
technology, e.g., improved soil management, crop husbandry, and greater use of fertilizers. Most of the
production increase came from area expansion rather than from higher yields and productivity per-
hectare.
I.     Future Operation
33.    Two options exist for a future operation: the first would be to redesign the Project and integrate
it into the on-going extension program, focusing on promoting the use of processed seeds and
implementing activities on a smaller scale. The national extension program, SNPRV, is concerned with
the transfer of appropriate technologies to improve crop productivity -- modern crop and soil



8
management practices and the use of organic and inorganic fertilizers. Since increased productivity also
requires improved seeds, the supply of processed seeds will remain an integral part of the national
extension program. Once the overall extension system is successful, stronger demand for high-quality
seed can be expected, ensuring profitability of the seed enterprise.  In the longer run, sustained
profitability of the SPCs will create an environment conducive to their privatization. A second option
would be for each SPC to introduce a profit-oriented, cost-cutting financial management system linked to
a proactive strategy of diversification and market expansion. The SPCs possess excellent physical
facilities and skilled staff; their managers are competent and the contract seed growers are well organized
and trained. In order to ensure the efficiency of the three SPCs, their managers would need total
autonomy and a Board of Directors to control and guide their work plans.
34.    To expand the market, the SPCs could initiate arrangements with private retailers and
cooperatives to deliver seeds to remote rural areas. SPC staff and the seed growers would need further
training in maintaining quality and efficiency. Financial self-sufficiency of the SPCs would still be a
challenge under this option. Alternatively, this strategy could be pursued with minimum difficulty once
a certain level of success has been attained under the overall extension program.
35.    The following tasks should be performed: (a) the National Seed Commission should become
operational and regional committees should be created; (b) technical regulations for seed production
(quality norms, for example) should be standardized; (c) an official catalog of plant species being
multiplied should be drawn up; (d) the SPCs should become autonomous and their staff should be
appropriately trained in anticipation of privatization; (e) an efficient monitoring and certification entity
needs to be created; (f) working relationships should be cultivated with credit providers who are located
in the vicinity of the SPCs; and (g) contract seed growers' groups should be strengthened.
36.    The conditions that led to the launching of the NSP still exist. The Project can point to some
progress made, but the needs and demand are still enormous. The continuation of the NSP activities
under the upcoming National Agricultural Services Project would be done in the context of the new
project's "mini-kit" program (an experimental program consisting of the distribution of a complete, self-
contained farmers' package of seed and accompanying inputs). However, even if this program could
resolve short-term  problems, it cannot build a long-term  policy.  Discussions with the Guinean
authorities are still ongoing as to the proper mix of public and private intervention in the seeds subsector.
J.     Key Lessons Learned
37.    A number of important lessons emerged from NSP implementation experience. First, farmers'
support services must be provided in the proper sequence. While there was a need to address the deficit
in improved seeds, this should have been preceded by a more coherent and comprehensive effort to
develop demand for improved agricultural technology and practices through the existing extension and
research services. Instead, NSP was designed so that its success was highly dependent on synergy
among all the services, a synergy that failed to materialize because other agricultural services lagged
behind in performance and resources. The agronomic research centers of IRAG needed more experience
in producing foundation seeds and the PNVA was inadequately staffed and funded for identifying seed-
multiplication farmers and for expanding awareness of improved seeds among farmers.  Some
improvements have been made in the agriculture sector in recent years, and were the NSP to start now, it
would stand a better chance of success than it did eight years ago. Second, private sector stakeholders
should have been involved at the outset, particularly in a venture that was aimed to develop into a private
industry. In the mid-1980s, in the transition after three decades of a command economy, the private
sector was nascent, unprepared, and intimidated by the Government administration. The unrealistic goal
of privatizing the Guinean seed industry in four years was inspired more by the prevailing philosophy in
the Bank at that time rather than by an objective assessment of conditions in Guinea or experience with



9
similar seed industries elsewhere. Third, Borrower commitment to the Project objectives was lacking. It
compromised the success of NSP. The Project management was weak and both the Borrower and the
Bank should have acted swiftly to replace the NSP managers who were ill-suited by temperament and
experience to work toward achieving NSP's objectives.
38.    Difficulties in ensuring timely provision of counterpart funding for the NSP also jeopardized
successful implementation. A different strategy is being applied for the follow-on National Agricultural
Services Project. The Ministries of Planning and Finance have been engaged from the utset and can
assure better the Government's financial contribution to the Project financing.



10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial     Partial      Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                                     X
Sector policies                                        X
Financial objectives                                                 X
Institutional development                                            X
Physical objectives                                                  X
Poverty reduction                                                    X
Gender issues                                                        X
Other social objectives                                                            X
Environment objectives                                 X
Public sector management                                             X
Private sector management                                            X
Other
B. Project Sustainability              Likely       Unlikely     Uncertain
x
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                                   X
Preparation assistance                                           X
Appraisal                                                        X
Supervision                                        X
Highly
D. Borrower Performance             Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                        X
Implementation                                                   X
Covenant compliance                                X
Operation                                                        X
Highly                                   Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactoary Unsatisfactory
x



11
TABLE 2: RELATED IDA CREDITS IN GUINEA
Amount                                                    Fiscal
Loan/Credit Title            in                       Purpose                      Year of       Status
US$                                                   Approval
million                                                                        l
Projects in the same sector/subsector and adjustment operations with related objectives -
Preceding Operations:
Rice Development                  10.4     Improve technical expertise, agronomic         1980       Completed
(Cr. 952-GUI)                              research and develop technical improvements in
order to increase national rice output.                             l
Livestock Development             13.3     Improve livestock production and create        1981        Canceled
(Cr. 1063-GUI)                             incentives for herders for the sale of livestock.          FY1984
Gueckedou Agricultural Devt.      6.7      Improve agricultural development with          1985       Completed
(Cr. 1635-GUI)                L     _      particular emphasis on rice production.    _      _
Pilot Extension Project           1.0      Development of field-level extension structure  1986      Completed
(PPF-Financing)                            and training of key agronomic research staff.
First Agricultural Services       7.6      Improve capacity of Ministry of Rural          1986       Completed
(Cr. 1636-GUI)                             Development in rural sector planning, strategy
and policy formulation, and project analysis.
Structural Adjustment and        25.0      Support the Government's economic recovery     1986       Completed
Special Africa Facility Credits   1 7.0    program and allow economic activity to expand
(Cr. 1659-GUI)                             while implementing reforms.
Livestock Sector Rehabilitation   9.8      Improve livestock productivity and increase    1987       Completed
(Cr. 1725-GUI)                             meat and milk production.
Agricultural Research &           18.4     Improve research and extension services and    1989       Completed
Extension (Cr. 1955-GUI)                   promote supply and distribution of inputs
through private sector, incentives for
agricultural production, market liberalization,
pricing policy, and enhance private sector role.
National Rural Infrastructure     40.0     Improve rural infrastructure, policy           1978        Ongoing
(Cr. 2106-GUI)                             formulation, rehabilitation, and maintenance
.___________  capacity.
Following Operations:
National Agricultural Export      20.8                                                    1993         Being
Promotion                                                                                           restructured
(Cr. 2407-GUI)                                                                                                  l
Agricultural Services 11          36.0     Strengthen Ministry ot' Agriculture services and  1996     Not yet
(Cr. 2839-GUI)                             capacity, improve output of research and                   effective
extension to disseminate technologies andl
incrcase productivity, promote natural resourcel
conservation, and improve animal production
and health services.



12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                  Date Planned       I      Revised Date              Actual Date
Preparation Period
Identification              June 1986                                          June/July 1986
Preparation                 October 1986                    .                  October 1986
Appraisal Mission           May 1987                            -              May 1987
Staff Appraisal Report                                          -              November 16, 1987
Credit Negotiations         October 1987                        -              October 1987
Board Approval              December 15, 1987                   -              December 15, 1987
Credit Signature            February I, 1988                    -              February I, 1988
Credit Effectiveness        June 29, 1988                       -              June 29, 1988
Implementation Period
Completion                  May 1995                 July 1995                 July 1995
Credit Closing              June 30, 1994            June 30, 1995           JJune 30, 1995
No. of Closing Extensions: I
TABLE 4: CREDIF DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Million)                                             l
FY88|  FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92  -FY93   FY94 | FY95    FY96
Appraisal Estimate       0.6      1.9     4.0      6.0     7.7      8.6     9.0       -         -
Actual                    0       I .3    2.6      5.7     6.8      7.5     8.1      8.8       9.1
Actual as a %                                                                                         l
of Estimate              0%       15%  { 28%      64%    760/0    84%      90%    98%         101%
Date of Final Disbursement: June 14, 1996 I/
1/ Of the total Credit amount of SDR 7. 10 million, about SDRs 6.76 million was disbuirscd up to April 30, 1996. Howevcr, cumulative
disbursements were expected to reach SD)R 0.94 million by June 15, 1996. when the final Nsithdrawal application for seed purcihases was to
be reimnbursed by IDA
TABLE5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PRO.JECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators in               Estimated                        Actual
SAR/President's Report                                                                          l
1. Rice Seed Production 1988 - 94                5,340 m.t.                             607 m.t.
2. Maize                                           780 m.t.                             337 mr.t.
3. Groundnut                                       605 m.t.                              65 m.t.
Note: m.t.   metric ton
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Key implementation indicators in               Estimated                        Actual
SAR/President's Reportl
1. Establishment of SPCs                           6 units                        3 units
2. Establishment of Laboratory                      I ullnit        Equipmenit procured; installation
outside the NSP
3. Privati'zation                                 'full                           none



13
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
No Studies were envisaged at appraisal and none was undertaken during Project implementation.
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Million)'/
Project Component                  Appraisal                       Actual
_____________________________________________________   E stim ate
1.  Civil Works                                       1.8                             1.8
2.  Vehicles and Equipment                            2.4                             1.9
3.  Agricultural Inputs                               0.6                             0.5
4.  Consultants' Services and Training                2.5                             4.1
5.  Operating Costs                                  2.0"                             1.911
6.  Project Preparation Facility and Unallocated      1.3                             0.3
Total Project Cost                               10.6                            10.5
1/ Includes Government contribution of US$1.2 million; appraisal estimate was US $1.6 million.
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimate                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Source          Local Costs      Foreign       Total Costs    Local Costs      Foreign         Total
Costs                                        Costs          Costs
Government                   1.6           -               1.6         1.2              -                1.2
IDA                         0.4         8.6                9.0        1 .8-          7.5 '              9.3
TOTAL                    2.0         8.6               10.6        3.0             7.5              10.5
Note: The difference between estimated and actual financing is related to currency fluctuations.
1/ Partly estimated.



14
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
A. DIRECT BENEFITS
APPRAISAI|
INDICATORS                                 ESTIMATE   J   ICR ESTIMATE
Appraisal economic rate of return (ERR)                                 30%                           l
If the Project were to continue at its present performance, the ERR would be:            negative
If the project were redesigned as suggested in paras. 33-34, the ERR would be:            7.5%
B. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC IMPACT
L=LThe:Project has as yet had no significant and durable financial and economic impact.
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL CONVENANTS
rTEXT    wOVENANT   | STATUS DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT
REFERENCE   CLASS(ES)          l           _
3.01 (a)      Implementation    C           Borrower declares commitment to objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through its Ministry of Rural Development with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admin., financial and
agricultural practices, and provide, promptly as needed, resources
required for the Project.
3.01 (b)      Accounts/audit    C           Without limitation to the generality of para. 3.01 (a), Borrower shall
establish and maintain in a commercial bank a revolving account
exclusively for the purposes of the Project and shall, after an initial
deposit therein as described in para. 5.01 (c) of this Agreement,
replenish said account as and when required to ensure that on the first
day of each calendar quarter an amount equal to at least the initial
deposit, shall be available to finance the Borrowers contribution to the
estimate cost of the Project for Th. said quarter and the following
___________  _ quarter.
TEXT          COVENANT    STATUS DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT
Status: C - Complied with
CD - Compliance after Delay
NC - Not Complied With
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP - Compliance with Partiality
NYD - Not Yet Due



15
REFERENCE   CLASS(ES)
3.02           Flow and          C           Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
utilization of               goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
project funds                financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
l ___________   ________________   _________   provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.03 (a)       Implementation    NC         Borrower shall: (i) establish a National Seeds Committee comprising,
inter alia, representatives of MDR, farmers and representatives of rural
development projects; and (ii) cause said committee to hold its initial
meeting not later that Sept. 30, 1988, and thereafter meet at least once a
year.
3.03 (b)       Implementation    NC          Said committee shall be responsible inter alia for: (i) establishing seed
quality standards and monitoring their application; (ii) coordinating
national seed production; (iii) establishing price guidelines; and (iv)
considering the recommendations of the regional and technical seeds
committees on incentive systems for producers, outgrowers and SCCs.
3.03 (c)       Monitoring,       NC          Borrower shall submit at least once a year its seed policy and pricing
review and                   guidelines to the Association for its review and comment; said policy
reporting                    and guidelines to determine prices for SCCs that provide an adequate
incentive to contract outgrowers, encourage the responsible use of seeds
and allow the profitable operation of the SCCs.
3.04 (a)       Implementation    C          Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1988, establish in different
regions of the country and under arrangements satisfactory to the
Association about six SCCs which shall be responsible inter alia for (i)
supervising production of base seeds at research stations; (ii) ensuring
the purchase and distribution of base seeds to outgrowers; (iii) collecting
improved seeds through development projects and extension programs;
(iv) supervising and training extension staff and outgrowers; (v)
conditioning improved seeds; and (vi) selling commercial seeds.
3.04 (b)       Management        C           Each SCC referred to in (a) above shall be headed by an agronomist
aspects of the               who shall be assisted by a seed production technician, all with
Project or of its            qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
executing agency
3.05           Accounts/audit    CP          Borrower shall allow each SCC to: (i) open bank accounts in a
commercial bank; (ii) deposit therein the receipts from the sale of seeds
to finance said SCC's operating costs; and (iii) retain cash surpluses to
meet working capital and assets replacement requirements.
3.06           Monitoring,       NC         Borrower shall: (a) upon completion of the establishment of the SCCs,
review and                   furnish to the Association for review and comments a plan of action for
reporting                    gradually involving the private sector in the business of seed
conditioning and purchase and distribution of base seeds to outgrowers
(include. offering SCCs for sale to the private sector after completion);
3.06 (b)                                    and (b) soon thereafter take into account the Association's comments
ICOVENANT    STATUS DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT
Status: C - Complied with
CD - Compliance after Delay
NC - Not Complied With
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP - Compliance with Partiality
NYD - Not Yet Due
Status: C - Complied with
CD - Compliance after Delay



16
CLASS(ES)
4.01 (a)       Accounts/audit    CD          Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
4.01 (b)       Accounts/audit    CD          Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in par. 4.01
(a) including those of for the Special Account of reach fiscal year
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
4.01 (b) ii    Accounts/audit    CD          Furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
4.01 (b) iii   Accounts/audit    CD          furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
4.01 (c) i     Accounts/audit    CD         (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with par. 4.01 (a) records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
l 4.01 (c) ii   Accounts/audit    C           retain until at least one year after the Association has received the audit
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the
Association's representatives to examine such records; and
4.01 (c) iv    Accounts/audit    C          ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit of
referred to in par. 4.01 (b) and that the report of such audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditures submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can
support related withdrawals.
NC - Not Complied With
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP - Compliance with Partiality
NYD - Not Yet Due



17
TABLE I1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Borrower complied with all applicable Bank's Opeational Manual Statements.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS
(as of 11/22/95)
Stage of project cycle       Planned                  Revised                  Actual
Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$        Weeks         US$
Through appraisal                                                            93.6      81,700
Appraisal-Board                                                              37.6      92,800
Board-effectiveness                                                         -
Supervision                                                                 118.0    321,700
Completion                    12      31,700           12      31,700          11      39,200
TOTAL                        257     535,000        264.4    548,500        260.2    535,400
1/ Staff weeks include Bank-financed consultants such as FAO, but dollar amounts exclude FAO costs.



18
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS
Stage of                 No. of   Days in    Expertise   Implementat  Developmen    Type of
Project Cycle    Month/   Persons    Field    Represented   ion Status     t Impact     Problems
Year                             I/         Rating 2/     Rating2-/      31
Identification    06/86                          a,c,j,m I ,
/Preparation      10/86       4         30         a,c,m
Appraisal        05/87        4        21        a,b,c,m
Supervision 1     08/88
Supervision 2     02/89       4                    a,g,k          2             2
Supervision 3     06/89       4         5          a,g,k          2            2           M, T
Supervision 4     08/90                                           2             2
Supervision 5     11/90       2         11         a,b
Supervision 6     08/91       3         14         a, b           3             3         F, M, 0
Supervision 7     03/92        1        20          b             3             3         F, M, 0
Supervision 8     05/92       2         7         a,c,m           4             4         F, M, O
Mid-term          11/92       5         14        a,c,h,m         3             3         M, T, 0
Review
Supervision 10    09/93        1        10          a             2            2
Supervision 11    03/94       2         8          a,c            3             2
Supervision 12    06/94       5         18        a,b,c,k         S             S           F
Completion        07/95        1        13          m            HU             S          F, M
ICRdraft          01/96       2          -         c,m
ICR discussion    06/96       2         7          a,c
1/ a = Agriculturist/Agronomist; b = Financial Analyst; c = Agricultural Economist; g = Training Specialist;
h = Marketing Specialist; j = Forester; k = Extension Specialist; I = Sociologist; m = Seed Specialist
2/ 1 = problem free or minor problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems;
4 = critical situation; HU = highly unsatisfactory; U = unsatisfactory; HS = highly satisfactory; S = satisfactory
3/ F = Financial; M = Management; T = Technical; 0 = Other



19
Appendix A
CONTRIBUTION DU MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTURE DE L'ELEVAGE ET DES FORETS
A LA MISSION D'EVALUATION PROJET SEMENCIER NATIONALI
MARS 1995
I - INTRODUCTION
Dans le cadre du developpement du secteur agricole conformement A sa politique dirigiste, la
premiere Republique avait mis l'accent sur les Fermes d'Etat (FAPA) dans l'espoir d'atteindre
l'autosuffisance alimentaire comme etant un objectif fixe A l'avance.
Malgre le potentiel agricole de la Guinee (6,2 million d'hectares de terres cultivables), il en
resulte ce qui suit: une stagnation de la production agricole d'ou proviennent les 80% des revenus de nos
populations; une baisse du volume des exportations agricoles avec une chute vertigineuse des cultures de
rente (banane, ananas, cafe); un deficit cerealier grave entrainant un besoin d'importations alimentaires
plus accru (20-30%) des importations totales; des importations massives et anarchiques de semences de
1'tranger avec un suivi non adequat des varietes introduites.
Malgre les efforts consentis, les resultats n'ont pas e  satisfaisants et ce pour les raisons
suivantes: manque de structure semenciere adequate (amont, aval); manque de recherche adaptative;
manque de maitrise technique suffisante notamment pour les varietes d'adaptations quiequefois a
l'ecologie de la Guin6e - etc.
Le Gouvernement de la 2e Republique, en application A sa politique lib6rale, a decide (en
collaboration avec la Banque Mondiale) un programme d'actions importantes pour redynamiser le
secteur agricole dont les grands axes sont specifies dans le plan interimaire de redressement national
(1985-87).
C'est dans ce cadre qu'on a cree les projets de premiere generation dont le Projet Semencier
National, l'IRAG et le PNVA qui dans leur ensemble constituent une composante essentielle de ce
programme interimaire.
C'est ainsi qu'A l'actif du PSN les autorites actuelles ont decide, avec l'appui financier de la
Banque Mondiale, la mise en place d'un programme national de production et distribution de semences
ameliorees (riz, mals, arachide) A un prix abordable pour satisfaire la demande paysanne.
Le present document qui retrace les differentes phases suivies pour la mise en oeuvre de ce
programme, est la contribution du Ministere de l'Agriculture de l'Elevage et des Forets lors de la mission
d'evaluation du Projet Semencier National envisagee par la Banque Mondiale en Mars 1995, suite A
l'experimentation d'une phase de preparation et A la privatisation.
CHAPITRE l: HISTORIQUE
Ce chapitre doit retracer tout le chemin parcouru pour l'execution du programme semencier depuis la
phase PPF/412/Gui (1987) jusqu'A la phase transitoire (contrats de gestion 1993/94) en passant par la
phase d'execution PSN Credit 1864/GUI (1989-92) qui regroupe l'essentiel des resultats obtenus dans les
domaines ci-apres: etudes agro-sociologiques; production de semences; infrastructure et equipement;
assistance technique; formation (personnel et paysannat).
Nonobstant, tout l'inter& qu'il peut apporter au lecteur pour la comprehension de certaines difficultes
rencontr6es au cours de l'execution de projet, il est conseille de se reporter A l'annexe pour d'amples
informations.



20
En attendant 1'extrait qui va suivre, retracera l'essentiel de l'itineraire du Projet Semencier National.
- 8 Janvier 1987 requete, du gouvernement guineen A la Banque Mondiale, relative a une avance de
fonds de preparation.
-  2 Mars 1987 accord de l'avance de fonds intitule PPF/412/Gui.
-  18 Mars 1987 sur demande guineenne la FAO a mandat d'intervenir avec une assistance technique
dans la phase PPF.
-  Novembre 1987 missions effectuees pour la collecte des varietes retenues apres diagnostic
-I er Fevrier 1988 signature A Washington de I'accord de credit du projet intitule CR11 864/GUI.
-  27 Juin 1988 signature A Paris de la convention de I'Assistance technique avec Louis Berger
International.
-  29 Juin 1988 mise en vigueur de I'accord de credit 1864/GUI.
-  31 Juillet au 13 Septembre 1988, mise en place de I'Assistance technique fournie par Louis Berger
International.
-  4 Mars 1989 mise en place de la structure des centres de conditionnement de semences avec la
nomination des chefs de centre.
- 20 Mars 1989 lancement de l'appel d'offre international pour l'execution des investissements relatifs
aux travaux de Genie civil et A l'equipement.
-  Mai 1989 lancement de la premiere campagne de multiplication de semences.
-  7 Mai au 7 Juin 1990 lancement des travaux de construction des centres de Koba, Kilissi et Bordo.
-  Octobre 1990 stage de formation des chefs de centres (Koba, Kilissi, Bordo) sur la production des
semences d'especes vivrieres en regions tropicales IRAT/CIRAD a Montpellier (France).
-  1991 evaluation de mi-parcours du projet par une mission de la Banque Mondiale.
-  30/9 au 25/10/1991 formation DAAF en micro-informatique appliquee A la gestion des projets
(Bordeaux France).
-  7/11 au 6/12/1991 participation du chef de departement Construction Equipement au stage sur la
maintenance et la gestion du materiel de conditionnement aux usines en France de Toy et Denis a
Montaire/loire et Denis A BROUFUR et C1lment de clety (Belgique).
-  22/4 au 2/5/1992 seminaire PSN A Kilissi avec appui FAO
-  21 au 28/9/1992 reception definitive des 3 centres conditionnement de semences ci-dessus nommes.
-  ler au 20/11/1992 mission d'evaluation du PSN effectuee conjointement par des representants du
MARA (PSN, DNFPR) du BDPA (J. Dissard) et de la Banque Mondiale (J.P. Vautherin, Chandra
Pattanayak, Mathurin Gbetibouo).
-  15 au 21 Fevrier 1993 mission de Mr. Djibril AW qui a retenu pour le projet Semencier National
une phase transitoire de 2 ans avec un contrat de gerance.
-  3 Mars 1993 communique radio a l'intention du secteur prive (ONG, operateurs 6conomiques,
associations et organismes publics) pour les interesser au demarrage du processus de privatisation
des centres de Koba, Kilissi, Bordo et Kamalo.
-  28/4/1992 approbation par Washington de l'amendement de l'accord de credit 1864/GUI apres
reajustement pour tenir 2 ans de phase transitoire.
-  26 Septembre 1993 signature contrat de partenariat avec la CFDT.



21
- 20 Octobre 1993 signature contrat de partenariat avec A.C.T.
- 5 Janvier 1994 signature contrat de partenariat avec ASODIA
- 3 au 6 Mai 1994 participation PSN au seminaire sur les operations de decaissement organise par la
Banque Mondiale a Conakry.
-   24/10 au 4/11/1994 organisation seminaire de formation A la gestion comptable des chefs de centres
Semenciers (Koba, Kilissi, Bordo, Tindo, Bareng) avec assistance technique FFA.
- 18 Novembre 1994 les semences sont A l'honneur avec le premiere visite de Madame le Ministre
Mme Makale CAMARA au Centre Semencier de Kilissi (Kindia)
-  12 Janvier 1995 visite de Mme le Ministre au Centre Semencier de Koba (Boffa)
- 23 au 24 janvier 1995 premiere reunion de haut rang convoquee par Madame le Ministre autour de la
problematique des semences Guinee.
CHAPITRE II - PHASE PREPARATOIRE
I - RAPPEL DES OBJECTIFS
Conform6ment au plan interimaire de redressement national, il est inscrit a l'actif du projet la mise en
oeuvre d'un programme national de production et de distribution de semences ameliorees (riz, mais,
arachide) adaptees aux conditions ecologiques et economiques de la Guinee en vue de contribuer a
ameliorer le revenu des petit et moyens exploitants.
Pour realiser ce programme, le projet a adopte la demarche suivante: identifier apres collecter les varietes
locales des especes riz, maYs, arachide, manioc; evaluer leur valeur agronomique et leur degre
d'adaptabilite aux differentes zones naturelles dans le but de determiner les plus performantes afin de
proc6der a leur multiplication apres divers tests.
II - RESULTATS OBTENUS
En reference au rapport AG : UFT/006/GUI, les resultats ci-apres on et enregistres
A - Au niveau collectes des varietes locales
a - Riz = 31 varietes dont: 15 pour le sol de coteau et montagne; 9 pour le sol de bas-fond; 4 pour
le sol plaine; 3 pour le sol de mangrove;
b - Mais = 20 varietes;
c - Arachide 10 varietes;
d - Manioc 11 varidtes



22
B - Au niveau des introductions etrangeres
a - Riz = 10 varietes
b - Mais= 5 varietes
c - Arachide 7 varietes
d - Manioc 3 varietes resistantes a la mosaYque
11 convient de signaler que les essais et observations ont e  conduits en stations en collaboration avec la
recherche.
C - Au niveau semences de base
Au depart de cette phase de pr6paration, la recherche a fournir les quantites suivantes: Riz = 2,3 tonnes;
MaYs = 0,250 tonnes; Arachides - 0,4 10 tonnes
D - MULTIPLICATION AU NIVEAU DES CENTRES DE CONDITIONNEMENT ET
SEMENCES
A l'issu des travaux de station les recommandations faites aux Centres sont consignees dans le tableau
ci-apres.
DESIGNATION                RIZ               MAYS         ARACHIDE
KOBA             Balanta, Rock 5                       _
KILISSI          CK4, Samba konkon         Perta       Labiriya, Maressi
Kaolack, CK4, Nankin
BORDO            IRAT 109, 112, 144        Perta
IDSA 6, Nankin
Gambiaca, Kaolack CK4
BARENG                                     Diassengue
TINDO                                      Perta
CHAPITRE III - PHASE D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
Elle est la phase active dont les principales operations sont axees sur: la production avec la mise en
place du programme de multiplication des semences en milieu rural; les infrastructures et 6quipement;
1'installationl de trois magasins d'appui et l'6quipement de 5 centres en materiel de conditionnement; la
mise en place de la structure du projet soutenue par une formation aux techniques de production et de
gestion comptable.
A - INFRASTRUCTURE ET EQUIPEMENT
1'essentiel de ce chapitre se trouve consignes dans les tableaux d'evaluation des investissements realises
en infrastructure et equipement de 1987 A 1995.
En recapitulant ces investissements il se degage le masse monetaire suivante:
Equipement                             =       806.604.448 FG
Infrastructure                                1.738.229.386 FG
2.544.833.834 FG
N.B. : Pour les details il est recommande de se reporter en annexe 11 (Infrastructure et Equipement).



23
B - PRODUCTION ET EVALUATION DES COUTS
Dans ce domaine, les tableaux qui suivent exposent les bilans des activites de 3 annees consecutives
(1990 - 1991 - 1992) et leur analyse a permis egalement d'evaluer les couts de production. Pour mieux
apprecier les resultat il importe de connaitre le taux des e1lments qui ont contribue a l'evaluation de ces
charges.
Ce sont: (i) emballage, 3%; (ii) achat semences, 6%; (iii) produits phytosanitaires, 24%; (iv)
carburant/lubrifiant, 16%; (v) divers services exterieurs, 15%; (vi) amortissement, 36%.
COMMENTAIRE
De l'examen de ces tableau, il apparait clairement que c'est une periode d'intenses activites qui se
caracterise par des charges importantes relatives aux gros investissements (Infrastructure) qui ont pese
lourdement sur les resultats de l'exploitation consignes ci-dessus. on est tente de penser s'ils ne sont pas
encourageant.
Cependant il ne faut pas perdre de vue que le projet arrivait tout juste au passage entre 2 phases de
production : la phase artisanale et la phase industrielle qui attendait pour sa programmation, la reception
definitive des unites de conditionnement de semences.
Force est de reconnaitre dgalement que des le depart, la gestion de type industriel et commercial n'etait
pas reconnue comme une priorite etant entendu que certains prealables n'etaient pas encore reunis dans
la premiere phase tels que: identification de la production liee a la demande; mise en place de toute la
structure; formation d'un reseau de paysans (groupements, villages semenciers, cooperatives); promotion
des semences conditionnees par une etude de marche; textes legislatifs et normes de production.
ACQUIS DU PROJET
Apres le lancement de la premiere campagne de production (Mai 1989) les acquis du projet se resument
comme suit:
-  la realisation de 3 unites de conditionnement de semences d'une capacite de stockage de 1.000 T
chacune, dotes d'equipement performant pour le sechage, le traitement et le conditionnement des
semences.
-  la formation d'un personnel d'encadrement et d'un reseau de paysans multiplicateurs selectionnes
grace a une maitrise des techniques de production.
-  la creation effective d'un marche des semences alors que dans un passe recent, il n'etait que marche
potentiel. Ce qui permettra de planifier pour satisfaire la demande.
-  la formation des groupements, villages semenciers qui s'interessent progressivement a la gestion des
actions comme : production, collecte, commercialisation etc.
-  le zonage des perimetres semenciers et debut d'amenagement des bas-fonds reserves a la
multiplication grace a une collaboration BTGR/PSN.
-  la mise en place d'un syst&me de communication radio,
-  les Centre de Conditionnement de Semences sont en train de devenir un pole d'activites
economiques avec la diversification et l'intervention du credit.



24
CHAPITRE IV - LA PHASE TRANSITOIRE
Etant donne les couts de mise en oeuvre du projet, il etait illusoire au lendemain de la reception
definitive des centres d'esperer interesser le prive (operateur economique, organisation paysanne) A la
reprise de l'activite semenciere bien qu'il en avait et fait mention dans l'accord de credit (I 864/GUI).
Devant la situation, le seule alternative qui s'offrait A nous (Novembre 1992), c'etait d'envisager
une phase transitoire, passage oblige parce que les conditions de privatisation dtaient loin d'etre reunis.
Cette phase que nous abordons dans sa conception doit necessairement servir A la mise en route d'un
processus de privatisation des centres conform6ment A la politique liberale du gouvernement de la 2e
Republique. Pour son execution les objectifs ont ete fixee : (i) rationaliser la production pour r6duire les
couts; (ii) developper le marche et diversifier les activites pour accroitre le chiffre d'affaires; (iii) former
le personnel d'encadrement; (iv) identifier avant la fin de la premiere annee le future repreneur dans le
secteur prive ou associatif; (v) faire une etude pouvant apporter les informations et les conclusions
permettant d'elaborer un programme de transfert au secteur prive avec ses chances de succes.
II importe de savoir aussi que le financement de cette phase transitoire est assure par le reliquat
du credit destine initialement A la realisation des investissements de la 26 phase concemant notamment
les centres de Tindo, Bareng, 6 centres secondaires et le laboratoire central de contr6le et certification.
Le tableau qui suit va indiquer tous les renseignements sur la repartition des fonds au secteur prive.
Tableau  Repartition reliquat fonds de cr6dit aux gestionnaires contractuels (en US dollars).
CENTRES   GESTION-           FRAIS DE         PRESTATION DU   REMUNE-
NAIRES     FONCTIONNEMENT    GESTIONNAIRE    RATION             TOTAL
US$         PAR MOIS   REMUNE-   TOTAL
CALEND-   RATIONS
_________       _______   RIERS           1+2+3
Fixes    Variables   Remun-  Remune
2 ans     (Achat,   eration   ration
traitement)   fixe    variable
KOBA       ASODIA          62.000     80.000  340.000   30.000      14.176     400.000    572.000
KILISSI    A.C.T.          70.000     80.000  170.000   30.000       7.083     200.000    380.000
BORDO      CFDT           66.000      80.000  306.000   30.000      15.300     360.000    536.000
198.000    240.000  816.000   90.000      36.559     960.000   1.488.000
N.B.: Ce montant affichd est faux, il doit etre remplace par 12.750 US$
Des le depart cette phase a eu une incidence malheureuse sur la campagne agricole 1993/1994.
Elle s'est caracterisee en effet par une hesitation des partenaires contractuels A prefinancer ladite
campagne en attendant le versement de l'avance de demarrage, qui pour des raisons administratives et de
procedures commencait, A prendre du retard; ceci a eu pour consequences : retard dans I'achat et la
distribution des intrants; retard dans I'acquisition des frais de fonctionnement. Tous ces raisons ont
amene la Direction du PSN a dui consentir des efforts pour: allouer des fonds pour l'achat des intrants;
autoriser l'utilisation du reliquat de fonds des comptes bancaires de Centres pour supporter leur
fonctionnement. Apres que les fonds soient mis A la disposition des contractuels depuis 15 A 18 mois, les
resultats obtenus sont enregistres annuellement dans les tableaux ci-apres:



25
TABLEAU l: CAMPAGNE AGRICOLE 1993 - 1994
Centres    Esp6ces    Superficie   Nombre      Semen.      Redevance  Rembo-   Achat en   Total
(ha)        paysans     distribudes  engrais    ursement  Kg
en kg                   en kg
KOBA       Riz          73,38          176      14.972         1 T       4.247      4.438      8.685
KILISSI    Riz             36          105       2.520         --         --       32.365    32.365
Mais             6          15         150                     300      36.200    36.500
Arachi.          8          80         640                     833     20.985    21.818
TOTAUX                     50         200        3.310         --        1.133     89.550    90.683
BORDO    Riz              175          129      14.000      34.089      26.798     21.796    48.597
Mais          60,5          49        1.210      12.408     22.284      33.217    33.217
Total        235,5         178       2,610       46.497     37.731     44.080    81.811
TABLEAU II: CAMPAGNE AGRICOLE 1994 - 1995
Centres    Especes    Superficie   Nombre      Semen.      Redevance  Rembo-   Achat en   Total
(ha)        paysans     distribudes  engrais    ursement  Kg
en kg                   en kg
KOBA       Riz           73,5         176        4.691                   9.382     50.618    60.000
Mals        3,500m2          1    __
KILISSI    Riz             36          117       4.605                    --       30.000    36.900
Mais             6          16         150                   6.900       5.284     5.443
Arachi.         60         275       7.310                     195      2.004    12.437
TOTAUX             _      102         408       12.365         --       16.599     38.152    54.780
BORDO    Riz              139          169      15.058      26.100      33.559     49.702    83.261
Mais            58         108        1.160         --      16.362     33.724    53.086
Total          197         277       16.218                 52.921     83.426   136.374
Interpretation des resultats
De l'interpretation des resultats enregistres d'apres les tableaux ci-dessus pr6sentes, il ressort que les
couits de production sont eleves et cofitent entre 3.000 a 3.500 FG/Kg. Ce qui denote que: (a) la
production n'a pas degage un cash flow positif permettant de creer les conditions de rentabilite en
reduisant les cofits; (b) le diversification meme si elle est amorcee quelque part elle n'a pas augment6 le
chiffre d'affaires des centres.
En conclusion il apparait la meme situation qu'il y a 2 ans dans des conditions differentes. Ce qui peut
signifier que les gestionnaires n'ont pas fait preuve de leurs competences techniques (en matiere
d'industrie et commerce) et financieres meme si elles existent quelque part, malgrd le volume des fonds
engages avec une large autonomie de gestion. Ceci peut se comprendre parce que le contrat n'implique
aucun risque pour le gestionnaire. C'est l'etat que paie les frais au cas oui l'operation s'avere non
rentable.



26
Conclusions generales phase transitoire
En tirant les lecons de cette phase de gerance privee, il apparaSt que les gestionnaires ont passe a cote du
plan d'action mis au point pour sa bonne execution.
Pour s'en convaincre, il convient de noter que les resultats obtenus n'ont pas permis d'augmenter le
chiffre d'affaires des CCS, ni faire la promotion de semences, ni assurer la formation du personnel, ni
identifier les futurs repreneurs locaux ni meme elaborer les procedures devant conduire a la privatisation.
En conclusion aujourd'hui, la plus part des agents s'accorde a reconnaitre que le contrat n'est pas
en soi une demarche menant a la privatisation. 11 est premature de s'engager dans cette voie sans au
prealable maitriser les contraintes d'ordre technique, economique et sociale qui permettent de poser les
conditions objectives de chance pour un succes.
CHAPITRE V: SUGGESTIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS
La production des semences est une activite permanente qui obeit a la loi du minimum de liebig: selon
laquelle si l'un des elements fondamentaux: la recherche (creation varietale) le PSN (producteur
semences) la vulgarisation (diffusion des semences) fait defaut ou son action s'avere insuffisante, il
limite et entrave l'action des deux autres.
Dans 1'etat actuel de developpement de I'agriculture, il est difficile d'atteindre le seuil de rentabilite des
centres (niveau d'activite permettant de generer un benefice).
Les gestionnaires le reconnaissent (cf rapport d'activites) et continuent a utiliser les fonds empruntes par
la Guinee sans risque aucun parce que epargnes de toute participation financiere.
Pour eviter de deplacer le probleme et compromettre l'un des piliers de notre developpement, il est sage
de continuer sur la lancee de depart avec une decentralisation de la gestion.
Le processus est deja engagee avant la signature des contrats et se developpe progressivement dans les
differentes activites tant dans la collaboration avec les paysans qu'avec celle des autres partenaires
comme IRAG, SNPRV, BTGR, credit etc.
Ceci permnettrait de sortir de la lethargie vecue depuis bient6t 2 ans, afin de poursuivre notre programme
vers le professionnalisme de semences.
l'objectif tel que pr6conise doit etre a moyen et long terme. Pour y parvenir il faut prendre pour base la
formation des groupements prives (exploitants petits et moyens) specialises et vivant en partie de la
production des semences.
II convient donc de definir les elements qui conditionnent la mise en oeuvre de 1'entreprise et de son
fonctionnement. En fait il faut distinguer 2 fonctions: (i) les fonctions perennes qui restent une
prerogative de l'Etat. Elles s'identifient a la planification au controle de la production semenciere
(controle de qualite et certification); (ii) les fonctions temporaires par opposition aux premieres. Elles
sont transferables au secteur prive (production, traitement, distribution etc...).



27
Des le depart il est indispensable de s'engager a faire une etude a tous les niveaux (technique, march6,
organismes) permettant de determiner rationnellement par ordre de priorite les actions a privatiser
distribution, approvisionnement en intrants, produits etc...
En ce moment la privatisation se veut progressive en l'adaptant au niveau technique du monde rural
lequel s'integre au developpement de ]'ensemble du secteur agricole.
A/ SUGGESTIONS
Pour atteindre les objectifs assignes au projet it est opportun de proceder a la mutation de la structure
actuelle en Service National des Semences et Plants de Guinee (SENASEP Guinee) place sous la tutelle
directe du cabinet du Ministre conformement a la conception de base et a 1'execution du projet qui est
reste sous sa haute responsabilite.
La mutation sollicitee offrirait la possibilite de: faire des etudes s6rieuses sur les charges actuelles en
vue d'eliminer dans le futur tous les 6lements qui ne sont pas intrinsequement lies aux activites
industrielles et commerciales; organiser les paysans en vue de leur participation active aux activites
commerciales et industrielles liees aux semences et commencer a les interesser pour les associer
progressivement a la gestion des centres; rendre les centres semenciers de plus en plus autonomes et
assurer une formation au personnel dans une demarche de privatisation ou il pourrait trouver sa place;
creer un v6ritable organisme de controle et certification afin de donner aux semences de guinee un label
leur permettant d'etre concurrentiel vis-a-vis de l'ext6rieur; creer de liens de travail avec les organismes
de credit implantes dans les zones d'activite des centres; organiser des missions de consultation pour
aider a la realisation des objectifs.
En conclusion, la fonction en voie de creation, la privatiser hativement amene le risque de la faire
disparaitre, ce qui exposera le pays a des consequences graves: (a) la disparition d'un entrepreneur prive.
d'autant plus dommageable que s'il est Guineen: (b) I'abandon d'une activite dont l'interet pour le
developpement rural est pourtant evident.
Justification:
Nous sommes assures de la viabilit6 du programme parce que partant sur une base sOre dont: un
personnel suffisamment qualifi6 et forme pour la cause possedant une experience de 8 ans dans la filiere
donc capable de concevoir et de soutenir 1'execution d'un programme semencier; une infrastructure de
base solide avec un equipement performant; une disponibilite de varietes ameliorees par espece ayant fait
leur preuve; une pr6sence d'un reseau de paysans multiplicateurs de semences acquis & la cause et
possedant un bon niveau technique a renforcer permanement; 1'existence de groupements semenciers
plus ou moins formels capables de gerer et administrer les activites de production pour un depart et les
autres, comme le traitement et la distribution pour un futur proche s'ils beneficient d'une assistance
technique et financiere adequates; 1'existence d'un marche de semences solvable assure d'une extension
progressive etant donne les besoins d'une population croisante et le contexte geopolitique de la sous
region; le renforcement des relations avec des institutions de plue en plus performantes telles que:
IRAG, SNPRV, BTGR qui sont des collaborateurs obliges; la possibilite d'elargir la production des
semences a celles forestieres, fourrageres et marakch&res; I'identification des methodes d'approche
nouvelles pour la promotion des semences.



28
B/ RECOMMANDATIONS
La production des semences amelior6es est avancee comme etant la condition essentielle pour
l'accroissement de la production agricole. Pour ce faire, une planification s'impose en vue d'organiser et
definir l'ensemble du programme semencier envisage.
It peut s'articuler somme suit: definir le schema de production; definir le systeme de multiplication et
d'attribuer les taches de production des differents stades de multiplication aux differentes structures
existantes  recherche, CCS, groupements, cooperatives, organismes de developpement, societe prives
etc.; definir les objectifs quantitatifs de production; delimiter les zones de production; inscrire au
catalogue les varietes retenues pour la multiplication; definir les moyens humains et materiels pour
liberer ou chercher les ressources financieres.
Pour realiser tout ce programme il est important de tenir compte de certaines considerations generales a
savoir: assurer la liaison et la coordination entre les differents services ou organismes engages dans la
production semenciere; mettre en place une politique de prix incitatif notamment au niveau paysannat;
reviser p6riodiquement et adapter le programme afin d'elever constamment son efficacite; installer des
centres secondaires pour faciliter la distribution des semences.



IBRD 20468
--- -- - -r- --                                                  S                          E N  E G  A  L                                                                                                                                                                                              G U I N E A
G U I N E A                                  . I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
T. II, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~           ~          ~          ~          ~          ~         ~          ~ ~ ~ ~ LIE
PRO JET SEMENCIER
NATIONAL
A PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURE
INFRASTRUCTURE DU PREOJT
SEED CONDITIONING CENTERS
2/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CENTRED EAVEDOFOADS  q  iv idoQgoV  ;    iCONDTTIONNEMET OF *EM ELOPMENCES
-,RE  ~  ~            ~           ~           ~                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RESEARCH CENTERS
CES, ,RESSE RECHFNRCHE
/  WEGidN                                                                                                                                                                                              CE)  GUALIEN CONTROL LARORATOET~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q-ALV ONRL ABMTR
RLASRRTOiLES OF CONROLE I    PFAO IAIITE
*     PROJECT AEADOEARTERS
SFNEGAL                        A M L;HEMIN DE FER  4  a \ NE   a  m  ?IEGE DU  OPRJET
IHt GALuSLf _i ,   MALI/              E9   TffFt  URE HE^OQUiTERS                              ,         +           9 t  \t                <           )  04                                                       A      SEED CONDIAREASTI LLN'I dt CEFNTERSOUTSDEPROJ
ITHORS PRO,LETID
AR~EAS WHERE SEED LWOULD RE DISTRIBUTED SY EXISTING<'
PEOPOSED PRO ECTS
GUINEE .OES OU LES s-mENcEs sENr EIOVINCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PAR5 oe/s(ZS CP
-3LSSAU,JPROJETEXISTANTS OU PROPOSES
/                       VAfl AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION TCUNIEUE CENTER (U-AIDA
E  )CENTRE Of VILGARISAT ION TECHNIQUE AGRICOJh
KOUJROUSSA NTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT OFFICE
( AD&IFTAD)
FAUNAH                                                                                          OFF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EICE Of DEVESOFUEMENr RPUAL INTEOPE DE
POUROUISS. ISAOFDTNA       EA
COTE COTED IVIRE          SIGUIRI RICE OPTEATION DlEAD)
ATLANTIC  OCEAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COT                        OPRTO  RICO D| SILoR FI0  0     At  
GUINEURAT(EDRURACCCEVEDEENT   PC EEM E  '9AO
S I E R R A   L E 0   N  ~ ~        ~        ~       ~        ~      ~ ~            El        ~       s>           ~D'IVO IRE                                  PRGUINME DE DECIZUDPSTIl PURRA INTETPE a LA
CONAKRY                                                                                                                                                                                                     _L7EGGll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j  AThDNE6,.T`DCCCECPD')
s  *                                            D~~~~~~~~~~~l   UECEEDOU DEVELOPMENT PROLECT YTRCADRLITADI
-   '-~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              EF~~~~~IOACT ADEICCUE DE GLIECREDOU BIAD TADEIDA,
J,JTERNAl  NAL AIRPORT                                                                                                                     "I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-LOT EUTENSDON PROJECT 'SERDI
EROICRT ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTER-TIONAL                                                                                                  WJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V.--- POE PUOTE DE VULCARIDATONI TERD'
BtNTIMODIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVOPEN_l,lT PPO,ECT
EROORC).ES  ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-PROJET VT DVETIOPI'EMEN PUPAL 'NTEEJAE E
IIIEII ROADS                                                                                            I-                           8;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANT;MODIA OCCCE)
'OUTES FAIES                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED (PROPOSE) PRODRAMME al DEVELOPTEMENT
.1                  ~     ~~~~~~RURAL INEREVLADNESAIME1)
UNIAIED ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OAOS                                                                                                     "'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPSED  PEROSEDPLAGUNESE VTLT,CEVMlN   EA
RAILRO.(S                                                                                                                                     (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.o1PROJECT AREA STE'L TO SE DEF PE2.
SENEGAL  r                      CHEMIN DE FER   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ZONE DU PROIJEE A DEPINIER
1PROPOSED IPRPOCSE) PROJET OF DTE,SVN  PP,L
Ir            LEUIES                                                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DECENTUALISE FAO,UNUIPI
T.   AAF-_                 IMALI                                                                                                                                                                                        / RFETREE(QATESPROJECT AREA ST 1. '0 UP DEE 'ET,
TUE _t  7       )         0/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (ZONE D12 PRSE7 A DETEAPI)
LIMIT EDX DES PRETECTURESISTEEEN
PROSINCE TADRE
-U'N L,                     URKINA~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMTS E POINE
>  L ,-,-   CODE BVFAOI      /    B-     NERATIONALCITLV                                                                                                                                                                                        AURALOADRREEGILOMETU RERS
CONAPRY11                                                                           U.    DES PRAFETURESEATS                                                E                                                                                                     SCH         ADE          RDN
LIBERIA    &                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0T        20  ET                SE        RD
ATLANTIC OCEAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                __________________i
SEPTETMBER UR87






