Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6918-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
November 16, 1987
Agriculture Operations
Country Department I
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank aouthorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =   Guinean Franc (FG)
US$1  =   PG 400 a!
SDR 1  =   US$1.27964 b/
WEIGHTS AND MEASUREMENTS
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB     - African Development Bank
BSD      - Bureau de Strategie et de Developpement
CCCE     - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
DAG      - Direction Generale d'Administration
DGFPR    -  Direction Generale de la Formation et Promotion Rurale
DNRA     -  Direction Nationale de la Recherche Agronomique
FAO      -  Food and Agriculture Organization
FED      -  Fonds Europ6en de Developpement
IFAD     -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IITA     -  International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
MDR      - Ministbre du Developpement Rural
NSC         National Seed Committee
ONADER   -  Opnration Nationale pour le Developpement de la Riziculture
ORS      - Operation Rizicole Siguiri
PAG      -  Projet Agricole de Gueckedou
PDRI     -  Projet de Developpement Rural Int4gr6
PPF      -  Project Preparation Facility
PPV      -  Projet Pilote de Vulgarisation
SCC      -  Seed Conditioning Center
SPU      -  Seed Production Unit
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Program
USAID    - United States Agency for International Development
WARDA    - West Africa Rice Development Association
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
a/ Represents the exchange rate at appraisal in June 1987. The exchange rate
is established through an auction system and was FG 440 to the U.S.
dollar at time of negotiations (October 1987).
_/ As of September 30, 1987.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE ......           .........................  iii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .. ....................... .          ..   ........    v
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..........,...,,,,.,....,   ix
I.   INTRODUCTION . .....................................                          1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .......          ..........................           1
Main Features ...         ........................................         1
Major Constraints to Growth ......          .....................          3
Institutional Environment .          ............................          4
Government Policies and Strategy .          .....................          5
IDA's Secto. Strategy and Expe-ience ...............         ...           6
Varietal Selection and Seed Production ...........        .....            7
III. THE PROJECT ..... ....   9
A. General ..                              ....... .                       9
Project Rationale .........         ......................          9
Project Concept and Objectives ............. .. ....                9
Project Description          .............................          9
B.  Detailed Features ....... ..........................                 10
(a)  Base Seed Production .......................                 11
(b)  Improved Seed Production          ...................        12
(c)  Quality control        .      ...................            13
(d)  Training ...         ........... . . . . .-...-.             14
(e)  Project Administration ..           ...................      14
C.  Project Costs and Financing .....          ..................        14
Cost Estimates .        .................................         14
Project Preparation Facility ..................        ..         15
Financing .        ......................................         16
Procurement ...................                                   16
This report is based on the findings of a Bank Appraisal Mission which took
place from May 18 to June 3, 1987, consisting of Messrs. E. Locatelli
(mission leader), M. Raine and R. Whyte (IDA), Mr. F. Troude (consultant) and
Mr. T. Diallo (MDR). Figures were checked by Mr. B. de Chazal. Drafting was
checked by Mrs. C. Gui4, J. Ogang, and M. Layton. The secretarial work was
done by Mrs. J. Ogang.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                        Page
Disbursements   ......... ...........................         18
Revolving Funds      ..................................       18
Financial Management, Accounts, Reporting
and Auditing Requirements ............... .......           19
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ......... ............             20
Project Administration.                                       20
National Seed Policy and Seed Quality Standards               21
Base Seed....                                                 21
Seed Conditioning Centers    ..22
Privatization ..22
Financial Implications to Government                          23
V.   PRODUCTION, DEMAND AND PRICES ....            .............      24
Incremental Production and Beneficiaries ... ......          24
Demand    ...........................................         25
Prices ..........    .................................        26
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....    .............         27
Overall Benefits ............. .... ..... .....               27
Economic Rate of Return ......    ....................        27
Sensitivity Analysis .......    ......................        28
Risks .. ...... ...................                           28
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ....... ................           29
ANNEXES
2        National Production, Seed Requirements and Project Seed
Production of Rice, Maize and Groundnuts
3-1      Commercial Seed Production by Seed Center/Crop/Year
3-2      Implementation Schedule
3-3      Detailed Cost Tables
3-4      Estimated Disbursement Schedule
4-1      Organizational Chart
4-2      Bordo Seed Center: Income and Expenditure; Cash Flow and
Return to Purchaser
4-3      Government Cash Flow
5-1      Amount of Seed Available to Farmers/Crop/Year; Incremental
Production from Improved Seed; Economic Value of Production
5-2      Seed Center Purchase and Sale Price of Rice, Maize and
Groundnuts
6-1      Economic Analysis
6-2      Economic Farmgate Prices
MAPS;     IBRD Nos. 20468:  National Seeds Project
20469: Agrizultural Production Zones



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE
A.   DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS
1.   Projet Semencier National. Rapport de Preparation   FAO/CP, February
1987.
2.  Projet Semencier National. Rapport d'Identification. FAO/CP, September
1986.
3.   Etude de Restructuration des Services Agricoles et de Sch6mas Directeurs
R6gionaux de D6veloppement Rural. Agroprogress, August 1986.
4.   Guinea Economic Report No. 469-GUI.
B.   WORKING PAPERS
1.   Type and Amount of SeedlResearch and Seed Center
2.   Equipment and Civil Works
3.  Agricultural Potential; Seed Requirements; Available Varieties of Rice,
Groundnuts and Maize; Training Program. Extracted from Agropro$ess
Report of August 1986 and FAO/CP Preparation Report of
February 1987.
4.   Detailed Cost Tables
5.   Terms of Reference International Staff
6.  Economic Analysis



i
llz-



v -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Government of Guinea
Beneficiary:        Ministry of Rural Development
Amount:             SDR 7.1 million (US$9.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Project
Description:        The project will, over a four-year period, set up the
first national improved seed production system in Guinea.
It will serve as a catalyst of ongoing activities and
will build on existing institutions (research stations,
agricultural development and extension projects) to
identify, produce and distribute improved rice, maize and
groundnuts seed. This will contribute to an increase in
fooderop production and farmers' income and will be
implemented through:
(a) strengthening the Ministry of Rural Development's
research stations to identify, select and produce
base seed of adapted varieties of foodcrops,
suitable for various environmental conditions and
meeting consumers' preferences;
(b) setting up strategically located Seed Conditioning
Centers which will (i) supervise the production of
base seed and its multiplication by contract
outgrowers engaged through development and extension
projects; and (ii) condition improved seed and
supply it as commercial seed tc farmers through
existing development and extension projects, as well
as private traders;
(c) establishing seed quality control facilities;
(d) training staff to carry out selection, base and
improved seed production and quality control
activities; and
(e) providing an organization and management system that
will ensure the control and coordination of
country-wide seed production activities.



- vi -
Estimated Proiect Costs al
Local        Foreign       Total           Z of
-(US$ million)---------                  Base Cost
Base Seed Production                0.2          1.0           1.2             13
Improved Seed Production            0.8          3.7           4.5             48
Quality Control                     ...          0.1           0.1              1
Training                            0.1          ...           0.1              1
Project Administration              0.3          3.1           3.4             37
Total Base Costs b/                 1.4          7.9           9.3            100
Physical Contingencies              0.1          0.5           0.6              7
Price Contingencies                 0.5          0.2           0.7              7
Total Project Costs                 2.0          8.6          10.6
a/ Inclusive of taxes and duties which are negligible.
/L Including PPF for US$0.58 million.
Financin2 Plan
Local        Foreign       Total
-(US$ million)---------
Government                          1.6          ...           1.6
IDA                                 0.4          8.6           9.0
Total                               2.0          8.6          10.6
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year
FY88     FY89      FY90       FY91       1992       1993       1994
U----------(US  million)-------------------------
Annual          0.6       1.3       2.1        2.0        1.6        1.0        0.4
Cumulative      0.6       1.9       4.0        6.0        7.6        8.6        9.0



- vii -
Benefits and Risks
The project will provide the assistance and organization necessary
for reliable production and distribution of improved seed. Improved seed at
full development will cover about 20% of the area planted in Guinea with
rice, maize and groundnuts. This will increase crop productivity by 20-30%.
Additionally, the Seed Conditioning Centers will generate revenues from PY3
onwards and the system has been set up in such a way that it can be
privatized a few years after start up. Finally, the project will train local
staff to take over responsibility for base and improved seed production and
quality control.
Two possible risks are (a) delays or complications in project
implementation due to difficulties in coordinating several institutions
involved in the project, and (b) inadequate Government counterpart funding.
Delays will be minimized because the project has already started under PPF
financing. Coordination among various institutions wi?l be facilitated by
the eagerness with which the entire agricultural ccmmunity in Guinea awaits
improved seeds, and by the explicit coordination mechanisms established by
the project. The research centers are looking forward to collaborating with
the project, which will assist them technically and financially in exploiting
available research results and producing base seed. In addition, the ongoing
rural developmient projects need improved seed to supply their farmers.
Furthermore, a management unit and a consultative process have been provided
to direct project activities. Regarding timely Government counterpart
funding, risks have been minimized by reducing Government's contribution to a
minimum, by creating a revolving fund in which Government's contribution will
be provided in advance, and by ensuring that revenues from the seed sales
will be kept in a bank account for the use of the project.
Economic Rate of Return: 30%
Maps IBRD Nos. 20468 - National Seeds Project
20469 - Agricultural Production Zones



"I,%
%r
4r,
i                                         "ZI.--
;PC
4
S-



- ix -
REPUBLIC OF 3UINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Unit        1974-76 Av.      1985
1. Population
Total                                           M              4.7          6.2
Rural as Z of Total                             z             84.0         78.0
Rural Families                                '000           611.0        770.0
2. Economic Overview
GDP/Head of Total Population (cons. 1981)   $                310.0        320.0
Agric. GDP/Head of Rural Development            $            14J.0        165.0
Agricultural GDP as X of Total                  2             43.0          40.0
3. Land Use
Lan.d Area                                   sq. km          246.0        246.0
Perennial Crops                              '000 ha         131.0        211.0
Annual Crops                                 '000 ha         912.0      1,328.0
4. Output a/
(i) Rice                              74-75 Av. = 100    100.0          144.0
(ii) Fonio                                                  100.0        165.0
(iii) Cassava                                   "            100.0        120.0
(iv) Coffee                                                 100.0         51.0
5. Inputs
Fertilizer                                  '000 tons           --          1.0
6. Trade (Current Prices)
Total Exports (FOB)                            $ m           186.0        465.0
of which:
Agricultural Products                         X              5.4          1.9
of which: (i) Palm Kernels                    X             35.0           --
(ii) Coffee                         2             25.0           --
(iii) Pineapple                      2             31.0           --
Total Imports:                                 $ m           257.0        370.0
of which: Agricultural Products                 2              9.0           --
7. Government Expenditures
Total Recurrent Budget                         $ m           212.0        450.0
of which: Agriculture                         X                -         10.0
Total Capital Budget                           $ m           174.0        170.0
of which: Agriculture                         2             17.0         18.0



I
t



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Guinea has requested IDA's assistance in the
identification and selection of adapted rice, maize and groundnuts varieties,
and in the establishment of a national system to produce and distribute
improved seed of these varieties. This low risk, rapid means of improving
agricultural productivity was foreseen in Bank dialogue with Government in
1984. The concept was further elaborated as a strategy in the Government's
Agriculture Strategy Study (1985186) and highlighted in the consultant SCET-
AGRI study on the reorganization of agricultural services (1986). At the
request of Government, an FAO/CP identification mission visited Guinea from
June 19 to July 9, 1986 to identify a National Seeds Project. The need for
improved seed was further supported by farmers' response to a survey carried
out prior to project preparation and was later confirmed during appraisal.
1.02      The project was prepared by an FAO/CP mission whicb visited Guinea
in October/November 1986. In addition to preparation of the project, the
FAO/CP mission recommended the immediate selection of varieties that would
enter the seed multiplication process as soon as the project became
effective. This action was subsequently done under Project Preparation
Facility financing. The project will constitute Guinea's first concerted
effort to organize the identification, production and distribution of
improved seed. The project will focus on (a) the production of base seed
through reinforcing the research structure necessary to identify, select and
produce this seed; (b) the setting up of a national system for multiplication
of this seed through registered outgrowers; and (c) the establishment of seed
conditioning centers in such a way that they could be privatized. It would
be executed in four years at a cost of US$10.6 million, to be financed by
Government and IDA.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Main Features
2.01      General Performance.  Agriculture is the mainstay of the country's
economy, providing a livelihood for about 80? of the population and
generating about 40? of GDP. Agricultural production over the past two and a
half decades has deteriorated. Agricultural commodities, while accounting
for the bulk of Guinea's exports in 1958, now represent less than 2Z of the
total value of exports. At the same time, food crop production has not kept
pace with the iincrease irL population.  Rice imports, which were 7,000 tons in
1958, exceeded 100,000 tons in 1986 and are expected to be higher in 1987;
total food imports represent about 30? of the general import bill.



2.02      This picture of stagnating production and mounting import
requirements is in marked contrast with Guinea's agricultural potential. The
country is endowed with abundant water resources and varied topography and
soils distributed within the four agroecological zones (IBRD Map No. 20468).
These zones compriset the Maritime Region (Basse Guinee) with high rainfall;
the Fouta Djallon Region (largest part of Moyenne Guinee), which is the
upland plateau of the countr- where many of the important rivers of West
Africa originate; the Upper Region (Haute Guinee), predominantly Savannah;
and the Forest Region (Guin6e Forestibre) in the eastern part of the country
with high potential for most crops. These varied environments should allow
the country to satisfy most of its needs for food crops and to produce
coffee, cocoa, oil palm, copra, pineapples and other fruits, and livestock
for local processing and for export. While the potential is significant, a
combination of serious distortions in the macroeconomic environment and
mismanaged public policies and services during the last 25 years (Economic
Report No. 469-GUI) has turned agriculture into a subsistence low production
sector. Government is addressing these problems through a number of economic
policy measures (para 2.09).
2.03      The crops subsector cuoers over 1.6 million ha (62 of the national
territory and 272 of the arable land). About 1.3 million ha are under food
crops, of which 46Z is under rice, 25Z under other cereals (mainly
fonio--Digitaria exilis), 82 under groundnuts, 72 under root crops and 142
under plantation crops. At present, Guinea produces about 330,000 tons of
rice, 300,000 tons of other cereals (fonio, maize, millet), 70,000 tons of
groundnuts, and 600,000 tons of root crops. Together with imports of rice
(100,000 tons), wheat (30,000 tons), sugar (20,000 tons) and oil
(5,000 tons), the average amount of calories consumed daily ptr capita is
about 2,120 (320 from imports) and just meets the minimum requirements (1,900
to 2,500 in West Africa).
2.04      Rice is the dominant crop in Guinea (750,000 ha, 462 of cultivated
area) except in the impoverished soils of Guinea's upland plateau--the Fouta
Diallon--where it takes second place to fonio. Rice is Guinea's main food
staple, and national consumption is about 78 kg/capita per year, of which 23?
(1985) is supplied from imports. By 1997, on the basis of the same
consumption per capita, needs will amount to 600,000 tons of rice, i.e.,
about 920,000 tons of paddy or about 200,000 tons more than is being produced
(Annex 2). There is currently an indication of a supply response in
production due to area expansion as a result of Government lifting price
controls. The constraint to self-sufficiency now seems to lie mostly in the
high cost of transport and the low level of agricultural technology.
2.05      Rice is produced under four types of cultural practices: upland or
rainfed rice (682 of total) is grown throughout the country but mostly in the
Upper and Forest Regions; flooded rice (122), introduced in Guinea after
World War II, is concentrated in the Upper Region, especially where soils are
flooded by surface water; mangrove rice (11Z) is grown exclusively in the
Maritime Region; and swamp rice cultivation (92) is in expansion and
uniformly spread among the Maritime, Fouta Djallon, and Forest Regions.
Yields vary from 750 kg/ha for upland rice to 1,000 kg/ha for flooded rice,
1,300 kg/ha for mangrove rice and 1,500 kg/ha for rice under irrigation
(about 15,000 ha). These low yields are the result of poor quality seed
combined with low density and rudimentary cultural practices.



2.06      Maize cultivation has spread from about 50,000 ha in 1954/56 to
about 140,000 ha today. It is expanding over the country and has become a
substitute for millet and sorghum. Its largest expansion has been in the
Fouta Djallon Region (48Z) where it is cultivated under the 'tapade"
system--an intensive cropping system with high rate of manure fertilization.
It is also cultivated in the Maritime and Upper Regions around the villages
and in the alluvial soils, while in the Forest Region it is planted the year
following iallow in association with upland rice. Yields vary greatly from
800 kg/ha to a modest 2,500 kg/ha depending on the fertilizer rate.
2.07      Groundnuts, cultivated on about 150,000 ha, were the most important
export crop in the past. Guinea's exports of about 6,500 tons in 1954, fill
to 2,100 tons in 1975. Today, groundnuts are cultivated throughout the
country for family consumption and constitute one of the main sources of
protein. Several areas of the country are well endowed for cultivation
(mainly around Koundara, Dabola and Bordo prefectures) due to good light
soils and sunshine during the rainy s9ason. Yields vary between 500 kg/ha
and 700 kg/ha.
Major Constraints to Growth
2.08       In much of Guinea, land and climate are not limiting factors to
increasing agricultural production. Currently, only about 27? of the arable
land is effectively cultivated. The area under food crops could be
significantly increased by developing new suitable areas, and productivity
could be raised by using available improved levels of technology (both with
and without imported inputs). Nevertheless, agriculture has stagnated and
food crop production has not kept pace with population growth for the last 25
years. Population is about 5.7 million, of which 1.5 million is urban. It
is projected to grow at a rate of 2.8? p.a. Agricultural growth is required
not only to keep up with population growth but also to fuel economic growth
to catch up for the stagration of the past. The productivity of the
smallholder subsector, the principal producing force, has been markedly below
its potential due to: (a) Government's distorted macroeconomic policy
including poor price incentives; and (b) a limited allocation of government
funds and ill-defined strategy for agriculture, which contributed to the
disintegration of agricultural services such as extension, research and seed
supply. This has resulted in a lack of adequate technical advice and inputs
for immediate use to farmers.
2.09      In 1984, a new Government, in consultation with the Bank and the
IMF, began to redress the basic macroeconomic problems of the country through
market liberalization and removal of the exchange rate and price distortions.
Since December 1985, the Government has implemented far-reaching reform
measures, including a twenty-fold devaluation, an auction based system for
the allocation of foreign exchange, trade liberalization, and major price
increases of strategic products and services. In the agricultural sector,
officially enforced producer prices have been abolished. State marketing
agencies have been either abolished or their monopoly status removed, forcing
them to compete with the private sector. The price of rice imported by the
Government and sold to the public has quintupled. and coffee and palm kernel
prices have also significantly risen. The Government is now in the process
of phasing out farm input subsidies and rAducing public intervention in the



- 4 -
distribution of inputs. These reforms have established the necessary
conditions for private sector participation in agriculture and agricultural
development. However, the reforms need to be complemented with institutional
development, particularly agricultural services. The Government recognizes
this need and efforts are underway, with IDA assistance, to improve
agricultural services.
Institutional Environment
2.10      Sector Planning, Management and Staffing.  The Ministry of Rural
Development (MDR) is considerably overstaffed and most staff are poorly
equipped to carry out their responsibilities. The low standard of technical
training, coupled with low salaries, has resulted in low motivation, high
absenteeism and ineffective support services. There is no transfer of
technical knowledge to farmers. The responsibility for agricultural
development is too diffused and there is no coordination among various
organizations involved in agriculture. As part of its reconstruction effort,
the Government has recently received assistance from IDA in this field
through the First Agricultural Services Project (Cr. 1636-GUI). A
Research/Extension rehabilitation project is under preparation with IDA
assistance (PPF approved) (para 2.18). The Government is about to streamline
the MDR, most significantly by reducing the number of staff.
2.11      Resource Allocation.  While overall public resources allocated to
agriculture are still not in line with the sector's contribution to
employment and national income (about 18Z and 40X reopectively in 1986), the
major problem is the inefficiency of resource allocation. Resources
allocated to recurrent expenditures, other than salaries, are inadequate.
Due to its limited resources, the Government will have to seek external
financing to increase budgetary allocations for operating costs and reduce
salary costs. The Government is slowly making improvements in this area.
2.12      Research.  Before 1958, agricultural research was actively
conducted in four relatively well managed and financed centers (Bordo,
Foulayah, Koba and Seredou). Research during this period was diversified
with emphasis on food, fruit and industrial crops. In food crops research,
several varieties of rice, maize and groundnuts were selected and
disseminated. The same cultivars can be used today due to their good
agronomic and cooking characteristics. From 1958 to 1963, resources became
scarce and research activities stagnated. From 1964 to 1980, agricultural
research was under the tutelage of the Ministry of Education and activities
were concentrated on direct production, neglecting research. After 1980,
some research was initiated through the creation of a Rice Development Agency
(ONADER), the membership of Guinea in regional research efforts including
WARDA (West Africa Rice Development Associaticn), and its participation in
SAFGRAD (Semi-Arid Food Grain Research and Development).
2.13      Agricultural research activities are minor in Guinea except for
externally financed projects such as the IDA-financed Gueckedou Agricultural
Development Project (PAG, Cr. 1635-GUI) and the maintenance work carried out
in some of the research stations. Guinea's main research stations outside
those under PAG have been short of equipment and operating funds. In
general, however, Guinea is relatively well endowed with technical



- 5 -
agricultural research staff, several research stations still maintain some
acceptable infrastructure, and some good genetic materials have been
maintained. Update of the staff's technical knowledge and provision of
operating funds are urgently needed to avoid further deterioration brought
about by the loss of qualified staff. With proper measu-es, the research
system could be revamped. IDA is assisting in preparing for this
rehabilitation under PPF financing (paras 2.10 and 2.18). The National Seeds
Project will also contribute to this endeavor.
2.14      Extension.  The MDR created in 1984 was given responsibility fer
extension. However, except in the case of externally financed rural
development projects such as PAG, field level structures remain almost
non-operational, and agricultural agents have no training and little
experience in extension, no technical messages to transmit and no operating
funds to carry out extension work. PAG is helping to develop field level
extension structures: an ongoing Pilot Extension Project (PPV) assisted by
IDA under a PPF is underway. A Research/Extension project addressing this
problem on a national level is under preparation. Two other development
projects have extension components: the Operation Rice Siguiri (ORS) financed
by IFAD/AfDB and the Integrated Rural Development Project (PDRI) in the Upper
Region financed by FAC/FED and managed by the French Cotton Development
Agency (CFDT). These projects have their own structures for extension and
input distribution, but their efforts are uncoordinated and probably not
sustainable once project funds are no longer available.
2.15      Input Supply/Credit.  Outside agricultural projects such as PAG,
PDRI and ORS where input purchase and distribution and technical advice are
provided, fertilizer other than manure is rarely utilized (estimated at 5,000
tons/year). This situation is due to a lack of fertilizer availability, and
when it is available, lack of farmer knowledge regarding its use. Farmers
complain in general of the unavailability of tools, spare parts,
agrochemicals, improved seed and means of transport. Official credit is
virtually non-existent except in the rural development projects.
Government Policies and Strategy
2.16      The Government's current objectives in the agricultural sector are
to promote production to achieve food self-sufficiency, to increase export
crop production, and to raise the standard of living of the rural population.
To reach these objectives, the strategy adopted by the Government and
supported by IDA aims at: (a) as a priority, improving smallholder
agriculture through better production incentives; (b) increasing productivity
by improving traditional agriculture; (c) reorganizing and streamlining
agricultural services with emphasis on research, extension and improved seed
production, and concentrating such services on smallholders; (d) privatizing
agricultural input supply; and (e) developing MDR's capability in planning,
investment review, and monitoring. The Government's investment program
reflects this strategy and concentrates on finalizing ongoing, viable
projects and on financing and developing new projects with a national
coverage.



- 6 -
2.17      To support these initiatives, the Government has several ongoing or
planned development projects for the various ecological zones. In the Forest
Region, there are two projects: the IDA-financed PAG and a proposed Rubber,
Oil Palm and Rice project for Nzerekore to be financed by the French Aid
Agency (CCCE). In the Upper Region are the major C tton/Food Crop
Development Project, PDRI, which covers four prefectures, the
AfDB/IFAD-financed ORS Project, and the Kouroussa Kenaf Rural Development
Project which is being redesigned to include food crops. In the Maritime
Region there is a small USAID-financed rural development project and a rural
developiaent project covering several prefectures to be financed by the
European Developme:tt Fund (FED). In the Fouta Djallon, there is a
UNDP-financed rural development project. IFAD has recently approved a credit
for a Livestock Sector Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1725-GUI). The Government
is preparing a National Forestry project which will include reforestation for
fuelwood and timber species, and rational management of the remaining natural
forest.
2.18      In addition to the above, the Government has started to improve its
agricultural services at the national level. It has established a Strategy
and Development Office (BSD) which is already helping to define and implement
the Government's agricultural policy and strategy, and to identify, prepare
and analyze projects. The 1986 Government-commissioned Agricultural Strategy
Study for the restructuring of agricultural services, which has just been
completed, will serve as background for the National Agricultural Research
and Extension Project and various farm input supply projects. The
IDA-supported pilot national extension project (PPF financing), begun in
1986, is underway in six prefectures (Bofa, Kindia, Forecariah, Pita, Dabola
and Faranah) and will be expanded in 1988 and 1989. These projects will
focus on improving research and extension services, and on promoting the
supply and distribution of inputs through the private sector. The Government
is restructuring MDR to provide a streamlined but more effective work force
to serve the rural populatior.. IDA is supporting this effort through a
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC). To complement these actions and due to
the increasing demand for improved seed and its immediate effect on
production, the Government has requested that selection, production and
distribution of improved seed be developed under the National Seeds Project.
IDA's Sector Strategy and Experience
2.19      IDA's assistance to Guinea's agricultural sector emphasizes raising
smallholder incomes while creating durable sector institutions in both the
public and private sectors. At the policy level, this objective has been
reached through macro and microeconomic policies aimed at providing
incentives for agricultural production, liberalizing marketing, setting
adequate pricing policies, enhancing the role of the private sector in
agriculture, and increasing the efficiency of essential Government services
in the sector (para 2.09). This strategy is being implemented through the
SAC (US$25 million) and the Special Facility for Sub-Sahara Africa (US$17
million) of February 1986, and IDA-financed projects.
2.20      IDA has participated in the financing of five agricultural
projects, of which two were completed and one cancelled. The Rice
Development Project (Cr. 952-GUI) was satisfactorily completed and gave



- 7 -
origin to the ongoing PAG. The Daboya Pineapple Project (FY76) was completed
to satisfactory technical standards but has been experiencing financing,
input supply and marketing problems since completion. Attempts to involve a
private partner are being made on the Government's initiative. The credit
for the Livestock Development Project (FY81) was cancelled in 1983 because of
the Government's failure to dismantle the State Livestock Marketing Agency as
agreed under the credit. The new Government has dissolved the agency and IDA
recently approved a credit for a Livestock Sector Rehabilitation Project
(para 2.17). Two additional projects are being executed satisfactorily,
i.e., the PAG and the First Agricultural Services Project (para 2.18). IDA
is financing the PPV which is satisfactorily progressing (para 2.18).
Finally, IDA has provided a PPF to finance preparation and start-up of the
National Agricultural Research and Extension Project. These interventions
will motivate smallholders by making them primarily responsible for their own
development with a minimum of state intervention.
Varietal Selection and Seed Production
2.21      A good seed production program involves close linkages between
(a) applied and adaptive research carried out at stations and in farmer
fields to select and/or develop varieties with good agronomic characteristics
that respond to farmers' preferences in terms of taste and cooking quality;
(b) production of small quantities of breeder seed in a research environment
to ensure varietal purity; and (c) an adequate system for multiplying breeder
seed to obtain sufficient base seed. This base seed is then multiplied to
produce improved seed which, once conditioned, becomes commercial seed ready
for distribution. Although past and current seed production efforts irn
Guinea have individually produced some results in one or other of these
areas, they have failed to produce a tangible impact either in terms of
varieties produced and accepted or in terms of quantity of improved seed
commercially distributed. All these efforts have lacked the necessary
continuity and the adequate organizational set up.
2.22      Varietal Selection Experience.  Since independence in 1958, Guinea
has made considerable efforts--with the assistance of several donors and
international organizations--to select and produce improved food crop
varieties. As a result, several hundred rice and maize varieties of varied
origin have been introduced. Research stations have developed the capacity
to test and select materials, and local staff have become knowledgeable in
the techniques involved. The Koba station has introduced, and is
maintaining, a valuable collection of 187 rice varieties of which IR 5 and
ROK 5 are of high interest for the mangrove and swamp ecologies. The ongoing
PDRI has introduced rice, maize and groundnut varieties while the ORS Project
has introduced, and has available, 16 upland and flooded rice varieties. The
Kilissi Station has produced the first Guinean rice hybrids and has succeeded
in purifying the old Perta maize variety that is now eagerly sought by
farmers. It maintains a collection of more than 230 ricp cultivars and has
produced four new rice varieties of significant potential and good agronomic
traits. PAG has introduced the improved LAC 23 which is being grown in the
Forest Region and for which there is still considerable demand. In addition,
several past varieties now called "traditional" or "local" varieties such as
Sonsonpolo (rainfed rice) and Indochine Red and White (floating rice) are
still readily accepted by farmers. Moreover, the activities of a



FAO-financed seed project (FAO/TCP 4513) aimed at identifying and selecting
varieties in the Kindia prefecture were expanded during the preparation of
the National Seeds Project.
2.23      Despite this large effort only PAG and the embryonic work of ORS
and PDRI have had a significant impact on farmer production. This is mainly
because of (a) disregard for farmers preferences in seed selection;
(b) little adaptive research in determining whether the so-called improved
seeds are really improved; (c) lack of resources for better research
programs; (d) inadequate follow-up of the impact of introducing new seed; and
(e) disparate, discontinuous and uncoordinated efforts among the many donors
and institutions involved. Many of the varieties used by farmers have
deteriorated and some of them are producing only a fraction of their original
potential. However, many varieties could be recovered, physically improved,
and released. The country has a good stock of potentially good varieties
(Perta, LAC 23, ROK 5, IR 5 and "traditional" varieties) and considerable
infrastructure and expertise which, if properly supported, directed and
utilized, could produce relatively good varieties in the short-term.
2.24      Seed Production: Demand/Supply Situation.  A 1986 survey and the
interest shown at appraisal by staff and farmers in development and extension
projects suggest a strong demand for improved seed. Assuming no growth in
area planted, an adoption rate of 50? and seed replacement every four, three
and five years for rice, maize and groundnuts respectively, the needs for
seed be 7,000 tons per year for rice, 600 tons for maize and 1,200 tons for
groundnuts. To supply the demand, the Government has from time to time
obtained imported seed of untested varieties. Imported varieties have not
worked well, which is not surprising because adaptation was not attempted.
There are no known commercial sources of tested and improved seed in West
Africa.  Because of Guinea's many different ecologies, it is unlikely that a
foreign supplier could provide the needed seed, although some imported seed
might be multiplied and sold commercially after adaptive trials.
2.25      Existing production of improved seed in Guinea of about 350
tons/year meets the needs of only a fraction of the country's farmers. Seed
production and distribution are limited to the isolated efforts of the IDA
and AfDB-funded projects (PAG and ORS), and of the PDRI which started in 1986
and has a modest seed production component.



III. THE PROJECT
A.   General
Project Rationale
3.01      The proposed project will  be a catalyst of the different efforts
being carried out (paras 2.21-2.25) which have yet to come together to form
an integral part of the Government's strategy for the sector. It focuses on
the identified need for developing an improved seed production capacity
which, with minimum risk, will improve smallholder incomes. It will provide
seeds adapted to Guinea's varied ecological and economic environments.
3.02      The project will start a production system of improved seed.  It
will complement and build on ongoing research, extension and seed production
activities financed by IDA and other donors, and capitalize on the existing
human and institutional infrastructure and on the available genetic material.
IDA's participation at this stage will fill the void felt in existing
projects regarding the lack of an overall national system to help coordinate
donors' efforts and ensure the supply of an essential input for agricultural
extension messages. The project will set up the system so that important
parts of it could be privatized in the future.
Project Concept and Objectives
3.03      The main project objectives aim at (a) supplying the financing,
assistance, and organization necessary to establish a reliable national seed
production system which could be privatized; and (b) increase productivity
through the production of improved seed. Under the project, an important
part of the seed production process--multiplication--will be contracted to
farmers. Production of base seed and quality control will be undertaken by
the Ministry of Rural Development. The organization and operation of the
Seed Conditioning Centers (SCCs) will be set up for privatization by ensuring
profitability. The Centers not sold to the private sector due to lack of
demand will have carefully designed management and pricing and cost control
systems which will result in production of high quality seed and permit
privatization when a suitable investor appears. Three crops (rice, maize and
groundnuts) have been chosen because of the demonstrated demand for seed, the
ready availability of adapted varieties, and the projected impact on crop
yields.
Project Description
3.04      The project will support over a period of four years (1988-91) the
identification of suitable rice, maize and groundnuts varieties and the
establishment of a production system for good quality improved seed. It will
be national in scope and include the five following components:
(a) Base Seed Production - Selected research stations will identify
suitable local and imported varieties and produce base seed.



- 10 -
(b) Improved Seed Production - Base seed will be multiplied by contract
outgrowers; six SCCs will be established in different ecological
zones of the country to condition and store improved seed, and to
ensure coordination of outgrower production at the regional level.
(c) Quality Control - Seed quality will be controlled at the SCC level
and in a central quality control laboratory, as well as at farmer
level through the monitoring of field results and acceptability.
(d) Training - Local staff of all services involved in the project will
be trained abroad and in situ.
(e) Project Administration - A management unit and a consultative body
will be responsible for administering the project and for
coordinating seed production at the national level.
3.05      The project will finance the following items:
(a)  purchase of vehicles, agricultural equipment, field and office
equipment for project staff and three research centers;
(b) purchase of seed conditioning equipment, appropriate civil works to
house the conditioning equipment, and storage/drying facilities for
the SCCs;
(c) at the research stations, operating costs and equipment associated
with the identification of suitable materials, and the production
and multiplication of base seed;
(d) incremental operating costs of the components on a declining basis
and salaries of the few additional staff required; and
(e) technical assistance for MDR and consultants to advise on quality
control, selection procedures and processing equipment; and a
revolving fund for purchasing seed abroad and on the local market.
B.   Detailed Features
3.06        The National Seeds Project will produce, in the short- to
medium-term, seed of improved physical condition (e.g., greater germination
rate, better uniformity, true to type, free of foreign material) to ensure
higher yields through better crop uniformity, greater plant population and
maturation, and easier harvesting. This alone should induce significant
yield increases without drastically changing current agronomic practices.
Seed production will be carried out through identification, collection and
purification of available adapted varieties (para 2.22 and Working Paper No.
3) and conditioning. Through ongoing activities and an administrative
organization that will control seed production activities country-wide, the
project will launch a process of continuous varietal selection for rice,
maize and groundnuts to produce base seed in selected research stations.
Base seed multiplied by contract outgrowers, and the improved seed they



- 11 -
have produced will be conditioned in the SCCs to produce commercial seed.
The project will also provide seed quality control and training for local
staff in seed production.
(a) Base Seed Production
3.07      Selection of suitable varieties and production of base seed
directly linked to the project started under the PAO seed project and
continued under IDA PPF financing (para 2.20). These activities will
continue and expand under project financing. This will comprise surveying
the best seed material, its collection, field trials, purification and
on-station multiplication. Crops (rice, maize and groundnuts) have been
chosen based on area planted, economic importance and indicative seed demand
(paras 2.03-2.07 and 2.24). Varieties of these three crops will be selected
to constitute the base seed to be multiplied by the contract outgrowers and,
once conditioned, sold as commercial seed. The choice of varieties to enter
the multiplication cycle will be based on farmers' preferences and minimum
quality requirements; they will include the so-called "traditional" varieties
(para 2.22 and Working Paper No. 3) readily accepted by farmers and which are
less dependent on inputs than high yielding varieties. Where newer varieties
which are already grown locally are found to have significantly departed from
their original characteristics, the project will obtain new base seed from
the original sources. The expected results of this work will be seed of
improved physical condition. In addition, research will aim at ensuring a
continuous process of varietal selection (local and imported) to provide new
materials with better characteristics than those pertaining to seed
currently used.
3.08      This type of work will normally constitute routine work for the
MDR's Agricultural Research Directorate (DNRA). However, given the urgency
to produce base seed and the current lack of regular Government funding, the
PPF and the National Seeds Project will continue to finance varietal
selection and production of base seed. This activity will be complemented
and later expanded under a project to further improve agricultural research,
which is being prepared by the Government (paras 2.13 and 2.18).
3.09      The selection of the three research stations (Kilissi, Koba, Bordo)
to be involved in this work was based on availability of existing infra-
structure, land, laboratories, storage, electricity and staff, as well as
individual past performance (IBRD Map No. 20468 shows locations). Each
station will produce base seed for the crops prevalent in the region (details
on type and amount of base seed to be produced at each station are given in
Working Paper No. 1). The Kilissi station has started producing its own
seed, is well organized and has reasonable resources; Koba and Bordo stations
will require greater project financing, but have the required staff and
minimum infrastructure to implement the program. The stations will annually
produce the amount of base seed specified by the SCCs and recorded in an
agreement. The base seed will be purchased by the SCCs from the stations
(para 5.07).
3.10      Work will be carried out by available staff on the stations.  This
staff is satisfactory in terms of numbers and expertise. The National Seeds



- 12 -
Project will provide the necessary funds for equipment and operating costs of
the stations in undertaking the seed production functions. Additional local
staff and occasional labor will also be provided as necessary by the project
to participating research stations. A technical assistance program to
organize and select adequate seed (an agro-geneticist, a sociologist and an
agronomist) will be provided by the project and by the FAO-financed Seed
Project (para 2.22). Specialists will also be recruited under the project to
provide further advice and evaluate varietal selection work. Guinean staff
will receive training to update knowledge (para 3.18).
(b) Improved Seed Production
3.11      After purchasing the base seed from the research stations, the SCCs
will sell it to the rural development projects and to the extension service
which will then sell it along with other farm inputs to private contract
outgrowers (para 5.07). The seed will be multiplied by outgrowers and
re-purchased by the SCCs to undergo conditioning. Outgrowers will be paid
adequate prices for seed multiplied to ensure that they sell it back to the
SCCs and not consume it (paras 5.08-5.10). Once the seed multiplied by
outgrowers is conditioned in the SCCs, it will be sold to development
projects and private traders for re-sale to farmers and directly to
neighboring farmers. As soon as private traders are able to purchase most of
it and the SCCs can be sold to the private sector, the entire system will be
privatized, except for base seed produced by the research stations. Contract
outgrowers, the SCCs and the agricultural development and extension projects
will be responsible for producing and conditioning, by PY4, about 870 tons of
improved rice, maize and groundnuts seed (Annex 3-1). With the facilities to
be installed and the system in place, production in PYl0 will cover about 20%
of the national seed requirements for these crops (para 5.01 and Annex 2).
The contract outgrowers in charge of production will be selected by project
staff, with the cooperation of ongoing development projects and extension
programs (paras 2.14 and 2.25). Outgrowers will preferably be registered in
groups to facilitate and reduce supervision costs.
3.12      The improved seed multiplied by outgrowers will be conditioned
(dried, cleaned, graded, treated and stored) in six strategically located
SCCs (IBRD Map No. 20468), which will sequentially start operations in PY2
(implementation Schedule is presented in Annex 3-2). The selection of the
location of the SCCs has been made according to (a) the importance and
agricultural potential of the different zones and the medium/long-term seed
needs of the region (Working Paper No. 3); (b) the existence of an ongoing
rural development project with an agricultural extension component for food
crops or a seed production component lacking adequate processing capacity;
and (c) the existence of infrastructure in terms of equipment and electricity
(para 3.09). Among these SCCs, two (Gueckedou, Bordo) will be directly
linked to ongoing projects with a seed component (Gueckedou Agricultural
Project--PAG, Integrated Rural Development Project--PDRI); and the others to
the IDA-financed Pilot Extension Project (PPV, Tindo); the ongoing UNDP rural
development project; the proposed IFAD project (Bareng); and the upcoming FED
rural development project (Koba, Kilissi).



- 13 -
3.13      The SCCs will be located within the premises of the stations and
projects or at close proximity to benefit from existing infrastructure.
Given the Government's intention to privatize the SCCs, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government will undertake its best efforts
to sell the SCCs to the private sector upon completion of each SCC and that
the formalities to establish the SCCs will be cempleted by December 1988
(paras 7.01(a) and (b)). A condition of Credit effectiveness will be that
adequate land has been made available to the SCCs (para 7.02(a)). During
appraisal, the Government and the agencies responsible for the development
projects have indicated their willingness and satisfaction with having the
seed project established within their areas of activity.
3.14      The project will finance essential civil works for the conditioning
plants and storage area, conditiwning equipment, drying floors--or artificial
dryers in exceptionally humid areas--and generators where other sources of
energy are not available. Peak output of the equipment ranges from about 300
tons of conditioned seed/year for Bareng to 1,400 tonslyear for Kilissi.
Storage capacity will cover the estimated needs during the project life and
will be provided in such a way that it could be eventually increased without
altering the structures to be built under the project. The project will also
provide vehicles for staff running the plants, motorcycles for supervisors,
and tractors and trailers. Where possible, all seed transport to and from
the SCCs will be done by private hire organized by local development/
extension projects. At PAG where there is seed conditioning equipment, the
project will finance the design modifications required to reach processing
potential. Details of equipment and civil works are given in Working
Paper No. 2.
(c) Quality control
3.15      For seed programs to succeed, the improved seed must consistently
be better than the seed produced by farmers. To help ensure better quality,
the SCCs and the central quality control laboratory will carry out regular
and systematic seed testing to assess physical purity, germination capacity
and moisture content. Staff from the SCCs and the laboratory, to be trained
under the project, will assure that seed produced and distributed has a high
rate of germination, is free of seed from weeds or other crops and from
seed-borne diseases, and true to kind and variety. The project, through an
ad hoc committee (para 4.05), will promote improved seed by establishing seed
quality standards and ensuring that only seeds with these standards are
distributed by the Government or private agencies. The same principles apply
to the purchase of imported seed. Quarantine control will be used only when
it is known that the exporting country is plagued with diseases or pests of
potential harm to Guinean agriculture.
3.16      The project will provide the SCCs with the minimum equipment
required to assess moisture content and germination capacity of conditioned
seed. It will also provide the necessary equipment to set up a simple
central quality control laboratory to be located within the premises of the
Plant Protection Laboratory (LPV) at Foulayah. The project will finance
staff, vehicles and operating costs to run the laboratory and short-term
consultancy services to set up seed quality standards and train staff.



- 14 -
3.17      In addition to controlling the physical quality of the improved
seed, the project will train staff of development projects to carry out
technical monitoring of outgrowers' improved seed production and farmers'
acceptability of improved seed. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&E) of
the Strategy and Development Office of MDR, whose function is to plan,
monitor and evaluate agricultural projects, will carry out general monitoring
and evaluation of the project's performance.
(d) Training
3.18      All staff involved in the project will receive training.  A number
of pre-project training activities are being carried out under the financing
of the FAO Seed Project (para 2.22) and through IDA's PPF. Additional
training both locally and abroad will be provided for all staff responsible
for the project, prior to their direct involvement in production activities
which will not start until PY2 (Annex 3-2). A tentative training program and
bchedule have been prepared for about 200 man-months of training (Working
Paper No. 3). Local project management staff, the six chiefs of SCCs, the
laboratory technician, and key research staff will receive training abroad
early during project implementation. This training will be carried out in
neighboring countries with similar projects and tradition in seed production
(Senegal, C6te d'Ivoire), and in institutions with training programs in this
area, such as WARDA and the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
(IITA). Staff in charge of supervising outgrowers and extension agents on
seed production and quality control, and staff responsible for seed
conditioning, will be trained at PAG which has training facilities.
Additional training will be provided in Guinea by consultants, specifically
in variety selection and quality control. Upon arrival the internationally
recruited staff will be responsible for training local counterparts and
preparing a training program for all project staff.
(e) Proiect Administration
3.19      The project will provide resident experts and short-term
consultants, individually or through consultant firms, to assist the project
irn (a) strengthening MDR's capacity to administer, monitor and evaluate
project activities; and (b) reviewing technical aspects of the project's and
the country's seed production and processing activities. (Details of the
structure and technical assistance proposed are given in paras 4.01-4.09)
C.   Proiect Costs and Financing
Cost Estimates
3.20      The cost of the proposed four-year project (1988-91) is estimated
at FG 4.3 billion (US$10.6 million), of which FG 3.5 billion (US$8.6 million)
or 81Z in foreign exchange.  The cost is PG 4.2 billion (US$10.6 million
inclusive of taxes a.d duties, which are negligible.  Project costs include
activities financed under the PPF which will be carried out in 1987 and
refinanced under the Credit.



- 15 -
3.21      Base costs are given in December 1987 prices.  Physical
contingencies of 1OZ have been allowed on all items with the exception of
pre-project activities and personnel. The average physical contingency is 62
of total project costs. Price contingencies on foreign exchange costs are
based on the Bank's projections of international price increases (MUV 1988
and 1989, 12; 1990 and 1991, 3.5Z). Price contingencies on local costs are
based on the Bank's forecast of domestic inflation (GNP deflator 1988, 13.9z;
1989, 7.9Z; 1990, 6.8%; and 1991, 7.5%). Total price contingencies amount to
6.9Z of base.costs. Investment costs account for 782 of base costs, with
buildings and equipment 35%, and technical assistance personnel 27X.
3.22      Project costs are summarized below and details are given in Annex
3-3 and Working Paper No. 4.
Proiect Cost Summary
Component            Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    FE    Base
F--G million -----   -----US$ million -----    Z     Cost
(Z)
Base Seed
Production           75       394      469   0.19    0.98    1.17    84.0   12.5
Improved Seed
Production          326     1,479   1,805   U.82    3.70    4.52    81.9   48.2
Quality Control
Laboratory            2        25       27   0.00    0.06    0.06    94.0    0.7
Training              29        20       49   0.07    0.05    0.12    39.8    1.3
Project
Administration      140     1,258   1,398   0.35    3.15    3.50    90.0   37.3
Total base cost      572     3,176   3,748   1.43    7.94    9.37    84.7  100.0
Physical
Contingencies       48       195     243   0.13    0.49    0.62    78.9    6.5
Price
Contingencies      174        85     259   0.44    0.20    0.64    32.8    6.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS 794      3,456   4,250   2.00    8.63   10.63    81.2  113.4
=8r2  =====  =s===  ====    ==wst  =====+   ====  =====
Project Preparation Facility
3.23      A PPF has been awarded to finance the collection of missing data,
the collection and multiplication of improved varieties, and other start-up
activities. The PPF is being used specifically to (a) study traditional
varieties of principal food crops and in which zones they are grown, and the
characteristics sought by farmers; (b) locate, locally and overseas, and
procure the most appropriate varieties; (c) multiply local and imported seed
of selected varieties; and (d) start project activities by contracting the
project administrator and the agronomist before Credit effectiveness.



- 16 -
Financing
3.24      Of the total project costs of FG 4.3 billion (Us$10.6 million), the
IDA Credit of US$9.0 million will finance 1002 of foreign exchange costs plus
182 of loc&l costs (852 of total costs). IDA's contribution to incremental
operating costs will be financed on a declining basis. The Government will
finance the remaining 152 of total costs, all in local currency. Forty seven
percent of the local costs, however, will come to the Government from net
proceeds of seed sales which are expected to contribute about FG 280 million
(US$0.7 million) during the project period (para 4.13).
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Items                         IDA        Government         Total
Buildings                    2.00              --            2.00
Vehicles                     0.79              _-            0.79
Equipment                    1.75              --            1.75
Technical Assistance         2.68             --             2.68
Training                     0.14             --             0.14
Agricultural Inputs          0.64              --            0.64
Operating Costs              0.52           1.30             1.82
Local Salaries                 --           0.30             0.30
Project Preparation          0.48              --            0.48
Total                        9.00           1.60            10.60
Procurement
3.25      Contracts for goods exceeding US$200,000 will be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). For contracts below US$200,000
local procurement procedures acceptable to IDA will be used. Procurement of
goods for less than US$50,000 per contract and up to an aggregate amount of
US$400,000 will be on the basis of quotations from at least three reputable
suppliets. Contracts for buildings valued at about US$2.0 million would not
be attractive to foreign contractors other than those already established in
Guinea, due to their dispersed location and the small size of individual



- 17 -
contracts; such contracts will, therefore, be awarded on the basis of Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA.
All procurement in excess of US$200,000 or involving building construction
will be submitted to IDA for prior review. Technical assistance is expected
to be recruited under a single contract. All technical assistance staff will
be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines. Procurement arrangements are
summarized below; the figures in parentheses show the amounts to be financed
by IDA.
Procurement Arrangement
(US$ million)
Items                   ICB        LCB          Other         N/A  Total
Buildings                         2.00                              2.00
(2.00)                            (2.00)
Vehicles               0.79                                          0.79
(0.79)                                       (0.79)
Equipment              1.35       0.30          0.10                1.75
(1.35)    (0.30)        (0.10)               (1.75)
Technical Assistance                            2.68 a/             2.68
(2.68)              (2.68)
Training                                                     0.14   0.14
(0.14) (0.14)
Inputs                                                       0.64   0.64
(0.64) (0.64)
Operating tosts                                              1.82   1.82
(0.52) (0.52)
Local Salaries                                               0.30   0.30
Project Preparation                             0.38 a/      0.10   0.48
-  -         (0.38)       (0.10) (0.48)
Total Costs            2.14       2.30          3.16         3.00  10.60
(2.14)    (2.30)        (3.16)       (1.40) (9.00)
a/   Employment of technical assistance and consultants will be in accordance
with IDA guidelines.



- 18 -
Disb'irsements
3.26      The schedule of disbursements (Annex 3-4) is based on the Guinean
disbursement profile amended to take into account the refinancing of the
PPF. All disbursements will be fully documented except those against
operating costs which will be against statement of expenditures (SOEs).
Documentation of SOEs will be held for review by IDA supervision missions.
The disbursement categories will be as follows:
Allocation and Disbursements of IDA Credit
(US$ '000)
Percentage of Expenditures
Category      Iten,                       Amount            to be financed
1         Buildings                     1,800               100
2         Vehicles and Equipment        2,400               100
3         Technical Assistance          2,400               100
4         Training                        100               lo(
5         Operating Costs                 420        lOOZ of foreign costs and
70Z of locail costs in PY1
S0 of local costs in PY2
30? of local costs in PY3
15Z of loca costs in PY4
6         Agricultural Inputs             600               100
7         Refinancing PPF                 480
8         Unallocated                     800
Total                      9,000
Revolving Funds
3.27      IDA will finance most foreign expenditures through direct payments,
but some foreign exchange will be needed by the Government mainly to finance
certain small items of vehicles, equipment, materials, operating costs,
inputs, and the costs involved in technical assistance and training. A
Special Account (SA) in foreign exchange equivalent to US$200,000 will be
established for this purpose immediately after Credit effectiveness through
the withdrawal of this amount from the IDA Credit. IDA will replenish the SA
upon receipt of evidence of disbursements from the fund for eligible
expenditures. Should any disbursements be made from the SA for non-eligible
expenditures, the Government will be required to replenish the SA in the
corresponding amount. Disbursements against the SA will be monitored through
documented withdrawal requests which will be accompanied by monthly



- 19 -
statements of the SA, giving details of all withdrawals and deposits as well
as the opening and closing balances of the account.
3.28      To meet the needs for local expenditures, the Government will open
a local currency Project Account (PA) for the project at a local commercial
bank in Conakry. Requirements in local currency will be established
half-yearly and will form the basis upon which the local currency account
will be maintained. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government's portion of incremental funding will be deposited in the local
currency PA; the account will be replenished quarterly and in advance on the
basis of supporting documentation for expenditures incurred and cash
requirement forecasts so as to meet local expenditures for the next six
months (para 7.01(c)). Opening of the PA and initial deposit by the
Government of FG 80 million (US$200,000), equivalent to half the first year's
expenditure in local funds, will be a condition for Credit effectiveness
(para 7.02(b)).
Financial Management, Accounts, ReportinR and Audit Requirements
3.29      Financial management of the project will be the responsibility of
an internationally recruited project administrator. He will report to the
Guinean Project Director (para 4.01) and receive advice from the
internationally recruited financial administrator in BSD financed under the
First Agricultural Services Project. They will jointly design the project
accounting systems. The Seed Production Unit administrator (para 4.03) will
be responsible for assuring that systems are operational by the time the
first project expenditures are incurred. The accounting system will be based
on budgetary accounting by cost canter (Research Stations, SCCs, Technical
Assistance, and Training).
3.30      The project will create and maintain appropriate accounting records
and will prepare annual budgets for project implementation. Detailed budgets
will be submitted to IDA for review and comments prior to the beginning of
the implementation year. Accounts at each cost center will be maintained on
a simple cash basis and there will be close physical control of inventory and
fixed assets. The internationally recruited project administrator will be
responsible for consolidating the accounts and preparing disbursement
applications and records. Project accounts will be audited by a qualified
independent audit firm under procedures satisfactory to IDA, and audited
accounts and the audit report will be submitted to IDA within six months of
the end of each fiscal year. The audit report will include specific
verification of the legitimacy of all expenditures out of the SA and an
opinion on the reliability of the SOEs procedures and utilization of goods
and services financed under the project. Assurances on the foregoing were
obtained at negotiations (para 7.01(d)).
3.31      Reports will also be issued summarizing project's achievements
compared with agreed annual programs and commenting on key problems and
future priorities and needs. To this effect, the MDR will communicate to IDA
before the start of each fiscal year the project's (a) programs of operations



- 20 -
including projected production of base and improved seed; (b) detailed annual
training programs; and (c) annual budget and procurement plans. Project
implementation will also be monitored by the BSD which will carry out regular
supervision in cooperation with project staff. The M&E unit of BSD will
prepare and submit a Project Completion Report within six months of project
completion. The Government provided assurances on the above reporting
requirements at negotiations (para 7.01(d)).
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Administration
4.01      The Ministry of Rural Development will have overall responsibility
for the project. However, to redress the errors of the past in terms of lack
of a coherent national policy and adequate direction (para 2.21), a small
Seed Production Unit (SPU) headed by a Guinean director assisted by eight
technical staff (three internationally recruited, five locally recruited)
will be set up at MDR. The SPU will report to the Cabinet of the Minister
but will be under the tutelage of the National Directorate for Agricultural
Research (Annex 4-1).
4.02      The SPU will be responsible for (a) managing and administering the
project; (b) programming and supervising research activities and seed
production at all levels (base, improved and commercial seed), and monitoring
quality standards; (c) coordinating, both centrally and regionally, the
participation of the various MDR agencies and other projects associated with
different aspects of seed production; (d) ensuring adequate seed pricing
which will provide incentives to outgrowers and the Seed Conditioning Centers
and will ensure an adequate use of seed; (e) controlling all financial
aspects of the project, including procurement; and (f) undertaking the sale
of the SCCs to the private sector. The SPU will coordinate with (i) MDR
units such as the DNRA to decide on the adaptive research and activities to
be carried out to ensure a permanent supply of good quality base seed; (ii)
the Training and Rural Promotion Directorate (DGFPR) to carry out
demonstration tests and promote and organize distribution of seed at farmers
level; (iii) the Agricultural Directorate (DGA) to ensure quality control;
and (iv) rural development projects, prefectures and other agencies concerned
with collection/distribution of seed.
4.03      To carry out its functions, the SPU will be staffed with a local
project director (as identified above) responsible for project management and
coordination with local institutions, who will report directly to the
Secretary General, MDR. The Governiment has already appointed a project
director who is coordinating activities under PPF financing. The project
director will be supported by technical staff including an internationally
recruited project administrator; an agronomist specialized in seed
production, responsible for supervising the work of the SCCs, research and
extension, and the central quality control laboratory; a qualified mechanic
specialized in seed conditioning equipment who will also assure proper
maintenance and functioning of the equipment of the SCCs. High caliber
technical staff will



- 21 -
be required for heading these services; in view of the lack of trained local
personnel, internationally recruited staff will be appointed in the areas of
project administration, seed production, and conditioning equipment.
4.04      In total, the project will provide 120 man-months of resident
experts and 20 man-months of short-term consultants. The project
administrator will be recruited using the PPF funds to start advising the
project director in all matters related to organizing purchases, ICB and
project management. The agronomist's contract which is being financed under
the PPF will be either extended to cover the remainder of the three years or
replaced immediately to ensure continuity. Recruitment of the project
administrator, the agronomist, and the mechanic will be condition for Credit
effectiveness (para 7.02(c)). The mechanic will be contracted to start
activities shortly after Credit effectiveness (Annex 3-2). Terms of
reference of key staff to be recruited by the project are provided in Working
Paper No. 5. All these experts will be assigned local counterparts and will
train them. They will have primary responsibility in their fields during
about half their assignment period after which they will transfer their
responsibilities to the trained local staff and play only an advisory role.
National Seed Policy and Seed Quality Standards
4.05      With six quasi-independent decision-making SCCs within the project
and a number of seed producing activities outside the project, there will be
a need for coordinating efforts in the establishment of production and
pricing policies and quality standards at the national level. These
functions will be monitored by the SPU and implemented by several
organizations. First, a National Seeds Committee (NSC) staffed with a
representative of MDR, project staff, representatives of development
projects, and farmers, will be responsible for establishing and monitoring
quality standards, the national organization of seed production and price
policy guidelines (para 5.08). It will study and implement the
recommendations of regional and technical committees to ensure the
establishment of incentives to producers and contract outgrowers and the
profitability of the SCCs. Second, a Regional Committee (RC) of the NSC
consisting of the head of the SCC, representatives of the development
projects, and farmers will be responsible for determining the needs for base
and improved seed within its region. Third, a Technical Committee (TC) to
the NSC, with technical staff (four members maximum) drawn from the core of
the NSC will be responsible for gathering all the information provided by the
RCs at the national level and for elaborating technical recommendations on
amount of seed to be produced, seed prices, and quality standards to be
presented for study and enactment by the NSC.  While the NSC will meet once a
year, the TC and RC will meet as often as necessary. A condition for Credit
effectiveness will be the establishment of the NSC with membership
satisfactory to IDA (para 7.02(d)).
Base Seed
4.06      The research stations will principally be responsible for selecting
adequate varieties and providing the required amounts of base seed.



- 22 -
Although varietal selection has been initiated under the FAQ project and the
PPF, this responsibility will be transferred to DNRA. Base seed will be
produced by the stations with the support of the project-financed staff,
equipment, operating costs and occasional short-term consultants to evaluate
the implementatien of the program.
Seed Conditioning Centers
4.07      The SCCs will be responsible for seed production in each region of
operation including: (a) supervising the production of base seed at the
research stations; (b) purchasing and distributing base seed to outgrowers;
(c) purchasing multiplied seed from contract farmers through the same
development projects/extension programs, supervising and training extension
staff; (d) conditioning improved seed purchased from outgrowers; and (e)
selling commercial seed to the development projects or traders who in turn
will sell it to farmers, or directly to neighboring farmers.
4.08      To supervise the quality and production of base seed in the
stations to ensure that it is properly multiplied by outgrowers and
adequately conditioned by the SCCs, the SCCs will be headed by an agronomist
with training in seed production. He will be assisted by a seed production
technician who will be re--nsible for adequate functioning and maintenance
of the conditioning equipmen . This staff and five field staff will train
outgrowers groups and extension staff in cooperating projects in techniques
of seed production at the field level and will assure adequate coverage of
farmers, especially in regions where extension infrastructure is relatively
weak.
4.09      Since the project will utilize existing institutions to carry out
most act3vities, incremental staff of the project will be limited to the
minimum possible and staffing will be done by redeployment of MDR staff.
Recruitment of local staff should not be a major problem because there are
qualified staff who, after simple and specific training, could take over
responsibility for the various project components. In addition, key staff
will be internationally recruited (para 4.03) to help set up the programs and
train local staff who will take over responsibilities as soon as possible.
Privatization
4.10      The Government intends to build a privately owned seed industry, as
has been done successfully in many other countries. Two of the project's
operations must be privatized before this can happen in Guinea: (a) seed
multiplication and distribution; and (b) seed conditioning. Two other
operations--the production of base seed and quality control--will remain in
the Government's hands for the long-term due to the infrastructure and
expertise required, which only the Government can operate. The situation is
common in most countries with largely private seed industries. The project
will totally privatize seed multiplication by organizing private outgrowers
to participate in the process. It is also expected that the SCCs will be
privatized around PY7-8 when their output is sufficient to allow a positive



- 23 -
cash flow (para 4.12). Nevertheless this could occur earlier since the
Government will endeavor to sell the SCCs immediately after their start up
(para 3.13).
4.11      From the outset, each SCC will be run as an independent,
commercially oriented unit responsible for seed conditioning and for
directing all improved seed production operations within the region. The
SCCs will have separate accounts and their own bank accounts at the
International Bank for Trade and Industry in Guinea (BICI-GUI). These will
be opened as the SCCs are completed. Receipts from sale of seed will be
deposited in the bank account and used to finance SCC operating costs.
During the build-up period to full production around PY7, any cash surpluses
will be retained in the SCC account to ensure adequate functioning without
the provision of subsidies and to establish conditions for future
privatization. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para
7.01(e)). The SPU will financially control the operation and will be
responsible for approving the annual budgets of the SCCs.
4.12      Estimated income and expenditure, and cash flow statements have
been prepared for the centers (Annex 4-2). Costs and selling prices of seeds
are based on current market prices (par& 5.10); operating costs include
straight line depreciation at 5S for buildings and equipment and 332 for
vehicles; investment costs include working capital equal to 25Z of
incremental cash operating costs. Under these assumptions, the SCC8 will
break even when full production is reached around PY7. It is then that the
SCCs will most likely be transferred to private individuals or to groups of
farmers. Assuming that the SCCs are sold at their written-down value, the
return to the purchaser will range from 12? to 16?. Profitability,
particularly to the purchaser, is extremely sensitive to selling price. By
raising the price by 10?, the SCCs will break even one year earlier and the
return to the purchaser will be increased by about eight percentage points.
Profitability could also be increased by dealing with larger quantity of crop
seed and by increasing the SCCs output at marginal additional operating
costs. A distant future prospect will be the annual production and sale of
hybrids.
Financial Implications to Government
4.13      The Government's project cash flow is given in Annex 4-3.  Costs
and revenues have been inflated based on price inflation projections during
the project period and held constant thereafter. During the project period,
project financing requirements will total FG 4,254 million; FG 3,600 million
will be financed by the IDA credit and FG 654 million by the Government. Net
proceeds from seed sales are expected to provide FG 280 million of the
Government's contribution (para 3.24). The cash flow turns positive in PY6
and the assumed sale of the SCCs at their written down value in PY7 (para
4.12) will more than offset the Government's cumulative net outflow. Earlier
sale of the SCCs improves the Government's cash flow position further.
Subsequently, costs of base seed production will be covered by sales to
farmers. Administration costs will cease in PY10 when the only remaining
Government outflows are the IDA credit service charge and repayment.



- 24 -
V. PRODUCTION, DEMAND AND PRICES
Incremental Production and Beneficiaries
5.01       The Seed Conditioning Centers will start operating in PY2 and the
first sales of commercial seed will be used for PY3 planting. With the
facilities and the system in place, commercial seed production will continue
to increase up to PY10, reaching about 3,900 tons (Annex 3-1). This seed
will cover about 60,000 ha (rice 41,000, maize 15,000, groundnuts 4,000) and
benefit about 120,000 farmers. Considering on-farm multiplication (the
originally purchased commercial seed could be used for several years before
beginning to loose its quality: rice, four years; maize, three years;
groundnuts, five years), the seed will be sufficient to plant a total of
230,000 ha (Annex 5-1) until replacement is necessary. Of the 230,000 ha
planted with improved seed, about 70X will be in rice, 202 in maize, and
about 1O in groundnuts. Incremental yields from improved seed have been
conservatively estimated at 20-30Z, based on observed respenses in farmers'
fields in three West African countries with similar ecological conditions.
This will yield a total of about 43,000 tons of incremental production
annually, valued at FG 4.0 billion (US$10 million) in 1988 constant prices
from PY14 onwards. Details of seed available to farmers, incremental
production and economic value of production are given below, in Annex 5-1 and
in Working Paper No. 6.
Yields from Improved Seeds and Incremental Production
Yields               Production at Full Development
Non-   Improved         Seed         Area         Incremental
Improved   Seed        Production    Planted        Production
Seed
Kg/ha     Kg/ha        (tons) a!   ('000 ha) b/  ('000 tons) cl
Rice (paddy)
Upland             750     1,000         8,480         113               18
Swamp            1,200     1,500         1,600          21                4
Mangrove         1,300     1,600         2,300          31                6
Sub-total                               12,380         165               28
Maize              900     1,150         1,080          43               11
Groundnuts         600       800         2.100          21                4
TOTAL                                   15,560         229               43
a/   Includes commercial seed produced by project, and on-farm
multiplication.
b/   Corresponds to 15? of national area for rice, 21? for maize and 13X for
groundnuts, assuming a seeding rate of 75kg/ha rice, 25kg/ha maize, and
100kg/ha groundnuts.
c/   Figures for rice (not paddy).



- 25 -
Demand
5.02      Improved Seed.  The demand for improved seed has been demonstrated
through three agricultural development projects which have been selling seed
in various years. The PAG, the ORS and the PDRI have sold varying quality
levels of "improved" seed (para 2.25) at market prices plus a premium (para
5.10). These three projects are unable to meet the demand, and other
development projects have requested them to supply seed.
5.03      Unmet demand is most evident in the PAG area.  Farmers there, as in
other areas of the country, complain that their seeds are "tired"--i.e.,
despite new fertile land, the response from varieties is not what it used to
be. This is a normal sign of degeneration (genetic erosion and
contamination) of the crop variety from improved seed introduced into the
country following independence (para 2.22). The PAG introduced one rice
variety (LAC 23) which was quite popular and has spread, by various means,
even outside the project area.
5.04      The demand for improved seed has also been demonstrated in the
survey requested by the identification team and carried out by MDR among
farmers, inquiring as to their perceived needs for improved varieties and
whether they will be willing to pay for them. The response was very
favorable for improved rice varieties, less positiv, for maize and
groundnuts, and poor for cassava. For rice, farmers were willing to "pay"
two bags of their rice for one of improved seed. The project will build on
these preferences with 80X of seed output going to rice. The project's
output for rice seed in PYIO, when output from the SCC should reach its peak,
will account for about 18? of national rice seed requirements; maize will be
24? and groundnuts 14? (Annexes 2 and 3-1). Thus, due to the high demand for
improved seed and project production of only a small portion of national
requirements, oversupply of seed should not be a problem.
5.05      Incremental production.  Due to the relatively small amount of
incremental production generated by the project vis-a-vis national
requirements and the present high level of rice imports, demand for project
production is not expected to be a problem. When incremental project
production reaches its maximum in PY14, it will amount to about 5? of
national production of the three crops and will be easily absorbed by the
market. This assumption is further detailed in Annex 5-1.
5.06      Marketing.  Initially, the commercial seed will be marketed mostly
in areas serviced by agricultural development projects (paras 2.14 and 2.25).
The improved seed will be an input to be distributed by the established
development projects. The National Seeds Project and the agricultural
development projects will complement each other, as a greater benefit is
obtained from improved seeds when utilized by farmers who adopt other
recommended cultural practices. As seed production increases, and in keeping
with the attempts to set up a financial and marketing structure which will be
privatized, other marketing channels will be utilized including private
traders. This will be in line with the Government's efforts at liberalizing
the economy (para 2.09), including privatizing input supply and



- 26 -
distribution. The product will be sold with instructions in local languages,
in conventional (60 kg) sacs or small sealed packages of 10 kilos (mini-kits)
which will suffice to plant 1/6th of one ha and will be an easy-to-market,
certifiable product. Incremental crop production from the project will be
marketed by existing private channels. Marketing of seed should not pose any
problems (para 5.04).
Prices
5.07      Base seed produced by the research stations will be sold to the
SCCs for onward sale (within the same year) to the development projects in
their regions. These projects in turn will sell the seed to their selected
outgrowers as is currently done. The transfer or sale price from the
research station will be at cost. PAG costs for the production of base seed
range between market prices at harvest and at planting. These variations in
market prices are discussed in para 5.10. For the purpose of determining the
Government's cash flow, a price 302 above the market price at harvest has
been used, similar to PAG costs.
5.08      The project's price policy for production and sale of commercial
seed will introduce and balance two principles which will set a viable
financial base for future development of the seed subsector: (a) adequate
financial incentives will be given to contract outgrowers to encourage
production of a quality product and sale of output to the SCCs; and (b) seed
will be sold above the market price of the same crop to encourage the use of
a valuable commodity and to ensure financial profitability of the operations,
aiming at their eventual privatization. It was agreed at negotiations that
the Government will ensure, through the NSC and in consultation with IDA and
the RCs, an annual review of seed marketing conditions and prices to
determine seed prices for publicly owned SCCs, in order to provide incentives
to contract outgrowers and to ensure profitability of the SCCs (para
7.01(f)).
5.09      The guidelines for price setting and for achieving the above
objectives will be set and monitored by the NSC (para 4.05). Actual prices
of purchase from outgrowers and sale of commercial seed to farmers will be
set by each SCC within the NSC's guidelines. This will give the SCC the
necessary flexibility to set prices, taking into account varying market
prices in different regions at different times of the year.
5.10      The system currently in use by rural development projects that sell
seed has worked successfully for several years and will meet the principles
stated above (para 5.07). It consists of utilizing the actual regional
market price as a basis for purchasing the improved seed from the outgrowers
and selling the commercial seed to farmers. Outgrowers are paid harvest time
market prices plus 202; commercial seed processed in the SCC is then sold at
planting time market prices plus 20?. The spread between harvest/planting
market prices (Annex 5-2) plus the premium is sufficient to ensure SCCs'
profitability (para 4.12). The rural development projects have had no
problems in recruiting outgrowers utilizing this method, and they have sold
all the seed they had available. This system will also provide the SCCs with
the flexibility required to meet market conditions when they are privatized.
As has been done to date, commercial seed will be sold for cash.



- 27 -
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Overall Benefits
6.01      The project will yield institutional benefits by providing the
assistance and organization which, acting as a catalyst of ongoing
activities, will help to set up a reliable system of improved seed
production. The system will improve the effectiveness of existing
agricultural development projects which are requesting improved seed to
complement their extension messages. The project will also meet the
Government's objectives of increasing crop production and incomes of
smallholders. Commercial seed produced at full development will cover about
20? of the area planted with rice, maize and groundnuts which will increase
productivity of these crops by 20-302.   Annual incremental production of
seed will be about 43,000 tons of rice, maize and groundnuts, valued at
US$10 million (Annex 5-1) in 1987 constant dollars. This will benefit
approximately 120,000 farmers.
6.02      The project will require a relatively small financial outlay from
the Government as it will depend on research stations, existing agricultural
development projects and private farmers to produce the improved seed (paras
3.02, 3.08-3.10 and 4.02-4.09). Additionally, the project SCCs will begin to
generate revenues from PY3 onwards, and the Government's cash flow is
projected to become positive by PY6 (para 4.13). The system has been set up
to be eventually privatized (paras 3.02 and 4.12), which in other countries
has proven to be the final step for the production of the best quality seed,
including hybrids, as well as for stimulating the diversification of the
range of crops. Finally, the project will benefit local staff through
institutional support and the training program.
Economic Rate of Return
6.03      The project's economic rate of return (ERR) is about 302
(Annex 6-1) and its net present value (NPV), discounted at 10? (the estimated
opportunity cost of capital in Guinea), is FG 9,80 million. The
without-project benefits have been assumed to remain constant as improved
seed will not be available, except in Siguiri and Gueckedou. The benefits
from these two centers have been taken into account in determining "market
share" and consequent benefits for the project's SCCs. All costs and
benefits are in 1987 constant prices. Assumptions underlying the ERR
calculations are as follows:
(a) Proiect life. Twenty years, including a pre-project preparation
year and a four-year investment period. Seed production will reach
a maximum in PY10, and crop production in PY14.
(b) Project costs. All incremental costs have been included with
the exception of taxes, duties or subsidies (considered
transfer payments within the economy) which are minimal.
Although all project staff, excluding technical assistance,
are already Ministry of Rural Development staff, their cost
has also been included because the project is new.
The incremental farm labor being negligible, no cost has been
assumed. Quality control laboratory costs have been held constant



- 28 -
in the post-project period. Base seed production and SCC costs
have been increased proportionally to production. For the SCCs,
this includes payment to research stations for the cost of
producing basic seed. Project administration has been decreased
from PY7 onwards and phased out after PY10. The costs include
vehicle and equipment (but not seed processing equipment)
replacement.
(c)  Proiect benefits.  Benefits have been assumed to accrue exclusively
from incremental rice, maize and groundnuts production. These were
conservatively calculated as farmer-to-farmer exchange was
excluded. Incremental production has been valued at import parity
prices at the farmgate for rice and maize, using IBRD commodity
price forecasts (Annex 6-2). Local prices for groundnuts have been
used (Annex 5-2), given the relatively small project production for
the crop and their local use which is not comparable with the
internationally traded commodities (groundnut meal and oil).
Sensitivity Analysis
6.04      The sensitivity of the ERR and NPV to changes in costs or benefit
streams has been tested and switching values calculated (the percentage
change in a stream or streams, other factors constant, that will reduce the
ERR to its minimum acceptable value of 10X, or equivalently reduce the NPV at
102 to zero). To reach the project's switching values, total project
benefits will have to drop 70Z, or costs increase 2202 (to bring the ERR to
the minimum acceptable 10Z). If project benefits were delayed two years, the
ERR would still be 23Z. Further sensitivity analysis is presented in Annex
6-1.
Risks
6.05      Two possible risks are (a) delays or complications in project
implementation due to difficulties of coordinating several institutions
involved in the project, and (b) inadequate Government counterpart funding.
Delays will be minimized because the project has already started under PPF
financing. Coordination among various institutions will be facilitated by
the eagerness with which the entire agricultural community awaits improved
seeds and by the explicit coordination mechanisms established by the project.
The research centers are looking forward to collaborating under the project,
which will assist them technically and financially in exploiting available
research results and producing base seed. In addition, the ongoing rural
development projects need improved seed to supply their farmers.
Furthermore, a management unit and a consultative process have been provided
to direct project activities. Regarding timely Government counterpart
funding, risks have been lowered by reducing the Government's financial
contribution to a minimum, by creating a revolving fund in which t.he
Government's contribution will be provided in advance, and by ensuring that
revenues from the seed sales will be kept in a bank account for use by the
project.



_ 29 -
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Assurances Obtained at Negotiations
(a) Given the Government's intention to privatize the Seed Conditioning
Centers (SCCs), Government will undertake its best effort3 to sell
them to the private sector upon their completion (para 3.13);
(b) The formalities to establish the SCCs will be completed by
December 1988 (para 3.13);
(c)  The Government's portion of incremental funding will be deposited
in
the local currency Project Account, which will be replenished
quarterly and in advance (para 3.28);
(d) The Seed Production Unit will (i) create and maintain appropriate
records and accounts; (ii) have accounts, year-end statements and
statements of expenditures audited by independent auditors; (iii)
submit audited accounts and audit report to IDA not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year; (iv) submit annual
budgets and work plans to IDA for review and comments prior to the
beginning of the fiscal year; (v) submit bi-annual progress
reports; and (vi) prepare a project completion report six months
after project completion (paras 3.30-3.31);
(e) The Government agreed on the retention, by the SCCs, of the
proceeds fron. seed sales to ensure adequate functioning without
direct or indirect subsidies, and to establish conditions for
future privatization (para 4.11); and
(f) The Government will ensure, through the National Seed Committee and
in consultation with IDA and the Regional Seed Committees, that an
annual review of seed marketing and pricing is carried out to
determine seed price for publicly owned SCCs, in order to provide
incentives to contract outgrowers and to ensure profitability of
the SCCs (para 5.08).
7.02      Conditions for Credit Effectiveness
(a) Adequate land has been made available to the SCCs (para 3.13);
(b) A local currency Project Account has been opered with a deposit by
the Government of FG 80 million, equivalent to half of its first
year's contribution to the project (para 3.28);
(c) Technical specialists (project administrator, agronomist, and
mechanic) have been recruited (para 4.04); and



- 30 -
(d) The National Seed Committee has been established with membership
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.05).
7.03      With the above agreements the project is suitable for a credit of
US$9.0 million equivalent to the Government of Guinea on standard IDA terms,
with 40 years maturity.
November 1987
AF1AA



REPUBLIC OF 6UINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
National Production at, Seed Requiresents and Project Seed Production of Rice. Maize and groundnuts
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__-----------------
(1000 Tons)
1985                                                                        1997 (Year 10) Maximum Seed Production
National               Of which Project Production                                           National  New                   I Of
Actual            Total     Averaqe      Ha    Seed       Estioated   ---------------------------                Total   Average      Ha    Seed       Seed      Pro)ect   National
National           Consuap-   Yield   Planted  Require-  National               7 of   Intre-   I of            Consuop-   tield   Planted  Require-  Require- Seed Pro- Require-
Production laports  thon    (tons/ha)  ('000)  ments        Production  Total National mental  ationalloports   tion   tt/ha) gJ  ('0001  sents          ments hi duction   sents
Rice                 330       100   430 cf .441.8 di      750    56.0       460         156      34        23        5     140      600      .51.9      920     70.0       17.3      3.10    18 i,
Maize b:             126         0   126        0.9        140      3.,      180 f.       50      28        11        b       0      180        1.0      180      4.5        1.5      0.36    24
6roundnuts            50         0    50      .41.6 ei     120    12.0        70          14     20          3        4       0       70      .5i.7      140     14.0        3.1      0.42    14
(Shelled)
2001 (Vear 14) Maximum Crop Production
Rice                                                                         520         194      37        29        6     160     680       .51.9   1.050        80       20.0      3 10    16
Maize                                                                        200          50      25        11        b       0      200        1.0      200        S        1.7      0.36    21
6roundnuts                                                                    80          17      21         4        5       0       BO      .5.7      160        16       t.2      0.42    I.`
(Shelled)
a/ Figures from SCETA6RI Republique de 6uinee. Ministere du Developpement Rural, Etude de Restructuration des Services Agricoles et de Schemas Directeurs ReQionaux de Developpement
Rural - Synthese' August 1986.
bi Estimated  rom *Synthese- report, page 20 extrapolation.  IBRD figures 1981 to SCETABRI 1985 estimate .271 of 4201.
c/ 70-78 kg/person - population: Primary    + Total
1985   4.0         15.50
1995   4.7         17.25
Rural population growth = 1.87year.
d/ Rice/paddy = 557. Other sources would utilise a ricelpaddy ratio of between 60 and 657.
500-600 tonns paddy = 280-330,000 tons rice.
ei Shelled/in Shell.
fi 342 increase in production in 12 years I*Synthese* report gage 46).
91 17 cnepounded productivity increase/year.
h/ New seed requirements based on replacesent as 4ollows: Rice, every fourth Year; maize, every third vear; groundnuts. every fifth Year.
1i  Adding PAB and ORS project seed production, improved rice seed production will cover about 23% of requirements (3.0"5 4 600 + 200 = 39O tons total).
AF 1AA
August 1987



l
I1



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Coemercial  Seed- Production by Seed Center iCropi~ear al
(tons)
Project Fhase                                                              Post Project Phase
Center              PY2         1.        PY3          .        PY4                    HyS                    PY6        :1         PY7         :1         PIB         :Pt9                  :.        PYtO
Ground-:             Ground-:              Ground-,               Ground-                Ground-                Bround-               Ground-:               Ground-               Ground-.
RiEe Miaize   nuts  Rice Maize   nuts  Rice haize   nuts    Rice Maize   ntuts :Rice Maize   nuts    Rice Maize   nuts :Rite Maize   nuts    Rice Maize   nuts    Rice Maize   nuts
----     ----   ------- ----     --- -     ------ -  ----     - ---     ---- --  ----   ----     --- --- I-   -- -     -----   ------  - --   -   --- -------  ---     ------ ---- --  -- -------
Kilissi        75    -       -- 125         5-         I 200      -      to:   330    --        30     460    --      90      600--         1?7A .  750    --      120 1.750    --       120: 1. 50    -        120 :
Kbob          215--          -       50--            I:SO         -       -      250--          -: 35w)    -          - :450--                   :  575     -       --   575    --        -:575                  --
tBareng        --    40      --      --    60      --       _ --   0     --       -    110              -_   160       -       -- 220         -       -- 220        --      -- 220        -_~      -  220        --
Bordo          SO   210      --      75    30      10    100    40       Is:    150    50       so     200    60      70      300    70    10O       400    70    100:   500    70    100:   600    70    toO:
Fatanah        --     -        -     25    10      20      50    20      40      100    40      so:    ISO    60      70      200    70    toO:    250 70          100:   250  70        100:   250    70    100:
6ueckedGu      --     -       -      -      -      10:150         --     is      350    --       0o    540    --      70:    730    --    toO:    920    --    100:   920    --    too:   920    --    too:
Total         ISO5   60       0:   275   100       45~   650   140       80:1,280   200    IB80 :1,700   260    300: 2,280   360    420: 2,995   360    420: 2,995   360    420: 3,095   360    420:
a) the build-up of these figures is in Working Paper 1
AE 1AA
August 1987
x



C A"                                         I
\t
.q                             s~~~~~~~~~~~~~\~



-  35  -                                                        ANNEX 3-2
REPUBLIC OF BUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Project tear a/
PYO     :    PYI       :    PY2      :    PM3      :    PY4       :
Calendar Year:
1987    :    1988    :    1989    :    1990              1919    :1992
:~~~~ :--   :                  -            ----  _         -- 
1. Retruitment Technical Assistance
Project Administrator  W4-Y)                            I :------------:---------:------------:------------:
Ahronooist (3-Y)                                         ------------ ------------ ------------ 
Specialist Seed Conditioning (2.5-Y)                                   ------------:------------:
2. Training                                     :
Abroad                                                                   ------:------  
In situ                                                               :------   ---------   ---------   ---
3. Establishment of Seed Centers                :             :                           a :           :
Preparation ICI Documents
Plans for Civil Works                     :
ICB Evaluation
Contracts Award                           :             a              a             a             a             a
Preparation of Sites
adrd Construction (1.2,3,4,               :--------                                  :
Reception of Equipment (1,2,3.4,6)
Installation (1,2,3,4 6)                  :             :             a              a             a             :
Reception of Equipment (5)                :                            a             a             a -
Hod fication Infrastructure i5)                                                       --- ---
Installation (5:
1. kilissi
.. kba
3. Bareng
4. Bordo
S. Tindo
6. Bueckedou
al Assuaino Effectiveness about July 1988.
AFIAA
August 1987



V-6 *ACr
I; V*`I



ANNEX 3-3
-  37 ------
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Detailed Cost Tables
Summary of Categories and Cosponents
(FP million)
Base  lproved  Quality          Project
Seed     Seed    ControlTrain- Adeinis-               t Base
Product. Product.   Lab.    ing  tration    Total         Cost
Investment Costs
Buildings                                0     729         0       0       0       729      19.4
Equipment                                0     521        25       0      23       570      15.2
Yehicles                                S0     121         0       0      8B       289       7.7
Agricultural equipment                  65       0         0       0        0       65       1.7
Technical assistance                     0       0         0       0    1037      1037      27.7
Overseas training                        0       0         0      20        0       20       0.5
Local training                           0       0         0      30        0       30       0.8
Pre-project activities                 192       0         0       0        0      192       5.1
Total investment                      338   1,371        25      49   1,149    2,932       78.2
Recurrent Costs
Buildings                                0      26         0       0        0       26       0.7
Equipuent                                0      53         0       0        0       53       1.4
Vehicles                                90     129         0       0     173       392      10.4
Personnel                               18      62         2       0       10       91       2.4
Agricultural equipment                  21        0        0       0        0       21       0.6
Inputs and eaterials                     3     164         0       0      67       233       6.2
lotal recurrent                       131     434         2       0     250       817      21.8
Total base costs                       469   1,805        27      49   1,398    3,748    100.0
Physical contingencies                  26      174        3       5      35       243
Price contingencies                     28      142        2       8       79      259
TOTAL COSTS                            522   2,122        32      62   1,512    4.250
AFIAA
October 1987



-38 -
uWMI OF 0040A                                                    ANNEX 3-3
o1TUM WoooECs                                                      Page 2 of 2
Proott Catsb VW oo
IFS eatlOoal
Fornqo
o.t  PT0    Pyl       P12   p13    P04   Total  xbrooao    fain
SW. 6. Pro0octoas
Vehicles                        0.00   00.12    0.00   0.00   40.12   00.24    00.24    0.00
84r1co108r41  ~owIggt            0.00  85.37    0.00  0.00    0.00    45.31   85.37   0.00
Pro-project activities         192.0  .00    0.00    0.00 0.00   0      2.00   192.00 MM  .000
Total ia,ootunt                192.00  105.49    0.00   0.00   40.12  337.41  133.60    0. 00
Oucurroato
OofitoeOa                       0.04   22.40   22.40  22.40   22.40    M9.80    44.00   23.30
PtfI40tl                        0.00    4.09     4.49   4.40    4.49    37.97    0.00    0.80
04ricoltur4i *quipmnt           0.00    5.28     5.28   5.26   5.26    20.05    10.52   5.47
Inputs                          0.00    0.83'    0.83   0.83    0.83    2.55     0.00    0.00
total r,curr,ot                  0.10   32.19   32.79  32.19   32.19   131.14   58.21   28.12
Total la" Costs                 112.00  130.20   32,79  32.79   12.90   000.75   $93.02   20.77
Sold Cititrt
Buildings                       0.00  05. 2:  491.35  42.06    0.00   720.17   655.06    v. 00
Eq,nbeet                        0.04   0,00   400.20 1002.30    0.80  520.46  520.44i   j.00
Vothicin                        0.00   48.44    16.00  11.40  48.84   120.00   120.06   ).00
total:viut                      0.00  241.07   92.82  54.28   47.32 0,510.01 0,290.20    0.40
000102040                       8.00    0.00     3.12  00.10   00,1    24.04    00.50    9.00
Eqrauuet                         0.00   0.00     7.56  14.9  130.83    53.29    IS.99    0.00
00Oucl t                         0.00   09.4    20.80  40.8   40.40   029.20   64.80   33.59
Ppisoool                         0.00   3.00    12.59  20.12  22.04   40.45    0.00   8.00
Ioosto                          0.00   14.00   20.00  40.00  00.00   164.00   02.00   0.00
Total recroirnt                 0.00   43.20   19.108 127.13  105.43   434.30   I00.M   33.5
Total Sal, Cost$                 0.00  203.015 0,005.49 203,99  232.15 I,M05.51.0419.10  $33.
sualoto Control tshoart%ry
lanestavit:,
Eqsopont                        0.00   0.00      0.00   0.00   25.11   25.11   2.1.1    0.00
Total io,nt,,00                 0.00   0.00      0.00  0.00   25.04    25.00    25.11t  4.00
per woool                       0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.81      0.80    0.00    0.00
total rtiurroat                 0.10    0.00     0.00   0.00    1.81    1.80     0.00    0.00
Total Ba"t colts                  0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00   26.72    24,72    251.01   4.00
0,.r,n. timingf                  0.00   13.20    8.40   0.44    0.00    MO.8    09.0    M.0
total trailing                   0.00   t0.40    7.20  00.00    2.00    29.80    0.00    0.00
total Bane Coats                  0,00   23.60   13.60  00.00    2.00    49.20    M9.0   0.00
Pro3ott 80,fai,trotiot
love4tant:
Vnilitt                        0.00  40.00    0.00   0.00   32.00    00.00    08.00    0.00
Lijujos"t              ~~~0.00   23.20    0.00   0.00    0.00    23.20    27.20   0.010
1ot0,oical  siaitaot.           0.00  250.9   205.50 20O.0  205.00 0,037.40 0,037.40    0.00
Pre-project acttouton            0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00
Total ;oousteuot                0.00  323.18  293.50 205.00  241.00 1,140.60 1,140.88    0.00
oKutor rot
Ottotlos                        0.00   38.40   44.100  44.00   44,00   I12.00   08.40   44.93
Potionnl                         0.00    0.00    2.80   2.05    2.05    00.12    0.00    0.00
Ratarools                        8.00   15.08    13.24  15.24   15.24    66.70    23.37    0.00
Total rbturrtot                 8.00   55.27   82.85 82.09  82.09   249.10   109.17   44.93
Total Bass Costs                  8.00  37.5   M5815 341.09  309.09 0,390.70 1,258,46  44.93
TO7ML OUR COSTS                 000.00  021.40 0,400.028674.00  844.21 3,148.44 3,1?8.04  107,29
Plyiostal Coaltiugauco           0.80   55.93   01020  36.02   39.07   242.10   094.8    0 0.71
Pro c. CM116400t11               0.00  21.2.8   85.42  84.4?  005.9   259.00    05.04    1.42
TOTAL. COSTS                    190.80  902.87 0,53.73 17525  190.05 4,250.30 3,455.90  025.43
Si..  vfuSS  t.*Sfl **vv"  n..  un.. v-.   iu



- 39 -                                      ANNEX  3-4
dUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Estoated Disburse,pnt Srhedule
1USS uillionJ aI
IDA Fr
and    Estimate
Quarters    by      Cuoulative    Disbir~eet
Ending  Quarter  Disburseaents   Profile
1988 :1                  o0.00
:3                   0.0
:4    0.58 b/        0.58 bi      0.09
1989 rl    0.34           0.92         0.40
:2  o.34             1.25         0.72              GUINEA: NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
t3   0.34            1.59         1.08
:4    0.34           jI73         1.44       '
1990 :1    0.46           2.39         1.94
:2    0.46           2.85         2.43    a
:3    0.55           3.40         3.02       J
:4    0.55           3.95         3.t0    ']
1991 :1    0.51           4.45         4.14
:2    0.51           4.96         4 b0
:3    0.51           5.46         5. 2
:4    0.51           5.97         5.7    '
1992 :1    0.42           h.39         b.21
:2    0.42           6.81         6.0b
:3    0.38           7.19         7.07    3
:4    0.3            7.57         1.41
19M3 :1    0.25           7.82         7.1     2                 R
s2    0.25           8.07         8.l1
:3    0.25           8.33         8.28
:4    0.25           8.58         8.55      .                      -
t994 sl    0.17           8.75         8.7}       "        tte      ft*o        I8        so          "  
:2    0.17           8.92         8.91
:3    0.04           B.9b         8.9 
:4    0.94           9,00         9.0
assused Credit Effectiveness aarch 198
a/ to be cwnerted to SDR's, aiter neootiationis
bi Refinaif ot PPF
cl kuinea's DbIsursesent Profile
AFIAA
August 1987



a,0  -vd  --7



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
3ATIA SZKDS PKLJKCT
a   ~~CAURT
Ministere du
Der:eloppement Rural
~~~Cabinet  du  Ministre
Direction  Genera e  e                                                 Direction G.n4rale du
l'Adminiscration                      Secretaire  G6n6ral              Contr8le Prod. Vegitaux
Direction G4n6rale de la
Formation et Promotion
5   Bureau de Strategie et
de Developpement             roo                 TIO&J.e amE rAL  Direetion Eational  de 1Q
Direction Nationa-lb de
Autres Directions
.   ....                                 ~~~~~~~~~~Direction Generale du
G6nie Rural
AutrsProj e                                                 Direction G6nerale de
Autres  fw4ma                                l~~~~~~~~'Elevagef
z
I  Autres Centres         4
Semenciers                                                                                                 X
P A T.S A N S



I
-c
I



REPIII.IC OF 90Ill
UTIUW. SEEDS PtOJECT
arwd Sed Catwrs Icom and EpAdite
Tear:        PT!      PY2     P13      PY4     P15      PY6     P97     Pn8      P9    PYIO    PYll    P9t2    m13    m14    Pn15    P116   Pm7    "is    Pn19                n2
Quantity sold ltassi
%ico                                        so S5           1oo     250     200      300     400      500     hO         0     t00     OO       6O      tOO       O00 6O                  ^  
hui2e                                       20      so      40       50      60       70      70       70      70      70       70      70       70      70      70       7070             70      70
orwndn2 0o                                                  15       50      70      too     1oo      too     100      200 loo         Ro0      10o    1oo       10O     100      Soo     100 t0o
Totat                                     70     tlS      155     250     33       40      510      670     70       17no    770     770      770              7 no  n70  77   7o       7o       n
bweipts          FS/kq                                           IF6 ullioa)
`KCQ,           240                      12.00    18.00   24.00   36.00   48.0    72.00   96.00  120.00  144.00  144.00   t44.00  144.00  144.00  144.00  144.40  144.00  144.00  144.00  144.00
Nais            215                      4.80    7.20    9.60   12.00   14.0    16.80   16.90   16.90   16.90   16.80   1.80   16.90   16.60   16.30   16.60   16.3              .80    6 .00  110
kesdntt          265                              2.40    3.60   12.00   16.90   24.00   24.00   24.00   24.00   24.00   24.00   24.00   24.00   24.00   24.00   24.00   24.00   24.00   2L.1
Total                                   16.60   27.60   37.20   6.o00   7.20   12 .0   136 .0  16.60   94.B    84.60   1894.0  164.0   184.60  14.60  1.0  164.90  184.60 1B4.60  194.0
Seed parchamu (tss)            outturn 1/   0.63
Rice                                        60      90      120     181      241     361     462      602     m        m       723     723      723              72      723      723     72       723 
Naito                                       24      36       46      60      72       84      84       94      64       64      84      84       94      84       64     6"       94       64      84
Erusdeut                                            22       le      60      84      120     120      220     120      120     120      120     120     120      120     120      220     120      120
lapeaditur ve*i
-~   ~     ~~ ~FUg/k                                         (FS williml                                                                                                                                        s
Sad pcba    -
Rice          100.00                      6.02    9.04   12.05   16.07   24.10   36.14   46.19   60.24   72.29   n.2?   n.29   72.29   72.29   72.29   n.29   72.29   72.2    72.29   n.29
Mize            0.00                      2.17    3.25    4.34    5.42    6.51    7.59    7.5S    7.39    7.59    7.59    7.59    7.59    7.5S    7.59    7.59    7.9            7.59    7.59    7.59
buidet         90.OO                              2.09    1.63    5.42    7.59   10.64   10.4   20.84   10.84   10.64   10.64   10.84   20.84   10.94   10.84   10.94   10.84   20.64   10.94
Total                                    8.19   13.37   19.01   2.92   36.19   54.56   66.63   78.67   90.7    90.7             2   90.72   90.7    n.7    90.7    90.7    90.7    90.n    90.72
Uptp bualdidp 21                            1.06    3.55    3.55    3.55    3.55    3.55    3.55    3.55    3.55    3.35    3.55    3.55    3.53    3.55    3.55    3.55    3.55    3.55    3.55
tSditiering tosts 3t
Rie             31.41    2.:1                              2.81    4.22    5.62    8.43   11.24    14.05   26.66    L.86   ILK9   16.18   16.64   26.66   16.66   16.Bb   26.6    16.86   16.66
Nait                                      0.56    0.84    1.12    1.41    1.6?    1.97    1.97    1.9J    1.9J    1.97    1.97    1.9n    1.97    I."           1.97    1.97    1.97    1.97    1.9?
kenedet                                           0.26    0.42    1.41    1.97    2.81    2.82    2.62    2.61    2.8         2.61    2.81    2.81      2.86    2.31    2.91    2.B1    2.81    2.62
Sturp V                                     O.S1    0.91    1.18    l.6     2.45    3.45    4.62    4.62    4.62    4.62    4.62    4.62    4.62    4.62    4.62    4.Q           4.62    4.62    4.62
PoreuAl 2/                         2.92    3.34    4.14    4.22    4.22    4.22    4.22    2.78    2.76    2.78    2.78    2.78    2.76    2.79    2.79    2.78    2.76    2.79    2.75    2.78
Yticie eqerating 21                5.60    6.60    8.00    9.00    8.00    8.00    8.00    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60    5.60
Urci ataen 41                               6.80    18.61   29.03   19.03   19.03   19.03   29.03   29.03   19.03   19.03   19.03   29.03   29.03  I1.03   29.03   19.03   19.03   29.03   29.03
Total                          7.52   26.6    51.82   5s.35   72.60   84.72  106.04   118.23  133.09  147.94  147.9  u147.94  147.94  147.94  147.9   147.94  147.94   147.94  147.    147.94
Profit                            -7.52  -11.87  -24.22  -21.15  -22.60   -5.52    6.76   18.57   27.71   36.86   36.86   36.86   36.66   36.86   36.86    3.6               36.6   36.86   36."    36.86
1/ Predutiom outturn of 63?
M W  datailed cost tabl" - wrking paper       4
41 SSm eni [dimp tad eWiwnat: 33? on vehicles
4-
o1



REFUBLS8 Of SUliKA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
bordo Seed tentet: Cash Flow and Retsrn to Purchaser
Cash Flow
vear:          Pl       P2       PyZ      P14       PS       P96      Pt7      Pie       Pfi     PtiO     PY11     P912     PY13      PILl     PY15    P916      PY17     Pil8      PY19     PY2
Pro4it per incose statweent           -7.52   -1t.Bl  -24.22   -2t.15   -12.60    -5.52       6.7o    18.57    27.71    36.86    3.86    36.86    36.86    36.9b    36.86    36.66    36.96    36.86    36.86    36.96
Plus: depreciation                     0.0)     6.90    18.o1    19.03    19.03    19.03    19.03    19.03    1t.03    19.03    19.03    19.03    19.03    19.03    19.03    19.03    19.03    19.03    19.03    19.03
Inflow                              -7.52    -5.07    -5.60    -2.12      6.43    13.51    25.79    37.61    46.75    55.89    55.89    55.89    55.89    55.89    55.89    55.89    55.99    55.89    55.89    55.9
Investment 1
8uildsugs                           53.18   124.08
Equipoent                                   103.03
Vehiclei                            12.56     1.28     1.28    12.56      1.28     1.28    12.56     1.28     1 28    12.56      1.28     1.28    12.56      1.28     1.28    12.56     1.28      1.28    12.56     1.28
Total                              65.74   228.99     1.28    12.5b      1.29     1.28    12.56     1.28      1.28    12.56     1.28     1.28    12.56      1.29     1.28    12.56     1.28      1.28    12.56     1.28
Workinq capital 2'                     1.8B     3.59     2.B3      1    .53 6.56     3.03     5.33     3.05      7.43     7.43     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
Outflow                             67.b2   232.58     4.11    14.09      4.84     4.31    17.89     4.33     9.71    19.99      1.28     1.2B    12.56      1.28     1.29    12.56     1.29      1.28    12.56     1.28
_--    ----       ---       ---       ----     ----    ----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    ---          --      --         --      --        - -  ----    -----                 4-::
Wet cash                             -75.14  -2Z7.65    -9.72   -Ib.21      1.59     9.21     7.99    33.28    38.04    35.90    54.61    54.61    43.33    54.61    54.61    43.33    54.61    54.61    43.33    54.61                4-
Return to purcnaswr
Depreciated value
of investcents                                                                             213.49
gOrking capital 2                                                                            21.75     3.05
Cash flow                                                                                             33.29    38.04    35.90    54.61    54.61    43.33    54.61    54.61    43.33    54.61    54.61    43.7'   54.61
let csh flow                                                                               -235.24    30.23    38.04    35.90    54.61    54.61    43.33    54.61    54.61    43.33    54.61    54.61    43.3.    54.61
Internal ratt of return                                                                       16.2S
11  er detailed cost tables -   torking paper  4
2m 3 onths incremental cash oneratmo expenses
AFIAA
August 1987
D;>
OQ Z
ID 
1-3
0  1
-h .



En                                                                     nREPUBLIC OF 6UINEA
ft p,                                                                 NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
*                                                                      Bovernoent Cash Flow
IF6 aillioul
00                                                PYO      PYI      PY2      PY3       PY4      total      PY5      PY8 PY7            PYD      PY9     P11O
Year      1987     1918      M189    1WQ       tlW It PTs 0-4 t    1992     993      1994     1995     1996     19"?
:         :
Outflow                                                                      *          a
Project costs a/                    243      862    1,5B4       775      790 1  4,254 I
Post project costs: bi
Base seed production                                                        I 1               50       SO       50       50       50        50
Seed centers                                                                I                306      283
Quality costrol lab                                                                            2        2        2        2        2         2
Adainistration                                                              I          1     159       68       51       34       34        17
Total post project costs            0        0         0        0        0 1       0 1    517       403      103       86        06       69
IDA Credit service charge            1        2
and cosaitment fee cl               18       20        22       25 2/       1      112 1      27       27       2        27        27       27
Total outflow                       261      882    1,604       800       16 1t  4,366 S    544        430      130      113       113       96
Inf lo w
1,___0                                                                                 S
IDA Credit dl                       239      793    1,452       590      526 1  3,600 .
Base seed sales e                     0         2       .5       11       21 1      30:        30       40       48       52       52        52
ISproved seed sales 4/                0        0        60      130      291 1    41 1    526          770
Less: seed purchases 9/               0         1       30       64      144       239 i    258        376
Net prceed of seeds                   0         1       35       77      16 1      281C       297      434       48       52        52       52
Sales of seed centers hi                                                      t         t                      1080
Total inflow                        239      794    19487       67       694 1  3,881 1    297        4U4    1,128        52       52        52
Net inflow/outflow                  -22      -8       -120     -133     -122      -485 1   -247          4      9f8      -61      -61       -44
Cuulative net inflouloutflow        -22      -110     -230     -363     -485 1          1   -731      -728      271      209       14       103
a/ per AnneI 3-3
b/ per detailed cost tables - uorkit  paper 4
cl Service charge 0.75?; comitaent ee u.5?
dl per working paper 4
e/ per working paper 4
41 production per Annex 3-8 at price inflated through PY4
I 3 outturn at price inflated throwgb PY4
hl per working paper 4



I
l,
I



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECI
Amount of Seed Available to Fareers/CropiYear
(Tons)
CROP               PYI (1988)      PY2      PY3      PY4        PY5       PY6       PY7       PY8       PY9      PYIO      Pll      PY12      P113       PY14     PY15
1. RICE
Upland
- Center Icomoercnal seed) a/                        100       175       400       770     1,120     1.520     1,920     2,020     2.120     2,120      2120      2.120    2,120
- Seed reproduced bvYear I                                     100       175       400       770     1,120     1,520     1.920    2,020       2,120     2,120     2,120    2,120
arwers            lear 2                                               100       175       400       770     1,120     1,520      1,920     2,020     2,120     2.120    2,120
Year 3                                                         100       175       400       770     1,120     1,520     1,920     2,020      2.120    2,120
Total Upland Rice                                     100      275       675     1,445     2,465     3,810     5,330     6.580     7,580      8,180     8.380     8.480    8,480
Swamp
- Center (commercial seed) at                         25        50       100       160       230       310       400       400       400        400       400       400      400
- Seed reproducev byYear 1                                      25        50       100       160       230       310       400        400       400       400       400      400
farwers           fear 2                                                25        50       100       160       230       310       400        400       400       400      400
Year 3                                                          25        50       100       160       230       310       400       400        400      400
Total Swam  Rice                                      25       75        175       335       540       800     1,100     1,340      1,510     1,600     1,600     1,600    1,600
Mangrove
- Center (coamercial seed) a/                         25        50       150       250       350       450       575       575        575       575       575       375      575
- Seed rep-oduted bYlear 1                                      25        50       150       250       350       450       575       575        575       575       575      575
farmers           fear 2                                                25        50       150       250       350       450       575        575       575       575      575
Year 3                                                          25        50       150       250       350       450       575        575       575      574
Total Mangrove Rice                                   25       75        225       475       800     1,200     1,625      1,950    2,175      2,300     2,300     2,300    2.30
_-  - _  __   ___   ___   _ _ ____-----  - --
Total Rice                                            150      425     1,075     2,255     3,805     5,810     8,055     9,870    11,265    12,080    12,280    12.380   12,380
2. AIlE
- Center (commercial seed) a/
- Seed reproduced bylear 1                            60       100       140       200       280       360       340       360        360       360       360       360      360
4armers           Year 2                                      60       100       140       200       280       360       360        360       360       360       360      3b0
Year 3                                               60        100       140       200       280       360       360       30        360        360      360
Total haize                                           60       160       300       440       620       840     1.000     1,080      1,080     1,090     1,080     1.080    1,080
3. GROUNDKUTS
- Center (commercial seed) al                          0       45         80       180       300       420       420       420       420        420       420       420      420
- Seed reproduced byYear 1                                                45        80       180       300       420       420        420       420       420       420      420
farmers           Year 2                                                          45        80       180       300       420       420        420       420       420      420
Year 3                                                                    45        80       180       300       420       420        420       420      420
Year 4                                                                              45        80       180       300       420       420        420      420
Total 6roundnuts                                      0       45        125       305       605     1,025     1,400     1,740      1,$80     2,100     2,100     2.100    2,100
TOTAL SEED AVAILABE                                 210      630      1,500     3,000     5,030     7,675    10,455    12,690    14,325    15,260    15,460    15,560   15,560
_ :    _   _- x    _ :==   s_   :===== =S, _ ==_x := ==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
al APnex 3-1
August  1987                                                                                                                                                                           '
o01



REPUB8LIC OF GUINlEA
KA11ONAL SEEDS PROJECT
IQcrerentAl Produttion fros toproved Seed
ATonsl
CROP         P01)1988)   PY2       P73      Pl4    P35      PF6       PY7       P08      PY9      PIlO    PaIl      PY12      PY13     PY14     PY15
0 TIlAlV SEED PRODUCTION (Ions] (Commercial afd Farkers SW) at
Rice: Upland                          100.0   275.0   675.0  1,445.0  2,465.0  3,810.0  5.330.0  6,580.0  7,580.0  8.100.0  8,380.0  8,480.0  8,480.0
Sam                              25.0    75.0   175.0    335.0    540.0    000.0  1.100.0  1,340.0  1,510.0  1,00.0  1,600.0  1,600.0  1,600.0
Nanqrove                         25.0    75.0   225.0    475.0    800.0  1,200.0  1.625.0  l,950.0  2,t75.0  2.300.0  2,300.0  2,300.0  2.300.0
lotal Rice                            150.0   425.0  1.075.0  2,255.0  3,805.0  5.B10.0  8,055.0  9,870.0  11,265.0  12.080.0  17,280.0  12.380.0 12,380.0
iitze                                  b0.0   160.0   300.0    440.0    620.0    840.0  1,000.0  1.080.0  !,080.0  1.080.0  1,080.0  1,080.0  1.080.0
Broundnuts                                     45.0   125.0    305.0    605.0  1,025.0  1,400.0  1,740.0  1,9O0.0  2,100.0  2,100.0  2,100.0  2,100.0
TOTAl.                                210.0   630.0  1,500.0  3,000.0  5,030.0  7,U75.0  10,155.0  12,690.0  14,325.0  15,260.0  15.460.0  15,SbO.O  I5,560.0
2) TOTAL 4REA PLUATED t00 OMa  (CoMerctal and Fimewrs Seed) t/
Rice. Upland                            1.3     3.7      9.0     19.3     32.9      50.8     71.1     B7.7    101.1    109.1    111.7    113.1    113.1
Smaip                             0.3      1.0     2.3      4.5       7.2     10.7      14.7     17.9     20.1      21.3     21.3     21.3      21.3
Rnqrovr                           0.3      1.0     3.0      6.3      10.7     16.0      21.7     26.0     29.0      30.7     30.7     30.7      30.7
Total Rice                              2.0     5.7    14.3      30.1     50.7      77.5    107.4    131.6    150.2    161.1    163.7    165.2    165.1
matze                                   2.4     6.4    12.0      t7.6     24.8      33.6     40.0      43.2     43.2     43.2     43.2      43.2     43.2
Brouedouts                              0.0     0.4      1.3      3.1      6.1      10.3     14.0      17.4     19.8     21.0      21.0     21.0     21.0
IDIAL                                 4.4    12.5    27.6      50.7     81.6    121.3    1 261.4    192.2    213.2    225.3    227.9    229.3    229.3
3S INCREMENIA.L PRODUNTION (tonsi c/
Rsce (Paddv)t Uplaad                  333.3   926.4  2,249.4  4,815.5  9,214.6  12,696.8  17.76i2.2  21,927.9  25,260.4  27.259.9  27,926.4  28,259.6 2B,259.6        -
Sup                      100.0   295.9   69.8  I,339.7  2,159.5  3,199.2  4,398.9  5,358.7  6,038.5  6,39a.4  6,398.4  6,39B.4  6,39B.4                CO
Neqroge                  100.0   299.9   899.B  1,899.5  3,199.2  4,798.8  6,498.4  7,798.1  B,697.8  9,197.7  9,197.7  9,197.7  9,197.7
Total Rice (paddy)                    533.2  1,516.3 3,849.0  8,054.7  13,573.3  20.694.9  28.69.5  35.084.6  39,996.7 42,856.0  43,522.5  43,855.7  43,855.7
Rice - 0.65 Paddy: Upland             216.6   595.7  1,462.1  3,130.1  5,3S9.5  8,252.9  11,545.4  14,253.1  16 419.2  17,718.9  18.152.1  18,36b8.7  1,368.7
S-ao                 65.0   195.0   454.9    870.8  1,403.6  2,079.5  2,859.3  3,483.1  3,925.0  4,159.0  4,159.0  4,159.0  4,159.0
Ingrovte             65.0   195.0   584.9  1.234.7  2,079.5  3,119.2  4.223.9  5.068.7  5,653.6  5,97B.5  5,978.5  5,978.5  5,97B.5
Total Rice                            346.6   915.6 2,501.9  5,235.5  8,822.6  13,451.6  18,628.7  22,805.0  25.997.8  27,856.4  2B,289.6 28,506.2 28,506.2
Baa;e                                 600.0  1,600.0  3,000.0  4,400.0  6,200.0  8,400.0  10,000.0  IO,B00.O 10.80.0  10,800.0  10,800.0  20.,80.0  10,800.0
Brouwadauts                                    90.0   250.0    610.0  1,210.0  7,050.0  2,B00.0  3,460.0  3,960.0  4,200.0  4,200.0  4,200.0  4,200.0
TO42L                                 9746.6  2,675.6 5,751.9  20,245.5  l ,232.6  23,902.6  31.428.7  37,085.0  40,757.8 42,856.4  4J289.6  43,506.2 43,506.2
cnn  nttns  mann  atnant  n.fl~~ naatnn              n.       mc    mtt ..tc- flcc  amma   mmcc-
Ecoaec Value of Production leillion FBld/
Racet ,plnd                            19.7    54.1   132.8    284.2    484.8    763.4  1,068.0  1,318.4  1,518.8  1,639.0  1,706.3  1,726.7  1,726.7            ' 
Upland                            5.9    17.7    41.3       79.1    127.5    192.4    264.5    322.2    363.1    384.7    390.9    390.9    390.9           co
Mlnree                            5.9    17.7    53.1    112.1    188.8    298.5    390.7    468.9    523.0    553.0    562.0    562.0    562.0            OQ  Z
Total Rice                             3t.5    89.5   227.2    475.4    802.1  1,244.3  t,723.2  2,109.5  2,404.8  2,576.7  2.65 2,2  2,679.6  267.6                 >
Itize                                  52.4   139.B   262.2    384.6    541.9    734.2    974.0    943.9    94.9    943.9    943.9    943.9    943.9             0
Broenduts                               0.0     6.8    18.8      45.8     90.8    153.8    210.0    261.0    297.0    325.0    315 0    315.0    315.0            -h 
TOTAL                                 83.9   23B.2   S08.1    905.7  1,433.7  2,132.2  2,S07.2  3,314.4  3,64.7  3,835.6  3.918.1  3,938.5  3,9S3.5              '
scttck   n      cn       cnn mcactc  natan   .Ann.    -ma,catc           tt csaa mn                ..       catinaa
aI 9ra  kne  3-8,  a
bi eedog raten  rice 75 tgIb,a oite 25 kglla, grounaiuts 100 kgIba
cl yield asuaptimas in pera 3.6
dl fcw ecnomic prices, see Anm  3-11 and par 3.58
AFIM
Aeot 1917



ANNEX 5-2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
a/
Seed Center Purchase and Sale Price of Rice, Haize and Rroundnuts
Prices a/
Purchase (at harvests                         Sale (at plantinq1
Crop                Market   Market + 20X                     Market        harket + 20X
Rice (paddy)          85           100                            200             240
Maize                 75           90                             180            215
Groundnuts b/         75           90                             220            2b5
a/ The prices are indicative based on 1986 and 1987 market prices. Actual pruEhase and sale
prices by the centers will depend on market prices for each year, plus a 20X mark-up.
bI Groundnuts are purchased in shell and sold shelled
AFlAA
Auqust 1987



I
I



REPUBIUC OF SUIKER
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Economic Analysis
A) Eroraxt Rate of Returr
(Iblaon FS)
Year:              PlO       PYI     PY2      PY3       PY4      PYS       PY6       PY7       PYS      PY9      PYI0      FYII      P912     PY13    PY14    PY15    PY16    PY17    Pyl8    P119
ECOINIIC  OSTS a/
Base Seed Productior             272.0    144.5    28.4    28.4        72.5     30.0      32.0      34.0     36.0      36.0      36.0      36.0     3.0       36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0
Seed Centers                       0.0    305.9  1,097.4   300.0    24.3.8    2(8.0    201.0    250.0    312.0    334.0    28.0    285.0    28.0    28.0   295.0   295.0   285.0   29.0   285.0   285.0
aulity Control tab.                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      29.3      1.8 7      .8       1.9       1.8      1.8       1.8       1.8      1.8       1.8      1.8      1.8     1.8      1.8      1.6      1.9
MAdinustration                     6.6    100.?    40.9    41.2        76.4    100.7      41.2      30.9      20.6     20.6      10.3       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
lechnital Assistance               0.0    226.4   296.4   2B7.'    217.1         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Training                           0.0     26.0    15.0    11.0        2.2       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Economc Costs              278.6    803.4  1,478.1   667.7    641.3    350.5    276.0    316.7    370.4    392.4    333.1    322.8    3.8    322.8   322.8   322.8   322.8                  e.8    322.8   322.8
ECUINIIC llEVfITS bi
Rice                               0.0       0.0    31.5    89.5    227.2    475.4    801.1   1,244.3  1.723.2  ?,109.5  2,404.8  2,576.7  2,659.2  2,679.6  2,679.6  2,679.6  2,679.6  2,679.6  2,679.6  2,679.6
Nuiie                              0.0       0.0    52.4   139.8    262.2    384.6    541.9    734.2    874.0    943.9    943.9    943.9    943.9    943.9   943.9   943.9   943.9   943.9   943.9   943.9
6roundnuts                         0.0       0.0     0.0      6.8      18.8     45.8      90.8    153.8    210.0    261.0    297.0    315.0    315.0    315.0   315.0   315.0   315.0   315.0   315.0   315.0
Total Econoc Beneits               0.0      0.0    B3.9   236.1    508.1    905.7  1,433.7  2.132.2  2,807.2  3,314.4  3,645.7  3,835.6  3,918.1  3.938.5  3,938.5 3,938.5  3.938.5  3.938.5  3,938.5  3,938.5
NET SEIEFllS                    (278.6)   803.4)(1,394.2)  (431.6)   1133.2)   555.2  1,157.7  1,815.5  2.436.8  2,922.0  3,312.6  3,512.8  3,595.3  3.615.7  3,615.7  3,615.7  3,615.7  3,615.7  3,615.7  3,615.7
=x==     W==us ====x=    ==t        ===       =- s== =  ========    -sx=                      =========zx=    =x3=  x3=5                             ==C=_=t  xs  ====x=3c:  :xx
Economit Rate of Return    =--=-=      32.42                                                                                                                                                          U'
Net Present Value (at 101)  -:z =->  M2.8
Stitchiag Values (at 102)  Costs      +2202                                    - _t
--------            Benefits   -702                     Econ. Rate of Return vs. Change in Costs acd Benefits
Be-nefits
Costs       -502      -202      -102       02    +102       +20t
-205      22.72     32.41    35.12    37.62      40.02    42.22
-102      20.52     298O2    32.42    34.82      37.12     39.22
02      18.5t    2' 62    30.11    32.42       34.62    36.61
+101 1    16.82    2. .72    28.11    30.32    32.41       M.4O
+202      15.32    24.02    26.32      29.52     30.52     32.42
+502      11.42    19.72    21.92    24.02    25.92    27.62
a/ Economic costs = project costs - txtes and onrce contingencies. All
further assuwptions are detailed in para 3.58.
bl Fro  Annex 3-B. page 2.                                                                                                                                                                                        -
AFIAA
August 1997



I
N
I



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
Economic Faregate Prices
(I987 tonstant Prices)
PADDY RICE                                                              MAIZE
1989     1990      1995     2000                                   1989      1990     1995      2000
---------198? USS PER TON ---------                                ---------1987 US9  PER TON -----------
F.O.B.(1                                         230.0    249.0    255.0    260.0                             (1)    95.0    112.0    114.0    11.0
FREIGHT & INSURANCE 12i                            45.0      45.0     45.0      45.0                           (2)    35.0      35.0      35.0     35.0
QUALITY ADJUSTMENT (3)                              0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
C.I.F., CONAKRY                                   275.0    294.0    300.0    305.0                                    130.0    147.0    149.0    153.0
---------1987 '000 F6 PER TON -----                                ---------1987 '000 F6 PER TON ------
C.I.F. (4)                                        110.0    117.6    120.0    122.0                             (3)    52.0      58.8      59.6     61.2
PORI RAND.YSTORAGE                                  8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0                                    8.0      8.0       8.0       8.0
OVERHEAD/MARGIN (5)                                11.8      12.6      12.8     13.0                           (4)      6.0      6.7       6.8       6.9
iHOLESALE VAL. CONAKRY                            129.8    138.2    140.8    143.0                                     66.0     73.5      74.4      76.1
TRANSP.COMAKRY-RESGICAL MARKET 1b)                 36.0      36.0     36.0      36.0                           15)    36.0      3b.0      36.0      36.0
------        ------    ------                                 ------   ------    --__   --__-  ------                              V1
REFERENCE MARKET PRICE                            165.8   174.16    176.8        179                                  102.0    109.5    110.4    112.1
TRANS?. FARM-RE61ONAL MARKET 17)                    9.0       9.0      9.0       9.0                           (6)      9.0      9.0       9.0       9.0
EQUIVALENT PADDY (65%)                            107.8    113.2    114.9    116.4
PROCESSING AND PRIMARY M'KTINS (8)                  8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0                           (7)      8.0      8.0       8.0       8.0
STORAGE LOSSES 15%)                                 5.4       5.4       5.4      5.4                                    5.1      5.1       5.1       5.1
IMPORT PARITY PRICE AT FARMGATE                    85.4      90.8     92.5      94.0                                   79.9     87.4      88.3     90.0
===5=   =- :=2   ====_=   -====                                  _=====Z   =w=====  :_====   ==:====
FOOTNOTES - Paddy Rice                                                                          FOMNOTES - Maize
(1t  Bank Marth l987 cE oodity price projections; FOB Bangkok 5% btoken.                        (1) Bank March 1987 commodity price projections; FOB Maize, U.S. Sulf ports.
(2) Estimated freight & Insurance charges Bangkok-Conakry.                                      (2) Estimated hreight t Insurance charges 6ulf ports-Conakry.
13) Ouality presium to account for consumer preference for local rice                           (3) Converted to F  at U91=400 F6
over imported rice(l52).But discount for 25% broken rice imported                            (4) loporter's overhead & handling costs estimated at 10% of CIF plus
by Guinea also estimated at 15% (for illustrative purposes only).                               port handling and storage charges.
(4) Converted to F6 at USS1=400 FG .                                                            (5) Transport betveen Conakrv & regional market where project output will be
(5) Importer's overNead & handling costs estimated at 10% of CIF plus                              sold, e.g. Kankan, Pita. etc. Average distance of 600km. a 6OF6/ton/ko.
port handling and stura e charges.                                                           (6) Transport between faro and regional market. Average distance
(6) Transport between Conakrv & regional market where project output will be                       ot 100lk x 90F6
sold, e.g. Kankan, Pita, etc. Average distance of 600km. 8 6OF8/ton/km.                      (7) Bagging and primary marketing.
(7) Transport between farm and regiona? market. Average distance
of 100km x 90F6.
t8) Milling, bagging, and primary marketing.
AFIAA
August  1987
a'



14I                                                             12
- aa..aa -rr-_. * *S E N E G A L                                                        I
G   U  I N   E  A                       I            K       )    To                    Kedou4o. 
B I S S A U                   ToinsX\ ,       +_,..
i    bI(                     \               hf''  '       I IPU                   s~Ii~
a-w
COSiAKRY        .'  .,;                                                                   ' I                                  \EG IO N
'.1~ ~ ~~~~'.                                                   Dlb
x'    Z~~~~Z
SIE RR A L EON E   j>
bg..d. w   _fw I. s &t                                                            * INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
'4                                                    : .       .                              AEROPORT INTERNATIONAt
;W -Wu0 a fe Uq. 4.                                                 ,   AIRFIELDS                                  g \ ;Ktssidougou
,___,, T WA"" a$P                                                                               AERODROMES 
W ft,Aft 0 o                                                               PAVED ROADS
w_W     _  1ob45                                                                                ROUTES PAVES
UTNPAVED ROADS
J/     >MAURITANIA                                                                - ROUTS NON-PADES
.  ---4-RAILROADS
SENEGAL                    - -           -J                                          CHEMIN DE FER
SENEGAL  ^s:                                                   ~~~~~~~~~                                                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~RIVER5S< t
FLEUVES
GAMBIA-7 - . T  \_MALI                                                                     PREFECTURE HEADQUARTERS
*                                                                         0 .                                              1CHEF-t/flX DfS PRFECTuR?S
0   PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
GUINEAU                                    r BRKINA                                 CHEF LIEUX DES PROVCfS
/-      GU N        A     gFASO                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
G  U i NQE A    ;        .     1r-                                       CNAPTAN^ APITALE{
_  -  -- PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                      B
CONAKRYx  r        \           \                                                   ULIMITES DES PREFECTURES                                L  I B  I
SIERRA                                >                                 {. PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
LEONE                                                                  LIMITES DES PROVINCES
j ~ - <  COTE D'IVOIRE   /                        _-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LIBERIA                                                       LIMITES D ErATS
-LIBERIA   &                    i  (l
- 7                                                                                                                                            _~~~~~~~~>



IBRD 20468
10t                                                                 8
G U I N E A
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
<,  \                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~G U I N E E
-_                                            I / l                                                           PROJET SEMENCIER
,1'                                                            To B_ nI    )                                                 NATIONAL
>;   ^_    To Bomatko                12-
) 2   j             M   A  L  I                     A  PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURE
INFRASTRUCTURE DU PROJET
)7x ,    t  i  .XA,$,.I~  SEED CONDITIONING CENTERS
CENTRES DE CONDITIONNEMENT DE SEMENCES
'~~~~~~~'  -~~~~~~~~  /                                                * ~~~~~~~RESEARCH CENTERS
y<0I   ) -6'9   ,       .       - }CENTRES DE RECHERCHE
0 QUALITY CONTROL LABORATORY
.::i  L - WAUBE-                                                                        L E  -  s    tABORATOIRES  DE CONTROLE DE QUALITE
-1~~' s@ _2.2'dS7   |                      si NPROJECT HEADQUARTERS
r                                               SIEGE DU PRO JET
A    SEED CONDITIONING CENTERS (OUTSIDE PROJECT)
CENTRES Of CONDITIONNEMENT DE SEMENCES
(HORS PRO JET)
K                                                                                              AREAS WHERE SEED WOULD BE DISTRIBUTED BY EXISTING '
ZONES OU LES SEMENCES SERONT DISTRIBUES PAP DES
PROJETS EXISTANTS OU PROPOSES
(                                                                0/            (?] E 1 v , , AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION TECHNIQUE CENTER (USAID)
i.;   .A$IC~                               ~- I .I  CENTRE DEO VLGARISATION TECHNIQUE AGRICOtE
(IJSAID)
KOUROUSSA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT OFFICE
-A                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(ADBAIFAD)
ANAH f                                                                                                                OFFICE OE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL INTEGRE DE
VWAIH                                                                                           >;.t C1KOUROUSSA (BADIFIDA)
SIGUIRI RICE OPERATION (IFAD)
OPERATIONV RIZCOLE DE SIGUIRI (FIDA)
COTEu                INTWEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM IN HIGF'
^.  )  -    _8GUINEA (EDF/CCCEJCFDT)
PROGRAMME DE Of VELOPPEA4ENT RURAL INTEGRE DE LA
HAUTE GUINEE (FEDCCCE(CFDT)
t .;  _iGUECKEDOU DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IBRD.ADBIFAD)
PROJET AGRICOLE OE GUECKEDOU (BIRD BAD F DA)
PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT (IBRD)
,;    .,  ;  /       l<~>80yia                                \                      (PROJET PILOTE DE VULGARISATO ON (BIRD)
K6r*   6                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~BINTIMODIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJE.-T
Kisskiougou  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~                 (CCC~~~~POET Of EVELOPPEMENIT RUPAL INTEGRE Of
RE(6C )N                                                                                            BIN TIMOQIA (CCCEj
PROPOSED (PROPOSE) PROGRAMME DE DEVELOPPEMENT
RURAL INTEGRE DE LA GUINEE MARITIME (FED)
FT5du    oPROPOSED (PROPOSE) PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
Lz0 DU FOUTA DJAI.ON (IFADXFIDA)
(PROJECT AREA STILL TO BE DEFINED)
i                                   INEX                                                                      (ZONE DU PROJET A DEFINIR)
~~~~  MoCento ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED (PROPOSE) PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
DECENTRALISE (fAO'UNDP)
(PROJECT AREA STILL TO BE DEFINED)
(ZONE DU PRO JET A DEFINIR)
NATURAL REGION BOUNDARIES
.   /80-     LIMITES DES REGIONS NATURELLES
L I B E R I A               1S.   t X  g   A                              5                                ISOHYETS IN mm
ISOHYETES EN mm
KILOMETERS
0           40          80          120
To Abidjon                         0        20         40        60       80
,b-' )   t   v '   5    x                                                MILES
100
SEPTEMBER 1987



140                                                        120
-------~~~~~~~~~~.r.r.-.- ~~~~~~~s E N E G A l 
G    U  I N    E  A                                                            To 7; Kod&vo,
B  I S S A   U             lo X                                                                .r
-120
/4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/X esv                                                      I.7
1     d-                                                                                                                           PA *AROORANTRNTANl   
01w Ub,S.*
~s  '"qt                                            \    ,y.. AIRFIELDS 
lo fosw8ssw,o.vi                                                                         AERODROMfS >
dsos - .e                                                                                 PAVED ROADS                      
1__$d   )40                                                 ROUTES PAVES 40"
.______   ____________                           - _ ,-UNPAVED ROADSp 
-7----~~~~~~ ROUTES NON-PAVES                                                         5a
J  -<as,   MAURITANIA   >                               I I RAIEROADs                               MAN
CHEMIN DE R
SENEGAL      *                                                                 RIVERS  
T_  _AMBI                              MALI             ,f                           LPEfJECTR HEADQUARTERS                   r    
THE GAMa*A, J  9   ;,             ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CHEf-LIEU DE PREfECTURE,t*' 
_-   UINEATF         . 'NI NTE PROViNCE HEADQUARTERS
BISSAU,      --i                        (BURKINA                              CHEF-LIEU OE PROVINCEr
; * FASO  80                      A NA     TIONAL CAPITAL
VW                _ do    PoAI- PREfECTURE BOUNDARIES
CO'N.                  ;                                               LIMITES DES PREfECTURESI
-.SIERRA           (                                        - *  PROVINCE BOUNDARIE5
LEONE  9\        5 t                                             LMITERODES PROVINCES
/   <t  ~~COTE DIVOIRE   /                        _.-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
w,IIbwy. /w~d                                              LIUMITES DETATS
'  LIBERIA                                                   P        D
_                                                      -   UNPAVED ROADS
MAURITANIA                                    ROUTES NON-PAVES~~~~~~~~~~12



IBRD 2046'
G U I N E A
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
ZONES FOR RICE, MAIZE AND
GROUNDNUTS
to fomoko                                               G  U I N  E E
jjM A l I                          PROJET SEMENCIER
NATIONAL
ZONES DE PRODUCTION
.agwn :   L   I  . \AGRICOLES POUR RIZ, MAIS ET
wuiti X                                                               ARACHIDES
PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURE
INFRASTRUCTURE DU PROJET
\   SEED CONDITIONING CENTERS
CENTRES Df CONDITIONNfMENT DE SEMENCES
Jff,   Kouroutsa                       t~o   R RESEARCH CENTERS
(0                        ~~~~~~~~CENTRES OF RECHIERCHE
QUALITY CONTROL LABORATORY
*                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LABORATOIRES DF CONTROLE DE QUALITE
SIEGE DU PROJET
s}  ?    t  & N    2 $    : N=  t v n  e    ^            /             6   ~~~~~~~~PROJECT HEADQUARTERS
|   SEED CONDITIONING CENTERS )OUTSIDE PROJECT)
CENTRES OE CONDITIONNFMENT DE SEMENCES
AN   f        -                                                10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  (~~~~HORS PROJET)
COTE
N  -                    j                       f'l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FLOODED RICE
WJ           s       0          -                   i   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D'IVOIRE   R|IEZICULTURE INONDEE
4 %   %,_,,J                        *.,         \                       m     UPLAND RICE
RIZICUL TURF SECHE
~GROUNDNUTS
) ine^?t    /  i      ,*    *$*         7!tL,mA. ARACHIDES
*       a r S (Krouo                      / n                   MAIZE
LENGTH OF RAINY SEASON IN MONTHS
_DUREE DE SAISON PLUVIEUSE EN MOIS
L I B  E  R  I A                                                                                          KOMIr
KILOMETERS
0         40         80         120
r     I To Abidjan             0       20       40       60       80
.o;                                         ,. t MItES
JIULY 191



