Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repout No. 7642-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TH2 REPUBLIC OF IALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 5, 1989
Africa Region
Southern Africa Department
Country Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wo Id Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1 - MK 2.70
MK 1 = USS 0.37
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMTIESA           Association of Management Training Institutions in
Eastern and Southern Africa
DEVPLAN           Ministry of Finance's Development Plan
DEVPOL            Statement of Development Policies 1987-96
DPMT              Department of Personnel Management and Training, OPC
EPD               Department of Economic Planning and Development, OPC
HIID              Harvard Institute for International Development
MIM               Malawi Institute of Management
MOF               Ministry of Finance
OPC               Office of the President and Cabinet
PSIP              Public Sector Investment Program
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................    i-iii
I.  INTRODUCTION                  ..2...................... 
A. Background ...............................................                 1
B. Macro-economic Setting ...................................                 1
II.   MANAGEMENT OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR .............................                  3
A. Needs in Management Development ..........................                  3
B. Needs in National Economic Management ....................                 7
C.  revious Bank Experience .................................                 9
II'.  THE PROJECT .................................................                 10
A. Rationale and Objectives                      ..                          10
B. Detailed Description by Component ........................                11
C. Costs .......................................... .......                  15
D. Financing   ..16
E. Procurement    ..16
F. Disbursement    ..17
G. Accounts and Audit..                                                      19
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION..                                                        19
A. MIM Implementation    ..19
B. MOF Implementation .22
C. Reporting ................... .....    22
D. Project Status ...........................................                22
E. Environmental Considerations                    ..                        23
V.    BENEFITS AND RISKS ..........................................                 23
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIO ..24
This report was based on the findings of a World Bank mission comprising
Messrs./Mmes. R. Sullivan (Mission Leader), G. Byam, C. Machado, N. Kulemeka
(Bank) and S. Lister (consultant) which visited Malawi in November 1988 to
appraise the project. Ms. M. Kalina provided secretarial support.
I This document h&s a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
3-1   Proposed Ministry of Finance Organizational Structure
3-2   Status of Tax Modernization Program
3-3   Project Cost Summary
3-4   UNDP Financing Arrangements
1-5   Consultant Service Requirements
3-6   Disbursement Schedule
4-1   Malawi Institute of Management Organization
4-2   HIM: Estimates of Participants, Fees, Endowment, Recurrent Costs
4-3   Government Expenditure on Training
4-4   Project Implementation Schedule
Map:  IBRD 21210



REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Government of the Republic of Malawi
Implementing            Malawi Institute of Management, Ministry
Agencies:              of Finance
Credit Amount:          SDR 8.8 million (US$ 11.3 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard, with 40 years maturity
Cofinancing:            UNDP: US$ 6.0 million equivalent
Proiect Description:    The objective of the project is to strengthen national
economic management. It would provide for the
establishment and initial operation of the Malawi
Institute of Management (MIM) which would offer in-
service training courses in management related areas
to middle and senior level officials in the public and
private sectors. MIM would have a close association
with the University of Malawi, sharing facilities and
offering courses at several of the University's
institutions. An endowment fund would be established
which would help MIM cover its operating costs from
internally generated revenues by the end of the
project inivestment period. The project would fund
MIM's civil works, furniture, equipment and operating
costs. A Canadian consortium has been selected to
provide initial technical services under a twinning
arrangement. If its performance is satisfactory after
one year, it would be offered a multi-year contract.
The project would also assist the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) with the implementation of its newly prepared
Development Plan (DEVPLAN) and its ongoing tax
modernization program. Under DEVPLAN, MOF would be
reorganized to strengthen its forward budgeting
capability, to improve monitoring of government
expenditures and the turnaround time in the
preparation of accounts, to upgrade government
auditing and to strengthen claims processing and debt
management. The project would also support MOF's tax
modernization program which includes reforms in trade
taxes, improved collection of corporate taxes and a
new duty-drawback scheme.  Tlhe project would provide
the technical assistance, equipment and training
required to help MOF carry out its programs.



- iL -
Estimated Costs:
S Foreign
Local  Foreign    Total    Exchange
---- (US$ Million) -__
A.  Malawi Institute                     5.3      7.8     13.1           60
of Management
B. Ministry of Finance
Budgeting, Fin. Mgmt.,              0.4       1.2      1.6           74
Accounting\Audit
Tax Modernization                   0.1       1.8      1.9           98
Sub-total                        0.5      3.0       3.5           87
Total Baseline Costs                5.8      10.8     16.6           65
Physical Contingencies              0.2       0.3      0.5           60
Price Contingencies                 0.5       1.3      1.8           72
Total Project Cost                  6.5      12.4     18.9           66
Financing sources:
2 of
Local  Foreign    Total        Total
---- CUSS Million) ----
Government                           1.6         -      1.6            9
IDA                                  3.3       8.0     11.3           60
UNDP                                 1.6       4.4      6.0           31
Total                           6.5     12.4      18.9          100
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
-__------- (us$ Million) ------------
Annual                               1.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    1.5   0.8
Cumulative                           1.5    4.0    6.5    9.0   10.5  11.3



- iii 
Project Benefits
and Risks:              The project would continue the process begun under
previous adjustment operations of strengthening
Malawi's capacity for national economic management.
Establishing MIM would provide the country with an in-
service management training capability for middle and
senior officials in the civil service, parastatals and
private sector. This would progressively remove the
economy's dependence on external training sources and
would enable a much larger group of managers to
receive skill upgrading. MIM would be self-financing
by the end of the project period, covering its costs
from revenues generated by fees and income from its
endowment. The proposed program for strengthening MOF
would enable it to provide better economic management.
Under MOF's DEVPLAN, sections of the Ministry involved
in forward budgeting, expenditure monitoring and
control, and financial management would be reorganized
to operate more efficiently. Under MOF's tax
modernization program, the tax structure and modes of
collection would be modernized resulting in greater
incentives for local production and increased public
revenues.
The risks are that MIM would be slow to develop into a
credible training institute which was financially
self-sufficient and that the strengthening program in
MOF would not be sustained over the time required for
reforms to be fully internalized. The programs for
both components have been designed to minimize these
risks. For MIM, the twinning arrangement with an
external consortium and the close association with the
University of Malawi would enable its initial
operation at a high level and transfer to local
control without sacrificing quality. Revenues from
course fees and income from its endowment should
permit MIM to operate without Government subsidy
following the completion of the project investment
period. For MOF, the programs have been designed
against modest targets and would be introduced slowly
with the full participation of Malawian staff.
Economic Rate of Return:          Not applicable
Memorandum of the President:      P-5005-MAI
Map:                               IBRD 21210
AP6CO
May 5, 19892



INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.     Introduction
1.          The Government has been examining ways to provide in-service
training to middle level and senior officials in the civil service since the
late 1970s. The Fourth Education Credit (Cr. 1123-MAI), which was appraised
in 19CO and became effective in 1981, noted the Government's interest in
establishing an Institute of Public Administration for this purpose. The
Fourth Education Project endorsed the concept, but did not provide funding for
construction because of the relatively higher priority at that time which the
Government placed on secondary education. Instead, the project provided for
preparatory studies and architectural design work up to the construction
tender stage, and noted that the institute was justified for eventual
financing. The study was not undertaken until 1ES6, at the end of the
project, and, while it recommended proceeding with the institute, it left
unat.swered questions about the long-term market and the relationship the
institute would have with the University of Malawi which was also providing
some in-service management training through the Polytechnic. The Bank and the
Goveranment decided not to proceed with architectural designs until after the
above issues could be resolved, and the credit for the Fourth Education
Project was closed without this task being completed. At this point, the
Government requested the Bank and UNDP to help fund the additional preparatory
work (study and architectural designs), as well as the construction and the
initial operation of the proposed management institute, now renamed the Malawi
Institute of Management, as part of a larger project for institutional
development, which also would include a program for improving the operations
of the Ministry of Finance.  To help prepare the project ard provide for
start-up activities, an advance of US$1.5 million was approved from the
Project Preparation Facility in February 1988. In addition, UNDP committed
US$1.2 million in 1988, to support preparatiun and start-up activitieL for the
proposed Institutional Development Project (para 43).
B.    Macro-Economic Setting 1/
2.          Malawi is a small, landlocked, and predominantly agricultural
economy. Its per capita income of US$ 174 in 1987, was below the average for
sub-saharan Africa. Agriculture is the major economic activity, accounting
for over 35 percent of GDP, and the source of most of Malawi's export
earnings. Malawi's landlocked position has made it particularly vulnerable to
repeated and costly disruptions in its external transport routes through
neighboring countries. The population is estimated to be 7.5 million in 1987,
1/    This section is taken substantially from the Malawi Policy Framework
Paper, 1988/89-1990/91 which was discussed with the Bank's Executive
Directors in June 1988.



with population growth, at 3.2 percent per annum, placing pressures on land
use.
3.          From independence until the late 1970s, Malawi maintained
relatively stable financial conditions and liberal economic policies which
enabled it to achieve real per capita growth of 3 percent per annum. However,
after 1978, due to a combination of external developments and domestic policy-
related factors, the pace of growth fell, the balance of payments position
deteriorated, and inflationary pressures increased. To address these
problems, the Government implemented adjustment programs in the context of
successive arrangements from the Fund and three structural adjustment
operations by the World Bank. A price liberalization program was completed,
key relative prices and .ncentives realigned, and a number of measures taken
to address structural problems, including a major restructuring of the
parastatal sector. Domestic demand pressures were moderated, and domestic and
external financial imbalances reduced. Economic growth recovered somewhat
with real GDP growing by about 4 percent per annum during 1982-84, slightly
above the rate of population growth.
4.          From 1984 to 1987 a significant weakening in economic performance
occurred, reflecting adverse external developments, in particular the closure
of traditional routes through Mozambique, the influx of large numbers of
refugees from Mozambique, and a further decline in the terms of trade.
Despite import compressions and large adjustment-related inflows, official
reserves fell to less than four weeks of imports by the end of 1986.
5.          Contributing factors to economic weakening were rising public
sector deficits. The central government budget deficit (before grants and
debt relief) widened sharply, reaching 12.5 percent of GDP in 1986/87,
compared to 8.7 percent in 1984/85. Fiscal imbalances were exacerbated by
financial difficulties experienced by the parastatal sector. The food needs
of increasing numbers of refugees and poor rains resulted in a sharp reduction
in grain reserves and led to requests for emergency food assistance from the
international community. On the external side, the Malawi kwacha was devalued
by 20 percent in 1987, and 15 percent in 1988, which helped reduce the current
account deficit to 4.1 percent of GDP. However, Malawi's external financial
position remained extremely tight, prompting retention of controls on fo:eign
exchange. The rate of inflation rose to 28 percent in 1987 and real output
fell by 1.5 percent.
6.          Faced with these continuing difficulties, the Government has
adopted a medium term development strategy for the ten year period, beginning
in 1987, which is designed to stabilize the economy and establish the
foundation for renewed economic growth. To achieve these objectives, the
Government is pursuing a two-pronged strategy of structural reform and
financial stabilization. Reduction of the fiscal deficit, strict monetary and
credit policies, and exchange rate adjustments are expected to bring aggregate
demand in line with available resources. Complementary supply side measures,
such as redirection of domestic credit toward the private sector, an increase
in the volume of imports, trade liberalization and tax reform are designed to
stimulate private sector production. In support of Malawi's efforts, a US$180



million multi-donor assisted Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment program,
which includes an IDA credit of US$70 million equivalent (Cr. 1920-MAI), was
put in place in 1988. The Government is also pursuing a program of
institutional strengthening, supported under this project, so that its reform
efforts can be successfully sustained.
7.          The economy has begun to respond to these measures.  GDP growth in
1988 was estimated to be 3.6 percent. Although inflation remains at about 30
percent, the fiscal and external situation has improved. The fiscal deficit
for 1988/89 is projected at 5.5 percent of GDP. Import levels have inicre sed
25 percent by volume and 58 percent by value, while the reserve level has
improved to about 5 months of imports. Capacity utilization in the
manufacturing sector has improved to over 70 percent, and agricultural output
has increased due to trade liberalization and better weather.
II. MANAGEMENT OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR
A.    Needs in Management Development
S.          An overriding constraint to Malawi's development has been the
limited availability of trained manpower to meet the needs of a growing,
modern economy. The issue is not so much the availability of entry level
staff, whether it be in the civil service, parastatals or private sector, but
the training they neid to improve their professional and managerial skills as
they progress into the senior ranks. In-service training in economic planning
and policy formulation, economic and financial analysis and management
information systems, to name a few areas, is not available to the vast
majority of officials in middle and upper management throughout the economy.
The lack of a local capability to provide such training has forced Malawi to
turn to external sources. While external training has been useful, by nature
the material is not drawn from the Malawian context and the availability of
such training is constrained by foreign exchange. The Government believes
that establishing a self-sustaining, local management training institution
specifically aimed at the needs of middle and senior managers is a crucial
ingredient for future economic development, and that the demand-supply
characteristics of the existing situation amply support their contention.
9.          Demand for Management Training.  The largest need for in-service
management training is in the Malawi civil service. As of mid-1988, there
were slightly more than 50,000 established positions, of which about 3,900
were in the mid and upper management ranges. The civil service was reviewed
in 1985 by an external commission chaired by Sir John Herbecq and the size was
generally viewed to be appropriate for Malawi. Of the middle and senior
positions, 210 were senior management (deputy secretary and above), another
1,250 constitute the upper middle level of management (senior administrative
and professional officers up to senior deputy secretary) and the remaining
2,440 were middle managers (administrative, professional and executive
officers). The growth of the civil service over the past ten yetrs has
averaged 2.5 percent per annum. This can be expected to slow to less than 2.0
percent over the next five years, resulting in a pool of some 4,200 officers
in the middle and upper ranks of the civil service by 1992.



- 4 -
10.         The parastatal sector in Malawi consists both of organizations
created by statutes and those established under the Com;,iny Act. At present
there are 36 parastatals with areas of operations ranging from commercial
ventures to service activities. Parastatal employment at the end of 1987
exceeded 15,000 permanent employees of which 2,200 were senior and middle
level management personnel. Of these about 100 were in positions of senior
responsibility (managing director, general manager, directors, etc.), about
700 were in upper middle management, and the remaining 1,400, middle managers.
There were about 130 expatriates holdii.g positions in upper rt.ddle and senior
management, reflecting the shortage of qualified local personnel. The numbers
of middle and upper managers in the parastatals is expected to remain constant
ovrr the next five years as a result of ongoing reforms within the parastatals
whsich will result in some privatizations and liquidations. There will be an
increase in the number of Malawian managers in the parastatals as the number
of expatriates gradually declines.
11.         Data on management ranks in the private sector are limited.
Recent studies indicate there were about 1,500 middle and upper level
management positions at the end of 1987. About 50 of these positions were at
the top level of management (chief executive office, chief financial officer,
managing director, etc.) and most were filled by expatriates. About 200 were
upper middle management positions and again most of these were held by
expatriates. The remaining 1,250 middle level management positions were
almost exclusively filled by Malawians. The number of expa;riates at the top
levels of management reflects both the significant level of foreign investment
in the private sector and the relative scarcity of experienced Malawian senior
managers. A number of the expatriate positions are expected to be localized
in the next five to ten years in addition to overall growth of management
positions in the sector. The number of middle and upper level management
positions is expected to increase by a total of 20 percent by 1992, bringing
the total numtber to 1,800.
12.         The total pool of middle level and upper management positions in
1987 was estimated to be 7,700. This number is expected to grow to 8,200 by
1992 as shown below:
Upper
Top       Middle      Middle    Total
Civil Service                        220      1,350        2,630       4,200
Parastatals                          100        700        1,400       2,200
Private Sector                        65        500        1,235       1,800
TOTAL                          385       2,550        5,265      8,200
The above positions can be conservatively estimated to increase at a rate of
2.5 percent per annum after 1992, .ith the total exceeding 10,000 by 1999.



- 5 -
13.         Existing Sources of Management Training.  At present, managerment
training is offered on a limited basis tc either civil servants or
parastatal/private sector officials by several different organizations in
Malawi. The Department of Personnel Management and Training (DPMT) in the
Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC) has responsibility for satisfying
civil service training needs. DPMT at present offers a public sector
administration program which runs once a year over an eiglt week period. The
program has been offered since 1980. For the first five years the program was
supported by the Royal Institute of Public Administration, but since then
instruction has been provided by local staff. The program has two significant
drawbacks: it takes only a small number of middle and senior level civil
servants and parastatal officials (about 16-20 per annum) and It tries to
squeeze too much material in one long period. In the most recent course, 38
different instructors and guest lecturers provided presentations on more than
50 subjects. In its review of existing civil service training, the Herbecq
commission considered the above arrangements to be completely inadequate, and
recommended the establishment of a self-standing management training
institute.
14.         A second source of management training, oriented to the private
sector and parastatals, is provided by the Polytechnic, a division of the
University of Halawi located in Blantyre. Besides offering formal training
(bachelors degrees in accounting and business administration), the Polytechnic
has a Management Center which offers a two year part-time (one day weekly)
program leading to a diploma in management, as well as several one to three
day seminars in management topics. The Polytechnic does not have hostel
accommodations and its location makes it impossible for officials from the
civil service, who are predominantly living in the capital, Lilongwe, 400 km
north of Blantyre, to attend. In l157, the Polytechnic had less than 100
participants in its part-time diploma course and management seminars. Closely
associated with the Polytechnic is the Malawi College Ef Accountancy, which is
located next door and shares some facilities. The College offers accounting
courses which prepare students to qualify as certified public accountants;
however, it is not at present offering any in-service training related to
financial management nor Is it equipped to do so. Altogether, the Public
Sector Administration Course and the Polytechnic offered in 1987 in-service
training opportunities to less than 2 percent of the total pool of middle and
senior level managers.
15.         Two other possibilities exist where in-service management training
could be offered in Malawi, although none at present is. Chancellor College,
the main academic arm of the University of Malawi, offers bachelors degrees,
inter alia, in public administration and law. Graduatas from its management
programs are frequently recruited into government service or the private
sector. Its Faculty of Law and Administration consults on management issues.
Its location in Zomba, 60 km outside Blantyre, presents the same problem to
the Civil Service as the Polytechnic, namely its distance from Lilongwe.
Chancellor also would need hostel acconmodations suitable for middle and upper
managers, and additional staff resources to run in-service training programs.
The second possibility is the Staff Training College at Mpemba, about 30 km
outside Blantyre. The college provides all the induction training for newly



- 6 -
appointed administrative and professional officers in the civil service. It
also offers clerical and routine administrative training. It currently offers
no in-service training and would require additional facilities and staff to do
so. Its location outside Blantyre is another drawback.
16.         The lack of a local in-service management training capability has
to some extent been offset by external training.  Malawians have attended
training programs in Europe, North America and at regional institutes in
Africa. In 1987, there were 168 Malawian civil servants on external training
with an average duration of 7.5 months per course. About half of the external
training was management related.  While much of the cost of external training
was borne by donors, the tovernment of Malawi spent about MK2.5 million of its
own funds (about MK1S,000 per student) on such training in 198'188. The
parastatals and private sector also took advantage of external training,
although the exact numbers and costs are not known. Zxternal in-service
training is useful when it is well-focused, but it is not a substitute for
adequate local capacity. Not only does the cost of external training limit
the numbers that can participate, but the training content of overseas courses
does not reflect the specific conditions and problems existing in Malawi.
Finally, the unpredictability of course offerings and acceptances make it
virtually impossible tc plan a national training program around external
institutes.
17.         Creation of a Management Training Institute.  The programs
mentioned above permit less than 3 percent of Malawi's middle and senior
managers to receive any form of in-service management training. In
determi..,ng how to close the gap between supply and demand, the Government
considered several alternatives in its search for the best way to provide
sustainable, cost-efficient and quality-filled management training. The first
was for the Government to expand its own in-house training program for civil
servants; but this was rejected because the Government believed it wouldn't be
cost-effective, given the size of the civil service, if it excluded the
parastatal and private sector. Also, as a part of government, salaries would
be constrained and this would affect the quality of staff it could attract to
provide such training. The quality problem would not only affect the level of
excellence being sought for the civil sernice but it would greatly impede any
efforts to attract pa)ing customers from tne parastatals/private sector. The
second option was to help the University of Malawi/Polytechnic to expand its
existing programs for the parastatals/private sector and to develop additional
capacity to meet the needs of the civil service. The Government, however,
realized that the University of Malawi was not set-up to provide in-sezvice
training, rather its main function was to provide degree-oriented education.
The Government worried about the priority .he University would give to this
endeavor with all the other claims made on its resources. Also, given that
the main clientele would be the civil service, the Government was concerned
about how much influence it would be able to exert over the curriculum and
approach of in-service management training if it were part of the University.
Finally, the Government believed that the small size of the economy called for
a single center of excellence in management training rather than continuing
with several sub-optimal and uncoordinated programs.



- 7 -
18.         After weighing these considerations, the Government concluded that
the best approach would be to establish a new management training institute
with parastatal status. Though its general policy was not to create
additional parastatals, an exception would be made in this case because of the
unique opportunities presented. As a parastatal, the institute would expect
to be self-financing after a reasonable start-up period. Fees would be based
on market conditions and this reven.ue would be supplemented with income from
an endowment (paras 54-56) and consulting assignments. As a parastatal, the
institute could pay attractive wages and attract a high-quality staff. The
institute would work closely with the University and the Polytechnic to build
on its existing capacity without duplication. Finally, the institute's board
would be chaired by a public official of the rank of Principal Secretary to
ensure that the needs and concern of its primary constituency, the civil
service, were reflected in the curriculum, research and consulting approaches
of the institute. On this basis, the Government requested IDA assistance to
help establish a new management training institute.
B.    Needs in National Economic Management
19.         To meet its economic challenges, the Government is looking for
ways to enhance its ability to manage the economy. Under the previous SALs
and technical assistance projects, the Government adopted measures to
strengthen the economic management process. While much has been accomplished,
support is still required to revitalize and sustain initiatives started under
previous adjustment operations. The Ministry of Finance (MOF). working with
the Department of Economic Planning and Development (EPD) in OPC and the
Reserve Bank of Malawi, coordinates the national economic management process.
Four areas under MOF's responsibility have been identified for assistance: (i)
forward budgeting, (ii) acounting and auditing, (iii) financial management,
and (iv) tax modernization.
20.         Forward Budgeting.  The budgeting process plays the central role
in determining how resources get allocated. The First SAL (Ln. 2026-MAI)
supported institutional improvements in budgeting to ensure that adequate
recurrent resources were made available to productive sectors. In the Second
and Third SALs (Cr. 1427-MAI and 1644-MAI), the Government further enhanced
the budget process by agreeing to establish a forward budgeting capability and
improving the programmatic content of the budget. SAL conditionality required
the preparation of forward three year revenue and expenditure budgets and
these were prepared beginning with the budget years 1984/85-1986/87. The
forward budgets, however, were of limited usefulness. The calculations of the
overall resources available for recurrent and development purposes were based
on global forecasts and did not reflect an analysis of trends in Malawi's
economic performance. The recurrent costs associated with development
expenditures were not systematically reflected in the forward budgets.
Finally, the forward budgets did not embody criteria which could be used to
provide guidance for selecting certain expenditures over others.
21.         While enhancing the Government's forward budgeting capability
rests largely in MOF, it is an interactive operation invoiving the spending
ministries which have to respond to MOP's guidelines for preparing the forward



- 8 -
budgets, and EPD which is responsible for preparing the five-year Public
Sector Investment Program (PSIP). Preparation of the forward budgets will not
substitute for carefully evaluated development projects being prepared by the
sector ministries and compilation of a development plan that is demand driven
(based on economic criteria) rather than supply driven (based on the
availability of donor funds), and further work is needed in these areas.
However sustained institutional improvements cannot be introduced on all
fronts at once, and the emphasis on upgrading MOF's forward budgeting
capability will yield important benefits in terms of improving resource
allocation over the short and medium term.
22.         Accounting and Audit.  Government accounting, comprising
expenditure monitoring and control, is critical for successful macroeconomic
adjustment, yet this is an area where Malawi has experienced chronic problems.
Over the last five years not only have actual expenditures consistently
exceeded original budget estimates, but revised estimates as well. The
Government has adopted a number of measures tc ddress the situation. Any
expenditure overruns identified at the check cas.ing stage by the Reserve Bank
of Malawi are communicated immediately to MOF. This timely feedback has
enabled MOF to send stern and apparently effective warnings to the spending
agencies involved. However, individual ministries and agencies submit their
expenditure reports several months late and MOF's ability to evaluate them
critically remains weak. In addition, MOF has no system of monitoring orders
placed by spending agencies which could alert it to budgetary problems before
they arise. MOF needs to ivorove its own ability to track expenditures and to
see that individual spending agencies develop the capability to do likewise.
23.         Inadequate training is a problem for the Accounting Common
Service. The Accountant General, one of the senior officers in MOF reporting
directly to the Principal Secretary, is one of the two professionally
qualified accountants in the Accounting Common Service which comprises some
2000 staff assigned to work in accounting and auditing. Under the common
service concept, accounting staff are assigned to min.4stries and agencies;
however, promotions and career advancement come througa the common service.
The theory of the common service is that it provides a common standard of
accounting practice and a ready made channel for the dissemination of
financial advice and policy from MOF. In practice, the performance of the
government accountants falls short of what is needed. Improvements are needed
in the existing in-service training program offered to staff in the Accounting
Common Service to enable them to provide advice on the financial performance
of ministries and on any corrective measures needed, on budgeting questions,
and on the financial implications of policy proposals.
24.         Auditing responsibilities are vested in the Auditor General.  The
largest ministries have their own internal audit staffs, other ministries and
agencies are audited by the internal audit staff of MOF, while the parastatals
are audited by commercial firms. The general criticism levelled at the audit
system is that: (i) the coverage of internal audits is inadequate, (ii) the
audit is restricted and mechanical, (iii) the outcome is generally fault-
finding rather than an aid to management, and (iv) the staffing is inadequate



- 9 -
in numbers, grading and quality. As with the accounting staff, specific
training programs need to be developed for the auditing function.
25.         Financial Management.  While management of the budget in general
terms can be regarded as financial management, the term in this context refers
to management of donor funds/claims processing and debt management. The
problems in each of these areas stem from personnel inadequacies, i.e.
vacancies in authorized positions, inadequately trained staff, and staff away
on extended training programs. With regard to management of donor funds,
there have been instances where funds for various purposes have been
committed, and although advances of 50 percent were made, claims processing
and submission were delayed despite repeated enquiries from the donors.
Malawi has lost grant money because claims were not submitted in the fiscal
year in which the donor had obligated them.
26.         Improvements in MOF's capability to monitor external debt and
prepare a debt strategy were supported under the SALs. Technical assistance
was provided to establish a computerized debt monitoring system and train
local staff in its use. After much delay, a new debt management system was
installed in 1986, which would permit MOF to monitor all government debt data
and to prepare numerous management information reports on aspects of the debt
givers various repayment scenarios, interest rate changes, etc. When a review
teatn examined the system in 1988, it found that the key personnel operating it
were sway on long-term training, their temporary replacements were
inadequately trai.sed, and the computer hardware designated for debt management
was being used by other divisions in MOF.
27.         Tax Modernization.  Tax collection/revenue generation proposals
figured prominently in the first two SALs. During preparation of SAL III, it
was recognized that the tax system needed rationalizing to improve efficiency
and incentives. A comprehensive report, submitted to the Government in 1985,
called for a substantial program of policy and administrative reform. The
Government agreed with the report's recommendations and selected the Harvard
Institute for International Development (HIID) to carry out the program. A
three year, US$2.4 mi' ion contract was signed in September 1987, and the
initial payments were made out of the technical assistance funds provided in
the Third SAL. The Government requested that the remainder of the funding be
provided under the proposed project.
C.    Previous Bank Experience
28.         The Bank's three SALs and two associated technical ast,>..tance
projects supported improvements in public sector management. However, a
Program Performance Audit Report (No. 6833, June 12, 1987) on SALs I and II
(Loan 2026-MAI and Cr. 1427-MAI) and TA I (Ln. 2027-MAI) noted that the
institutional capacity to sustain reform in Malawi was fragile and required a
longer time frame than that provided by the three operations. SAL III
(Cr. 1644-MAI) and TA II (Cr. 1428-MAI) will be closed shortly, and although
no evaluation has been undertaken, the observations of OED on the fragile
nature of the institutional improvements introduced would apply to these
operations as well. Neither the SALs nor the TA operations envisaged



- 10 -
institutional support over the considerable time period needed to internalize
reforms in economic management.
29.         Nevertheless, since the adjustment process first got under way in
1981, a number of improvements have been introduced in economic management and
some of these have been sustained as of this report. Public sector investment
planning has been institutionalized, and a five-year plan is preparcd annually
on a rolling basis. The annual revenue and development budgets are now done
on a programmatic baais which makes it easier to examine the impact of revenue
shifts on given programs. Tax reforms have been introduced to improve
collection efficiency and provide the correct incentives for export growth and
internal private sector development. Starts have been made on forward
budgeting and improved debt management.
30.         Previous Bank experiences with efforts to improve economic
management have demonstrated the need to provide consistent and long-term
support for the reforms that are to be made. In retrospect, it could be
argued that earlier reforms were too all-encompassing, that too much was
required at once rather than a proper focusing and sequencing. It can be
observed that reforms introduced under the pressure of SALs and tied to
tranche releases lacked the mechanism to ensure that they were carried on
after the immediacy of the adjustment operation had passed and the tranche
released. The lessons from previous adjustment and TA projeLts have
influenced the design of the proposed project which would concentrate on a
limited number of high priority reforms, would support them for a five-year
period recognizing that additional support may be required after that, and
would provide technical assistanice designed to support and not replace
existing capacity.
III. THE PROJECT
A.    Rationale and Objectives
31.         Malawi has been in a process of adjustment for most of this
decade. While progress has been made, external assistance is needed to
continue the improvements in economic management initiated under earlier
adjustment operatiors and to address the need to provide a local capability
for enhancing the capacity of Malawian managers. Having learned from its
previous attempts te assist institutional change under adjustment operations
and TA projects, IDA is well-placed to coordinate a long-term program of
institutional development that is focused on specific objectives and designed
to reflect local absorptive capacity.
32.         The project's objective is to strengthen national economic
management through establishing a local management institute to enhance skills
and by supporting reforms in key areas which affect resource allocation and
generation. The proposed management institute would offer a wide range of
training programs and seminars aimed at improving the skills of managers in
the civil service, parastatals, and private sector. The assistance for
strengthening economic systems would provide the consistent, long-term support
needed to internalize institutional reforms in economic management.



- 11 -
B.    Detailed Description by Component
i)    Malawi Institute of Management (MIM)
33.         HIM would be established as a self-governing institute with a new
campus on the outskirts of Lilongwe. One of MIM's special features would be
its endowment (paras 54-56) which would help MIM meet its operating costs in
the post project period. MIM would be affiliated with the University of
Malawi and would offer courses jointly with Chancellor College and the
Polytechnic at their respective campuses.  The project would provide for
limited facilities, mainly participant accommodations, at Chancellor College
and the Polytechnic to permit MIM to take advantage of existing staff and
academic facilities at those locations. MIM's activities would cover three
areas: training, consulting and research.
34.         Training.  Management training would be MIM's most important
activity, accounting for about 702 of staff time. MIM's courses, which would
run from 2 to 6 weeks in length, would cover four areas: policy analysis,
general and human resource management, financial/ economic/projec:t analysis,
and information management. Each can be described as follows:
(a)   Policy Analysis.  In a time of adjustment, senior civil servarts
need to keep abreast of all major policy issues facing the Malawi
Government. They must understand the implications of alternative
economic measures and be able to trace through their impact on the
economy. They also must be sensitized to environmental issues and
be able to analyze the impact of various policies on Malawi's
natural resource base. MIM would organize workshops, seminars and
conferences for top oificials where they can examine and discuss
adjustment policies, environmental issues and other areas of
concern.
(b)   General and Human Resource Management.  MIM's courses would cover
such areas as natural resource management, strategic planning,
negotiating skills and organizational behavior. MIM's human
resource module would offer training in personnel management and
manpower planning. Some of the areas in which courses would be
offered include personnel procedures and techniques, job analysis
and evaluation, staff development, career planning, employee
relations and personnel information systems.
(c)   Financial/Economic/Project Analysis.  The need for in-service
training in financial management, economic analysis and project
evaluation for senior and middle level managers in both the public
and private sectors has been repeatedly emphasized. MIM would
offer courses in financial planning and control, budget
preparation and analysis, and computer applications in financial
management that would be appropriate for senior members of the
accountant cadre as well as for non-accountant managers. HIM's
courses in project preparation and evaluation would help managers



- 12 -
in the sector ministries, EPD and MOF to improve the economic
analysis of the projects in the PSIP.
(d)   Information Management.  With the ever increasing use of micro-
computers to handle and generate information, the training of
managers in this area has become increasinEly important. MIM
would offer two approaches, one aimed at managers who specialize
iin information management, the other for other managers who need
to have an awareness of what computers can do to provide them with
organized information that can make them better decision makers
and planners. MIM would have its own micro-computer training
center in which it would offer courses covering topics from basic
systems theory to knowledge and application of programs such as
spreadsheets, data-base management packages, word processing
systc;us, etc. HIM's efforts would not duplicate traJning being
offered at the Government's Data Processing Center in Blantyre
which concentrates on providing ertry level training in data
processing and programming.
35.         Consulting.  Consulting would be an important part of MIM's
activities and would enable MIM's trainers to obtain first hand knowledge of
management problems in the civil service, parastatals and private sector.
This experience, in turn, would help MIM staff develop teaching materials and
case studies that reflect conditions in Malawi. To a limited extent it would
also provide a source of revenue for MIlI. Some areas where MIM staff can be
expected to offer expert assistance include assisting Malawian businesses in
formulating personnel systems and procedures, advising parastatals in
computerizing some aspects of their managerial records, or assisting
Government Departments in improving financial management.
36.         MIM would need to determine howr it should structure its charges
for consulting and the rate of compensation for its staff. At present there
are only a few local management consultants and their charges run about MK250
per day. International firms currently handle most major management
consulting assignments and their charges range from US$500 a day and up. MIM
expects to be able to compete with international firms for local assignments
once its expertise has been established. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that MIM would prepare a plan for how it intends to organize its
consulting program, including a schedule of fees to be charged and
arrangements for fee-sharing with staff, and discuss this with the Association
by December 31, 1989 (para 66).
37.         Research.  The third area of MIM's concentration would be
research. This would involve independent activities undertaken by MIM staff
which are in MIM's long-term interest such as establishing the training needs
of client organizations and of people in specJ.fic job categories, or
evaluating the effectiveness of MIM's training programs and continuing
activities. Unlike training or consulting, MIM's research is not expected to
generate revenues and for this reason it must necessarily account for a
limited amount of staff time. Eowever, some independent research into
management issues, and the publication of findings, is important if MIM is to



- 13 -
establish itself as a premier management training institute. While not
initially planned for, a national journal of management might be undertaken by
MIM at some future date.
ii)   Ministry of Finance (MOF)
38.         Development Plan.  To sustain improvements in economic management
started under previous adjustment programs, MOF has sought to develop a
comprehensive development plan (DEVPLAN) and has asked the Bank and UNDP for
assistance in this effort.  To help prepare DEVPLAN, Price Waterhouse
Consultants were engaged under a UNDP-financed project for which the Bank
served as the executing agency. The draft DEVPLAN was completed by the
consultants in February 1989, and is currently under review within MOF. The
draft DEVPLAN calls for a reorganization of key areas of MOF's operations
(Annex 3-1) in order improve forward budgeting, accounting and auditing and
financial management as follows:
(a)   Forward Budgeting.  To better manage the budget process, budget
functions currently spread over several divisions in MOF would be
merged into a new Budget and Revenue Division. Budgeting and
expenditure monitoring would be jointly handled by teams organized
according to operating ministry. These teams would work closely
with counterpart teams in each ministry which would be responsible
for all detailed budgeting and monitoring. The External Resources
Division, now the Development Division, would provide inputs to
the Budget and Revenue Division on availability of donor
assistance.  The Economic Affairs Division would analyze revenue
forecasts derived from the tax modernization program and these
would be fed to the Budget and Revenue Division for preparation of
the forward budgets.
(b)   Accounting and Auditing.  A two phase approach to strengthening
government accounts would be adopted. The initial phase would be
introduced immediately with the objective of cutting the
turnaround time in the production of monthly accounts to one
month. This can be done through short-term training of government
accountants who are just becoming familiar with the new
programmatic budgeting structure. Under the second phase, a
comprehensive user needs study would be undertaken to design the
next generation accounting system. The present mainframe
computer, which handles governmental accounts, is estimated to
have a useful life until 1995/96. The Government wishes to have a
strategy in place, equipment procured and training undertaken
before then. The audit function would be strengthened through the
preparation of a Malawi-specific audit manual and provision of
specialized in-service audit training.
(c)   Financial Management.  Debt management would be improved by
establishing a central point for the maintenance of all external
debt data and providing adequate staff to process, validate and
analyze the data and thoroughly test all system functions. A



- 14 -
special task force would be established by the Ministry of Finance
to include representatives from Treasury, the Accountant General's
office, EPD and the Reserve Bank to determine the agencies
responsible for providing the debt system with commitment and flow
information for all types of external debt (direct, parastatal and
private). To improve claims processing, new guidelines,
procedures and controls would be designed to assist the prompt
submission of claims; a computerized system would be introduced
for improved reporting of amounts disbursed, claims due, and
-account status; and in-service training would be given to desk
officers and project controllers in the operating ministries on
the new procedures and systems.
39.         Assurances were obtained at negotiations on the overall timetable
for DEVPLAN's implementation, including agreement that, by December 31, 1989,
MOF would: (i) restructure its organization as agreed in the DEVPLAN and agree
on technical assistance inputs to help implement the plan; (ii) prepare a plan
for introducing a forward budget system, develop terms of reference for a user
needs study of computerization requirements and prepare a plan for improving
its audit services; and (iii) prepare a human resources development plan,
including a timetable for how MOF will fill vacancies in professional
positions in the reorganized ministry (para 67).
40.         Tax Modernization.  The project would support the tax
modernization program begun in late 1987 and scheduled to run for three years.
The program is being implemented with the assistance of HIID which is
providing a resident advisor (24 months), short-term consultants (48 months),
equipment and training. The reforms introduced to date have been significant
(see Annex 3-2) and in large measure reflect the openness of the Government to
reform. Some of the major reforms to date include:
(a)   introduction of a reformed system of indirect taxation which
employs value-added taxation principles through the manufacturer's
level;
(b)   changes in the tariff system of trade taxes to begin
rationalization of the system and to reduce redundancy created by
the use of multiple duties on the same imports; and
(c)   development and implementation of a unique tax payer
identification number which is used by all corporations and
businesses with respect to tax matters and introduction of a
current payment system.
41.         The tax modernization program has been designed to develop the
basic tax and administrative framework and there is good reason to believe
that this objective will be accomplished by the end oZ the current program.
The Government, however, has expressed interest in continuing the program into
a second phase, both to support the initial reforms and to expand into new
areas. The UNDP has noted its willingness to support tax modernization as
part of its proposed assistance for DEVPLAN.



- 15 -
C.    Costs
42.          Total projects costs over the five year investment period are
estimated at US$18.9 million (MK60 million), including taxes and duties of
US$0.5 million (MR1.7 million). The estimated foreign exchange component is
US$12.4 million, or 66 percent of total costs. Base cost estimates are in
end-1988 prices. Physical contingencies amounting to 10 percent for civil
works, vehicles, and furnishings and equipment are included. Local price
contingencies have been calculated at 15 percent (1989), 10 percent (1990),
7.5 percent (1991), and 5 percent (1992-93); foreign price contingencies, at
5.3 percent (1989-90) and 4.1 percent (1991-93). A nominal exchange rate of
MK2.70 to US$1 has been used for 1988, and this has been adjusted annually on
the basis of inflation rates. Project costs are summarized below. Project
costs by components are provided in Annex 3-3.
MALAWI
Insti tuti SFenove I opment
Project Cost Summary
'SIC MilIion)           (USS Million)
X Total
X Foreign Base
Local  Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total   Exchange  Costs
Malawi Institute       14.2  21.1  35.8          6.8   7.8  13.1        60       79
of Mnanesment
Ministry ot Finance
1. Budgeting,           1.1   8.1   4.2          0.4   1.2   1.6        74        9
Fin. Mgmt.,
Auditing
2. Tax reform           0.1   5.1   6.2          0.1   1.9   1.9        98       12
Sub-total MOF           1.2   8.2   9.4          0.6   8.0   8.6        87       21
Totel Baselino
Costs                15.4  29.8  44.7          6.8  10.8  16.6        e6      100
Physical
contingencies           0.6   0.9   1.6          0.2   0.3   0.6        B8        3
Price
contingencies           4.7   9.1  18.8          0.6   1.3   1.E        70       10
Total
Project Costs          20.7  89.8  60.0          6.5  12.4  18.9        66      114
==  =5= ===    =   =  =    ==    =



- 16 -
D.    Financing Plan
43.         The proposed IDA credit of US$11.3 million equivalent would finance
approximately 60 percent of total project costs net of duties and taxes; this
would cover approximately US$8.0 million of foreign costs and US$3.3 million of
local costs. A PPF of US$1.5 million was provided to the Government in February
1988 to further project preparation, finance initial start-up activities, and
continue implementation of the tax reform program. The Government's
contribution of US$1.6 million equivalent would finance all duties and taxes and
part of MIM's expenses.  UNDP would provide US$6.0 million equivalent to fund-  *
MIM's technical assistance, training, and endowment requirements, and the costs
of MOF's DEVPLAN. UNDP financing is described in Annex 3-4. Of the US$6.0
million UNDP is to provide, US$1.2 million has been obligated and the funds are
being applied to initial project start-up activities. The financing plan is set
out below:
Proposed Project Financing
(US$ Million)
IDA        UNDP        GOVT        TOTAL
Civil Works                       4.8            -         0.2          5.0
Vehicles                          0.3            _            -         0.3
Furn. & Equipment                 1.2            -           -          1.2
Training                          0.4          0.3           -          0.7
Technical Assistance              2.4          4.7           -          7.1
MIM Salaries                        -            -         1.0          1.0
HIM Rentals                       0.7            -         0.1          0.8
MIM Op. Costs/Endowment           1.5          1.0         0.3          2.8
Total                       11.3         6.0          1.6         18.9
E.    Procurement
44.         Civil works, vehicles and furnishings and equipment procured with
IDA funds would follow Bank guidelines. A margin of preference of seven and
one-half percent for civil works and fifteen percent, or the applicable duty
(whichever is lower), for goods will be avai'L:le to qualified domestic
contractors/manufacturers. Packages valued at US$200,000 equivalent *r more
would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB). The total
value of ICB is expected to be US$5.3 million and would cover the costs of most
of the civil works, vehicles and furnishings required by MIM. For contracts
estimated to cost above US$200,000, prior review of procurement decisions will
be required. Civil works, furnishings and equipment valued at less than
US$200,000 but above US$50,000 would be procured through local competitive
bidding (LCB) following procedures acceptable to IDA, which would include local
advertising, public bid opening and award to the lowest bidder on the basis of
agreed criteria. The total amount of LCB, which would be used for supplemental



-17 -
purchases of furniture and equipment for HIM, is estimated at US$900,000.
Purchases of goods under US$50,000, in aggregate amount not to exceed
US$300,000, would be made through international or direct shopping on the basis
of at least three quotations. HIM would incur costs for staff salaries, rental
facilities (while its campus is under construction), and general operating
expenses in aggregate amounting to US$4.6 million of which IDA would finance an
estimated U$2.2 million. Procurement of these services would be on the basis of
negotiated contracts following procedures acceptable to IDA, and these contracts
would be reviewed to determine reasonability of prices and to ensure adequate
safeguaids are built-in to protect HIM.  Technical assistance financed bv IDA
would be for the ongoing tax reform program; the consultants (HID) were hired
following the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants. Total project
consultant requirements (Annex 3-5) amount to 570 months for internationally
recruited specialists and 60 months of local specialists. The average cost
would be US$11,500 per month for international staff and US$7,000 per month for
local staff. A procurement table is presented below:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement a/
(US$ Million)
ICB         LCB          OTHER           TOTAL
Civil Works                 4.6 (4.4)    0.4 (0.4)        -    -       5.0   (4.8)
Vehicles                    0.2 (0.2)       -     -    0.1 (0.1)       0.3   (0.3)
Furn. & Equipment           0.5 (0.5)    0.5 (0.5)    0.2 (0.2)        1.2   (1.2)
Training                      -    -        -    -      0.7 (0.4)      0.7   (0.4)
Technical Assistance          -    -        -    -      7.1 (2.4)      7.1   (2.4)
MIM Salaries                  -    -        -    -      1.0    -       1.0      -
HIM Rentals                   -    -        -    -      0.8 (0.7)      0.8   (0.7)
HIM Op. Costs                 -    -        -    -      2.8 (1.5)      2.8   (1.5)
Total                  5.3 (5.1)    0.9 (0.9)   12.7 (5.3)    18.9  (11.3)
a/      Contingencies and expenditures financed by the PPF are included in the
amounts shown. IDA contribution is indicated in parentheses.
F. Disbursements
45.         The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed over a five and
one-half year period from July 1989 through December 1994. The disbursement
profile for regional Technical Assistance projects is seven years; however, this
project is designed for a shorter implementation period. Most of the IDA-
financed technical assistance (tax reform program) would be disbursed in the
project's first year and the MIM civil works should be completed by the end of
the third year. A project disbursement schedule is provided in Annex 3-6. The



- 18 -
proposed allocation of credit proceeds and the disbursement percentages are
given below:
Summary of Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Category                         Amount of Credit         Z of Expenditure
Allocated            to be financed
1.  Civil Works                       4.0            1002 of foreign
expenditures and
90? of local
expenditures
2.  Vehicles                          0.5            1002 of foreign
expenditures and
902 of local
expenditures
3.  Furnishing and                    1.1            100? c.f foreign
Equipment                                        expenditures and
90Z of local
expenditures
4.  Operating Costs                   2.4            70?
5.  Technical Assistance              0.8            100?
and Training (MOF)
6.  Refunding of Project              1.5
Preparation Advance
7.  Unallocated                       1-0
Total                            11.3
46.         Reimbursements for approved expenditures for purchases less than
US$20,000 would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs). All
supporting documents for SOEs would be held locally for review by Bank
supervision missions. Wherever possible. withdrawal applications would be
aggregated in amounts of at least US$5G,J0G prior to submission to the Bank for
reimbursement. To facilitate payment of expenses eligible for reimbursement
under the credit, a Special Account would be estab_ished with a commercial bank
of the Government's choice on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The
initial deposit would be US$500,000 which represents three months of MIM's
expected expenditures eligible for reimbursement. A Project Account has been
established in the Reserve Bank of Malawi to receive the Government's



- 19 -
contribution to MIM which amounts to US$320,000 a year equivalent. An initial
deposit of MK140,000 has been made.
G.    Accounts and Audit
47.         MIM would keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting
practices to reflect its operations and financial position, and would have its
accounts, including the Spacial and Project Accounts and its SOEs, audited
annually by a firm of independent external auditors acceptable to the
Associarion. The audited accounts and the auditor's repoet, iricltding a
statement as to whether IDA funds had been drawn from the Special Account and
used under SOE procedures for their intezided purpose, would be submitted to the
Association within six months of the end of Malawi's fiscal year.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    MIM Implementation
48.         MIM would be established as a parastatal body headed by a Board of
Governors. This would be similar to the status of the University of Malawi, to
which MIM would have a close association. Parastatal status would permit MIM to
operate independently and enable it to attract and compensate the type of highly
qualified Malawian staff needed to train middle/senior managers in the public
and private sectors. Salaries for MIM's management trainers would be similar in
range to those offered senior university lecturers and professors, and would be
augmiented by fees earned from consulting.
49.         MIM's Board would be chaired by a public official of the rank of
Principal Secretary and would comprise senior civil servants and representatives
from the private sector, parastatals and the University. The Board would meet
at least three times a year. It would be responsible for providing policy
guidance, for approving the annual budget and training strategy, and for
reviewing major personnel decisions and contract awards. MIM's day-to-day
operations would be in the hands of its Principal, who would also serve as
Secretary to the Board. It was agreed at negotiations that MIM's Board would
consult with the Association on the qualifications and experience of future
candidates for Principal of MIM (para 68). MIM's organizational structure is
presented in Annex 4-1. MIM will be officially established once a Bill has been
approved by Parliament and signed by the Life President. The Bill, which the
Association reviewed and commented on, was approved by Parliament in April. 1989,
and will be signed by the Life President in the near future. It was agreed at
negotiations that MIM's official establishment would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 72).
50.         MIM would collaborate closely with the University of Malawi to
ensure the best use of existing staff and to build on facilities that already
exist at the Polytechnic and Chancellor College. MIM and the University intend
to explore possible ways the University could recognize successful attendance at
MIM's courses.



- 20 -
51.         MIM has entered into a "twinning" relationship with a consortium of
Canadian institutions led by A.R.A. Consultants to provide MIM's initial
management. Other members include the Human Resources Secretariat of Ontario
Province, the Niagara Institute and the Ontario International Corporation. The
consortium was selected in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the use of
consultants. The Government and A.R.A. signed a one year contract in November
1988, which is being financed by the UNDP. The consortium will provide the
Principal, Consulting Manager and eight management trainers. In the first year,
the A.R.A. team will organize and deliver four two-week courses as well as begin
preparation for a full schedule of courses to begin late in 1989. The one year
contract allows the Government to observe the consortium's performance before
committing to a multi-year contract. It was agreed at negotiations that MIM's
Board would revirw the consortium's performance and ad-.se the Association prior
to the end of tLe contract on its decision whether or not to extend the
consortium's contract for a three yiar period (para 69). If the consortium's
performance is judged unsatisfactory, a new consortium would be sought in
consultation with the Association. While it is most likely the A.R.A.
consortium will continue to be the technical partner, the Government believes
that the risk of interrupting M:MM's technical assistance is necessary to ensure
that MIM is receiving the high level of technical expertise that is required.
The C-overnment has appointed the Deputy Principal and most of the local
mana%ement trainers, and their qualifications and experience have been reviewed
by the Association. The consortium would tailor a two-year program of
individual in-house and external training for the local staff to prepare them
for assuming operational control of MIM. After two years, the local staff would
begin replacing the external managers and trainers on a phased basis. MIM is
expected to retain one or two highly skilled external trainers throughout the
project period, though the main mode of technical assistance would shift to
backstopping by the consortium through periodic visits and exchanges of starf.
52.         MIM's training strategy would be to ensure that the Institute's
programs are relevant and their impact maximized. The A.R.A consortium is
currently undertaking a survey to define specific training needs and consulting
requirements of potential local clients. Based on the data collected, MIM's
first courses would be tailored to meet either wide-spread general needs or to
fill specific skill gaps.  Courses would be built around the participants' need
to know and not solely around the instructor's own perceptions or interests.
Local case materials would be used wherever possible, and these materials would
be built up over time through MIM's research and consulting activities.
Participants would be expected to bring their own cases to their courses, and
the instructors and other participants would help them devise appropriate
solutions which could be applied on the job.
53.         MIM would join the Association of Management Training Institutions
in Eastern and Southern Africa (AMTIESA) in order to benefit from their
collective experience in operating training institutes in tl-e region. Many of
AMTIESA's members are being assisted by a joint UNDP/EDI/ILO project designed to
support these institutes in developing long-term strategies, financial
management systems and business marketing opportunities. The joint project
would involve the institutes in regional seminars and exchanges so that



- 21 -
experiences can be shared and approaches that have worked for one institute
extended to another.
54.         Endowment.  MIM would endeavor to have its revenues equal or exceed
its costs by the end of the five year project investment period (July 1989
through June 1994). This does not include the cost of any continuing techrical
assistance which would be donor financed. Realizing this would be difficult to
accomplish if revenues were solely based on the fees MIM charges for courses and
consulting, the Goverr,ient has agreed that MIM would establish an endowment
which would be built up during the project inve.tment period. During this time
the Government and the donors would cover all of MIM's operating costs (as
provided in the project financing plan). The fees MIM receives from its courses
and room/buiaid charges would be credited to its endowment fund. The UNDP has
established a scholarship fund for MIM with an initial contribution of
'S$250,000.  MIM would award the scholarships to cover part of the fees of
participants selected to attend MIM's courses.
55.         Based on conservative estimates of participants, fees charged, and
interest earned during the project period, the endowment would amount to almost
MK3 million by mid-1994. Interest earnings from the endowment in the first
post-project year would amount to about MK300,000, assuming the endowment earns
interest at 10 percent per annum. While this amount would more than cover the
expected deficit in operating expenses (but not depreciation), this rate of
interest would be negative unless current inflation rates come down sharply.
Annex 4-2 provides estimates if the expected number of participants, fees for
courses/room and board, growth of the endowment fund, and recurrent costs. It
would be important for MIM to mar,age its endowment to ensure a real rate of
return on its assets, including the possibility of investing abroad or acquiring
real estate or other assets which would yield a positive return. Assurances
were provided at negotiations that MIM would establish an endowmenxt fund by
December 31, 1989, and would prepare a strategic plan for the use of endowment
resources, including how it planned to manage these funds to ensure a positive
return on its investments, for discussion with the Association by December 31,
1992 (para 70).
56.         During the project investment period, MIM would use the UNDP
scholarship fund to offset some of the costs that the public and private sector
would incur in sending participants to MIM. The intention is to make
scholarships available to cover a substantial percentage of MIM's fees in the
early years of the project as HIM is becoming known and establishing its
reputation. As MIM's expertise is established, ministries, parastatals and
private corporations are expected to be willing to pay a higher percentage of
MIM's fees from their own funds, until, by the end of the project, they are
paying 100 percent. In the first year after the project period (1994/95),
officials attending MIM from the public sector and parastatals would be required
to pay about MX1.2 million in fees.  This amount would not be out of line with
resources expected to be available for training purposes. At present the
Government spends about MK5.0 million on training (Annex 4-3), and this can be
expected to grow to MK7-8 million by 1994/95.  Given that one of MIM's
objectives is to substitute for overseas training which takes up about half of
the training budget (this is the Government's cost and is in addition to that



- 22 -
provided by donors), there seems to be a good possibility the minisLries and
parastatals would be able to fund the costs of sending officials to MIM from
within the training budgets expected to be available at that time. However, it
would be prudent for the Government to examine its training budgets as the
project moves into the post-investment period to ensure that adequate funding is
available to permit public sector participation at MIM at the levels envisaged.
B.    MOF DEVPLAN and Tax Modernization Implementation
57.         MOF intends to establish a Steering Committee, chaired by the
Secretary to the Treasury or his deputy, to be responsible for the overall
implementation of the DEVPLAN.  Separate task forces would be established to
deal with the distinct elements of the plan. One task force would address
planning, aid and budgetary issues; a second would be concerned with accounting
services and related data processing improvements; and a third, with claims
processing, cash control and debt management. The Auditor General's department
would be addressed separately. The DEVPLAN would identify the external support
that each task force requires. The Steering Committee would coordinate the work
of the task forces to ensure proper sequencing and to minimize disruptions in
MOF's daily operations. The Steering Committee would also oversee the tax
modernization program being carried out with assistance from HIID.
C.    Reporting
58.         MIM would submit annual reports beginning December 31, 1989,
providing information on: (i) the previous year's academic and financial
performance, including staff/student ratios and breakdowns of staff time
allocated to teaching, research/course preparation, consulting, and staff
training; (ii) the estimated effectiveness of its course offerings based on
interviews with senior managers in the civil service, parastatals and private
3ector; (iii) the plans for the upcoming year including estimates of how
trainers' time will be allocated to teaching, research/course preparation,
consulting and staff training; (iv) the proposed budgets and training programs;
and (v) the procurement program. MIM would also provide a brief semi-annual
progress report on the status of operations compared with forecasts in the
annual report. Assurances were provided at negotiations that in 1992, MIM would
(i) review the performance of the external consortium which is providing
technical assistance; (ii) examine future requirements; and (iii) prepare a
report on its findings and recommendations for discussion with the Association
by December 31, 1992 (para 71). Once MOF's DEVPLAN is agreed, MOF would prepare
semi-annual reports on progress with implementation. HIID currently provides
regular progress reports on the status of the tax modernization program. A
project completion report would be prepared by MIM and MOF within six months of
the credit closing date.
D.    Project Status
59.         The MIM component is well advanced.  A.R.A. Consultants have been
selected as the external consortium, and MIM will begin offering courses in mid-
1989. A site for MIM's permanent campus has been selected outside Lilongwe and
private architects hired to prepare drawings and oversee the construction



- 23 -
process. Preliminary drawings bave been reviewed by the Association and
detailed drawings and tender documents are being prepared. Construction is
expected to start in 1990 and last two years. The MOF DEVPLAN is being reviewed
within MOF, and specific action plans are expected to be ready for review during
the last half of 1989. A project implementation schedule is provided in
Annex 4-4.
E.    Environmental Considerations
60.         The project's main impact on the physical environment would be the
MIM civil works. The agreed architectural designs are modest, are in keeping
with the local terrain, make the maximum use of natural ventilation and employ
local materials extensively. Suggested finishes are to be as maintenance free
as possible. Utility requirements would be provided by the local
mun.cipalities. Project facilities are expected to enhance their surrounding
environment.
61.         The project would have an important role in raising the
environmental consciousness of managers in the public and private sectors. MIM
would incorporate courses on natural resource management in its curriculum and
would include the importance of environmental considerations in courses on
project analysis. MIM would also serve as a forum for policy deliberations
where, among other things, the environmental implications of various strategies
for economic growth would be discussed.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
62.         The project would continue the process begun under past SALs and TA
projects of strengthening Malawi's economic management. By establishing MIM,
the project would develop a local capacity to offer assistance to the MOF and
other government ministries and departments, as well as in-service training
courses to managers in the public and private sectors. MIM would be able to
tailor courses to meet specific local needs and would provide a venue for policy
analysis and discussions. Its courses would equip Malawian managers to analyze
the implications of policy and investment decisions on the environment and low-
income groups. MIM would become a self-sustaining, in-service management
training institute capable of reaching a much larger group of managers than can
be trained overseas. By the end of the project investment period, almost 1000
managers a year would be attending MIM's courses compared with 200 managers that
received training in 1988. By collaborating with the University of Malawi, MIM
would be cost effective, making the best use of existing staff and training
capabilities at Chancellor College and the Polytechnic.
63.         Strengthening MOF would enable it to better manage resource
allocation and mobilization. Under MOF's DEVPLAN, key sections of the Ministry
would be reorganized to operate more efficiently. The capacity to prepare and
utilize forward expenditure and revenue budgets would be improved, introducing a
much greater degree of realism in the budgeting process and ensuring that
recurrent cost implications of investment plans were incorporated in the
planning process. Enhanced systems for monitoring Government expenditures would
enable greater management control over recurrent costs. Improved cash and debt



- 24 _
management would offer opportunities for increased revenue and better control
over the debt structures. Improvements to statutory and internal auditing
systems would improve Government's ability to monitor expenditures. Finally,
the tax modernization program wotld streamline the tax structure and improve the
modes of collection, resulting in greater incentives for local production and
increased public revenues.
64.         Two risks face MIM: one, the possibility it would not deliver
meaningful, in-service training; the other, that it would not become financially
independent of Government. The project has been designed to minimize these
risks: the twinning arrangement with an external consortium, the links with
other training institutes in the region through AMTIESA, and the close
relationship with the University of Malawi are all measures adopted to ensure
that MIM operates at a high level of excellence. The probability of MIM's
financial independence would be increased through its proposed endowment, though
the best assurance would be its recognition as a center of excellence in
management training which would ensure demand for its courses and enable it to
market its consulting services.
65.         The risk inherent in strengthening MOF's management capability is
whether or not these improvements can be sustained over a long enough period of
time to become fully internalized. Previous efforts at forward budgeting and
debt management, which have not been sustained, were attempted over relatively
short periods and accomplished through intensive use of expatriate consultants.
The proposed DEVPLAN would be driven by MOF's internal capabilities which would
be augmented by external assistance. While substantial improvements are
expected during the project period, continued assistance through subsequent
operations may be required both to support existing reforms and to expand them
into related areas.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.    Assurances obtained at negotiations
66.         MIM would prepare a plan for how it intends to organize its
consulting program, including a schedule of fees to be charged and arrangements
for fee-sharing with staff, and would discuss this with the Association by
December 31, 1989 (para 36).
67.         MOF would agree on an overall timetable for implementation of
DEVPLAN and undertake the following by December 31, 1989: (i) the restructuring
of its organization as provided in the DEVPLAN and agreement on technical inputs
to help implement the plan; (ii) the preparation of a plan for introducing a
forward budget system, development of terms of reference for a user needs study
of computerizat-on requirements, and the preparation of a plan for improving its
audit services; and (iii) the preparation a human resources development plan
including a timetable for how MOF will fill vacancies in professional positions
in the reorganized ministry (para 39).
68.         MIM's Board would consult with the Association on the qualifications
and experience of future candidates for Principal of MIM (para 49).



- 25 -
69.         The Board of HIM would review the A.R.A. consortium's performance
and advise the Association prior to the end of the contract on its decision
whether or not to extend the contract for a three year period (para 51).
70.         MIM would establish an endowment fund by December 31, 1989, and
would prepare a strategic plan for the use of endowment resources for discussion
with the Association by December 31, 1992 (para 55).
71.         MIM's Board would undertake a review of MIM's futurt requirements
for technical assistance in 1992 and prepare a report on its findings and
recommendations for discussion with the Association by December 31, 1992
(para 58).
B.    Condition of Effectiveness
72.         MIM would be duly established through an Act of Parliament
(para 49).
C.    Recommendation
73.         Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for a credit of US$11.3 million equivalent to the Republic of Malawi on standard
IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



10
l o
MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Proposed Organogram, Overall Structure
MINISTER |
|SECRETARY|
C',4
ADMIN &              RESOU~~RCEASURY AIR
GETNERAL                                           AT
BU6                                          ESSING      DEPARTM
RESOURCES        REVENUERESOURCESAFFAIRSPROCESSIN                                DEAST
l ~~~~~~~~                                               ~~K



I0
C,o
EN
P4
cpo
MALAW0
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Admin and Human Reources DIvlsion
IPornnel(S                   Aoouuunr(P7 )
Trairdng (AO)
EKaW43847A



-44-4
I 0
cvn
04                                   ~~~~~~MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Budget and Revenue Division
UrKW
HeAcdc              Other      I         Treasury    I Ohe          ire
Hexf, Educ,            Ministres   IFund                         Mown RoV nu
Works, SAS (S7)         SA (Sn    |           PA IP                  (S5)
l                        _ ~~~      ~    ~ ~~~~AGR,    Other        _Ecoonomist              polAO (3)
co                                    For, & Fbh (PO)       Min (AO)             (i'O)
_COter              _Aocourftnt
& Educ (AO)
L  Works                Revenue
& Transport (AO)     (PO)
EKW43S72b



| 0
MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
External Resources Division
I   De"u 
(S,4)                                 Urnder
i                                   sertaiy
Under                                  (ES;)
0'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~m1
(SS)
suatraiBilter                  UN            Wd Ban k          Cmso
Aid I           Ald 2           Ao  i            EEC ACB            &
SAS (S7)         SAS (87)        SAS (S97)         SAS(SJ)         Debt (P7
e Po t Po P                    - PO       t       PO             - PO       i      f (S8)
a1                     AO- AO                           AO- AO_ Aooountant
I  POICEO
EIW43372c



44
I0
LA
~z0
ao
l bo
04 NMALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Economic Affairs Division
DS
(S4)
I
us
~~~Ecormom           h I    Iuc
l  Anatsl            An
(P7)  1        tn (P0)
8~~~~~~~~~~ud                            _      InsfiuwA      _ Senior
o                          ~~~~~~~ ~~Fofm (PS)    (Pe)          -SlaDs.(PS)
ct                          _  Rb          _~~~~~Fkic  Parsta   _senior
Ana (PS)         (PP)              Sys Anal (P0)
=(PO)    ~   Ifon (PO)           -
PC P(3)         -  mwftn"sYfmAn*dt (PO)
~ LlboX2                          KWS7



I0
, o
X0
MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Data Processing Department
| Contole dO   |
Dala Processng
:o'Ns                   Eduato wwminsrat
l  -Slaim"e (PS)         -Blanlyre (Ps)               Sr. Personnel OflRcer (S8)
n~~~~~~~~ -DeveXm  - (P7)                         Loonowe (Pil           -Acournant(POEO)
- OPS and Main (P7)
-Ubongwe (PS)
Non MOF (PS)
MOF (PO)
EKW4S847B



- 32 -
AhNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATUS OF MALAWI TAX MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
1.          A group of resident and expatriate advisors has be-en working with
the Government of Malawi to develop and implement fundamental tax and
administrative reform in Malawi since 1985. A major tax reform project began
in September 1987 with assistance from the Harvard Institute for International
Development.  Since the project began, the following developments have
occurred:
(a)   Introduction of a reformed system of indirect domestic taxation
which employs value added taxation principles through the
manufacturer's level;
(b)   Introduction of a branch profits and border withholding tax on
non-residents;
(c)   Changes in the tariff system of trade taxes to begin
rationalization of the system and to reduce redundancy created by
the use of multiple duties on the same imports;
(d)   Conversion of the excise tax system to ad valorem taxes and
removal of luxury elements from tariff system in favor of using
the surtax for luxury goods taxation;
(e)   Development of a model international tax treaty and provision for
assistance in negotiating the first international tax treaty since
Malawi's independence;
(f)   Development and implementation of a unique tax pay identification
number which is used by all corporations and businesses with
respects to all tax matters;
(g)   Provision for international and in country training in both tax
administration and policy;
(h)   An extensive review of auditing and other procedures in all tax
departments;
(i)   Introduction of a current payment system for business income tax
payers;
(j)   Introduction of expanded withholding for individual income tax
payers;



- 33 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 2
(k)   Revisions in the allowance system for capital investments;
(1)   Introduction of small computer systems with software and technical
support; and
(m)   Development of initial master tax files and record keeping systems
in botn tax departments.
2.          The reforms and implementation to date have been significant.  In
large measure the success reflects the openness of the Government to reform.
The work program was designed to develop the basic tax and administrative
framework. Based on performance to date, this objective should be achieved.



NALANI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPENLT
SUNIARY ACCOUNTS COST SUWIARY
(NK '000)                                 9USS 'OOQ0
Z Total                                    Z Total
Z Foreign  Base                            Z Foreign Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchense  Costs   Local Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL VMORS                      5,528.6 5,438*5 10.967,1        50     24 29047.6 2,014.2  45061.9         50      24
o VEHICLES                            132.1  1,166.2  1#29B.4       90      3    48.9   431.9   480,9          90       3
Co FWINISHINGS AND EGUIPINET          527.3  29076.6 2.603.8        80      6   195.3   769.1   964.4          80       6
P  TMINING                                - 1,789.7  i,789B7       100      4        -   M2,9   662.9         100       4
E. TECNNICAL ASSISTANCE               739.0 16461946 17.358.6       96     39   273.7  6.155.4  6.429.1        96      39
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 64927#1 2790,#5 34,017.6        80     76 2,565.6 10033.5 12.599.1         80      76
Phlsical Contingencies                618.8   868.1  1,486.9        58      3   229.2   321,5   550.7          58       3
Price Contingencies                 2,015.3  8,128.2 109143.5       80     23   208.7  1,094.4 1.303.1         84       8
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES          99561.2 369086.8 45i68.0        79    102 3,003.5 11449.5 14,452*9         79      87
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL STAFF               1,557.1        -  1,557.1        -      3   576,7         -   576.7         -       3
P. vWUSHOPS/Ivr,OJTRY SEKINARS       360.5        -   360.5         -       1   133.5        -   133.5         -       1
C. TRAVEL AND ALLOVANCES             283.3        -   283.3         -       1   104,9        -   104.9         -       1
D, OFFICE AND HOSTEL RENTALS       29073.4       - 2,073*4          -      5   767,9         -   767,9         -       5
E, MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES            832.5   818.1  1,650.6        50       4   308.3   303,0   611.3         50       4
F. UTILITIES/OTMER OPERATING COSTS  1,489.4 19462,0 2,951.4        50       7   551.6   541.5  19093.1        50       7
6. HIM FELLONSHIPS                 1,957,0        - 19957.0         -       4   724.8        -   724.8         -       4
Totkl RECUlRT COSTS                    8,553.1  2.280O1 10,833.2       21     24  3)167,8   844.5 4,012.3         21      24
Price Continencies                  2,653.1   867.1  39520.1        25      8   306.9   125.3   432,1          29       3
'otal INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES         11,206,2 3,147,1 14.353,3        22     32 3,474.7   969.7  4,444.4         22      27
Total PASELINE COSTS                   15.480.2 29'370.6 44.850.8       65    100 5,733.4 10,P78.O 169611.4        65    100
Physical Contingenies                  618.8   868.1  1486.9         58       3   229.2   321.5   550.7         58       3
Price Contingencies                  4,668.4  8,995.2 13,663.6       66      30   515.6  19219.7  1,735.3       70      10
Total PROJECT COSTS                    20,767.3 399234.0 60P001.3       65    134 6,478.2 12,419.2 18,897.4        66    114
====5S====  === ===;==== =========  ====='===   ==5



- 35 -
ANNEX 3-4
MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UNDP FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
1.        UNDP is providing the following parallel financing for the
Institutional Development Project:
A. MALAWI INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT
MLW 86/005. This project, signed in September 1988, supports the
establishment of the Malawi Institute of Management. An amount of
US$922,500 has been obli,ated to cover, inter alia, the contract of
the MIM consortium (A.R.A. Consultants, US$377,500), training for MIM
professional staff (US$254,500) and scholarships to permit officials
from the public sector to attend HIM (US$250,000). The Government is
carrying out the project and the Bank had declared special interest.
The UNDP intends to continue supporting the technical assistance,
training and related requirements of MIM. An additional US$3.0
million in fup4ing will be required from 1990-94. The funds are
expected to be obligated by January 1, 1990.
B. MINISTRY OF FINANCE
MLW 88/031. This project, for which US$281,000 was obligated in
September 1988, provides for the preparation of the Ministry of
Finance's Development Plan (DEVPLAN) by Price Waterhouse Associates.
The World Bank is the Executing Agency. The project has been
successfully completed, although a small amount of funds remain to
permit final revisions to the DEVPLAN following negotiations, if
necessary. Once the DEVPLAN and its financing requirements are
agreed, either a revised project document, or a new project document,
would be prepared. At this point, the Government would take
responsibility for implementing the project and the Bank would
declare its special interest in project implementation. The
estimated costs for implementing DEVPLAN are US$1.8 million. The
funds would be used for technical assistance, trai.aing and equipment.
2.        In summary, UNDP financing would be:
_________________- US$ 000 --- - ---
Project         Obligated       To Be Obligated      Total
MLW 86/005       922.5            3,000.0            3,922.5
MLW 881031       281.0            1,800.0            2,081.0
Total       1,203.5             4,800.0            6,003.5



- 36 -
ANNEX 3-5
MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONSULTANT SERVICE REQUIREMENTS
A. Malawi Institute of                                Person-Months
Management                                  International    Local
i) Principal                                         36
ii) Consulting Manager                                36
iii) Management Trainers                              312
Subtotal                                     378
B. Ministry of Finance
i) International consultants
in budgeting, accounting                        120           60
and financial management
ii) Tax specialistl^.dvisors                         72
Subtotal                                     192           60
Total                                        570           60
_===



- 37 -
ANNEX 3-6
MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US $ Million)
IDA      IDA         DISBURSEMENT   CUMULATIVE    CUMULATIVE          PROJECT *
FISCAL  QUARTER                       DISBURSEMENT  DISBURSEMENT       PROFILE
YEAR                                                AS Z OF CREDIT  (TA Projects)
FY90      I
II                1.00            1.00            9              2
III                0.25
IV                0.25            1.50           13              6
FY91      I                 0.50
II                0.50            2.50           22             14
III                0.75
IV                0.75            4.00           35             21
FY92      I                 0.50
II                0.50            5.00           44             29
III                0.75
IV                0.75            6.50           58             38
FY93      I                 0.75
II                0.75            8.00           71             49
III                0.50
IV                0.50            9.00           80             58
FY94      I                 0.50
II                0.50           10.00           89             68
III                0.30
IV                0.20           10.50           93             78
FY95      I                 0.50
II                0.30           11.30          100             84
III
IV                                                              90
FY96      I
II                                                              96
III
IV                                                             100
* Regional Profile for TA projects as of 4/88.



- 38 -
ANNEX 4-1
MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MALAWI INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENr
Organization Chart
Board of
MIM (Uonglwe) 
'Alo Seves as Seaelay to Boad of Goerrm.
-1 Consulting Manager    - 3 Sr. Mgmt Trainers  -1 Ubrarlian
- 5 MgmL TraIners      -1 Asst Librafian
EK0W43372



MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MIM - Participants/Fees/Endowment/Recurrent Costs
(UK)
Post Project
Project Year ---------------------------->             1          2           3           4           5                        1
IDA FY ---------------------------------->          1990       1991        1992        1993        1994      Total         1996
1.  Participants at MIM Courses a/                                         100         180        380         640         720       1,900          900
2. Fees Paid to MIM Endowment in PY 1-5 b/
(a) Course fees per participant                                 300         326        360         376         400                      425
(b) Room and board per participant                              750         826        900       1,000       1,100                    1,200
(c) Sub-total fees per participant                            1,050       1,150      1,250       1,375       1,500                    1,626
3. Total Fees (1 e 2(c))                                               105,000    207,000    450,000    742,600  1,080,000  2,584,500   1,482,500
ENDOWMENT
4. Annual Interest Earned on Endowment c/
(a)  Yr. 1                                                               10,500     10,600      10,500      10,600
(b)  Yr. 2                                                                          20,700      20,700      20,700
(c)  Yr. 3                                                                                      46,000      45,000
(d)  Yr. 4                                                                                                  74,260
(e)  Yr. 6
Total Interest Rate Earned                                   10,600      31,200      76,200    160,460    268,360
S.  Total Fund in Endowment at end of FY94                                                                                     2,862,850
6.  Revenue from Endowment Available in Post Proj. Yr. 1 c/                                                                                    285,286
7.  Total Revenue to MIM in Post Project Yr. 1                                                                                              1,747,785
8.  Recurrent Costs d/
(a) Staff salaries                                          196,000    326,000    400,000    482,000    600,000                    650,000
(b) Travel/Allowances                                        25,000      30,000     33,000      38,000      42,000                   45,000
(c) Rentals                                                 385,000    840,000    950,000    220,000        60,000                   46,000
(d) Materials                                               86,000       86,000     90,000      92,000      97,000                  110,000
(e) Operating costs                                         330,000    486,000    616,000    626,000    700,000                     786,000
Subtotals                                     1,000,000  1,765,000  1,988,000  1,457,000  1,389,000                   1,535,000
9.  Projected Surplus/Deficit - Post Project Yr. 1                                                                                             212,786
a/ Conservative estimates based on less than full utilization of MIM's staff facilities.
b/ Includes materials.  Fees to be increased per course by MK 26 per annum.  Average room and board is MK 250/week; average course is 3 weeks.
Room and board assumed to increase by 10 percent per annum.
c/ Interest rate assumed is 10 percent per annum.
d/ Annual costs increase to reflect expected changes in staffing patterns, inflation.  Rental costs to decline sharply once new campus is
completed in PY 4.



ANNEX 4-3
- 40 -
MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
---------------------------------
Government Expenditure on Training
-----------------------------------
(In Kwachr'
I. Budget - Internal Training (1988-89) a/
Beneficiary
___________
Extra Mi.,isterial Votes                                                42,000
Office of the President/Cabinet                                        502,720
Ministry of Agriculture                                                223,140
Ministry of Forestry/Natural Resources                                 103,602
Ministry of Education and Culture                                      292,294
Ministry of Finance                                                    108,600
Office of Equipment Department                                          12,000
Ministry of Health                                                     320, 100
Ministry of Community Services                                          73,000
Information Department                                                  20,000
Tourism Department                                                         600
Ministry of Labor                                                       33,971
Ministry of Local Government                                            46,296
Ministry of Trade/Industry/Tourism                                       6,000
Ministry of Transport/Communications                                    11,600
Ministry of Works/Supplies                                             322,952
National Parks/Wildlife Department                                       3,376
Department of Youth/Malawi Young Pioneers                              240,000
Personnel/Training/Service Commission                                   63,000
2,411,960
II. Budget - External Training - All Ministries (1987-88) b/
Item
Fees                                                                 1,120,608
Transport and Expenses                                                 146,023
Warm Clothes Allowance/Travel Grant                                     70,216
Passport Fees                                                            2,284
Book Allowance                                                          41,633
Maintenance Allowance                                                1,091,065
Medical Expenses                                                           581
2,471,310
a/ Amounts under Government Funding include expenditures on activities
other than training, such as financing trips to interview
prospective students, etc.).
Sources: 'Approved Estimates of Expenditure on Revenue Account for the
Financial Year 1988/890.
b/ Source: DPMT



MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
z                                                                     Prolect implementation Schedule
PmrojeoYear   Pre Prele            1                2                3                45
IDA FY       1989             1#1o             1991             1992              993             1994
Qua_tr                         1   2   3   4   1   2   314   1   2   3   4   1   2   3     4   12   3   4   1   2   3   4
1. IDA
1.1 Appra 
1.2 Yellow Cover SAR 
1.3 Negotations 
1IA Board Presntaton
1.5 Effeciveness
2.  GOVERNMENT
2.1 Aprv  by Pafiuament of BiD
establishng MIM
3. MALAWI INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT (MIM)
3.1 RevIew Perflrmance of A.R.A                                        O
3.2 Submt to IDA of Plan to oranize
consAtng Progr.-
3.3 EstablIsh Endowment Fund
3.4 Prepare Strategic Plan for 
Endowment Fund use
353 MIM Constcton                                                           _   _   _   _   _   _   _                  - _  _  _
4    MINISTRY OF FINANCE (MOF)
4.1 Restructure MOF Organizaon
In accord wih DEVPLAN
4.2 Prepare Plan for Intoducing foward
budget system, TOR for computer study                                0
and plan for audit servIces
4.3 Prepare Human Resources
Development Plan 
5.  REPORTS/REVIEWS
5.1 Progress Reports                                                    S       0        *        *       0        *       *        *
5.2 Annual Work Program                                        0                *                 5                0                0                0
5.3 ReIw of Implementation Process
EKIW44766&



320                                                                                       36 0
TO Dar I   Salaam
Chist   i(arong          9               MALA\WI
10                           onga                                    INSTITUTIONAL  10-
tw  5DEVELOPMENT
\      hd_,}hlumb                 PROJECT
0 ivlngston:a                    Centers of Management
MPHI  u                      ~~~~~~~institute of Malawi (MIM):
5 >,*  Main Center
0     Satellite Centers
E end   lake                   U   Ministry of Finance (MOF)
0 s >;, /;,>Ktmzuzkhata\
;   )  \<O4\r) bSt. Augitini  -   Principal Roads
Ji  '- / |Rive.
120                                      eLe            (MAlAW             0   Towns                    120-
ZAMBIA  i~~50 District Capitals
* <     6 National Capital
-   District Boundaries
Region Boundaries
t1iChulu / As           
-  >       l* International Boundaries
j      LKas~un u   A        lkt
KILOMETER  0  20  40  60  80  100
To Lusaka                                Dw                             IE 
14                                                                                                      1
v r          o~~~~~~~T Nxacah
\Oe WadiS SaSake                 0
=,.=   M OZAM B I Q U E                      \ _ -L~~~~~~~~iwonde   S
- td(  a,a0.asW  J   a I t
RWAR U                A            rO relhiManz                 Chiradz  oa
Z-AIRE                                                                                       n
L   TANZAN0A    I IAD                                                   e Chikwaw  uc  nza  ('nje160-
AN                                            O                                             Beira
N AMIBIA_&))g\tU/
K GJOCTSWA    )~ 
><         f                MDCCA                                 \      XXsNanje 
15     ZJ  AFRICA|                             34\                        _36O



