Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No 16241
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2036-MAI)
JANUARY23. 1997
CouLntry Department 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Current Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00 = MK 2.70 (May 1989) = SDR 1.255610
US$1.00 =MK 15.26 (Dec. 1994)= SDR 1.448970
US$1.00 = MK 15.30 (June 1996) = SDR 1.440840
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DEVPLAN    Development Plan
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
ID I          Institutional Development Project I
ID II         Institutional Development Project II
IDA           International Development Association
IMF           International Monetary Fund
GOM           Government of Malawi
HIID          Harvard International Institute for Development
MDC           Management Development Consultant
MIM           Malawi Institute of Management
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOWS          Ministry of Works and Supplies
OPRPG         Operations Policy Department
SACS          Surtax Administration Computer System
SAL           Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
TA            Technical Assistance
TACS          (Income) Tax Administration Computer System
TMP           Tax Modernization Program
TOT           Training of Trainers
UK/ODA        United Kingdom/Overseas Development Administration
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UOM           University of Malawi
WB            World Bank
Vice-President    Callisto Madavo
Country Director    Barbara Kafka
Staff Member    Ladipo Adamolekun, Principal Public Sector Management Specialist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE .......................................................... ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................... iii
INTRODUCTION ........................................................... iii
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ........................................................... iii
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS .......................................................... iv
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS .......................................................... v
PART  L PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ...............................1........................... 
PROJECT IDENTITY .......................................................... 1
BACKGROUND .................................................................................................................................................. 1
PROJECT OBJECTIVE AND DESCRIPTION ...........................................................1
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..........................................................                                                     2
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .......................................................... 3
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD ........................................................... 3
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATION ........................................................... 5
BANK'S PERFORMANCE ...........................................................                                                                   5
BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE ..........................................................                                                                5
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .......................................................... 6
KEY LESSONS LEARNED ........................................................... 6
TAX REFORM PROGRAM  .......................................................... 7
PART H. COMMENTS CONTRIBUTED BY THE BORROWER ......................................................... 12
PART ImL STATISTICAL TABLES ..........................................................                                                         15
TABLE   A:  SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS (MM    ........................................................... 15
TABLE IB:  SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS (TAX MODERNIZATION PROGRAM) ....................................................   15
TABLE 1C: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS (COMPOSITE OF TABLES IA  AND 1B) ....................... I ......................... 16
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS .......................................................... 17
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .......................................................... 17
TABLE 4: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS (US$ MILLION) ..................                                       ...................... 18
TABLE 5: PROJECT COSTS (US $ THOUSANDS) .......................................................... 18
TABLE 6A: PROJECT FINANCING (US $ MILLION) ..........................................................................                          19
TABLE 6B: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS (OBTAINED FROMM I) ......................................................... 19
TABLE 7A: PARTICIPANTS AT MIM's COURSES ............................................                                                           20
TABLE7B: CONSULTING PROJECTS BY CATEGORY .......................................................................................... 20
TABLE 7C: CONSULTING PROJECTS BY SECTOR .............................................,,,,,.,,,,.. 20
TABLE 8: COMPLIANC                  E WITH CREDIT COVENANTS ............................................ 21
TABLE9: BANKRESOURCES: STAFFINPUTS .21............................................ 2 1
TABLE 10: BANKRESOURCES: MISSIONS .................................... ......................................................                 . 22
Appendices
APPENDIX A     LIST OF PERSONS MET DURING THE MISSION .......................................................................... 1
APPENDIX B TWINNING ARRANGEMENT BETWEEN ARA CONSULTANTS AND THE MALAWI INSTITUTE OF
MANAGEMENT ............................................................................... 3
APPENDIX C EVOLUTION OF THE ENDOWMENT OF THE MALAWI INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT  .................. 10
APPENDIX D CONSTRUCTION OF MALAWI INSTITUTION OF MANAGEMENT
REPORT BY MINISTRY  OF WORKS AND SUPPLIES ............................................................................... 13
APPENDIX E MALAWI INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT - ORGANIZATIONAL CHART AT INCEPTION ............... 16
MALAWI INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT - PROPOSED NEW  ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ................................... 17
APPENDIX F  REPORTS AND OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS ON FILE ........................................................................ 18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2036-MAI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the First Institutional Development
Project (ID I) in Malawi, for which Credit 2036-MAI in the amount of SDR8,800,000 was approved
on June 13, 1989 and which became effective on January 8, 1990. The original closing date for the
credit was December 31, 1994. The closing date was extended thrice for a total of eighteen months,
with a final closing date of June 30, 1996. The last twelve months of extension was necessary to allow
for the delivery of approved purchases and the completion of the claims for expenditure. By November
4, 1996, the undisbursed balance of the credit was US$143,861.53. This amount was canceled
effective from the same date. The amount approved in 1989 was US$11,300,000 and the amount
disbursed by November 4, 1996 was US$12,051,131.42. The total amount disbursed is higher than
the amount approved because of gains due to the appreciation of the SDR in terms of dollars.
The ICR was jointly prepared by the Institutional and Social Policy and the Country
Department 3 (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). The report was reviewed by Barbara
Kafka, (Country Director for Malawi). The Borrower's comments on the ICR constitute Part 11. 1
Preparation of this ICR was undertaken during a Bank mission in January/February 1995. The
draft ICR served as the Aide Memoire of the mission and was discussed at a wrap-up meeting. With
the approval of the Southern Africa Department's Operations Adviser who had consulted with
OPRPG, the report follows the "simplified form of ICR" as per footnote 3 (c) of OP13.55. It was
considered inappropriate to undertake a comprehensive ICR, as spelled out in the April 1995 directive
on ICR (OP 13.55), because the major beneficiary of the credit, the Malawi Institute of Management
(MIM), will also be supported under the successor Second Institutional Development Project (ID II)
with about 30 percent of the total Credit amount. It was agreed that the elaborate ICR required under
OP 13.55 would be more appropriate at the completion of ID II. The report is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit Agreement; Supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower; internal Bank Memoranda; and interviews with Bank and Malawi Government
officials who were closely associated with the project.
' The UNDP that co-financed parts of the project and was expected to provide parallel financing for some
other parts was invited to participate in the ICR mission but declined the invitation. However, the mission met
with the relevant UNDP staff and a copy of the draft ICR was sent to them. The Borrower's conunents on the
ICR were not shared with the UNDP.
ii






MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2036-MAI)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Government of Malawi decided to establish a management institute as part of a project for
institutional development. The Malawi Institute of Management (MIM) was to provide in-service
training for middle and senior managers in the public, parastatal and private sectors. The proposed
project also included the strengthening of institutional capacity in the Ministry of Finance and the
continuation of an on-going Tax Modernization Program. The institutional strengthening actions of
MOF were to be derived from the Ministry's Development Plan (DEVPLAN) prepared with the
assistance of the UNDP. Project preparation was completed in 1989 with negotiations in April and
Board approval was granted in June. The project became effective in January 1990.
Project Objectives and Description
2.    Project Objectives. The project's objective was to strengthen national economic
management. The Malawi Institute of Management was to offer a wide range of training programs and
seminars aimed at improving the capacity of Malawian managers in the public and private sectors.
The strengthening program in the Ministry of Finance was to improve the Ministry's capacity to
manage public resources through upgrading processes for budgeting, accounting and auditing, debt
management and claims, and to improve revenue flows through modernization of the tax system.
3.    Project Description. The project was to establish and operate the Malawi Institute of
Management (MIM) to train managers in the public and private sectors in management techniques. In
addition to its own campus, MIM was to work closely with the University of Malawi, sharing facilities
with two of the University's affiliates, Chancellor College and the Polytechnic. An Endowment Fund
was to be established to receive all the fees MIM generated during the five-year project investment
period. Income from its endowment, along with annual fees, were to help MIM cover its operating
expenses in the post-project period. The project was to fund MIM's civil works, furniture, equipment
and operating costs. A Canadian consortium was selected to provide initial technical services under a
twinning agreement.
4.    The project was also to assist the Ministry of Finance (MOF) with the implementation of its
Development Plan and its ongoing tax modernization program. MOF was to be reorganized to
strengthen its forward budgeting capability, to improve government accounting and auditing, and to
strengthen claims processing and debt management. The project was also to continue support for the
ongoing tax modernization begun under SAL III. The tax progran was to focus on reforms in trade
taxes, more efficient collection of corporate taxes and an improved duty-drawback scheme to promote
export growth. The project was expected to provide the technical assistance, equipment and training
iii



required to help MOF carry out its Development Plan and tax modernization program. UNDP was
expected to provide US$6.0 million equivalent in parallel financing.
5 .    It turned out that at project completion in 1994,2 implementation of the MOF component had
not taken off, except the Tax Modernization Program which continued to be implemented. The story of
the non-implementation of the major part of the MOF component is provided separately at the end of
"Part I: Project Implementation Assessment". The next sections on "Implementation Experience and
Results" and "Summary of Findings" are devoted to the project component on the Malawi Institute of
Management (MIM) and to the sub-component on Tax Modernization, the only part of the MOF
component that was implemented.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.     Based on the review of available documents both at Headquarters and in the field as well as on
interviews conducted in the field, the mission found that:
A.    MIM.
*  Training: MIM exceeded planned targets for participants during the first three years but
fell short of the targets in the last two years. The conduct of in-house management traimng
proved particularly attractive for private sector enterprises. MIM revised and re-designed
selected generic courses and introduced some new courses, notably in the areas of Business
Management and Human Resources Management. But localization of training materials
progressed at a lower pace than expected.
*  Consultancy: MIM recorded impressive achievements in consultancy with a cumulative
total of over 150 tasks. The respective shares of clients among the civil service, statutory
corporations and private sector enterprises were 20 percent, 31 percent and 25 percent.
MIM's clients expressed satisfaction with the quality of work performed. The only
complaints were occasional delays caused by work overload.
*  Research: MIM's record in the area of research was poor and the Management
Development Consultants (MDCs) failed to exploit the mutually beneficial linkages
between training, consultancy and research.
*  Civil Works: The construction of the campus of MIM was successfully completed, some
nine months behind schedule. The construction work appears very satisfactory and the
entire complex stands out as a beautiful and functional facility.
2 The original completion date for this project was June 30, 1994, six months before the initial closing date of
December 31, 1994. However, some implementation activities continued until December 1994 and project
credit was still used to cover some operational expenses until June 30, 1995 when the component on MIM
under the successor Second Institutional Development Project (ID II) became effective. Although the closing
date was extended to June 30, 1996, project credit was only used for the purchase of supplies and equipment
that had been approved before December 31, 1994. Therefore, 1994 will be used as the project completion date
in this report.
iv



B.    Tax Modernization Program
The results achieved under the TMP were mixed. The tax base was broadened with the
introduction of surtax and some tax officials attended in-country and overseas training courses,
focused on tax auditing techniques, surtax administration, tax collection and tax policy analysis.
But the income tax administration computer system that was designed and installed could not be
upgraded when this became necessary. There was also delay in the design and installation of a
computerized system for customs and excise administration.
Summary of Findings
The first part of this summary focuses on MIM and the second part is on the TMP.
A.    MIM
7.     Overall, the project outcome in respect of MIM was satisfactory and the establishment of the
institute can be called a partial success story. Although a definite opinion on the sustainability of
MIM would have to await the completion of the successor Second Institutional Development Project
(ID II), a cross-section of the Institute's clients expressed confidence in its future, provided it learns
from the lessons of the first five years. The following were identified as the areas of improvement that
could contribute significantly to MIM's prospects for self-financing and sustainability: cost-
consciousness, diversification and aggressive marketing of training and consultancy products, more
systematic consultation with clients, creative use of visiting trainers (adjunct faculty), networking both
in-country and abroad, and optimal utilization of campus facilities.
8.     The main positive lessons learned are:
*  Country ownership and commitment built through intensive participation at project
preparation and maintained through implementation (the beneficiary organization, MIM,
was also the implementation agency) were key ingredients for ensuring satisfactory project
outcome.
*  Establishing MIM as a parastatal with significant autonomy ensured a sense of
responsibility and accountability. To enhance this autonomy the practice of seconding
civil servants to MIM was abandoned in 1993 and the incumbent chairman of MIM's
Governing Board (1995) was selected from the private sector.
*  Donor coordination was effective throughout the project cycle, from preparation through
implementation. The Bank was informed about the mid-term Evaluation undertaken by
GOM and UNDP and it received a copy of the report. In turn, every Bank supervision
mission consulted in detail with UNDP. All this contributed to the achievement of project
development objectives
*  Clarity in the objectives set for technical assistance (TA) as was the case for ARA
consultants (provided under a twinning arrangement with MIM) helped to guarantee some
tangible results even though some of the objectives were not achieved. The concrete
results recorded were particularly notable in the areas of curriculum and teaching materials
development, staff training and development of consultancy capability.
v



* Supervision with appropriate skills mix, and with adequate frequency, had a positive
impact on project implementation.
9.    The following are the lessons from implementation problem areas:
*  The weakness of the accounting function in an implementation agency is certain to have
adverse consequences for disbursement, auditing and procurement. MIM's limited
capacity in accounting was largely responsible for the problems experienced in these areas.
MIM was obliged to appoint a professionally qualified accountant as a condition of credit
disbursement under ID II.
*  The implications of the objective of self-financing for MIM should have been spelled out
more clearly with strong emphasis on cost-consciousness, examples of investment
opportunities and monitoring targets for measuring progress toward the achievement of the
objective. The fact that successive MIM chief executives failed to devote adequate
attention to the subject meant that little progress was made.
*  Although MIM was granted significant autonomy, the composition of its Governing Board,
with about 80 percent senior civil servants, and the employment of several civil servants as
MDCs resulted in the enthronement of civil service culture in the Institute. Progress
toward a business and entrepreneurial culture was slow. The recent increase in the number
of Board members from the private sector, with one of them as its chairman, could help to
hasten the transition from a civil service culture to a business culture.
*  The weak points in the twinning arrangement between ARA consultants and MIM
included, among others, poor management of the transition from the expatriate Principal to
a Malawian Principal; inadequate attention to the skills mix of the consultants recruited
for MIM; limited interaction between some ARA experts and their Malawian counterparts;
and inadequate attention to research and the development of a business culture.
*  The high proportion of TA funds that is spent on the payment of salaries and other
expenses of expatriates, compared to what is spent directly on building capacity
(fellowships for training and purchase of training materials and equipment), is certain to
remain a controversial subject. The ARA/MIM experience was not an exception. Overall,
about 72 percent of a total of US$4.2 million (provided by UNDP) was spent on the ARA
consultants compared with only 28 percent on building local capacity in MIM.
B.    TMP
10.   The importance attached to TMP by both the Government and the donors who supported its
implementation (UNDP and the World Bank) ensured that it was actually implemented even though the
other activities under the MOF component were not implemented. However, the results were mixed
with some achievements recorded in the areas of tax policy reform (broadening the tax base) and
training. Problems included building local capacity in tax policy analysis, increased staff training, and
installation of computerized systems for income tax, customs and excise administration.
vi



11.   The main lessons from the TMP relate to the role of TA in capacity building for development:
*  Resident TA that is almost an enclave, as was the case with Harvard Institute for
International Development (HIID) for most of the 1987-94 period, could perform
satisfactorily in some areas (such as the reform of tax policy and the design of new
computer systems) but inadequate oversight by the beneficiary government could result in
avoidable errors such as the unupgradable TACS. With the advantage of hindsight, one
can now say that the oversight the GOM tried to provide through request for periodic
reports turned out to be ineffective as HIID produced thick reports (including new
proposals for extension of contract) that were not critically reviewed . After the
disbursement of the funds provided under the IDA credit was completed in July 1991, the
World Bank only monitored developments regarding TMP. And the UNDP apparently did
not supervise the utilization of the additional grants that it provided. The result of all this
from 1992 onwards was one "bridging finance" after another (always at the request of
GOM) with no real check on what had been achieved. Thus, for example, the inadequacy
of the TACS was not discovered until late in 1994.
*   The poor coordination (involving GOM, UNDP and the World Bank) evident in the plans
for the computerization of customs administration suggests that the new strategy GOM
was putting in place for donor coordination in the field of TA for economic and fiscal
management (January/February 1995) needed to be fine-tuned. (Subsequently, some fine-
tuning of donor coordination mechanisms was carried out and the IMF, UNDP and
UK/ODA are now supporting GOM's efforts to improve tax and customs administration).
*  The training of counterparts in specialized areas of tax policy analysis and the design and
installation of computer systems produced the same mixed results as in TA efforts in many
other developing countries: many counterparts were sent for training but only a few have
returned to strengthen tax administration. Some were lost to other sectors of the economy
while a few were lost to natural causes. Currently, GOM has only two experts in tax
policy analysis and GOM has decided to utilize part of the new Second Institutional
Development credit to build tax policy analysis capacity.
vii






MALAWI
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2036-MAI)
Part 1.       Project Implementation Assessment
Project Identity
Project Name                Institutional Development Project (ID I)
Credit No.                  2036-MAI
RVP Unit                    AF1C3
Country                     Malawi
Background
1.    In 1985, the Government of Malawi decided to establish a management institute and it
formally requested the Bank for assistance in 1986. GOM's decision was based on studies carried out
between 1979 and 1985 on how it could provide in-service training for middle-level and senior officials
in the civil service. Following a further preparatory study, it was decided that a Malawi Institute of
Management would be established with a main campus in Lilongwe and satellite campuses in Zomba
and Blantyre. The satellite campuses were intended to help ensure close collaboration between the
proposed MIM and the University of Malawi (UOM) through its Chancellor College at Zomba and the
Polytechnic in Blantyre. Furthermore, MIM was expected to use the satellite campuses for courses
aimed at the numerous parastatal and private enterprises in the Blantyre area.
2.     By 1988, GOM had decided to make the establishment of MIM part of a larger project for
institutional development. The proposed project included the strengthening of institutional capacity in
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the continuation of an on-going Tax Modernization Program
(TMP). The institutional strengthening actions of MOF were to be derived from the Ministry's
Development Plan (DEVPLAN) prepared with the assistance of the UNDP. Project preparation was
completed in 1989 with negotiations in April and Board approval was granted in June. The project
became effective in January 1990.
Project Objective and Description
3.    Project objective. The project's objective was to strengthen national economic management.
The Malawi Institute of Management was to offer a wide range of training programs and seminars
aimed at improving the capacity of Malawian managers in the public and private sectors. The
strengthening program in the Ministry of Finance was to improve the Ministry's capacity to manage
public resources through upgrading processes for budgeting, accounting and auditing, debt
management and claims, and to improve revenue flows through modernization of the tax system.



4.    Project Description. The project was to establish and operate the Malawi Institute of
Management (MIM) to train managers in the public and private sectors in management techniques. In
addition to its own campus, MIM was to work closely with the University of Malawi, sharing facilities
with two of the University's affiliates, Chancellor College and the Polytechnic. An Endowment Fund
was to be established to receive all the fees MIM generated during the five-year project investment
period. Income from its endowment, along with annual fees, were to help MIM cover its operating
expenses in the post-project period. The project was to fund MIM's civil works, furniture, equipment
and operating costs. A Canadian consortium, ARA consultants, was selected to provide initial
technical services under a twinning agreement (see Appendix B).
5.    The project was also to assist the Ministry of Finance with the implementation of its
Development Plan and its ongoing tax modernization program. MOF was to be reorganized to
strengthen its forward budgeting capability, to improve government accounting and auditing, and to
strengthen claims processing and debt management. The project was also to continue support for the
ongoing tax modernization program (TMP)begun under SAL III. The tax program was to focus on
reforms in trade taxes, more efficient collection of corporate taxes and an improved duty-drawback
scheme to promote export growth. The project was expected to provide the technical assistance,
equipment and training required to help MOF carry out its Development Plan and tax modernization
program. UNDP was expected to provide US$6.0 million equivalent in support of the project. At the
implementation stage, only the TMP sub-component continued to be implemented. Following the
detailed "Implementation Assessment" of the MIM component, a brief assessment of the TMP is
provided and this is followed by the story of the non-implementation of the MOF component.
A.    MIM
Achievement of Project Objectives
6.    The objective of establishing MIM as a center of excellence for training and consultancy in
management was achieved to a great extent. The Mid-Term Evaluation Report prepared jointly by the
UNDP and the Government of Malawi in July 1992 declared MIM a success story, pointing to the fact
that it was providing high quality training and consultancy services for the civil service, the parastatals
and the private sector. At that point in time, MIM steadily exceeded the targets set for it in respect of
both training and consultancy and its Endowment Fund was much larger than had been anticipated. At
the end of the project, a verdict of apartial success story would be more appropriate. MIM did not
fully meet the targets set for participants at its courses in 1993 and 1994. However, consultancy
activities remained at levels that were above what had been anticipated in the SAR. Although the
Endowment Fund was almost thrice the amount projected in the SAR, the real value of the total amount
was probably only slightly over the initial projection because of high inflation and rapid depreciation
of the Malawi Kwacha in 1993/1994. The goal of self-financing for MIM at the end of the project,
that is, the capacity to meet its operating costs from its Endowment Fund along with annual fees, was
not achieved (see Appendix C).
2



Major Factors Affecting the Project
7.     The poor performance of the Malawian economy from 1992 onwards, due partly to the
suspension of overseas development assistance (excluding humanitarian aid) for governance reasons
and partly to successive droughts, reduced the demand for MIM's services. Although the actual impact
is difficult to measure, MIM's clients admitted that a period of staff reduction and reduced profits was
also matched by reduced resources for training and consultancy services.
8.     The political transition that dominated the last two years of project implementation (1993 and
1994) had some impact on the project. While the construction of MIM's campus was completely
insulated from this factor, the leadership crisis at the Institute which persisted for most of 1993 could
be traced, in part, to the new atmosphere of questioning of authority prevailing in the larger society. In
the end, the first Malawian Principal who was appointed in April 1992 was removed in September
1993. (The interim Principal who took over from him was confirmed in the position a year later).
This leadership crisis interlude adversely affected MIM's performance in 1993 and 1994. (In addition
to the Principal, MIM lost three of its MDCs whose secondment from the Civil Service was terminated
as part of the resolution of the leadership issue).
Implementation Record
9.    Key Performance Indicators. The SAR provided key performance indicators in two areas of
MIM's activities: participants in its courses and the progress recorded in building up its Endowment
Fund. A summary of the targets set for MIM regarding participants at its courses and the actual
achievements is provided in Table 7A. The targets set regarding the Endowment Fund and the actual
results are recorded in Appendix C.
10.    Training, Consultancy and Research. As shown in Table 7A, MIM exceeded the planned
targets for participants during the first three years but fell short of the targets in the last two years.
The adverse effect of the leadership crisis of 1993 was the major explanatory factor of this decline in
performance. The mix of training through the delivery of generic courses and the conduct of in-house
(tailor made) training (in form of consultancy) was uneven - participation in in-house training was very
high in both 1993 and 1994 when there was a significant decline in the participation in generic
training courses. MIM's clients expressed great satisfaction with in-house management training
courses throughout the project period. The courses are designed in close collaboration with relevant
officials of the enterprises concerned and this ensured both relevance and ownership. They were also
cost-effective because they were delivered in-house to varying numbers of clients' employees.
Significantly, the private sector made greater demand on MIM's in-house courses than the parastatal
and public sectors. Selected generic courses were revised and re-designed and some new courses
introduced, notably in the areas of Business Management and Human Resources Management. But
localization of training materials progressed at a lower pace than expected. With regard to the objective
of having clients pay for the full costs of training at MIM, GOM's 1990 directive to ministries to
make annual budgetary allocations for training was not faithfully implemented and MIM sent
confusing signals to its clients by failing to systematically phase out the fellowships for its courses.
11    MIM's achievements in consultancy were very impressive. The SAR only mentioned that it
would conduct some consultancy tasks, yielding only modest earning that would be paid to its
Endowment Fund. Tables 7B and 7C show the number of consultancy tasks undertaken by MIM
during the period. The respective shares of the civil service, statutory corporations and private sector
3



enterprises are 20 percent, 31 percent and 25 percent. The significant contributions of consultancy to
MIM's Endowment Fund is reflected in Appendix C. MIM's clients expressed satisfaction with the
quality of work performed by the MDCs. The only complaints were occasional delays caused by work
overload. Within, MIM there was lack of adequate monitoring of the balance between training and
consultancy. Specifically, there was a tendency to spend more time on consultancy (which yielded
additional earning for the MDCs) than MIM's own rules formally allowed, leaving reduced time for
training and research. In theory, each MDC was expected to share his/her time as follows: 60 percent
for training; 30 percent for consultancy and 10 percent for research. In practice, MDCs spent, on
average, more than 40 percent of their time on consultancy.
12.   MIM's record in the area of research was poor. The occasional efforts made did not yield any
significant results. The attempts to launch a publication, were quickly abandoned and no real effort
was made to disseminate what MIM learned about management in the Malawian milieu. The MDCs
failed to exploit the mutually beneficial linkages between training, consultancy and research.
13.    Civil Works. The construction of the campus of MIM in Kanengo, Lilongwe, was
successfully completed, some nine months behind schedule. The construction work appears very
satisfactory and the entire complex stands out as a beautiful and functional facility. (See Appendix D,
"Construction of Malawi Institute of Management. Report by Ministry of Works and Supplies").
14.   Disbursements, Counterpart Financing and Co-financing. Disbursement data show a
steady utilization of project credit that was very close to the projections in the SAR for the mniddle
years. Total credit disbursed by November 4, 1996 was US$12.1 million.3 The undisbursed balance
at project closing was canceled.
15.    Counterpart financing was provided by GOM as required in the DCA. Of the US$1.6 million
government contribution envvuag?.d, US$2.5 million was actually spent. Thuls, the Borrower's share of
project financing was 21 percent (see Table 6A).
16.   UNDP, the cofinancier, was expected to contribute about US$6 million to the financing of the
project UNDP's actual contribution was US$4.1 million.4
17.   Procurement. The major procurement in the project was the contract for MIM's campus and
this was done according to acceptable Bank procedures. Procuring vehicles and other equipment also
followed acceptable Bank procedures. The final tendering for carpets and furnishing of the buildings
on MIM's campus was delayed partly because it had to be prepared over several iterations to ensure
compliance with established procedures. To allow adequate time for completing the procurement
process, the original closing date of December 31, 1994 was extended thrice at the request of the
Government for a total of eighteen months, with a final closing date of June 30, 1996.
3 This figure includes the SDR 620,000 (US$0.8 million) spent on TA and training for the Tax Modernization
Program.
4 While UNDP's actual financing of MIM is known, data on its actual financing of the Tax Modernization
Program are not available. The non-financing of the other activities under the MOF component is discussed
separately below.
4



Project Sustainability and Future Operation
18.   MIM has been firmly established as a management Institute and continued IDA support under
the Second Institutional Development project (ID II) is intended to help consolidate the achievements
recorded under ID I. While a verdict on the institute's sustainability would have to await the
completion of ID II, the single performance criterion set for it under the new operation is the progress it
makes towardfinancial self-reliance. To this end, performance indicators have been established to
monitor progress and project credit will be provided on a declining basis to ensure that the Institute's
own resources are progressively used to meet operating costs. The SAR for ID II requires MIM to
progressively cover its salaries and operating costs from its Endowment Fund as follows: 20 percent in
1995/96, 40 percent in 1996/97, 60 percent in 1997/98, and 80 percent in 1998/99.
Bank's Performance
19.   Identification of the project was largely completed by the Government before IDA assistance
was formally requested. Preparation was a joint effort of the Government and IDA. UNDP as
cofinancier provided some inputs. In appraisal, the innovative idea of an Endowment Fund for MIM
was adopted but the expectation that the Fund would help to ensure MIM's financial self-reliance at the
end of the project turned out to be unrealistic. Similarly, the scope of physical infrastructure envisaged
for MIM - one main campus in Kanengo (Lilongwe), one satellite campus each in Zomba (Chancellor
College) and Blantyre (at The Polytechnic) and some staff housing - was far beyond what the project
credit could finance. These ambitious plans were agreed upon by IDA and the Government at
negotiations. However, the physical infrastructure plan was quickly scaled down to the construction of
the main canpus by the end of the first year of project implementation.
20.    Supervision by IDA was adequate: an average of two supervision missions per year. Only
two task managers were involved from project preparation through project completion. This continuity
had a positive impact on project implementation. To ensure that MIM was provided with relevant
advice and some comparative perspectives, one Institutional Development Specialist with first-hand
familiarity with the work of similar Institutes in Sub-Saharan Africa participated in one of the two
supervision missions in 1990, 1991, 1992 and 1993. The self-standing reports prepared by the
Institutional Development Specialists contain thoughtful observations and suggestions that MIM could
continue to mine for use in future. IDA failed to get MIM to submit audit reports on time. However,
the delayed audit reports were unqualified and they were accompanied by useful "management reports"
which consistently drew attention to MIM's lack of cost-consciousness. IDA monitored adherence to
procurement and disbursement procedures fairly closely and a major case of misprocurement was
averted because of the vigilance of the Resident Mission which was systematically involved in project
supervision.
Borrower's Performance
21.   The fact that project identification had been completed by the Government before it requested
IDA assistance was a strong evidence of country ownership and commitment. Subsequently, the
involvement of several pioneering MIM staff in projectpreparation further deepened borrower
ownership and commitment. Government decision to grant significant autonomy to MIM as a
parastatal enhanced its smooth take off and steady progress. In implementation, MIM's
5



capacity was rather limited in its Accounting Section and this was largely responsible for the delayed
audits and persistent errors in disbursements. MIM staff responsible for procurement did not fully
master IDA's procurement procedures and this almost resulted in a serious mis-procurement in 1994.
Covenant compliance was very satisfactory; all covenants relating to MIM in the Development Credit
Agreement were met on schedule. In project operation, MIM's coordination with the Ministry of
Finance was inadequate, with IDA serving as a link on occasions. Some improvement was noticeable
during the last year of project implementation.
Assessment of Outcome
22.    Overall, the project outcome was satisfactory. Indeed, there is a real sense in which the
establishment of MIM could be called apartial success story. The ICR mission found unanimity on
MIM's relevance and satisfactory performance among its clients in the public, parastatal and private
sectors. It was variously referred to as a "welcome management gap filler", a "very useful institution",
a "superb initiative" and the "best in the market". Although a definite opinion on its sustainability
would have to await the completion of ID II, it is significant that the cross-section of its clients
expressed confidence in its future, provided it learns from the lessons of the first five years. MIM's
staff as well as all six key members of the Governing Board met by the mission shared this opinion.
(See Appendix A). There was broad agreement on the areas of improvement that could contribute
significantly to MIM's prospects for self-financing by the end of ID II: cost-consciousness,
diversification and aggressive marketing of training and consultancy products , more systematic
consultation with clients, creative use of visiting trainers (adjunct faculty), networking both in-country
and abroad, and optimal utilization of campus facilities.
Key Lessons Learned
23.    The main positive lessons learned are:
*  Country ownership and commitment built through intensive participation at project
preparation and maintained through implementation (the beneficiary organization, MIM,
was also the implementation agency) were key ingredients for ensuring satisfactory project
outcome.
*  Establishing MIM as a parastatal with significant autonomy ensured a sense of
responsibility and accountability. To enhance this autonomy the practice of seconding civil
servants to MIM was abandoned in 1993 and the incumbent chairman of MIM's
Governing Board was selected from the private sector.
*  Donor coordination was effective throughout the project cycle, from preparation through
implementation. The Bank was informed about the Mid-Term Evaluation undertaken by
GOM and UNDP and it received a copy of the report. In turn, every Bank supervision
mission consulted in detail with UNDP. All this contributed to the achievement of project
development objectives.
*  Clarity in the objectives set for TA as was the case for ARA consultants helped to
guarantee some tangible results even though some of the objectives were not achieved. The
concrete results recorded were particularly notable in the areas of curriculum and
6



teaching materials development, staff training and development of consultancy capability.
* Supervision with appropriate skill mix, and with adequate frequency, had a positive impact
on project implementation.
24.    The following are the lessons from implementation problem areas:
*  The weakness of the accounting function in an implementation agency is certain to have
adverse consequences for disbursement, auditing and procurement. MIM's limited
capacity in accounting was largely responsible for the problems experienced in these areas.
MIM was obliged to appoint a professionally qualified accountant as a condition of credit
disbursement under ID II.
*  The implications of the objective of self-financing for MIM through the Endowment Fund
should have been spelled out more clearly with strong emphasis on cost-consciousness,
examples of investment opportunities and monitoring targets for measuring progress
toward the achievement of the objective (see Appendix C). The fact that successive MIM
chief executives failed to devote adequate attention to the subject meant that little progress
was made.
-  Although MIM was granted significant autonomy, the composition of its Governing Board,
with about 80 percent senior civil servants, and the employment of several civil servants as
MDCs resulted in the enthronement of civil service culture in the Institute. Progress toward
a business and entrepreneurial culture was slow. The recent increase in the number of
Board members from the private sector, with one of them as its chairman, could help to
hasten the transition from a civil service culture to a business culture.
*  The weak points in the twinning arrangement between ARA consultants and MIM
included, among others, poor management of the transition from the expatriate Principal to
a Malawian Principal; inadequate attention to the skill mix of the consultants recruited for
MIM; limited interaction between some ARA experts and their Malawian counterparts;
and inadequate attention to research and the development of a business culture.
*  The high proportion of TA funds that is spent on the payment of salaries and other
expenses of expatriates, compared to what is spent directly on building capacity
(fellowships for training and purchase of training materials and equipment), is certain to
remain a controversial subject. The ARA/MIM twinning experience was not an exception
(see Appendix B). Overall, about 72 percent of a total of US$4.2 million was spent on the
ARA consultants compared with only 28 percent on building local capacity in MIM.
B.    TMP5
5 This assessment is brief, compared to that of MIM, because the IDA funding was disbursed quickly within
the first eighteen months of project life. Subsequent funding was through "bridging finance" that was most
often provided retroactively (mostly by UNDP) and the full details were not available to the ICR mission.
7



25.   According to the Development Credit Agreement, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) was
expected to implement TMP "with the assistance of suitable consultants." As already mentioned, the
TMP, was already on-going when the other components of the project were being prepared. The first
implementation phase was through a two-year contract signed with the Harvard Institute for
International Development (HIID) in 1987. IDA's contribution to the TMP was SDR 620,000 to be
spent on TA and training. By July 1991, the IDA credit allocated to the TMP had been spent and over
US $1.0 million of UNDP funds had also been spent on the program. In 1992, UNDP allocated an
additional US $0.5 million to the TMP.
26.   Before the HIID contract was renewed for another two-year period (March 1992 - February
1994), the major achievements of the TMP were in respect of tax policy and legislative reform,
especially the broadening of the tax base. Surtax, a value-added type of taxation, was introduced and
later expanded to cover most services. An income tax administration computer system (TACS) and a
surtax administration computer system (SACS) were designed, installed and made operational. Many
tax officials attended in-country training courses and a few were sent on overseas training. The in-
country training courses focused on tax auditing techniques, surtax administration, and tax collection
administration (using training manuals prepared by HIID experts). The overseas training courses
were focused on tax policy analysis and computer studies. The achievements recorded during the 1992-
94 period consisted of the addition of new features to the computerized income tax system and the
design of a computerized system for customs and excise administration. By February 1995, the system
was partially ready to begin operation. In-country training of the staff of both the Income Tax
Department and the Department of Customs and Excise also continued, especially in computer
applications.
27.   Notwithstanding the achievements recorded, the mission found that GOM was dissatisfied with
the performance of its tax and customs administration. The computerized system designed for the
Income Tax Department is not upgradable and the existing system has to be expanded and new
equipment must be purchased. With regard to customs administration, new technical assistance to be
provided by the IMF and UK/ODA could mean that only the aspect of HIID computerization work
relating to customs administration in border posts would be used for about two years while a new
system, the ASYCUDA (reputed to be performing satisfactorily in many developing countries),
developed externally, would be installed. If this were to happen, the current system developed for
Malawi will be discarded. It would also mean that the Customs Department would not be able to
exchange data easily with the computer system already in place for income tax and surtax
administration. All this would amount to a huge waste of resources: all the expenses on research,
design, programming and computer-related training would be lost. Only some of the recently purchased
equipment would be salvaged.
Key Lessons Learned
28.   The main lessons from the TMP relate to the role of TA in capacity building for development:
Resident TA that is almost an enclave, as was the case with HIID for most of the 1987-94
period, could perform satisfactorily in some areas (such as the reform of tax policy and the
design of new computer systems) but inadequate oversight by the beneficiary government
could result in avoidable errors such as the unupgradable TACS. With the advantage of
hindsight, one can now say that the oversight the GOM tried to provide through request for
periodic reports turned out to be ineffective as HIID produced thick reports (including new
proposals for extension of contract) that were not critically reviewed. After the
8



disbursement of the funds provided under the IDA credit was completed in July 1991, the
World Bank only monitored developments regarding the TMP. And the UNDP apparently
did not supervise the utilization of the additional grants that it provided. The result of all
this from 1992 onwards was one "bridging finance" after another (always at the request of
GOM), with no real check on what had been achieved. Thus, for example, the inadequacy
of the TACS was not discovered until late in 1994.
*   The poor coordination evident in the plans for the computerization of customs
administration suggests that the new strategy being put in place for donor coordination in
the field of TA for economic and fiscal management (January/February 1995) needed to
be fine-tuned. (Some fine-tuning of donor coordination mechanisms has since taken place
and the IMF, UNDP and UK/ODA are now supporting GOM's efforts to improve tax and
customs administration).
*   The training of counterparts in specialized areas of tax policy analysis and the design and
installation of computer systems produced the same mixed results as in TA efforts in
many other developing countries: many counterparts were sent for training but only a few
have returned to strengthen tax administration. Some were lost to other sectors of the
economy while a few were lost to natural causes. Currently, GOM has only two experts in
tax policy analysis and GOM has decided to utilize part of the new Second Institutional
Development credit to build tax policy analysis capacity.
C.    MOF's Devplan: Implementation Failure
29.   The identification and preparation of the MOF component involved GOM, UNDP and the
Bank. Although there were consultations among all three partners during the preparation phase, the
studies undertaken with financial support from the UNDP and the Bank were not effectively
coordinated. A Bank-supported study, "Building Capacity for the Future: A Program to Strengthen the
Organisational Performance of the Malawi Ministry of Finance in a Period of Structural Adjustment"
was completed in February, 1988 while the UNDP-supported study on the Development Plan
(DEVPLAN) of MOF was not completed until February, 1989. According to the Development Credit
Agreement, MOF was expected to implement its comprehensive development plan by taking all
necessary measures to:
"(a)   restructure its organisation, in accordance with such plan, with the assistance of
consultants, as necessary;
(b)    (i)   prepare a plan for introducing a forward budget system;
(ii)   develop terms of reference for a user needs study of computerization
requirements; and
(iii)   prepare a plan for improving its audit services;
(c)   prepare a human resources development plan including a timetable for filling vacancies for
professional positions in MOF."
30.   In September 1990, UNDP approved US$3.5 million to support the MOF DEVPLAN but the
project document was not finalised until October 1991 when it was renamed "Government Financial
Management Development" and the project fund was reduced to US$2.5 million. The institutional
9



strengthening activities spelled out in the project document were to focus on government financial
management, government accounting, government auditing and taxation. (The specificity in the project
description contained in the Bank's DCA had disappeared).
31.   At the fonnal completion of ID I in June 1994, implementation of the MOF component had
not taken off apart from implementation of the Tax Modernization Program (TMP) which continued
with periodic interruptions. GOM, the Bank (which provided the framework ID project) and UNDP
(which approved funds for the MOF component) failed to coordinate effectively to ensure
implementation. (See GOM's views on this problem in Part II of the Report). A major problem on
the part of GOM was the lack of continuity and quality in the staffing of MOF in some critical
positions for most of the period. This delayed the finalisation of the project document and after UNDP
had approved the project, MOF was unable to provide qualified staff to take charge of implementation.
Because the MOF component was regarded as one single package (excluding the TMP), the activities
aimed at strengthening the Accountant General's office could not be implemented even though the AG
and his staff were ready for action.
32.   UNDP was unable to persuade GOM to employ some technical assistants to lead the
implementation effort. GOM did not want a large proportion of the project fund to be spent on the
salaries of TA. It was at this juncture that UNDP proposed a further reduction of its allocation from
$2.5 million to US$ 1.1 million in 1992. (This new reduction coincided with a general reduction of
UNDP's total support for the Fifth Country program, 1992-1996). Finally, UNDP abandoned
pressing for the implementation of the Government Financial Management Development Project in July
1994 when it diverted the project fund to a new initiative, called Capacity Building Program for
Economic Management (CBPEM).
33.   The continuous promise of impending agreement between GOM and UNDP between 1990 and
1992 prevented the Bank from considering any amendment to the project's Development Credit
Agreement to take into account the non-implementation of the MOF component. Eventually, by the
time the preparation of the successor Second Institutional Development Project (ID II) began in 1992,
both GOM and the Bank agreed to take into account the lessons of implementation failure of the MOF
component under ID I, especially in respect of the use of technical assistance. Furthermore,
strengthening the capacity of the office of the Accountant General was constituted into a distinct sub-
component of ID II.
Key Lessons Learned
34.   The following are the key lessons learned from this unsuccessful effort to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the MOF.
* The studies sponsored by IDA and UNDP did not involve MOF staff who were only
required to react to the reports of the studies. This was responsible for the delay in
finalising the project document. More importantly, MOF staff did not seem committed to
the project.
* UNDP's excellent idea of using Govermments as executing agencies for its development
programmes runs the risk of failure in cases where there is limited local management
capacity as in the MOF experience.
10



* Ineffective donor coordination was a major explanatory factor for this implementation
failure. Although both the UNDP and the Bank showed interest in assisting GOM to
strengthen its MOF, no single tripartite meeting was held; the Bank consulted regularly
with the UNDP and each maintained regular contacts with GOM. With the advantage of
hindsight, one or two tripartite meetings (GOM/UNDP/Bank) at some critical points could
have made a difference.
* The fact that TMP was implemented as a self-standing sub-component suggests that if the
institutional strengthening actions proposed for the Accountant General's Office and the
National Audit Office had been constituted into self-standing sub-components,
implementation could have taken place in the two areas.
11



PART 11. Comments Contributed By The Borrower
Ministry of Finance
Ref. No. 32/l/32NIV/72                                               8 December 1995
Mr. Ladipo Adamolekun
Principal PSM Specialist
Capacity Building and Implementation Division
Africa Technical Department
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C 20433
USA
Dear Sir,
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IDP I)
CREDIT 2036 - MAI: IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
I acknowledge receipt of the draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the First Institutional
Development Project which you presented to us in February 1995. I regret the inconveniences caused
by our delay in submitting our comments on the report to you.
2.    While we generally accept the contents of the draft report, I wish to inform you that we have
problems in accepting the point made [in paras 28-30] to the effect that the implementation of the
Ministry of Finance's component of IDP I did not take off mainly because of lack of continuity and
quality of staffing of the Ministry of Finance in some critical positions.
3 .    You may wish to note that in 1990, the Ministry of Finance established an Implementation
Management Group (IMG) to coordinate the activities of the project. The IMG consisted of
representatives from the Ministry of Finance Headquarters and the Departments of Accountant
General, Auditor General, Customs and Excise, Income Taxes and Data Processing. The IMG was
headed by a Senior Deputy Secretary and its meetings were often attended by senior officers such as
the Deputy Accountant General, Deputy Auditor General, Controller of Taxes, etc. This
representation, for us, illustrates serious commitment to the project.
4.    In 1990 and 1991, the IMG worked very closely with the UNDP consultant, Mr. Peter Dean in
preparing a project document which we believe was subsequently approved by both the Government
and UNDP. However, in January 1992 the UNDP informed us that they had decided to retitle the
project to reflect the fact that the project would address problems being faced by both Ministry of
Finance and the Audit Department. A revised document was then submitted to the Government in
which the UNDP contribution was reduced from the original US$3.5 million to US$2.5 million; no
reason was given for the reduction. In addition, a number of the activities proposed by the IMG were
12



removed, while considerable additional UN technical assistance was introduced in the revised document
without any prior consultations with the IMG.
5.    The revised document was therefore not immediately approved by the Government because it
was felt that the Government did not need all the TA that was being proposed by UNDP. The
Government's position was fully discussed with Mr. Dean. The delay in approving the document was
further caused by the need on the part of the IMG to review the various project components in line with
the reduced resources from UNDP.
6.    It was at this point that we were informed of a further reduction of the UNDP contribution
from US$2.5 million to US$1.1 million. The reduction, I understand, was largely due to a general
reduction in UNDP's support to Malawi. This was finally followed by the UNDP's decision to
reallocate the project's resources to a new initiative related to capacity building.
7.    In light of the above, we do not accept the conclusions stipulated [in para 34] of the draft final
report that "the Ministry of Finance staff did not seem committed to the project" and that there was
"limited local management capacity". We believe our commitment was duly illustrated by the
establishment of the IMG which worked closely with UN consultant throughout the time the project
was being discussed. A project document was jointly prepared by the two parties and was
subsequently apparently approved by the UNDP. The problems arose when the consultant or UNDP
decided to revise the project document unilaterally. In the revised document, the original components
were changed, additional technical assistance introduced and project costs revised. It is indeed worth
noting that during this process, the UN consultant, Mr. Dean, was the main link in the discussions
between the government and UNDP. This is rather unusual, since we normally, in matters like this
one, deal directly with UNDP staff either from the UN Headquarters or the UNDP resident office.
8.    It is therefore clear to us that the failure in the implementation of the Ministry of Finance
component of IDP I was largely a result of poor coordination among the three parties involved, but
mainly between the UNDP and the Government. We believe that there is a clear lesson that we should
in future be careful on we use [sic] consultants during preparation of project proposals.
9.    We hope that with these few observations, you will now finalise the preparation of the final
report of IDP I. We once again apologize for the delay in submitting our comments to you.
Your faithfully,
(signature)
J. Chiteyeye
for Secretary to the Treasury
13



Malawi Institute of Management
P.O.box 30801, Lilongwe
Ref. No. MIM.A.2.0.Vol.IV
11 December 1995
Professor Ladipo Adamolekun
World Bank
Washington D.C.
USA
Dear Prof. Adamolekun,
DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT IDP I (CREDIT 2036 - MAI)
I have read the draft ICR for IDP I and confirm that it is a fair representation of MIM's activities.
Yours sincerely,
(signature)
Dr. B.F. Kandoole
Executive Director
14



PART Ill. Statistical Tables6
Table 1A: Summary of Assessments (MIM)
Substantial    Partial     Negligible  Not applicable
A. Achievement of objectives
Institutional Development     X
Endowment Fund                             X
Likely      Unlikely    Uncertain
B. Project sustainability         X
Highly     Satisfactory   Deficient     Highly
satisfactory                           unsatisfactory
C. Bank Performance
Identification             X
Preparation assistance     X
Appraisal                               X
Supervision                             X
D. Borrower performance
Preparation                X
Implementation                          X
Covenant compliance        X
Operation                               X
E. Assessment of outcome                        X
Table 1B: Summary of Assessments (Tax Modernization Program)7
Substantial    Partial     Negligible  Not applicable
A. Achievement of objectives                    x
Likely      Unlikely     Uncertain
B. Project sustainability                       X l_X
Highly     Satisfactory   Deficient     Highly
satisfactory                           unsatisfactory
C. Bank Performance
Identification                          X
Preparation assistance                  X
Appraisal                               X
Supervision                                          X
D. Borrower performance
Preparation                             X
Implementation                                       X
Covenant compliance        X
Operation                                             X
E. Assessment of outcome                                     X
6 Tables 7A, 7B and 7C refer only to the MIM component.
7 The Bank's systematic supervision of this sub-component ended when disbursement was completed in
mid-1991. The ad hoc nature of the funds provided thereafter accounts for the "deficient" scores
recorded.
'5



Table 1C: Summary of Assessments (Composite of Tables IA and 1B)8
Substantial    Partial     Negligible  Not applicable
A. Achievement of objectives      X
Likely      Unlikely    Uncertain
B. Project sustainability         X
Highly    Satisfactory   Deficient      Highly
satisfactory                           unsatisfactory
C. Bank Performance
Identification             X
Preparation assistance     X
Appraisal                               x
Supervision                             x
D. Borrower performance
Preparation                x
Implementation                          x
Covenant compliance        x
Operation                               x
E. Assessment of outcome                       x
8 These ratings reflect those in Table IA for MIM because of the preponderance of the MIM component in the
project.
16



Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit Title              Year of     Achievement/Purpose        j Status
Approval  l                            l
Preceding Operations
1.  Loan 2027-MAI         1981        Produce studies on which     Closed 5/30/85
Technical Assistance I                reforms were to be based
2. Credit 1428-MAI        1983                                     Closed 6/30/89
Second Technical Assistance
Operation
Following Operation
1. Credit 2624-MAI        1994                                    In progress
Second Institutional
Development Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Actual Date (Month/Year)
Preparation                         10/86, 2/87, 7/87, 2/88, 7/88
Appraisal                                     11/88
Negotiations                                  04/89
Board Presentation                            06/89
Signing                                       09/89
Effectiveness                                 01/90
Mid-term Review                               06/92
Project Completion                            07/94
Credit Closing                                06/96
17



Table 4: Cumulative Estimated And Actual Disbursements (US$ Million)
Bank FY                  1990      1991    1992    1993       1994    1995    1996
Appraisal estimate       1.5       4.0      6.5     9.0       10.5    11.3    n.a.
Actual                   3.1       5.0      7.0      9.0      10.5    11.0    12.1
Actual % of Credit       28%       44%      62%    *80%       93%      97%     107%
*The final figure is higher than the original amount because of exchange fluctuation
Table 5: Project Estimated Costs (US $ Million)
Category                    Appraisal Estimate
|___________ |Local             Foreign    Total                Actual (Total)
Malawi Institute of
Management                5.3         7.8       13.1               17.889
Ministry of Finance
Budgeting/Financial
Management                0.4         1.2        1.6
Accounting/Audit
Tax Modernization         0.1         1.8        1.9               0.82'0
Sub-total                 0.5        3.0         3.5
Total Baseline Costs      5.8        10.8       16.6
Physical
Contingencies             0.2        0.3         0.5
Price Contingencies       0.5         1.3        1.8  ___
Total Project Cost        6.5        12.4       18.9                18.7
9 This amount includes IDA's actual disbursement ($11.3 million) and the actual amount provided the UNDP
and the Government of Malawi.
10 This represents the actual amount disbursed by IDA. Data on the actual amounts provided by the UNDP
and the Government of Malawi were not available to the ICR mission.
18



Table 6A: Project Financing (US $ Million)
Source of funds    Planned at Appraisal     Revised            Actual
IDA                            11.3             11.3              12.1*
UNDP                            6.0              4.2               4.1
Government                      1.6              1.6               2.5
TOTAL                          18.9             17.1              18.7*
* The higher figures were due to gains arising from the appreciation of the SDR.
Table 6B: Allocation Of Credit Proceeds
Category           Original         Actual          Original         Actual
Allocation    Disbursement   Allocation (US$   Disbursement
(SDR)           (SDR)          million)      (US$ million)
1. Civil Works     3,110,000            4.0              4.0             4.85
2. Vehicles          390,000            0.50             0.5             0.43
3. Furnishing
& Equipment        860,000             1.1             1.1              1.64
4. Operating
Costs           1,870,000            2.4              2.4             2.80
5. Technical
Assistance
& training        620,000            0.8              0.8             0.82
6. Refunding
of Project
Preparation
Advance         1,170,000             1.50            1.5             1.51
7. Unallocated                                           1.0
8. Difference
due to
cross-
exchange                         39,344.74
9. Amount to
be cancelled                    99,340.91
TOTAL              8,800,000     8,800,000.00           11.3             12.1
19



Table 7A: Participants at MIM's Courses
Year      Planned*                         Actual
Generic        In-house         Total
1990         100            361             278             639
1991         180            586             444            1030
1992         360            711             82              793
1993         540            236             200             436
1994         720           N.A             N.A.             529
* At Appraisal
Table7B: Consulting Projects by Category
1990      1991      1992      1993       1994      Totals      %
Management Studies             7         16        5         7          7         42        19%
Management Systems           11         7         11        5          8         42        19%
In-House Courses              20        23         5         12        22         82        38%
Organization Development      -9         2         6         5          6         28        13 %
Executive Assessment           -         -         4         3          8         15        7%
Facilitation (Conference &                         2          2         2          6        3 %
Seminars)
Other                                                                   1 -  -  -  1  1     0%
Totals                        47        48         33        34        54         216      100%
Table 7C: Consulting Projects by Sector
1990       1991        1992       1993        1994        Total
Civil Service          9          7           8           7          13       44 (20%)
Statutory Bodies      12          19          9          11          15       66 (31%)
Private Sector         14          7          5           9          19       54 (25%)
Inter-Government       9          11          10          6           1       37 (17%)
NGOs                   3           4          1           1          6        15 (7%)
Totals                47          48         33          34          54      216(100%)
20



Table 8: Compliance With Credit Covenants
(Reference to Development Credit Agreement)
Section/Para                     Covenant                             Compliance
2.01 (b)      The Borrower shall open a Special Account         Opened in Citibank on
May 28, 1990
2.01 (c)      The Borrower shall provide MIM with the Kwacha    This was being done
equivalent of $320,000.                           annually.
4.01 (b)      The Borrower shall have all accounts audited by   Audit was prepared for
independent auditors, including the Special Account and  each year with occasional
SOEs.                                             delays.
Schedule 4    1. MIM shall be established as an autonomous body
Part A        with a Board of Governors.                        Done
5. MIM shall consult with IDA on the qualifications    Done twice (1992/1994)
and experience of future candidates for Principal.
6. MIM shall develop a plan for its consulting practice,
including a schedule of fees to be charged and
arrangements for sharing with staff.              Done
7. MIM shall (i) establish an endowment fund and (ii)  (i) Done
prepare a strategic plan for its operation.      (ii) Done
8. MIM shall prepare a strategic plan for its future
technical assistance requirements.                Done
Schedule 4    1. By December 1989, Ministry of Finance will carry   Not done. Funding
Part B        out its Development Plan, including measures to   approved by UNDP in
introduce forward budgeting, develop TOR for user  September 1990 ($3.5
needs study of computerization requirements, prepare a  million) was reduced to
plan for improving its audit services. It will also  $1.1 million in July 1993
prepare a human resources development plan for filling  and diverted to a more
vacancies in MOF.                                 broad-based capacity
building effort in 1994.
2. MOF will implement the tax reform program.     Final phase of
implementation through
HIID was extended to
June 30, 1995.
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle     Weeks      US$'ooo
Preparation to Appraisal      52.5        125.0
Appraisal                     16.3        36.8
Negotiations through Board approval 8.0   16.0
Supervision                   70.3        194.6
Completion                    8.2         14.5
TOTAL                          155.3      385.9
21



Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of     Month/   No. of    Specialized                                              Types of Problems
Project Cycle    Year    Persons    Staff Skills   Implementation   Development Impact
Represented        Status
Through
Appraisal
Appraisal
through Board
Approval
Supervision
I              12/89     2         (MS, E)       2                  2
II             6/90      3         (MS, FE, IDS) 2                  2
III            12/90     2         (MS, E)       2                 2
IV             7/91      3         (MS, E, IDS)   2                 2
V              1/92      2         (MS, E)        2                2
VI             8/92      2         (MS, IDS)      2                 2
VII            2/93      2         (MS, E)        2                 2
VIII           11/93     3         (MS, E, IDS)   2                2
IX             7/94      2         (MS, E)        S                 S
Completion     2/95      2         (MS, E)
1)    MS = Management Specialist; E = Economist;
IDS = Institutional Development Specialist
2)    G = General; P = Procurement; M = Management; F = Financial
22



APPENDIXES






Appendix A
List of Persons Met during the Mission
1.    Mr. R. Kavinya, SecretarN to the Treasury, Ministry of Finance
2.     Mr. J. Chiteyeye, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Finance
3.    Mr. Benlamlin, Deputy Resident Representative, United Nations Development
Program
4.    Mr. J.G. Mbeye, National Program Officer, United Nation Development
Program
5.    Mr. A. Bobbe, United Nation Development Program
6.    Dr. B. Kandoole, Principal, Malawi Institute of Management
7.    Mr. M. Kambuwa, Deputy Principal, Malawi Institute of Management
8.    Mr. C. Mkandawire, Principal Management Devclopment Consultant,
Malawi Institute of Management
9.    Mr. H. Chibwana, Registrar, Malawi Institute of Management
10.   Mr. B. Mawindo, Project Manager, Public Sector Management Improvement
Unit (PSMIU) former Principal Secretary Department of Human Resources
Management and Development
11.   Mr. S.B. Chikoti, Management Development Consultant, Malawi Institute of
Management
12.   Mr. C.J. Evans, Manpower Development Manager, Press Corporation
13.   Mr. R.D. Kachigamba, Personnel Manager, Lilongwe City Council
14.   Mr. E.E. Zilemba. Assistant Chief Accountant (Training), Account General's
Office, Ministry of Finance
15.   Mr. B. Mvalo. United States Agency for International Development
16.   Mr. W. Sabola, Training Officer, PROMAT
17.   Mrs. V.L. Msasata, Assistant Accountant, Lilongwe Water Board
18.   Mr. H.E. Nyemba, Human Resources & Training Manager, Lilongwe Water
Board
19.   Mr. F.G.J. Kankwamba, Commercial Manager, Lilongwe Water Board
20.   Mr. A. E. Chinyanga, Operations Engineer, Lilongwe Water Board
21.   Mr. M.J. Chirwa, Assistant Projects Engineer, Lilongwe Water Board
22.   Mr. F.H.D. Imfa. Training Officer, Lilongwe Water Board
23.   Mr. S.M. Kalyati, General Manager, Mining Investment and Development
Corporation
24.    Mr. G.M. Musaya, Administration Manager, Mining Investment and
Development Corporation
25.    Dr. Chawani, Principal Secretary, Department of Human Resources
Management and Development
26.    Mr. Mwadiwa, Ministry of Finance
27.    Mrs. Kaluma, Ministry of Finance
28.   Mr. Roger Ganse, Principal Partner, Development Management Associates
29.   Mr. Nick Marshall, Principal Partner, Development Management Associates
30.   Mr. Warrender, Controller of Buildings, Ministry of Works
31.   Mr. Mulenga, In-charge of Training, Ministry of Labour
32.   Mr. L. Chinkhuntha, Staff Development Officer, Ministry of Education
33.    Mr. S. Salamu, Staff Development Officer, Ministry of Education
1



34.   Mr. G. Phiri, Human Resource Development Officer, Ministry of Education
35.   Mrs. Makungwa, Training & Public Relations Officer, New Building Society
36.   Mr. D. Nkosi, Chairman MIM Governing Board
37.   Mr. Mvula, National Insurance Company
38.   Mr. J. Chipeta, Deputy Principal, The Polytechnic, University of Malawi
39.   Dr. A.G. Phiri, Principal, The Polytechnic, University of Malawi; also Member, Governing
Board of the Malawi Institute of Management
40.   Dr. G. Mthindi, Dean, Faculty of Commerce, The Polytechnic, University of Malawi
41.   Mr. E. Sankhulani, Head, Management Center, The Polytechnic, University of Malawi
42.   Mr. S. Pamdule, ASP Consulting
43. Mr. Masikini, Data Processing Department
44.   Mr. W.J.F. Slater, Senior Partner, Deloitte & Touche
45.   Mr. Chimombo, Commissioner, Income Tax Department
46.   Mr. Robert Chesteen, Computer Consultant, HIID
2



Appendix B
Twinning Arrangement Between Ara Consultants And The Malawi Institute Of
Management
At the outset of the creation of MIM, consideration was given to link MIM with an
experienced institution in the delivery of management courses, consulting and research. Through a
rigorous process, a Canadian firm, ARA, was selected. This consulting firm was charged with the
following duties and roles to perform:
i)    Recruitment of up to eight expatriate lecturer/consultants on a contract basis;
ii)    Provide advice on architectural design (if not completed in phase I) and assistance in
supervision of construction;
iii)    Training of Malawian staff;
iv)    With Malawian faculty, prepare curricula and training materials for courses;
v)    Assist in developing local teaching and case materials;
vi)   Initiate and develop MIM's consultancy program;
vii)   Set up MIM's Library;
viii)  Provide staff to run short courses from time to time;
ix)    Administer financing arrangement with donor agencies on behalf of MIM;
x)     Continue liaison activities begun in Phase I with existing Malawian training institutions in
keeping with MIM's role as coordinating body for management training in Malawi; and
xi)    Establish operating procedures and the "culture" of the Institute.
By the end of 1989, MIM had been established as the national institution responsible for
providing management training and consulting services to organizations in all sectors, private,
parastatal and public.
Within the twinning arrangement, areas of specialty and individuals were contracted as
follows:
3



ARA Staff Plan for 1990
Title                       Name                Months
Principal                   F. Schindeler        11.76
Consultancy Adviser         B. Maude             0.14
Trainer                     K. Boulter            6.12
D. Chicanot          0.79
D. Marion            12.00
D. Weachter          11.93
L. Hallett            1.98
l ____________________ _ ,N. Maddock              5.68
H. Auld               1.52
F. McDonald          0.46
L. Jones             3.52
Consultancy Adviser         R. Dunlop             8.19
Trainer                     D. Charron            1.00
Consultants Service
Requirements from 1989 to Dec. 1994
Position                     Person Months
Planned           Actual             % Var.
Principal                     36.0              31.2               -13
Consulting Manager            36.0              37.9               + 1
Management Trainers           312.0             223                -29
4



Local Staff as at 1990
Name                            Position                         Staff Development Plan
1. Dr. Fletcher Banda           Deputy Principal                Attend first half of one
year MPA Program
2. Mr. S. Chikoti               MDC - Accounting and             Attend first year of an 18
Finance                         month professional
accounting course
3. Mr. V. Kumwenda              MDC - Accounting and            Attend last segment of
Finance                         professional accounting
course
4. Mr. M. Kambuwa               MDC - Organizational             Attend short course in
Behavior and                    communications followed
Communications                  by first half of a 1 year
MA in Organizational
Analysis and Behavior
5. Mr. D. Lakudzala             MDC - Management                 Attend short course in a
Information Systems             specialized aspect of MIS
6. Mr. C,C.                     SMDC - Human Resources           Attend short course in the
Mkandawire                      Management                       area of personnel
management or general
management
7. Mr. H. Kuchande              MDC - Human Resources            Attend a short course in an
Management                      area of personnel
management or general
management
5



Component Budget
Component Budget (US Dollars)
UNDP Contribution
Project Component        Total         1993           1994          1995
1. Evaluation Mission         21,265          2,821            0               I
2. Sub-contract link        3,042,599       112,772       217,116        94,327
3. Fellowships: Long-term     198,641        12,937         9,050             0
Short-term                  258,880        67,664       115,343        30,014
4. Group Training and          23,182            0         12,276             0
Study Tours
5. In-service training        106,779        95,380        11,399             0
(workshops)
6. In-country Fellowship      498,089       134,788       126,093             0
(Fund)
7. Equipment                   28,420            0          5,000             0
8. Miscellaneous               22,145         1,002         5,000             0
Total                    4,200,000      427,364       501,277        124,341
As is common in most TA arrangements, a lot of funds are earmarked for TA payments. In
this particular case, the ARA link costs represent 72% of the available funds with only 28% for
everything else. It is not easy to make value judgment regarding the allocation of these resources.
However, on the basis of the evidence provided by various studies and interviews carried out, it
appears reasonable to conclude that this was a worthwhile investment.
Evaluation of Skill Transfer
Successes
One major achievement worth mentioning at the outset is the fact that ARA, under the
leadership of Dr. Fred Schindeler, established and set up the tone for MIM. Dr. Schindeler's leadership
was essential for the starting and development of a management institution in a country where no such
institution had ever been established. After a one-year trial phase, the first Principal was able to
initiate and evaluate a market study that was the basis of establishing the MIM curriculum. This
provided the basis for selecting the eight ARA experts and corresponding counterparts.
Most of the systems used by MDCs in course development and delivery were imparted by the
ARA. The recruitment procedure for the initial batch of consultants was professionally done. A
Training of Trainers (TOT) course and consultancy skills workshops helped to ensure a solid
foundation for MIM in staff development.
6



Failures
On the negative side, there was a problem of mis-timing. Although the table above shows an
impressive number of staff years of expertise, often this was not timely. The skills transfer model
attempted could only have worked to the optimal levels if both the expert and trainee are interacting.
What happened most of the time is that the expert held the fort while the MDC went overseas for
training. By the time the counterpart retumed, the expert's contract was up, hence no real opportunity
for skills transfer. This was the case regarding the first local Principal: he spent very little time
interacting with the Principal provided by ARA. The second problem encountered was in the selection
of the experts. In some instances, the experts had very little to add to the MDCs. In order to get the
maximnum out of such twinning, one has to assess the quality of the expert in relation to the MDC with
whom the expert has to work.
Principal
The first principal for MIM was an expatriate who managed, within two years, to put MIM on
the map. However, this good quality of leadership could not be maintained. The Principal's
counterpart had not put in sufficient time to understudy him. To begin with the two never really spent
time together. Either the Principal was on leave, or the counterpart was on training. To make matters
worse, the counterpart had other responsibilities, including being chairperson or member of various
boards. This did not allow skills transfer to effectively take place. The capacity for the counterpart to
leam institutional management was limited. This manifested itself in the management style he
portrayed soon after taking over from the expatriate principal.
One important lesson learnt from this type of arrangement is the need to allow a transitional
period during which the counterpart taking over from the expatriate could have been assisted by a
senior management consultant, serving as Advisor for six to twelve months.
Advisory, Consulting and Research Skills
Arrangement was made to engage an ARA Business Development Advisor to develop MIM's
business culture in management training, consulting and research. Unfortunately, the advisor
appointed was ineffective. This was clearly a fault in the identification and selection of the incumbent.
Failure of MIM to develop a business culture is largely due to this gap in its staffing. Thus, by the end
of the project, MIM was characterized by an administrative culture focusing on regulating activities
instead of a pro-active business oriented culture creating opportunities for revenue/profit generating
and cost minimizing.
Although most of the ARA consultants were selected with special care, not all had the
complete skill mix required. While ARA provided some qualified and experienced consultants, there
were other consultants with limited expertise. A good example was in HRM, where the consultant had
done a good job in training, developed good HRM programs, but had virtually no experience in
consulting and research. Her replacement also had limited experience in consulting. This resulted in
the abandonment of an on-going HRM Consulting Project. The problem could have been avoided if
the second expert had been selected with due regard to the need for skill and experience in consulting.
7



Attachments to Management Training Institutions and Industry
MIM had, among its strategies, the plan to second or/and attach its members of faculty to
industry and to regional institutions that are in similar business. Attachment of selected staff to
industry would have compensated for the lack of private sector experience by attaching them to private
corporations. Similarly, attachment to regional management training institutions would have exposed
the staff concerned to some lessons of experience. This strategy was never implemented.
The following excerpts from written comments on the ARAIMIM twinning experience
provided by three MIM staff in February 1995 provide further elaboration on the summary provided
above.
 "Arrangements was made to have qualified Malawian faculty linked with qualified and
experienced ARA Consultants in the areas of management training, consulting and
research. This arrangement was to facilitate skills transfer from ARA Consultants to
Malawian faculty. This required ARA Consultants to be qualified and experienced in
specific areas of General Management, Human Resource Management, Finance and
Accounting, Project Management, Business Management and Management Information
Systems. While in some cases ARA provided qualified and experienced Consultants, in
other cases ARA Consultants had limited expertise. In HRM for example the ARA
Consultant was an experienced trainer who developed good HRM Programmes. However,
in the areas of consulting and research she had very limited expertise. In order to arrest
this problem another HRM ARA Consultant was brought in to develop HRM Consulting
programme, but she too had limited consulting skills that during her stay at MIM she never
completed a substantial HRM Consulting project. In some cases ARA Consultants had
negative attitudes towards their Malawian counterparts that made skills transfer difficult to
accomplish, particularly in the MIS section. These problems were caused by inappropriate
system of recruitment which did not attract the best consultants from the international
market."
* "The 'Skill transfer' based on counterparting of local with foreign experts was marred by
lots of problem. The local expected highly qualified and experienced experts. More often
than not this was not the case. In some cases, the Malawians were more qualified although
not experienced compared to their Canadian counterparts. This problem arose at the
recruitment stage in Canada. MIM faculty, particularly local faculty were not consulted
when recruitment was underway. This resulted in the mis match of qualifications, skills
and experience."
* "While the skills transfers model assumed the presence of the expert and local MDC for
most of the experts duration, in reality the expert tended to "hold the fort" while the local
MDC went overseas for training. By the time the MDC returned, the expert's contract
was up --hence no real opportunity for skills transfer. In other instances, the "experts"
brought over had no real added value to the local MDC or Management. This was directly
a result of appointing inappropriate or inadequately qualified "experts". There was no
thorough process of gauging the net benefit to be gained over and above what the local
MDC already had. This had led to disparities between cost of having the expert vis-a-vis
the benefit gained."
8



Lessons Learned from the Twinning Arrangement
*  Following the departure of the first expatriate Principal, a transitional arrangement could
have been made to ensure that a senior ARA management consultant was available to
serve as an advisor to the new Malawian Principal. The arrangement could have been
maintained for between 6 and 12 months. The objective is to achieve a smooth transition
and continuity of management system and procedures.
*  Recruitment of ARA consultants should have been intensified to capture the best skills
from the international market. This should have been combined with an appropriate
evaluation by the UNDP (as donor) and Malawi Government.
*  To adequately prepare the Malawian faculty, arrangements ought to have been made to
attach them to institutions in the region, such as ESAMI, ZIPAM, IDM, in addition to the
overseas attachments and training.
*  ARA consultants could have paid more attention to research, case writing, publication and
the development of a business management culture.
*  The arrival of experts should be well planned so as to ensure that they could work together
with their counterparts. Full interaction between experts and the counterparts is necessary
for a successful skills transfer program.
9



Appendix C
Evolution of the Endowment of the Malawi Institute of Management
The Institutional Development Project I, provided for the establishment of an endowment fund
(at MIM's inception) whose purpose is to enable MIM attain financial sustainability in the post-project
period; after June, 1994. The amounts placed in the endowment fund are set aside during the project
period (July 1989 to June 1994) and are derived from fees paid by clients, donor fellowships, interest
received, consulting fees and go on. The fund was projected to grow to K3 million by the end of the
project and it was expected that returns on investments would be adequate to enable MIM to survive
without government and donor finance in the post-project period.
A summary of the Investment of the Endowment Fund at 31st March 1993 and the projected
interest payable to the end of the project period follow.
Financial      Amount        Date of     Interest to    Interest Rate    Project End
Institution    Invested    Investment  Maturity Date
LFC                 400,800  16 Oct. 91    16 Oct. 96    18%                   90,180
LFC                 350,000  8 Jan. 92   8 Jan. 97       19%                   83,125
LFC                 140,000  26 May 92   26 May 97       19%                   33,250
LFC                 110,000  26 May 92   26 May 97       19%                   26,126
LFC                 460,000  7 Oct. 92   7 Oct. 97       22.75%               130,812
LFC                 456,000  7 Oct. 92   7 Dec. 97       24%                  136,800
LFC                 400,000  9 Dec. 92    9 Dec. 97      24%                  120,000
LFC                 530,000  31 Dec. 92   31 Dec. 97     24%                  159,000
LFC                 600,000  7 Jan. 93    7 Jan. 98      24%                  180,000
LFC                 844,000  17 Feb. 93    17 Feb. 98    24%                  251,174
LFC                 326,000  14 Apr. 93   14 Apr. 98     24%                   97,800
NBM                  90,000  Savings      Account        22%                   24,552
NBM                  65,837  Fixed        Deposit        24%                   19,751
NBM                  16,441  Savings      Account        24.75%                 5,086
Total Endowment Fund as at 31 March 93 = K4,789,078
Interest Expected on Current Investments = K1,357,655
Total in Endowment Fund at end of the Project = K6,146,733
LFC - Leasing and Finance Company of Malawi
NBM - National Bank of Malawi
10



Table 1A: Targets in SAR (1989)
Project Year              1        2         3          4           5
IDA FY                1990      1991      1992       1993       1994       Total
Fees paid to MIM Endowment in
FY 1-6
(a) Course fees per participant    300       325       350        375         400
(b) Room & board per               750       825       900       1,000      1,100
participant
(c) Sub-total fees per participant  1,050  1,150     1,250      1,375       1,500
Total Fees (1 + 2(c))            105,000  207,000  450,000    742,500   1,080,000  2,584,500
Endowment
Annual Interest Earned on
Endowment
(a)Yr. 1                                  10,500    10,500      10,500     10,500
(b) Yr. 2                                           20,700      20,700     20,700
(c) Yr. 3                                                       45,000     46,000
(d) Yr. 4                                                                  74,250
(e) Yr. 5
Total Interest Rate Earned           10,500    31,200     76,200    150,450    268,350
Total Fund in Endowment at end                                                       2,852,850
of FY94
Table IB: Malawi Institute of Management - Income from 1989 to 1994
Fiscal Year Ending March
1989-90   1990-91   1991-92   1992-93    1993-94   April-Dec. 94   TOTALS
INCOME         ACTUAL  ACTUAL  ACTUAL  ACTUAL  ACTUAL    ACTUAL    ACTUALS
Course fees
Endowment Fund
UNDP                 724,000    464,012             394,650    478,422     1,182,750    3,382,834
EEC Sponsored
Courses                                  97,947    308,700                              406,647
Participants
Employers            28,250    94,575    290,004    594,428  1,204,201    1,606,500    5,134,258
Paid Fees
Total courses        752,250    558,587   387,951  1,297,778  1,682,623    2,789,250    8,923,739
Consultances
Revenues             389,354   786,211    454,580    761,582    989,519    1,921,426    5,302,671
Expenses              27,934    196,971   270,027    230,254    584,666      848,651    2,122,503
361.420    589,240    184,553    531,328     440,853    3,180,169
Interest receivable   10,866    53,455    199,600    463,024  1,296,167    2,062,480    4,085,592
Hiring of MIM
Facilities                                                                  121,121      778,771
Income from staff
loans include interest                               85,000    279,155       76,251      440,406
Other miscellaneous                                                           50,886      50,886
TOTAL INCOME         763,116    973,462  1,176,791  2,030,355  3,789,273   5,540,841   17,459,563
Note: Fiscalyear isApril I to March 31.
11



From March 1993 to December 1994, the Endowment Fund grew by MK4. 1 million making a
total of MK 8.9 million This represents a huge improvement on the estimates in the project's Staff
Appraisal Report. However, by 1993 it had become clear that in spite of the good performance of the
Endowment Fund to date, MIM would not be able to attain the goal of self-financing by the end of the
project life. Consequently, MIM's Governing Board gave new directives on the utilization of the
Endowment Fund (see below) and the Government of Malawi decided to request IDA to support MIM
for another five years under the Second Institutional Development Project.
Observations of MIM's Governing Board on the Endowment Fund, December 1993
The Board considered the Strategic Plan for the use of the Endowment Fund and an Addendum
to the Strategic Plan as well as observations from the World Bank. The Board agreed that the
recommendations in the three papers should, wherever feasible (and subject to its approval), be
implemented.
The Board approved that the fund should be managed along the following strategies:
*  MIM should cease investing in long-term instruments. This strategy can be reversed if
there is an irreversible drop in the inflation rate.
*  MIM should endeavour to reduce its exposure to LFC by gradually reducing its investment
with the institution. Eventually MIM will need to limit investing in any one institution to
not more than 40 percent of its resources.
*  Investment in long-term financial instruments shall gradually be reduced to 20 percent
except where the yield is positive in real termns and the risk of the yield being negative is
minimal.
*  Only a float equivalent to MIM's weekly requirements will be held in a current account.
The rest will be invested in instruments ranging from 24 hour call account to 3 months
fixed deposit accounts, or other instruments.
*  MIM will explore the possibility of interest computation and payment on a monthly basis
on deposits with LFC.
*  MIM should diversify its investment portfolio to include real estate and Treasury Bills.
*  MIM should look out new facilities such as those to be available after formation of a
capital market and unit trusts. The Institute will be poised to take advantage of such
facilities.
The Board further approved that the fund expenditure should be limited to amounts not
exceeding 50% income from interest earned subject to implementation of the following measures by
MIM:
* Find means to enhance income-generating through the development of new markets
*  Reduce costs without affecting the quality of the product
* Set and implement a pricing policy that makes profit while remaining competitive.
12



Appendix D
Construction Of Malawi Institution Of Management
Report By Ministry Of Works And Supplies
Design Work
The Ministry of Works and Supplies appointed a local firm of consulting architects,
Montgomerie Oldfield and Denn to design and supervise the construction works. Their remit was to
design a campus to a high standard in keeping with the comparable Kamuzu Academy. (Montgomerie
Oldfield and Denn were the architects for this also).
Bidding Process
The World Bank issued a "no-objection" letter to a list of seven prequalified bidders on 8th
December, 1990.
Tenders were opened at the Malawi Government Central Board on 22nd February 1991. The
tender results were as follows:
NAME                       COUNTRY    AMOUNT    COMPLETION
(MK)             PERIOD
(Weeks)
1.     S.R. Nicholas              Malawi           15,490,719.74    130
2.     Terrastone Construction    Malawi           16,033,563.00    120
3.     Fitzpatrick/Shire (Joint   UK/Malawi        17,065,902.54    130
Venture)
4.     Kier Intemational          UK               17,819,109.08    104
5.     Union Engineering          Yugoslavia       29,457,295.59    104
6.     Group 5 Intemational       RSA              No bid
7.     Mota and Companhia         Portugal         No bid
Contract Commencement
The World Bank issued a "no-objection" letter on the award of the construction contract to
S.R. Nicholas Ltd on 8th April, 1991. The formal starting date of the 130 week contract was on 3rd
June 1991 giving a contract completion date of 29th November, 1993.
Construction
The contractor progressed steadily throughout the project. His quality of workmanship and
level of site supervision were of a reasonably high standard.
Regular monthly site meetings were held with representatives of MIM, Ministry of Works,
Consultants (Architects, Quantity Surveyors and Engineers), Contractor and his subcontractors.
The project was supervised by Montgomerie Oldfield and Denn in liaison with other
subconsultants. Day to Day Clerk of Works presence was supplied by the Ministry of Works.
13



Completion
The architects issued a certificate of Practical Completion on 23rd September, 1994. On this
date, responsibility for the campus was handed over to the Malawi Institute of Management,
The ten-month delay in the completion can be attributed specifically to:
1. the lack of imported materials and equipment
2. the breakdown in the supply of locally manufactured cement
3. delays in the supply of utilities, eg., Electricity and water
4. additional works requested by MIM
Most of the problems itemised in 1 to 3 above resulted from the lack of foreign exchange
combined with the effects of the flotation of the Malawi Kwacha in February, 1994. The Malawi
Institute of Management eventually assisted with the purchase of imported materials via the Project
Special Account but this took time to establish the machinery.
Cost
The cost of the construction works have escalated from K15.49 million to approximately
K17.95. This has largely resulted from:
1. a high level of inflation over the construction period resulting in increased labour and
material costs which the contractor is entitled to have reimbursed.
2. additional items requested by MIM.
A copy of the most recent Cost Report is attached.
The contractor has complained bitterly that apart from several large individuals devaluations
of the Malawi Kwacha, the flotation during 1994 led to a further depreciation of 400% against the
major trading currencies. These currency movements have given rise to huge increases in the cost of
this overheads, plant, transport and supervision which are not recoverable under the contract.
On the other hand, I am sure that the SDR or US$ equivalent of the projected final account
will be less than that at the commencement of the project.
Outstanding Problems
There remain quite a few small outstanding issues concerning electrical installations and
equipment which are being actively attended to. Furthermore, the provision of adequate number of
telephone lines from the nearest exchange have not materialized despite earlier written assurances from
the Malawi Post Office. Communications difficulties hamnper the effectiveness of the functioning of the
campus.
The provision of furniture and furnishings, which was not part of the construction contract, is
also outstanding.
14



Conclusion
Apart from the unavoidable delays in completion, this project has been implemented
satisfactorily and to a high standard. Given the backdrop of rampant inflation, the final predicted cost
of K17.95 million is very acceptable.
(signature)
A.C. Warrender
for: Secretary for Works and Supplies
15



Appendix E
Malawi Institute Of Management
Organizational Chart At Inception
PRINCIPAL
I .  .. .I. I. 
;j-13RSAR                                                                   RA
CONSULlTING                 i -RAINING                   LIB3RARY
-1 Consulting Manager          -3 Sr. Mgmt. Trainers       - 1 Librarian
- 5 Mgmt. Trainers         - 1 Asst. Librarian
16



Malawi Institute Of Management
Proposed New Organizational Chart
|EEUTIVE|
D  DRCTOR|
|DIRECTOR OF ||DIRECTOR OF 
|PROGRAMMAES ||FINANCE & ADMIN|
LRC             MDCs                        MDCs                MDCs              ADNIINISTRATIVE |ACCOUNTS
MGR & HEAD        Information              FIN. BUS. ECON.      HRM. GEN. MT.              OFFICER                      OFFICER
LIB          Technology                 & PROJ. MGT             ORG
BE. & CO
- Secretaries
-Llb.
-  Registry Clerks                 Asst. A.
Inf. Tech.                                                                        -   Office Support                  Stores &
Production                                                                                  SpotProcurement
-_Av. Umt                                                                              -    Switchboard
Av. Unit
- Drivers
17



Appendix F
Reports and Official Documents on File
A.    Reports
Audit Reports:
- Accounts for the year ended 31st March, 1991
- Management Report, 31st March, 1991
- Accounts for the year ended 31 st March, 1992
- Management Report 31st March 1992
- Report of a Special Audit: Disbursements from Credit No. 2036-MAI of the
International Development Association, December 1990 - March 1992
- Accounts for the year ended 31st March 1993
- Management Report 31st March 1993
- Report on a Special Audit Disbursements from Credit No. 2036-MAI of the
International Development Association, April 1992 - March 1993
- Accounts for the year ended 31st March 1994
- Management Report 31st March 1994
- Report on a Special Audit Disbursements from Credit No. 2036-MAI of the
International Development Association, April 1993 - March 1994
B.    Official Documents
September 1989       Letter from Minister of Finance authorizing Malawi's
Ambassador to the USA to sign the Credit Agreement on
behalf of the Government of Malawi
December 14, 1989           Development Credit Agreement
18






-3  o         r       I---A
'<  j,                 w<
IC, -Cl                >L
I.)
t-'



