Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2036 MAI
                (Institutional Development Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 14, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2036 MAI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  December  14,  1989,  between  REPUBLIC OF
MALAWI (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to  obtain  from The United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an amount
of up to $3,000,000 to assist  in financing part of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNDP Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and UNDP;
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed,  on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Project  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
     (d)  "MIM" means the Malawi Institute of Management;
     (e)  "UOM" means the University of Malawi; and
     (f)  "Kwacha" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (g)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means  the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters  dated  September 15, 1987 as amended by
telex of  December  23,  1987  and  January  22,  1988 between the
Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to eight million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,800,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of  goods  and  services  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1994 or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  3
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  April  1  and October 1
commencing  October  1,  1999  and  ending  April  1,  2029.  Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on April 1,
2009 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.O2 of the
Page  4
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MIM and MOF with  due  diligence  and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall open and maintain in the name of MIM,
an account in Kwacha,  in  the  Reserve  Bank of Malawi, and shall
deposit  therein,  in   twelve   equal   installments,  an  annual
contribution of  the  Kwacha  equivalent  of  three hundred twenty
thousand dollars ($320,000).
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account  and  the  Project Account, for
               each  fiscal  year   audited,  in  accordance  with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  5
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.Ol. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that  the  UNDP  Grant  Agreement  shall  have  failed  to  become
effective by April 1, 1990, or  such later date as the Association
may  agree;  provided,  however,   that  the  provisions  of  this
paragraph shall  not  apply  if  the  Borrower  establishes to the
satisfaction  of  the  Association  that  adequate  funds  for the
Project are available to the  Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent  with  the  obligations  of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
     (b)  Subject to paragraph (c)  the  right  of the Borrower to
withdraw the proceeds of any  grant  made  to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project  shall  have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated, in whole or  in  part,  pursuant  to  the terms of the
agreement providing therefor.
     (c)  Paragraph  (b)   shall   not   apply   if  the  Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of  the Association that: (i) such
suspension, cancellation  or  termination  is  not  caused  by the
failure of the Borrower  to  perform  any of its obligations under
such agreement;  and  (ii)  adequate  funds  for  the  Project are
available  to  the  Borrower  from  other  sources  on  terms  and
conditions consistent with the  obligations  of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.O1  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 6.O1 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty (60) days after notice thereof  shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph  (b) of Section 6.Ol of
this  Agreement   shall   occur,   subject   to   the  proviso  of
paragraph (c) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions,  namely  that  MIM  has  been duly established
through an Act of Parliament.
Page  6
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 30049
          Capital City
          Lilongwe 3
          Malawi
          Cable address:                   Telex:
                FINANCE                      44407 FINANCE MI
                Lilongwe
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                   Telex:
                INDEVAS                      44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                          By /s/ L. J. Chimango
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  7
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                 3,110,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)  Vehicles                      390,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Furniture                     860,000       100% of foreign
     and Equipment                               expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(4)  Operating Costs             1,870,000       70%
(5)  Technical                     620,000       100%
     assistance and
     training under
     Part B.2 of the
     Project
(6)  Refunding of                1,170,000       Amount due pur-
     Project                                     suant to Section
     Preparation                                 2.02 (c) of this
     Advance                                     Agreement
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(7)  Unallocated                   780,000
                                 _________
     TOTAL                       8,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "operating  costs"  means expenditures incurred
by MIM for:
          (i)  office supplies and office communication services;
         (ii)  fuel and maintenance of vehicles financed under the
               Project;
        (iii)  per diem allowances;
Page  8
         (iv)  rent  of  temporary   offices,   staff  houses  and
               education premises; and
          (v)  temporary room and board for course participants.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to:
     (a)  strengthen the  Borrower's  national economic management
capability,  enhance  managerial  skills  and  provide  management
consultancy services  through  the  establishment  of a management
institute; and
     (b)  provide  long-term   support   for  economic  management
reforms.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Malawi Institute of Management
     Establishment  and  initial  operation  of  MIM  through  the
construction of facilities  and  the  acquisition of furniture and
equipment.
Part B:   Ministry of Finance
1.   Strengthening MOF's economic management capability, including
forward budgeting, accounting,  auditing and financial management;
and
2.   support for MOF's tax reform program.
               *               *               *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable,  contracts  for the procurement of
vehicles, furniture and equipment shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods manufactured in Malawi may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  9
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Furniture and  equipment  estimated  to  cost  less  than the
equivalent of $200,000 up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $500,000 may be  procured under contracts awarded on
the  basis  of   competitive   bidding,   advertised  locally,  in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Civil works estimated  to  cost  less  than the equivalent of
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $400,000 may be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding,  advertised   locally   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Items estimated to cost  less  than the equivalent of $50,000
per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed the
equivalent of $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of  price quotations solicited from a list
of at least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to  bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $200,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)   The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower  and MIM in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower and MIM shall employ consultants and experts
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment  shall  be   satisfactory   to  the  Association.  Such
consultants and  experts  shall  be  selected  in  accordance with
Page  10
principles and procedures satisfactory  to  the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Part A of the Project
1.   MIM shall be established as  an  autonomous body with a Board
of Governors to be chaired by a Principal Secretary and comprising
senior civil servants and representatives from the private sector,
parastatals and UOM, as members. MIM's day-to-day operations shall
be headed by a principal  who  will  also  act as Secretary to the
Board of Governors. The Principal  of  MIM  shall be assisted by a
Deputy Principal, and administrative and teaching staff.
2.   In order to attract highly qualified Malawian staff needed to
train  middle  and  senior  managers  in  the  public  and private
sectors, MIM will adopt a salary range comparable to that of UOM.
3.   MIM shall continue to collaborate  closely with UOM to ensure
the best use of existing staff and to build on facilities existing
at UOM's Polytechnic and Chancellor College.
4.   MIM's  Board   of   Governors   will   monitor  the  twinning
relationship established  by  MIM  and  a  consortium  of Canadian
institutions led  by  ARA  Consultants,  to  provide MIM's initial
management under a  one-year  agreement  signed  in November 1988.
After  reviewing  the  consortium's  performance,  MIM's  Board of
Governors shall inform the  Association,  prior  to the end of the
contract with the consortium,  on  MIM's  decision to either enter
into  a  new  contract  for  a  three-year  period  with  the same
consortium or to make alternative arrangements satisfactory to the
Association.
5.   MIM will consult with  the  Association on the qualifications
and experience of future candidates for Principal of MIM.
6.   In order for  MIM  to  develop  expertise  in consulting that
would  enable  MIM  to   compete   with  international  firms  for
assignments in Malawi,  MIM  shall  develop  a comprehensive plan,
including a schedule of  fees  to  be charged and arrangements for
fee sharing with staff, to be reviewed with the Association by not
later than December 31, 1989.
7.   MIM  shall  take  all  measures  necessary  to  establish  an
endowment fund by December 31, 1989,  and a strategic plan for the
use of endowment resources for  discussion with the Association by
December 31, 1992.
8.   In order to determine MIM's future requirements for technical
assistance after 1992, MIM's Board will undertake a review of such
requirements  and   prepare   a   report   on   its  findings  and
recommendations for discussion with  the  Association by not later
than December 31, 1992.
Part B of the Project
1.   In order to carry out its comprehensive development plan, MOF
shall, by December 31, 1989, take all measures necessary to:
     (a)  restructure its  organization,  in  accordance with such
plan, with the assistance of consultants, as necessary;
     (b)  (i)  prepare a  plan  for  introducing  a forward budget
               system;
         (ii)  develop terms of reference  for  a user needs study
               of computerization requirements; and
Page  11
        (iii)  prepare a plan  for  improving  its audit services;
               and
     (c)  prepare a human resources  development plan, including a
timetable for filling vacancies for professional positions in MOF.
2.   MOF  shall  implement  the   tax   reform  program  with  the
assistance of suitable consultants.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "Eligible   Categories"  means  Categories  1
through 4 set forth in the  table  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  Eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for Eligible
                Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  Eligible Categories, and in
Page  12
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  Eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  Eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association:  (A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as the
Association may request; or  (B)  deposit into the Special Account
(or,  if  the  Association   shall   so  request,  refund  to  the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association  made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
