Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3344-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
SECOND POWER PROJECT
May 26, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981                  May 1982
Currency Unit         Yemeni Dinars (YD)                    YD
US$1                  YD 0.345                        0.345
YD 1                  US$2.90                         2.90
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31                             (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 31                          (1975)
January 1 to December 31                        (from 1976)
MEASURES
kW                                   kilowatt
MW (Megawatt)         =              1,000 kW
kWh                                  kilowatt hour
GWh (Gigawatt hour)  =               1,000,000 kWh
kV (kilovolt)         =              1,000 volts
kVA                                  kilovolt ampere
MVA                                  1,000 kVA
kgce                                 kilogram standard coal
equivalent
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CBA                                   Central Board of Audit
PCEP                                  Public Corporation for
Electric Power
PDRY                                  People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen
PPF                                   Project Preparation
Facility
YNOC                                  Yemen National Oil
Company.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND POWER PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                   People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.
Beneficiary:                Public Corporation for Electric Power (PCEP)
Amount:                     SDRs 6.8 million ($7.5 million equivalent).
Terms:                      Standard IDA.
On Lending Terms:           Twenty years including a 5 year grace period, and
at an interest rate of 11.6 percent per annum.
Project Description:        The project would improve electric power supply
to five small towns and thirteen villages east of
Al Mukalla, the second largest city in PDRY and
the capital of the Hadramawt Governorate. The
project area has a population of about 150,000.
The project would consist of the supply,
construction and erection of a 6.6 MW (3 x 2.2
MW) central diesel power station at As Shihr
using residual fuel oil, 84 km of 33 kV and 11 km
of 11 kV transmission lines and about 51 km of 11
kV and 48 km of low voltage distribution lines
and substations, meters and service connections
for about 7,300 new customers. The project would
also include equipment to transport material and
for the erection of transmission and distribution
lines as well as 162 manmonths of consultants'
services and 15 staffyears of overseas training
for PCEP staff. The project would provide
improved and expanded electric power supply and
help meet some of the demand for electric power
that is at present suppressed in the project
area. The central generating station would
replace a large number of small and fuel
inefficient generating sets, and provide electric
power supply to an additional 7300 customers who
are at present using costly kerosene for light-
ing.  Existing diesel-driven pumpsets would be
electrified. The project would support the Gov-
ernment's policy of bringing economic development
and investment opportunities to rural areas as
well as providing them witb social amenities.
The overseas training program would support
PCEP's manpower development program worked out
in conjunction with IDA during the first Power
Project (829-YDR) of FY79. The project does not
face any major risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of I
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: /1                                 Local      Forein       Total
--------US  million--------
Power plant                                         0.96       6.77        7.73
Transmission and distribution                       1.17       4.46        5.63
Mechanical Equipment                                 -         1.40        1.40
Training                                             -         0.22        0.22
Consultants Services 2/                             0.15       1.03        1.18
Base Cost                                           2.28      13.88       16.16
Physical contingencies                              0.16       1.04        1.20
Price contingencies                                 0.48       2.05        2.53
Total Project Cost                                  2.92      16.97       19.89
/1 Not including duties and taxes from which the project is exempt.
2/ Including $300,000 for repayment of Project Preparation Facility
advance.
Financing Plan:                                    Local      Foe          Total
…US  million--------
Government                                          2.9          2.0        4.9
IDA                                                  -           7.5        7.5
OPEC Fund                                            -           7.5        7.5
Total                                               2.9         17.0       i9.9
Estimated IDA Disbursements:              -------------US$ million------------
Bank PY83      FY84      FY85     FY86
Annual                                          1.24     3.62      2.18      0.46
Cumulative                                      1.24     4.86      7.04      7.5
Estimated Completion
Date:                     December 31, 1984
Rate of Return:           About 13 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:                   No. 3846-YDR of May 17, 1982



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A SECOND POWER PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDRs 6.8 million (about US$7.5 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to
help finance a Second Power Project. The Government is at an advanced
stage of discussion with the OPEC Fund concerning the provision of a $7.5
million equivalent loan to help finance this project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       An economic report entitled "People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen: Economic Memorandum" (3570-YDR) dated January 29, 1982, was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on February 10, 1982. A country data
sbeet is attacbed as Annex I.
Development Objectives and Constraints
3.       Over the past decade, the Government of PDRY has consistently
pursued a strategy of developing the country within the context of a
planned economic system. The principal objectives of the Government have
been: (a) to satisfy the basic needs of the population for food, essential
consumer goods, shelter, employment, health care and other social services;
(b) to develop the production capacity of the economy, especially in
agriculture, fisheries, manufacturing, construction and minerals; (c) to
strengthen the infrastructure sectors, i.e., transport, power and tele-
communications; (d) to raise education standards, emphasizing technical and
higher education; and (e) to increase exports of domestic products.
4.       In pursuing these objectives, the Government relied primarily on
a strong public sector and on cooperatives. Major institutional reforms
were initiated with the nationalization of foreign properties in 1969 which
brought the bulk of the modern service activities in and around Aden (bank-
ing, insurance, shipping, trading) under Government control. Subsequent
investment in manufacturing, power, construction and mineral exploration
bas given the public sector a dominant influence over industrial activi-
ties. Two agrarian reform laws enacted in 1968 and 1970 have fundamentally
changed the land tenure conditions, breaking up large feudal holdings.
1/ Except for paragraph 14, Part I and Annex I of this report are
substantially the same as those in the President's Report for the Third
Education Project, whicb was approved by the Executive Directors on
April 1, 1982.



-2-
Simultaneously, new farm organizations--state farms and cooperatives--were
created to facilitate the introduction of modern cultivation and marketing
techniques.  Fishing and consumer cooperatives were also established.  More
recently, two of the remaining foreign-owned installations--the Aden
Refinery (British Petroleum) and an international communications facility
(Cable and Wireless)--were transferred by mutual consent to the Government
of PDRY.
5.       Private enterprise was given a subsidiary role by the Government,
and was to be gradually replaced by public corporations and cooperatives.
But the private sector has proven to be resilient and appears to have
regained some strength in recent years. At present, it is estimated to
account for almost half of the nation's gross output of goods and services
(excluding government services). Private activity can be found in almost
every sector and is strongly represented in agriculture, construction,
trade and transport.  The volume of private investment--mainly in housing--
has risen sharply since the mid-1970s, partly at the expense of public
investment.  Cooperation between public and private capital is encouraged
in some areas, such as light industries, and a limited number of joint
ventures are now active.  Foreign private investors have been invited to
participate in oil exploration and the fishing industry. A new Investment
Promotion Law has recently been promulgated providing incentives to private
investors and encouraging foreign investment in other sectors such as
tourism and construction.
6.       Since the early 1970's the country has made significant progress
in a number of areas.  Supplies of basic foodstuffs and other essential
consumer goods were increased largely through higher imports.  School
enrollment rose sharply, adult literacy programs were introduced, and
health services improved.  The transport network was strengthened, new
power stations built, and productive capacities in agriculture, fisheries
and manufacturing expanded.  Substantial investments were made in mineral
exploration while more recently, there was an upsurge in private house
construction.  Rising investments led to a rapid expansion of the local
construction industry.  Overall economic expansion together with net
emigration abroad not only eliminated open unemployment but created some
labor shortages.
7.       These developments were supported by substantial aid inflows, and
by a large increase of remittances sent by Yemenis working abroad (see
para. 17).  Exports on the other hand displayed little dynamism reflecting
in large part the low levels of capacity utilization especially in agricul-
ture and fisheries.  Notwithstanding large investments in these sectors,
agricultural and fish production have stagnated in the last 5-6 years.
However, since an increasing amount of product can be sold in the free
market, the official output statistics may increasingly understate
the level of production and thus the performance of the agriculture and
fisheries sectors.
8.       The Second Five-Year Plan continues to pursue the overall develop-
ment objectives outlined in para. 3 above. The Plan was originally envi-
saged to cover the 1979-83 period.  However, following a recommendation by
the Council on Arab Economic Unity asking Arab countries to synchronize
their five-year development plans, the Second Five-Year Plan commenced in



-3-
1981. The Plan proposes a total investment of $1.47 billion (in 1980
prices) for 1981-85 of which 19 percent is to be spent for energy, 17 per-
cent for agriculture and fishing, 6 percent for manufacturing, 18 percent
for transport and communications, 8 percent for education and health and
18 percent for housing. The Plan assumes that about $1.06 billion (72 per-
cent) will be financed through foreign capital, of which approximately $400
million had already been committed at the beginning of the plan period.
The production targets are ambitious. They call for an overall rate of
growth of 10 percent per annum with sectoral growth targets of 13 percent
for industry, 9 percent for agriculture and 16 percent for fisheries, and
9 percent for transport and communications. Production growth is to be
achieved not only through new investments but also through improved util-
ization of existing capacities.
9.       In implementing the Plan the Government faces a number of con-
straints, the most important ones being limited natural resources, short-
ages of manpower, especially in the construction sector, insufficient
technical and managerial skills, and low levels of productivity. A harsh
climate severely limits the area available for cultivation, although
substantial increases in agricultural output could be achieved through
higher yields, and by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture.
The narrow domestic market and few known raw materials limit the scope for
industrial development. These constraints are compounded by the rugged
topography which creates severe difficulties for internal trans~portation
resulting in increased domestic transport cost.
10.      The Government has tried to ease the shortages of adequately
trained manpower with bilateral and multilateral technical assistance,
including assistance from UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY. In
addition, again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large education
and training program was launched and in recent years has become increas-
ingly technically oriented. Supported by scholarships for higher education
abroad and the establishment of technical training institutions in PDRY,
the country is now generating an increasing flow of technically trained
people who could gradually reduce the shortage of skilled manpower. Short-
ages of unskilled labor exist mainly in the construction sector and could
be eased through joint ventures with foreign contractors.
11.      Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors is one of
the principal problems faced by the Government.  In addition to shortages
of trained manpower the reasons for this can be traced largely to inade-
quate incentive systems including low Government procurement prices in
agriculture and fisheries, weak management, lack of spare parts, and poor
maintenance. These constraints are often compounded by excessive state
control which causes distortions and stifles initiative. No early solu-
tions to these deep-seated problems are in sight although the Government
has recently started to pursue a more flexible price policy to provide-
incentives for farmers and fishermen. For example, state procurement
prices for most agricultural crops and fish have been substantially
increased accompanied by measures permitting farmers and fishermen, both as
individuals and in cooperatives to sell a large portion of their output on
the free market at prices substantially above state procurement prices.



-4-
Recent Economic Developments
12.      The Government's emphasis on the public sector has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment which
increased from $57 million in 1974/75 to $166 million in 1977. In 1978,
however, public investment started to decline in real terms and in 1979, it
was some 20 percent lower than in 1977. The principal reason for this
decline was a growing shortage of construction workers many of whom pre-
ferred to work in the private sector where much higher wages are being
paid. However, in 1980 development expenditures increased in absolute
terms reflecting the special efforts of the Government to complete ongoing
projects, but in real terms they were still substantially below 1977
levels. Current government expenditures for education, health and more
recently defense, continued to grow through 1980 both in nominal and real
terms.
13.      During the past decade, high levels of public spending have
accelerated the rate of economic growth. GDP at constant prices is esti-
mated to have grown at an annual average rate of about 6 percent during
1974-79, compared with only 2 percent per annum during 1970-73. The major
growth sectors were government services, construction, manufacturing and
transport. Agricultural output and fish production apparently stagnated.
To some extent the disappointing performance of agriculture and fisheries
was the result of labor migration from these sectors to higher paid jobs
within the country (i.e. construction) or abroad. But it also reflects the
factors mentioned in para. 11 above.
14.      To sustain the massive increase in public spending, the Government
had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial resources. With a low
per capita income, there were severe limitations on raising domestic
resources. The principal instrument used in mobilizing domestic funds was
taxation. New taxes have been introduced and tax collection improved. In
addition, profits of public enterprises have been rising. As a result,
total public sector income rose from $68 million in 1974/75 to $311 million
in 1980. This still left a large overall deficit in the public sector
amounting to $183 million in 1980. This will be further aggravated by the
unusually severe floods in PDRY during the latter part of March 1982 which
caused large scale damage. The Government estimates that 500 people died,
25,000 houses were destroyed and 50,000 head of livestock were lost.
Overall physical damage is estimated to be between $300 million and $1
billion. In particular, Lahej, Abyan and Shabwah Governorates are the most
seriously affected areas. Wadis in Lahej and Abyan suffered erosion of
wadi banks with a resulting loss of large tracts of agricultural land and
residential property. Along the wadis, much of the rural infrastructure
including irrigation facilities, roads and bridges has been seriously
damaged. PDRY will suffer a resultant decline in agricultural production
and a disruption of its development program, although the full extent of
these losses has not yet been determined.
15.      To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely,by socialist countries and
Arab nations. In addition, PDRY received support from regional and inter-
national organizations, including IDA.   Total foreign aid inflows rose



- 5 -
from $66 million in 1974 to $131 million in 1978. In 1979 disbursements
dropped to $87 million due in part to the decline in public investments.
However, foreign aid inflows once again rose sharply in 1980 reaching $169
million.
16.      The overall expansion of economic activity, especially the growth
in investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports.
Total imports rose from $190 million in 1974 to $650 million in 1980. Most
of the increase was due to rising world prices, especially those for crude
oil and foodstuffs, reducing the growth of import volume to only one-fourth
of the nominal value. About 30 percent of imports in 1980 represented food
and beverages, 22 percent crude oil and petroleum products, and 20 percent
machinery and equipment.
17.      Exports, mainly fish and cotton, have been able to cover only a
minor share of the import bill. In 1980, they were estimated to be about
$38 million or some 6 percent of commodity imports. Much more important
than commodity exports are PDRY's invisible earnings which are dominated by
labor income and private transfers. The latter rose rapidly since the
mid-1970s, increasing from $41 million in 1974 to $350 million in 1980.
This has been due to rising wage levels in the oil surplus countries, to
additional emigration, and to new incentives which liberalized "own
exchange" imports, allowed the construction of private dwellings, and
offered higher interest rates to non-resident bank depositors. Fast grow-
ing exchange earnings and increasing disbursements from foreign aid have
enabled PDRY in recent years to cover its import requirements and to
strengthen its foreign reserves. The latter rose from $67 million at end
1974 to $234 million at end 1980, equivalent to about 4 months of the
imports.
18.      Foreign reserves increased moderately in 1980.  This probably
reflects rising imports and a slow-down in the growth of remittances. The
volume of imports is reported to have risen, especially for consumer goods
and fuels; in addition, import prices increased further. Labor income and
private transfer.s on the other hand, have grown at a slower pace as immi-
gration and wages tended to stabilize in the oil exporting countries.
Rising import prices intensified inflationary pressures within PDRY; these
pressures were reinforced by substantial increases in wage levels espe-
cially in the private construction sector, and by growing domestic bank
financing of public sector expenditures.
External Debt
19.      The large inflow of foreign loans led to a rapid accumulation of
PDRY's external public debt even though part of the aid was provided in the
form of grants.  Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) as of end
1980 amounted to $1,241 million, of which $499 million was disbursed.
Bilateral sources accounted for $920 million or 72 percent of total commit-
ments with the USSR providing the bulk ($573 million), followed by China
($126 million), other Eastern European countries ($150 million), and Arab
countries ($71 million). Multilateral flows amounted to $321 million
including $197 million from Arab Funds, $86 million from IDA and $36 mil-
lion from IMF. The terms of all loans are highly concessionary. In addi-
tion, PDRY has received $255 million in grant assistance during 1974/80,
mostly from Arab countries.



-6-
20.      The soft terms of PDRY's external debt have resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations. Debt service payments in 1980 were $15
million or 4.4 percent of total foreign exchange earnings from exports of
goods and services. However, PDRY's debt service obligations have started
to rise and are projected to increase further in future years. This will
exert additional pressure on its balance of payments. Therefore, in view
of the above, the Bank's assistance to PDRY should continue to be on IDA
terms. For the same reason, local cost financing by IDA is justified.
21.      In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government
nationalized most of the foreign-owned enterprises (para. 4). This law
provided for compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds bearing
interest of 2 percent. Twenty-five percent of the net annual profits of
all the nationalized companies were to be used for servicing the bonds. In
response, some of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze substan-
tial Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad. Immediately after
the promulgation of Law No. 37, the Government appointed a British firm
of accountants of international repute to audit the accounts of all the
nationalized companies and evaluate their assets. The audit report was
submitted to the Government in September 1971. Settlements were reached
soon after with three of the foreign banks involved. Agreements were
finalized with three additional banks in 1977, with the oil companies in
late 1977, early 1978, and in 1979, with a development finance company
in mid-1978, and with a bank in 1980. Dialogue with the one remaining
claimant company of which IDA is aware has however been very slow since
there is still no agreement on a basis on which to settle this claim. The
Government professes its desire to reach mutually acceptable settlements
with all claimant companies, and has expressed its willingness to consider
such settlement outside the terms of the 1969 Nationalization Law.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
22.      IDA's lending program in PDRY supports the Government's long-range
economic objective of broadening the base of a service-oriented economy
centered around Aden, by developing the productive capacity of the other
sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the outlying regions.
Efforts have been directed towards projects in the transport sector, which
would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of PDRY, but, more
importantly, link production areas with the main markets. This will be
continued. IDA will also continue to assist in agriculture, including the
key fisheries subsector, education, water supply and sewerage, petroleum
exploration and power. In addition, new sectors being examined are indus-
try and health. Technical assistance and institution-building will con-
tinue to be an integral feature of IDA projects in PDRY.
1/ This part is substantially the same as in the President's Report for
the Third Education Project, which was approved by the Executive
Directors on April 1, 1982.



- 7 -
23.      PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a member
of IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971 and, after a pause of about
two years (February 1976 to February 1978) because IDA funds allocated
to PDRY for this period had been committed more rapidly than envisaged,
resumed again in 1978. To date, IDA has had 19 operations in PDRY, 1/ for
a total commitment of $114.2 million. Of this total, $32.8 million has
assisted the transport sector, $35.3 million the agriculture and fisheries
sector, $14.0 million the power and energy sector, $15.4 million the
education sector, and $16.7 million the water supply sub-sector. Project
implementation in PDRY has suffered from delays and in some cases cost
overruns. Common causes of delay have included the time required to
arrange the required cofinancing, difficulties in recruiting and retaining
foreign advisors and in attracting foreign contractors, inexperience in
project mobilization, and in recent years shortages of both skilled and
unskilled manpower. But projects are in almost all cases being properly
implemented even if delayed. Disbursement performance under IDA credits in
PDRY has been consistently good during the past two years. It is superior
to other countries in the Middle East and compares favorably with some of
the best performers in the Bank. This trend is expected to continue.
Lessons learned from experience in earlier projects are being taken into
account in our follow-up projects. Annex II contains a summary statement
of IDA credits as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
24.      Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.
A third fisheries project is at an advanced stage of processing and under
preparation are a highways flood rehabilitation project, a first health
development project, and a follow-up agricultural project in Wadi
Hadramawt. Project possibilities in industry, transport, education and
water supply are also under consideration. Consultants will shortly be in
PDRY to examine what is required to rehabilitate irrigation infrastructure
damaged in the March 1982 floods (see para. 14) in the areas of two IDA
assisted projects - Wadi Tuban (768-YDR) and Wadi Beihan (1145-YDR)
agricultural development projects. As in the recent past, the costs of
future projects are expected to be substantially higher than the funds IDA
can provide to PDRY. Therefore, efforts will be continued to encourage
other development agencies to join IDA in the financing of suitable proj-
ects. From FY71 through FY81, IDA has been successful in securing through
its projects about $123 million of cofinancing from other aid donors (UNDP
$0.7 million; Kuwait Fund $26 million; Arab Fund $46.2 million; Islamic
Development Bank $11 million, Abu Dhabi Fund $16 million, OPEC Fund $14.5
million, IFAD $6 million and EEC $3 million), thus helping to increase the
inflow of development aid to the country.
1/ Including two engineering credits subsequently refinanced under Credits
560 and 1038 and the Third Education Project, which was approved by the
Executive Directors on April 1, 1982.



-8-
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
25.      At present, PDRY has no known indigenous commercial energy
resources in the form of fossil fuel or hydropower for development. It is
believed to have significant but unexplored petroleum potential. I/ Hot
water springs have been identified at several locations in PDRY but the
extent of their potential has not been assessed. Coal deposits are also
known to exist in the Hadramawt governorate but have not been evaluated.
Traditional fuels such as firewood, vegetable waste and animal dung account
for less than 5 percent of total energy consumption.
26. PDRY has a solar regime with good insolation throughout the year. The
United Nations Interim Fund for Science and Technology is preparing pilot
solar schemes to demonstrate the use of solar energy for sea water
desalination, fish refrigeration and telecommunication and to train local
personnel in the operation and maintenance of the equipment. If the
advancement of solar technology makes solar energy-competitive, there are
isolated villages which could use solar energy to help meet their energy
requirements.
27.      Since independence, PDRY has increased petroleum exploration both
onshore and offshore with the assistance of bilateral and multilateral
assistance. IDA contributed to this effort with a $9 million credit for a
petroleum exploration promotion project in 1980. In an effort to attract
foreign companies Eo participate in the exploration of the onshore basins,
PDRY promulgated a flexible general petroleum law which allows exploration
activities under both production sharing contracts and joint venture
agreements with foreign companies. Very little interest has been shown,
partly because of lack of good geological data. There might be better
prospects for attracting foreign companies when the data generated by the
IDA-financed petroleum promotion project is available. With respect to
coal, a preliminary geological survey carried out in 1977-78 established
its existence and distribution pattern. The Government plans to complete a
distribution and reserves survey by 1985.
Sectoral Organization
28.      The Ministry of Planning is responsible for overall energy sector
planning and allocation of investment resources to the respective minis-
tries and public corporations responsible for the implementation of the
plans. The Ministry of Industry is the technical Ministry responsible for
the energy sector and conducts planning and programming within the broad
framework established by the Ministry of Planning and the 5-year plan.
Important matters, such as price adjustment require approvals from the
Board of the corporation making the request, the Ministry of Industry, the
Council of Ministers and finally the Politburo. The Ministry of Industry
1/ The Government recently announced the discovery of oil in an offshore
test well. Its significance has yet to be determined.



- 9 -
is responsible for the Public Corporation for Electric Power (PCEP) and the
Petroleum and Minerals Board (PMB). Created in 1969, PCEP is responsible
for generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in Aden and
other main centers (Abyan, Al Mukalla, Saywun, As Shihr, Lawdar and
Mudiyah). PCEP owns also 60 percent of the shares of some of the elec-
tricity companies operating in small scattered and remote localities. The
Petroleum and Minerals Board (PMB) is responsible for all petroleum and
mineral-related activities in PDRY and controls the Yemen National Oil
Company (YNOC), the Aden Refinery Corporation (ARC), the Petroleum Explora-
tion Department, the Geological Survey and Minerals Exploration Department
and the Yemeni Kuwait Terminal Company (YKTC), a joint venture between YNOC
and Kuwait to supply bunker fuel.
Energy Demand and Supply
29.      PDRY is totally dependent on imported oil to meet its demand for
commercial energy. Total commercial energy consumption increased from
about 419,000 tons in 1975 to 481,000 tons in 1981, representing an average
annual rate of growth of about 3 percent. In 1980, the value of oil
imports was $150 million; that is almost four times the total foreign
exchange receipts from exports or 43 percent of worker's remittances. Oil
was the third most important imported item after food and livestock. The
power subsector-(conversion and system losses) accounted for 5.6 percent of
total commercial energy consumption, the industrial sector for 18.4 percent
and the transportation sector for 28 percent. The remaining 48 percent was
accounted for by commercial, domestic and agriculture sectors. The respec-
tive shares in the consumption total illustrate the low level of industrial
development in PDRY.
30.      In the short run, there is little prospect for alleviating the
impact of oil imports on the economy. Some savings in energy consumption
will be made in the transportation sector with the completion of the con-
struction of Al Khalaf port at Al Mukalla by 1985; the implementation of
the rural electrification program could result in more economic use of fuel
for domestic lighting and irrigation pumping. Yet, these savings would not
offset the expected increase in demand for energy in a country whose per
capita consumption of energy is below the average for all developing coun-
tries. In 1979 its per capita energy consumption was 545 kg standard coal
equivalent (kgce) compared to the developing countries average of 845
kgce. Demand is expected to grow as a result of the impact of workers'
remittances from abroad as well as the increased tempo of economic develop-
ment. To finance its continuing oil import requirements, PDRY will have to
encourage the continued inflow of workers' remittances and concessionary
external assistance, increase fish exports (where there is some potential
for development), increase agricultural production, thus reducing the
import of food and intensify the petroleum exploration program. The Asso-
ciation is actively involved in the last three activities.
Energy Pricing: Petroleum Products
31.      The Yemen National Oil Company (YNOC) is responsible for the dis-
tribution of petroleum products in PDRY. Retail prices of petroleum prod-
ucts are set by the Government (Council of Ministries and Politburo) and
are uniform throughout the country. Prior to 1980, the average domestic



- 10 -
price of petroleum products was below international prices resulting in
subsidies by the Government to the consumers of petroleum products. During
the last two years, the Government implemented substantial increases in the
prices of petroleum products (230 percent in April 1980 and an additional
15 percent in October 1981) and at present average domestic prices of
petroleum products are above international prices.
32.      While these increases did ease the financial burden on the Govern-
ment budget by reducing the amount of subsidy for petroleum products, they
have created serious financial difficulties for other sectors of the
economy such as the power company (PCEP), state farms and agricultural and
fisheries cooperatives for which there was no immediate corresponding price
adjustment in their output price to reflect the increased input price.
In the case of PCEP, fuel oil cost which represented 44 percent of total
revenues from electricity sales in 1979 rose to 105 percent of revenues
at the end of 1981. Consequently, PCEP could not meet even its fuel oil
requirements from its revenues and the Government granted it a subsidy to
offset the fuel oil price increase. State farms and agricultural coopera-
tives which use diesel driven pumpsets for irrigation, have also accumu-
lated debts to YNOC. The Government has responded to these problems by
raising power tariffs (para 34), raising prices and liberalizing the
marketing practices of agricultural and fisheries cooperatives over the
last two years and setting up a committee on prices and incomes to study
the impact of increasing prices of industrial and agricultural products on
the cost of living index. IDA is engaged in an active dialogue with the
Government on this issue both through its macro-economic work and through
the agricultural prices, taxes and subsidies study carried out by foreign
consultants for the Government under the Wadi Tuban Agricultural Develop-
ment Project (768-YAR).
Electricity Tariffs
33.      A tariff study together with a revaluation of PCEP's assets was
carried out by,foreign consultants in 1980 for PCEP under the first Power
Project (829-YDR). It recommended a level and structure of tariffs which,
taking into account the social and financial constraints and the need to
obtain a satisfactory rate of return on revalued assets by 1986, would
convey to the consumers the cost of resources employed to supply them with
electricity.
34.      The Government increased tariffs by an average 27 percent with a
two stage increase in September and November, 1981. The Government in-
creased tariffs a third time in January, 1982 for agro-industrial and
industrial consumers, who were not covered by the 1981 tariff increases.
Together these increases have raised average tariffs 39 percent and they
are now about one half of long-run marginal costs. With the proposed
tariff increases (see para. 53), the Government would continue to bring
tariffs closer to their corresponding long-run marginal costs.
PCEP Management
35.      PCEP is governed by a board of 8 members who, with the exception
of the representative of the Ministry of Industry, are PCEP's staff. The
chairman of the board is also the chief executive of PCEP. The board is



- 11 -
more of a management committee than a policy-making body and has limited
influence on important matters which, as a matter of policy, are always
referred to the Government and the Politburo. This system of organization
is a result of PDRY's centralized system of decision making.
Staffing
36.      The shortage of skilled and semi-skilled labor is one of the
biggest development constraints in PDRY. This shortage affects PCEP very
seriously but in the last three years PCEP has made substantial progress
towards overcoming this constraint. At the time of the appraisal in 1977
of the first Power Project (829-YDR), PCEP had 16 qualified engineers and
the existing training center was conducting essentially theoretical courses
as virtually no training equipment existed. Manpower development has been
the cornerstone of the Association's involvement in the power subsector and
more than 10 percent of the amount of the IDA Credit for the first Power
Project was allocated to training and purchase of training equipment. A
training program has been developed and is being implemented (57 employees
have been sent abroad for training of which 34 are engineers, 22 techni-
cians and 1 accountant), a new training center with training equipment
financed by the Association is under construction at the new 64 MW Al
Mansoura Power Station 1/ and additional staff have been recruited (the
number of qualified engineers has more than doubled during the last 4
years--1978-81).
37.      To attract scarce technical staff, PCEP has also designed an
incentive system for its staff engaged in the operation and maintenance of
generating stations and networks. Despite this progress, staffing problems
still exist in some key areas. System planning is weak for lack of quali-
fied staff. The technical wing of the planning section needs to be rein-
forced; the section head and his assistant need urgent training abroad in
system planning and rural electrification. Similarly, the head of the
training department and his deputy, who would form the nucleus of the
future training institute at Al Mansoura, should be sent abroad for train-
ing. Delays are experienced in closing the accounts for lack of qualified
staff in the accounting department. PCEP is placing heavy emphasis on
training in this area. The chief Accountant and 4 section chiefs in the
accounting department would undergo training abroad under the proposed
project. Furthermore, PCEP intends to hire three expatriates to work in
the corporation during the absence of the Chief Accountant and provide
on-the-job training for bookkeepers. These arrangements were confirmed
during negotiations. PCEP's manpower development plan would be assisted in
the proposed project through provision of funds for training abroad and
technical advice on the training program.
Existing Facilities and Operations
38.        PDRY's installed generation capacity is about 108 MW consisting
of 34 MW of steam plants, 13 MW of gas turbines and 61 MW of diesel
plants. PCEP controls about 76 percent of this total and accounts for
64 percent of generated electricity. PCEP's installed capacity in Aden
1/ This is being financed by the Government of Algeria.



- 12 -
includes 13 MW of steam plants, 13 MW of gas turbines and 36.8 MW of diesel
plants. An additional 64 MW (8x8) diesel power station at Al Mansoura
under construction is expected to be commissioned this year. The existing
generating facilities are old and very fuel inefficient, system losses
including generation station energy consumption are high (23 percent),
power failures are frequent and the reserve margin is only 12 percent.
PCEP's transmission system comprises about 150 MVA power transformer capac-
ity and 130 km of 33 kV overhead lines. Sales of electricity, which were
126 GWh in 1975, increased to 230 GWh at the end of 1981.  The Aden system
accounted for 114 GWh in 1975 and 197 GWh in 1981. Domestic consumption
accounted for 40.1 percent of total electricity sales, Government offices
and the commercial sector accounted for 27.3 percent, agriculture and
industry 31.5 percent, and the remainder was accounted for by street
lighting.
Investment Program in the Power Sub-sector
39.      Under the first Power Project, the Arab Fund, project cofinancier,
has provided funds for the preparation of a master plan for power develop-
ment. PCEP is preparing draft terms of reference for the study which would
look, among other things, into the economics of using coal as a fuel for
power generation, the possibility of locating the power station near the
refinery to take advantage of the hot residual fuel oil/pitch available at
the refinery and the feasibility of interconnection with the Yemen Arab
Republic.
40.      Planned investment in the power subsector during the second Five
Year Plan (1981-85) is expected to reach $200 million or 14 percent of the
total investment program. The bulk of this investment program is for the
construction of a 50 MW (2 x 25 MW) steam plant for which financing was
secured from bilateral sources some time ago. However, there have been
delays and the project has not yet started. An additional 50 MW steam
plant also to be financed from bilateral sources is being considered by the
Government; but there is no financing commitment as yet. The second 50 MW
station would not be justified and it is unlikely that it would be imple-
mented if the first 50 MW project materializes.
Previous IDA Involvement in the Power Sector
41.      In 1978, the Association approved a credit of $5 million to
finance the electrification of the Wadi Hadramawt (Credit 829-YDR).
Despite some initial set backs, the project is now progressing satis-
factorily and should be completed in 1985 (24 months behind the appraisal
estimate). The project has also provided the opportunity for IDA to engage
in a dialogue on the issues of PCEP's financial viability, tariffs, system
planning, management information system and training. The continued
involvement of the Association in the power subsector would provide the
opportunity to continue these institution-building efforts.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.      The proposed project, the second power project to be assisted by
IDA in PDRY, was prepared by consultants financed by a $300,000 advance
from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for the Government, following
an IDA identification mission in October, 1979. The project was appraised
in October, 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington in April, 1982.
The Yemeni delegation was headed by Mr. Abdulkader Saleh, Deputy Minister
of Industry. A report entitled "People's Democratic Republic of Yemen,
Second Power Project, Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3846-YDR) dated May 17,
1982 is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A map of
PDRY showing the project location is attached. Special conditions in the
Development Credit Agreement are summarized in Annex III.
Objectives and Description
43.      In order to help develop the agricultural and fisheries sectors
which are PDRY's main natural resources, and for reasons of social and
regional equity, the Government has pursued a policy of bringing economic
development opportunities and investment to rural areas as well as provid-
ing them with social amenities. The proposed project would assist this
objective by improving electric power supplies to five small towns
(Shuhair, As Shihr, Ghail Ba Wazir, Deess and Hami) and thirteen villages
east of Al Mukalla, the second largest city in PDRY and the capital of the
Hadramawt Governorate. At present, electric power supply in the area is
provided by several independent generating sets. Supply is not continuous
and is confined mainly to the evening hours, there are frequent power
failures and there is substantial suppressed demand. The proposed project
is the first stage of an electrification scheme to supply electric power to
these five towns and thirteen villages from a central and more fuel effi-
cient power station, which would also help reduce system losses and meet
presently unsatisfied demand. The project consists of the supply, con-
struction and erection of the following: (a) 3x2.2 MW central diesel power
station at As Shihr using residual fuel oil; (b) about 84 km of 33 kV and
11 km of 11 kV overhead transmission lines; (c) 6-33/11 kV substation
transformers totalling 10.5 MVA; (d) about 146-11/0.415 kV distribution
transformers totalling 8,400 kVA; (e) about 51 km of 11 kV and 48 km of
low voltage distribution lines; (f) meters and service connections for
about 7,300 new customers; (g) mechanical equipment for transportation of
material and erection of transmission and distribution lines; and (h) con-
sultants services (162 manmonths) and overseas training of PCEP staff
(15 staff years). The second stage (not included in the proposed project)
would consist of extension of the central diesel power station with one
generating set of 2.2 MW capacity and the construction of additional dis-
tribution network to meet anticipated increase in demand.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
44.      The estimated cost of the project, exclusive of import duties and
taxes which are not applicable to development projects in PDRY but includ-
ing contingencies is estimated at $19.9 million of which $17.0 million
would be in foreign exchange. Project costs are based on estimated M4arch
1982 prices. Physical contingencies of 10 percent for generation and



- 14 -
mechanical equipment and the civil works component of the substation and
5 percent for overhead lines, substation and distribution equipment have
been added to allow for quantity uncertainties and design changes during
implementation. Price contingencies on foreign and local costs are com-
pounded annually at rates respectively of 8.5 percent and 8.5 percent in
1982, 7.5 percent and 8.5 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent and 8.5 percent in
1984, and 7.5 percent and 7.5 percent in 1985. Total contingencies of
$3.73 million are about 23 percent of the base cost. Civil works costs are
based on unit prices derived from current contracts for similar works, and
equipment and materials costs are based on current international prices.
The cost of consultant's services is based on an average manmonth rate of
$8,300, including all expenses, and the cost of staff training is about
$10,000 per staffyear. These are appropriate costs in this sector in PDRY.
45.      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 6.8 million ($7.5 million equiv-
alent) would finance 38 percent of the total cost and 44 percent of the
foreign exchange cost of the project. The OPEC Fund has indicated its
interest in co-financing this project for an amount of $7.5 million equiv-
alent, and the Government would finance the balance of project costs. The
signing of the cofinancing loan agreement would be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the IDA Credit and Project agreements (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.01(b). The proposed IDA credit would finance the
supply, construction and erection of the transmission and distribution
networks, mechanical equipment for transportation of materials and for
erection, the consultants required for construction supervision, and
overseas training of PCEP staff. The proposed OPEC Fund loan would help
finance the central power station.
Onlending Arrangements
46.      The Government would onlend the proceeds of the proposed credit to
the beneficiary, PCEP, at an interest rate of 11.6 percent for a term of
20 years, including a 5 year grace period. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk on the IDA Credit as it has under the first Power
Project (829-YDR). Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and PCEP which is satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section
5.01(a). The onlending interest rate described above is higher than the
rate of inflation in PDRY which was 10.9 percent in 1980, 11.0 percent in
1981, and is estimated to be 8.5 percent in 1982, 1983 and 1984. The
Government's contribution to the project would be in the form of equity
capital.
Project Implementation
47.      The project would be implemented over 3 years by PCEP, which is
experienced in and capable of executing projects of this type and magni-
tude. The power plant would be the subject of one contract for supply and
erection. There would be a number of contracts for the supply of equipment
and materials for the 33-kV,ll-kV, low voltage lines, 33/11-kV substations
and distribution transformers. The erection of the transmission and dis-
tribution networks (except service connections and associated single phase
distribution lines which will be carried out by PCEP's staff) would be the
subject of one contract. PCEP's linesmen are being trained by foreign



- 15 -
consultants under the first Power Project (829-YDR). They will complete
their training in time to implement their component of the proposed proj-
ect. Engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience, and terms
and conditions of employment are acceptable to the Association would be
appointed by October 1, 1982 to supervise the construction of the project
(Project Agreement, Section 2.02). Staff for the operation and maintenance
of the system would be posted three months prior to the commissioning of
the project. The project would be completed by December 31, 1984.
Procurement and Disbursement
48.      The contracts for the erection of the transmission and distribu-
tion networks (except service connections), the supply of equipment and
materials for the networks, mechanical equipment for transportation of
materials and for erection would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's Procurement Guidelines.
Consultants for construction supervision would be selected in accordance
with IDA's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants, dated August, 1981. The
selection of training institutions and trainees for PCEP's overseas train-
ing program would be done with IDA's approval (Project Agreement, Section
2.04). Items financed by the co-financier would be procured in accordance
with his procedures. The proposed credit would be disbursed on the basis
of 100 percent of foreign expenditures for civil works and for equipment
and materials for the erection of the transmission and distribution net-
works; 100 percent of foreign expenditures for vehicles and for erection
equipment; 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultant's services
for engineering supervision and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
overseas training of PCEP staff. The closing date would be December 31,
1985.
Financial Aspects
49.      Since its formation in 1969, PCEP's revenues have not matched its
operating expenses except in 1975 when it had a small operating surplus.
Losses which have increased substantially in recent years because of rapid
increases in fuel oil costs (see para. 31) have been subsidized by the
Government from its Equalizing Fund Account. In 1978 PCEP's loss on the
Aden system, which accounts for 87 percent of PCEP's revenues, was $0.4
million and this rose to $16.8 million in 1981. For three consecutive
years, 1979 through 1981, PCEP had a negative int-ernal cash generation and
could not meet its working capital requirements from its revenues. Con-
sequently, PCEP has had to rely entirely on external sources to finance its
investment program mostly in the form of Government capital contribution to
investment and, to a limited extent, in the form of loans. In both cases,
the Government has had to secure the foreign exchange component of PCEP's
investment program from outside bilateral and multilateral assistance. The
Government has also had to accord a special fuel subsidy to PCEP with the
intention of eliminating it over a period of time. In spite of this fuel
oil subsidy, PCEP is unable to settle its accounts payable as illustrated
by the amount due to YNOC for fuel oil which represented the equivalent of
8.4 months of sales at the end of August 1981. The current ratio was 0.69
at that time, reflecting a tight liquidity position.



- 16 -
50.       The financial situation of the branches is even worse.  They too
have relied on the Government to provide a fuel subsidy and finance their
system expansion and maintenance. Revenues from electricity sales are not
sufficient to cover fuel cost alone. Their losses amounted to $1.6 million
in 1980 and $3.5 million in 1981.
51.      PCEP reduced the level of accounts receivable from a record high,
equivalent to 200 days of sales at the end of 1976, to 78 days at the end
of 1980. A major portion of accounts receivable were old bills, unpaid by
the Government, which were subsequently set off against PCEP's dues to the
Government. In 1981 there was a deterioration in the collection of receiv-
ables which increased to the equivalent to 120 days of sales at the end of
August 1981 solely on account of unpaid electricity bills by Government
departments, State farms and State enterprises. The Government and PCEP
are arranging for settlement by March 31, 1983 of all unpaid bills for
consumption of electricity through December 31, 1982 by Government agen-
cies, State farms and State enterprises (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.03 and Project Agreement 4.03(b)).   PCEP would ensure that after
March 31, 1983 its accounts receivable do not exceed three months of elec-
tricity sales (Project Agreement, Section 4.03 (a)), and the Government has
agreed to take all measures necessary to ensure that PCEP's receivable on
account of Government departments, State farms and State enterprises at no
time exceed the equivalent of three months of their electricity consumption
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03).
52.      PCEP's poor financial performance and its consequent inability
to meet the financial covenants agreed to in the first Power Project
(829-YDR) i/ spring from a number of reasons. PCEP has a number of
inefficient generating systems which resulted in a high fuel cost per kWh
generated; it also had to award a 24 percent increase in salaries and wages
and finance a new compulsory contribution to the pension fund beginning in
September 1979. But most importantly PCEP found itself in a very difficult
position as its tariffs remained unchanged while it was required to bear
the increased cost of fuel oil in 1980 and 1981 (see para. 31). Neverthe-
less the Government remains committed to putting PCEP on a sound financial
basis, in spite of having to change the timetable for doing this.
53.       For the future, the Government and PCEP have agreed to take all
the measures necessary to enable the Government to remove its annual
fuel subsidy payments to PCEP for the Aden system and the three main
branches of Al Mukalla, Abyan and Wadi Hadramawt 2/ by December 31, 1985
in accordance with a program satisfactory to IDA, and to enable PCEP to
earn revenues sufficient to cover its operating costs including interest
expenses and depreciation charges calculated on revalued assets in its
fiscal year 1986 for the Aden system and the three main branches
(Development Credit Agreement Sections 3.02 and 3.06 and Project Agreement
1/ PCEP was required to breakeven in its fiscal year 1980, earn a 2 per-
cent rate of return in 1981, and an 8 percent rate of return by 1985 on
its revalued assets.
2/ The other small rural systems which account for about 2 percent of
PCEP's revenues would continue to receive Government subsidies to cover
their losses.



17 -
Section 4.05). To help achieve this the Government and PCEP will implement
annual average tariff increases of 10 percent effective January 1, 1983,
and 15 percent effective January 1, 1984 and 1985. With these increases,
PCEP's contribution to investment from internally generated funds would
improve from a negative position in 1982 and 1983 to about 23 percent in
1984, 38 percent in 1985 and 78 per- cent in 1986. During the years 1982
and 1983, PCEP would have to rely heavily on the Government to finance its
investment program and meet its working capital requirements. Over the
period 1982-1986, the bulk of PCEP's investment program (90 percent) would
be financed from outside sources in the form of equity contribution and
Government subsidy for fuel (66 percent), loans (19 percent) and customer
contributions and deposits (5 percent). The balance would be financed from
PCEP's own resources. The proposed IDA Credit would finance about 7
percent of the construction requirements of the 1982-86 program. As a
result of the proposed tariff increases and the use of higher efficiency
generating plant, fuel costs (which exceeded PCEP's revenues from
electricity sales in 1981) would decline to about 49 percent of total
revenues from operations in 1986 and PCEP would break even for the system
as a whole in 1986. The debt equity ratio would improve from 36:64 at the
end of 1981 to 23:77 at the end of 1986, while the current ratio which was
0.69 at the end of 1980 would improve to 1.3 at the end of 1986 reflecting
a progressively improving liquidity position. Under the first Power
Project (829-YDR), PCEP is required to obtain IDA's prior approval for any
new long-term borrowing after January 1, 1979, unless the net revenues
(before depreciation and interest) for the fiscal year next preceding the
date of such incurrence, or for any later twelve-month period prior to
the date of such incurrence, is not less than 150 percent of the maximum
projected debt service require- ment in any future year on all its debt
including the debt to be incurred. This requirement has proved to be
unduly restrictive and would be replaced by a more appropriate covenant.
Thus PCEP would not incur any long-term debt in any year without IDA's
prior approval unless a reasonable forecast of its projected net revenues
for each year during the term of the debt before depreciation and interest
shows that the net revenues would be not less than 150 percent of its
projected debt service requirements for such year on all its debt including
the debt to be incurred (Project Agreement, Section 4.04),
54.      PCEP is required to submit its audited accounts to IDA within five
months after the end of the fiscal year under the Project Agreement (829-
YDR) for the first power project. However PCEP has found it impossible to
carry out timely accounting for the Aden system because of severe shortages
of qualified accountants and bookkeepers; and for the same reason it has
not been possible to update branch accounts of branches which it has taken
over in the last few years. Following a special IDA review of accounting
and auditing arrangements in PDRY, a realistic plan was agreed upon to
remedy the situation.   PCEP would submit the 1981 unaudited accounts for
the Aden system by November 30, 1982 and the accounts for the subsequent
years within six months after the end of each fiscal year thereafter
(Project Agreement, Section 4.02). With respect to the branch accounts, a
practical approach is to write off the old 'irreconcilables' and to
establish a sound 'de novo' basis from 1983 onwards. To implement the
above, PCEP has established a committee with the requisite authority to
value the existing assets in the branches and to authorize the writing off
of all doubtful items. The committee would complete its work and obtain
Government approval by February 28, 1983, and PCEP would submit the 1983



- 18 -
unaudited accounts for branches by September 30, 1984, and within six
months after the end of each fiscal year thereafter (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.05 and Project Agreement, Section 2.05). PCEP would
submit its audited accounts and the audit report for 1980 by September 30,
1982, for 1981 by March 31, 1983 and within ten months of the end of each
fiscal year thereafter (Project Agreement, Section 4.02). The Government
would ensure that its Central Board of Audit carries out its audit of
PCEP's annual accounts and financial statements within four months of their
submission (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04).
Benefits and Risks
55.      Electricity sales for the period 1981-1995 for the project area
are expected to grow from 4 GWh in 1980 to 19.5 GWh in 1995. A substantial
share of electricity consumption in the five towns is and would continue to
be accounted for by household demand for lighting and air-conditioning. At
present, there is suppressed demand as evidenced by the waiting list of
applications for new connections. Planned projects for housing, agricul-
ture, and potable water, the gradual transfer of existing diesel-driven
loads and increased demand by existing consumers would sustain the growth
in electricity consumption. Increases in electricity tariffs are not
expected to affect the growth in demand for electricity consumption since
it is largely a function of income level which in the project area is
determined largely by the inflow of remittances from abroad. Based on the-
forecast sales of electricity, several alternative schemes for the supply
of electricity to the 5 towns were considered: five isolated systems;
interconnection of 3 towns and 2 towns respectively; expansion of the
existing power station at Al Mukalla with a high voltage transmission line
to the 5 towns; and interconnection of the 5 towns with the central power
station. The interconnection of the 5 towns by 33-kV overhead transmission
lines with a central power station at As Shihr was found to be the least
cost alternative.
56.      The proposed project's economic return is based on measurable
benefits and costs. The principal costs include the capital costs, and-the
operation (including fuel) and maintenance costs of the project. The bene-
fits include the incremental revenues associated with the project based on
the prevailing average domestic and commercial tariff of 50 fils/kWh (USc
14.5/kWh) which is taken as a proxy for the consumer's willingness to pay,
the net fuel savings and the net savings to consumers from the substitution
of electricity for kerosene. The economic return of the project is esti-
mated at about 13 percent. In addition to the existing consumers who will
benefit from continuous availability of electricity supply, 7300 new
domestic customers would be connected to the power network for the first
time, displacing costly kerosene presently used for lighting. Furthermore,
existing diesel driven pumpsets would gradually transfer to electricity.
The sensitivity of the economic return has been tested by assuming a 3
percent per year increase in the cost of fuel oil to PCEP and no increase
in tariffs in real terms, both over the life of the project. With these
assumptions the economic return would still be about 12 percent. The pro-
posed project is small and technically simple and the risk to the project
from delay in implementation has been minimized further by requiring the
completion of detailed designs and tender document preparation prior to
Board presentation of the proposed credit, by the technical assistance



- 19 -
provided under the project, and by the training of PCEP linesmen being
undertaken in connection with the first Power Project (829-YDR). Thus, the
project faces no major risk. No adverse environmental effects are expected
either. The new power station would be located outside the residential
areas and would replace a large number of small generators of much older
design.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Demo-
cratic Republic of Yemen and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Public Corporation for Electric Power and the Association and
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness
include the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and PCEP which is satisfactory to IDA, and the signing of the OPEC Fund
Loan Agreement (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(a) and (b).
58.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
By
Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
May 26, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN ?DR                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA(ES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KH.)                                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
TOTAL             333.0                                                        MIDDLE INCOHE
AGRICULTURAL       93.3                                 MUST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIHATE /b          MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      ..          ..    420.0  /1               865.5                   1616.2
ENERGY COUSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS UF COAL EOUlVALENT)      236.5        274.0     545.4                  758.3                   1324.1
PUPULATIONi AND VITAL STATISTICS
PJPULATION, 'UD-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1252.0        1508.0    1855.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENI OF TOTAL) 28.0          32.1       36.4                  45.2                     64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
PUPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          3.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           8.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         3.8          4.5        5.6                  36.3                     34.3
PER SO,. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     14.0         16.0       19.4                 442.7                     94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.8         45.5      46.6                   44.2                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.3         51.9      50.8                  52.4                      55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.9          2.6       2.6                    3.4                      4.0
POPULATION GRUWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.9         1.9jc      2.3jc                 2.7                      2.4
URBAN                               5.8          3.2       3.7                    4.6                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.4         48.5       46.4                  41.5                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RAITE (PER THOUSAND)     28.6         24.0       20.0                  12.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRUDUCTION RATE               3.7          3.8        3.3                   2.9                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)          100.0         92.0     103.0                  96.3                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    84.0         91.0      81.0                 110.4                     107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           51.0         53.0      55.0                   73.4                     65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        18.0         16.0       18.0                  17.1                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      53.9         42.8       34.1                  14.9                      7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.2          40.6       44.9                  55.9                     64.1
INFANT M4ORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..           ..         ..                   ..                      70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERGENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      24.0                   59.4                     65.7
URBAN                                ..           ..      30.0                   83.9                     79.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..        5.0                  40.8                     43.9
ACCESS To EXCREIA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..                    ..                     59.9
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                   ..                      75.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                    ..                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          13758.2      34261.9    7759.7                4174.5                    1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..          ..    1617.7                 1780.5                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1154.0        978.0     647.8                  647.4                    471.2
URBAN                                ..           ..     321.8                  547.2                    558.0
RURAL                                ..           ..    4073.0                3361.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..       33.3                  25.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..       22.Ojd
URBAN                                ..           ..      57.6/d
RURAL                                 ..          ..        1.6d.
A1  1980



- 21--                                          AN NEXI
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN FDR                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 13.0         57.0       72.0                  85.1                    101.7
MALE                  20.0        91.0       92.0                 101.5                    103.0
FEMALE                 5.0        23.0       51.0                  67.5                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  5.0         10.0      28.0                   38.0                     35.3
MALE                   8.0         16.0      42.0                  48.1                     34.9
FEMALE                 2.0         4.0       15.0                  28.3                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   5.0           3.0        2.0                  11.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            29.0         31.0      34.0                  34.9                      29.6
SECONDARY                          21.0         20.0      21.0                  23.8                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..        27.1/e       ..                  43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          9.0          6.8       6.9                  18.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         47.9         51.7      57.9                 121.0                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.5         13.9      18.2                  37.4                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         1.0        7.0                  35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           2.4         ..                   3.0                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       342.2        395.1      452.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    4.0          4.9        5.6                  10.5                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              70.0         65.0      47.1                  43.5                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.0         17.0      15.3                  27.3                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                27.3         26.2       24.4                  26.4                     31.8
MALE                                  52.0        49.9       46.5                  47.0                     49.0
FEMALE                                 2.2         2.5        2.7                   5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.7         1.8        2.0                   1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBLTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                271.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..      140.0                 144.6                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      90.0                 400.8                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..      87.0                 290.9                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                 22.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..      20.0                  29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data- and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Birth and death rates are crude estimates.  The natural rate of increase does not agree with observed
population growth rate; /d percent of population; /e age 10 years and over, for 1973.
May, 1981



-22-                                                         ~~~~~~ANNEX I
- 22 -                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page_3 of 
1'Ff N11 fION OP SOCIAL ND1ICAlYJtS
Notna:  Although to  dat  an  d-aw  frnn aInaa  etnel  judged  baaaCttu-thnnait-e  and eelaable, it. eo-ld alao be outd al    heymatobeaer
natioallytonyaableboadaa ofaba lnk o  atadandlzad deinition   and  -nnopts osed by diffanen  onC etai  noIaniog the dat. .                Tindt        'ta,noe
..la .,"sla  to dns-tbo onin-  ofnI       laa   nlaeead,an   bnneletnanojrff.ennos  etee  nanetnh.ns.
of  he aa -a   oaty (e-aay  fan  'faydoal  anPlaa oill  ao a   gnoPabanel 'tiddle  IaCona   aneb Afndoa oaf ydddle fa-' 1 ha  b.a  hene   fenne
aattn-aultaral afftnitaas) . to alanfaaaa  goo  data the  mnea  an   aylntn            ghtad noitb,nntn .eala faa  -aoh  niacsdabnolyan
at  ldloatan ala  ala  nanag toe --tny and tad aneo-  gnoays.
LAND AREA (nbnueaad aPn.                                                                           .yyaeol- far daittai Blad -  .tota, arb-n  oaf nata  -  oao1 ntl
Taa lnInnfa   neIoytan    o  an- eadl inln-               aoa. n-o   n  nnl  diadded by tlian -F nana -o nabee of hosytnabltds
Egtlaal-tainane of nyloaC ltanal anna  -d an".o-alily on paneanatly                       aaIlable Inpola  ad yn-lae gen_  and sye.laiied h-pytnaI ad ne-
foeatne  _akne,  ann  ad kiloolt  ganv..    or  to Tin fal11-; 1978 dat.                        habilltatloa leaant   -nynl   n  en-blabea  yrae llstafe
batletonahysiian   Eatabln.,nt     anmtie   yaatyllynaaa
117 7ER _CaPITA (TI)) - GNP7 Pam  -ayitn aat.ma- at. -1r-t maIkst yplan, na1-                        dlai ounetnannoTnoladd.    ura Iopitea . oatmen. I,i,alade health
nalatod by tam    --nenb- "abad at World Book Atlas (1977-79 basla); 296,                         atd stdtod  -nt-n  not yan-netly staffed by a  ybyatia- (bat bya
199, and 19 79 dana.                                                                               ed Iol  sisat,   hta        mdif,ea)aiab off.e In-paRetit aC-a--
deetaneod yn-nde a heis    nange of  edinaltallti                Ilfo  statt-
EtEIlt CIIITIifIIPION P71  CAhIldT  - oanaai t-oantian af nom-nadl  -neny (coa                       atoa.1 nnc  anban boanlbal t-nit       de I-Ols yntontyip/ge..neIl baptydele,
nod Ilgoilel eaaea,p,l .. atona.  gas ood - yI o-IItnjoa   oo   etawa            ad Snanl bsy1to a.o.annon    . knetoale and nedino1 and notenelty
enoalny) to baloganat 0 oool nyalnlmat oar auylaa;1917, 1977, aad fy79              aenera   1palalad h-nyoala ann inafaded ally ande  totl.
dnto.                                                                                           Adlsa    e  tan_nna-  td  T- Ttal abat ad adeissi..s no an dinobanfe
ft.. kaptyinle divided by eke nabeal  beds.
lani  an l-ao    Ka.d-Yta  dtba,aads) - As ofJ.ly 1; 1960, 1971, oaf l97y               ROSINGI
dat.                                                                                        O,ean  te   t             I    "Ie.d aosn  nelaab--- aa,ano.an   aa  -
To-ban Panalntio (ocoeocf nalc .)   R-ibo     at obat no tota  yoy-loaian;                         Ahanod nnlaso  a enyof lnIid                         'llwb  abat  line   goatees
dlt iea  dflltan    funaoca   a   ff,ta   -onsnbillty at data                             and obtrh nat  Icj            banden on ladasa sa  -nly non be ietladed ta
a-egt.n.anIon    197     .97    af 2979 doaa.                                                   aaIun l h-      f_ sctitanta    ya-y.c..
fanalacaoa fno 'cottons                                                 trenane ooober o1 Bananas POt noon- taco), anbao, and canal - Anecoge  sa-n-lb..  4,~d   ,.I -AI..g
fanlaioaavaafil-bnnao   oylatanfrjenlon  nnbated an 1980                                baol     ynel     ynn noan toFN   all aeba!r , oCd canal1 oonuptd n--enicso
fenlto  acado   ofto Lla-n7 aol~ pasth  . belyI Plool  y.. fanmanC.                       A..  ~Ee,ii,(
and      d   -1 fettiyoc fa  arthja.o ocaen                                                  ffaadtnoln            ano
Itainar   ayaoot -IAa  taioar  payalaitao al7ne Isoy         nabaneftaynbol-tnllanadTml  -iaettl   oeadfml
CI hne  naceiitya nqael hto o  hm'daat   nt, aod nIna i. t da -laetaaaee.anloneoil   ge.tcaneoyfea   syeowan  of-r                                              cepaln
saltslt noans.CdIbi  is n-abiered       l atly tne   Bn..iltty... note  deltf  no--             yadnany anboolag  yapoatta s; nrmallytoaa-              otde aed61
no the.  - - li  ywaa fOCI,.no   etre a    dea llio a.  etIlity  inaIC no thnplan-             Pnodnyctar-ntl wlrn feml       omue   s  br;ewodn
theaalt fauni                                                                                   cdaalII,"ee oIlas oI   yen  a   ppovd  clay  nenatio
lensa.isn   aooto   arobd-Iayeraa   osnoyyrlco                                                     nrdagotl I "Ianianal, a  atatberttraIIng  iadnaa atnefa  pyi
Oaealactao lcea   ihatyynoopldtd.
cana  anaY97,17                                                                                  .i17   aa  b-ald  tab.taneFl, tdoif.l-,  t. oae  yanaaaibywonedeed
Pen so. km ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ -i. ., agiutnllad-Omnodo.bt .onaanloo l.   and                 fni   ta   eaaea    fhs.cdnyieontian
only  96f, 19000 oaf :179 data Iayi-dtalentaIftmfr.and iattacp-tImaltsadepa etaild i
PaaodmasIna-      n   nnen)-Ilde  ,7l   en)  wtigoe(3                                           pe'tia oaf...  t               f"   neoadny  nrla  tndn   by ..mbec   of tenhta i.Is ab
0pnc-   -    od net med          I- ya   ad  -rr Th.  y...eaagw   of-t mdpeat. yata-              nate-iodlg lntI..                      :t.                             .   .p
latw   19,191   od17  data.-                                                                   adult lyIfenn2 tact7 yreaant  - itncan a-.dul-s(abl   to  eo   oaf. wnily
f-O poa 1a960 fa  1970 -d1 191171  and. 1973-Il.prg.   0ihp...  llpi
Poalnttlt.-lit   nraa  -anap anoat anda  natesbf-anba  ya-                        -          Iltttfltlt_                           I   ...d     i   i_
puLatIon    1967, . 197, and.197  dIt.                                                      mltany  ebtlas
nilityneans;1970 asaly finn-yer anenage  cnditg d  1961, 19-,Land 17t. noes  nostbicattwiabed  tneaiing
faml,iy Gp ..athna- tans ptra,-too-ul (th1-austada  -, funne  numbn If  ucatyana71Real-n  BesItg nhcaaaad   dCcuetpanl)t- T                           d cesier  yfcr badas  am
aaae  ofobil-beningage(13-4 pC -sla.  usPtn-ana   cis   oIasy-Te  Clnalcta (Il   t ec. obm-od -nla-                                    ml  P ihawg s -nba.r..-
alldcanniad Raomco; to sa-adge-b getup..-df   d-.,                                                 r oul tlan        'dtlycaenl  ttnesnwsse'   eamda  apsetadn
1970, a.d 1979 d.I                                       i~~~~~~~pallaoima dhcnas  ynmttynltodn.ntsion.I  nnniee
PIll 00cc tyfh--4lTIal                                                                        na be  dol'if.ayt a   lesapn thP..nAn lme ayp etak..i
national avecaga anaduact pn ntghta; 1911-t.., 191,ad-        99 a,                       lcl aanPna   t                tuana  - d tanaalrlyhan Int genaat,ltmlad
moangye7raetone.foauynaaalbetaaop yenjfj fnyin                                                 aaalgeyltatw.oleo.lati                              orn otnaeIfss act
IeYda.aalal  fopylles -nagles  .dongsatiapautn,Iynals                                 o        nbe 1960, 197011   --f and  979  ana
capaas,  od  bnoga t  anai.   et spylna salue oaaalland  seda,              emal  (ncato) -famaa lbor  nna  as  earaneg  a)nata  leatp dnte
nOty oafhnaftl annldnc     th ..-onocawel  -eaenaue,  body wadgt-,aeldec   nnno  -lbnfncI   d g  nanena  t                                         bt,eaaanu-
Ifnoateonnyc   am n(nasywdy  - fnadT                          01m o   e   aia                 tataysa   ee(eann -i TanR ..ma.e, end  -awle  - d TVnaywin
mersplyo  fo  pega.    ttsAyypar        adisIfndo  aos)e                              c annoy nanesIm....acyall     an nasal,wale, ot _.feml  aa   aaa
alawnt  f60amsofnta doni   eada   nd2  grant I. at.                        .  wilao19717,an179da.IsnnebedtIlsytaiyafn.it cne
I Ponld Foo   any;11-3.17d P-97ddat.                                                            t   aba nata  labo  Boron. ,1
nlred  nae anoala ad pulct to   ana pa  lap;  9l1-15  1971 and fItydasa       tChyfthTI:lIlTTIff
Obtid.deans If-u)1roioRnt(a   baad                                          d loaldainatthond iTtiektag  of.Id     at d- noe  (bth in oat  sodihad)-  toadniref by itba
ocTt dtadenr      h fna   lf itbletl 91  197  and199  es.                                 of bfoabaldd
P.rlt   slCa 111111 ff2011 Ill OPI1O                                179  .C.                                                                                      ,.i.IIi.
angln.h  llt  170an91990at.                                                             ndshul0b iacnnn  a                97: nontdsal  nnin
of age pen ohaaeeaf live klnqba.~ I          Adlsolonel.         'i                             poanp  wnw  iban    sta   onniol  ao    ha      li
nae   upy(faa-sot   ne.    ttomtsn    t  oracdbbat AOobnt.miwdte tphtwatad ge_en tr   -L.ma  Innoam Inrl (fly  Can  tanac   t naw ,                                n
ally ba   ba   rypoooe  b_abls,a                   dte . ofl .tr.tt IyolCie) aafr3altnCrrnytnnetrlt   n-todo   nna  yen  syn..a
festly co1otan onaft.
kocnt  ton. iaoaidnn   a)r Cmunan  r-tf nofai               t anan  and                    97cadtayl t-    a.I                                                      19
.tuakan o  psPl  (satl,979a, of nual)nannd  y emnetadiponl a
yenanengnaof a em  rnynoNn   t Pe ya fuin.d Jnoeo  dli_ynb  nap lonpit.                 .ti                                 a      I! dP
aleoalmoia  tn  dnyaal  alI  t aobunn'aner,  f                                                            twaaaoat
and  ace-wono  y maao-amn  epseP 1Y  b   a   fptptlandal                                                                    tauoadtac  oainsm
Pa tvanallntons.                                                                                                                                     tay- 191
waletd  fml  grdunsnun ,EJ           oolna  mans9e  cadd a-stcsonanonaaa.



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PDRY: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1980
US$ mln        _
GNP at market prices                              853          100
Gross Domestic Investment                         249           29
Gross National Savings                            -17          -2
Export of goods and NFS                            96           11      Annual Rate of Growth (%)
Imports of goods and NFS                          696          81             (constant prices)
1974/79
GDP at factor cost                                570         100                    6
of which:
Agriculture & Fisheries                         74          13                    0
Industry                                        81          14                    9
Construction                                    78          13                   23
Transport                                       87          15                   12
Government Services                            140          23                    7
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                                            Budget
Estimates
(in millions Yemeni Dinars)                      1974/75      19751/         1976        1977         1978        1979        1980
Total receipts 2/                               23.6        16.9            32.1        43.4         56.0        68.0       107.2
Current expenditures                            27.6        25.6            39.2       47.4          61.4        76.2        96.0
Current deficit                                 -4.0        -8.7            -7.1        -4.0         -5.4        -8.2        11.2
Development expenditures                        19.6        18.9            39.2        57.3         59.7        52.0        74.2
Overall deficit                                -23.6       -27.6          -46.3       -61.3         -65.1       -60.2       -63.0
Borrowing from Banking System                   10.4        12.5            15.6        18.5         13.2        27.6        19.0
External Financing                              13.2        15.1           30.7        42.8          51.9        32.6        44.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                         1974        1975              1976       1977        1978        1979         1980
Y.D. million, end period
Money and quasi-money                           55          67              98         140          168         217         256
Bank credit to Government                       24          37              62          72           87         110         127
Bank credit to non-Government Sector3/          19          24              31          49           59          61          98
Increase in %
Consumer prices                                 24          12               4           5            6          10          11
1/    The fiscal year was April i - March 31 until March 31, 1975 when it became
April 1 - December 31, 1975 and thereafter is on a calendar year basis.
2/    Includes current and development revenues from domestic sources and self-financing
of public enterprises.
3/    Mostly public sector agencies.



ANhuj i
- 214 -                               Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US; million)  1974         1975   1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Exports l                                8         8      26       24       17      20       38
Imports 1/                            -190      -178   -268    -365    -386    -411    -650
Trade Deficit                         -182      -170   -242    -341    -369    -391    -612
Non-tactor Services, net                22        14      20       10       17      14       14
Factor bervices, net                    48        18      43       76     111      142      176
Labor Income                       (41)      (15)   (37)    (69)   (103)   (131)   (146)
Investment Income                   (7)       (3)    (6)      (7)      (8)    (11)    (30)
Current Account Deficit               -112      -138   -179    -255    -241    -235    -421
Transfers                                1        52    125       174     191      205      284
Official                               1        10      46       55      36       23       83
Private 2/                            --        42      79     119      155      182      201
Official M and Lt Capital, net          65        31      73       70      94       59       76
Gross Disbursements                (65)      (32)   (75)    (71)    (95)    (64)    (86)
Repayments                          (0)      (-1)   (-2)    (-1)    (-1)    (-5)   (-10)
Other Capital (incl. E & 0)             38        42       4       29      45       -8       86
Changes in Official Reserves
k- = increase)                       8        13    -27      -18      -89     -22      -24
Memo Item:
Gross Official Reserves (end year)   67           54      81       99     188      210      234
MERCHANDIbE EXPORTS                                        Average 1978-79
US$ Million Percent
Fish and Fish Products                                   9          47
Agricultural Products                                    8          42
Other                                                    2          11
19        100
EXTERNAL DEBT (DECEMBER 31, 1980)                            US$ Million
External Public Debt Outstanding                           1,241
of which:  Disbursed                                       499
Debt Service Payments in 1980                                 15
Debt Service Ratio (Exports of Goods
ana bervices)                                                4.4 Percent
I/  Net of re-exports.
2/ Workers' remittances.
EM1DD
March 1, 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1982)
$ Million ----
Amount
Credit                                                               (less cancellations)
No.           Year    Borrower       Purpose                       IDA      Undisbursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                      6.7
494-  YDR       1975      PDRY       Education I                   5.4             0.2
560-  YDR       1975      PDRY       Highways II                  15.5            0.7
584-  YDR       1976      PDRY       Aden Port Rehabilitation    3.2              0.9
615-  YDR       1976      PDRY       Wadi Hadramawt Agric. Proj  7.0              0.9
768-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Wadi Tuban Agric. Proj        5.2            2.8
829-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Power I                       5.0             1.3
865-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Education II                  4.0            3.5
932-  YDR       1979      PDRY       Fisheries II                 10.0             6.8
1038- YDR       1980      PDRY       Aden Water Supply            13.2           11.9
1050- YDR       1980      PDRY       Petroleum Dev. Assistance   9.0              7.3
1144- YDR       1981      PDRY       Highways III                 12.5           12.5
1145- YDR       1981      PDRY       Wadi Beihan Agric. Proj.    8.01/            8.0
1159- YDR       1981      PDRY       Al Mukalla Water Supply       3.5            3.5
Total                                 108.2 2/         60.30
of which has been repaid                  .02
Total now held by IDA                 108.183/
Total undisbursed                                      60.30
1/    Not yet effective.
2/    Including two engineering credits subsequently refinanced under
Credits 560 and 1038. In addition a $6 million equivalent Credit
for a Third Education Project was approved by the Executive Directors
on April 1, 1982 and signed on May 25, 1982.
3/    Excluding exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7 pages
C.  Projects in Execution 
CR. No. 494-YDR       Education I Project:  $5.4 million Credit Approved July
12, 1974; Effectiveness Date: February 5, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit is assisting the Government in making qualitative
improvements in the educational system and in meeting priority manpower
needs. Implementation is satisfactory although about two years behind
appraisal estimate due to (i) initial delays in declaring the credit effective
and in the negotiations of contracts with UNESCO and the consultant
architects; (ii) more recent delays arising from curricula revisions affecting
design completion; and (iii) shortages of labor and materials which have
delayed construction. Five of the ten institutions, including two previously
completed extensions, were ready for the 1980-81 academic year. The remaining
institutions were completed in mid 1981. The credit is now fully disbursed
and closed.
CR. No. 560-YDR       Second Highway Project:  $15.5 million Credit of June 20,
1975;  Effectiveness Date:  September 17, 1975;  Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
This project is financed jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development. Since international competitive bidding for the
construction element of the project produced no responsible bids, arrangements
were made for the works to be carried out by a government construction unit
which is assisted by the UK Crown Agents. Because of the remoteness of the
project area and the concomitant logistic problems, the severe shortage of
domestic skilled manpower and the lower than expected output from construction
equip- ment due to particularly harsh construction conditions, implementation-
of the civil works is about three years behind appraisal estimates. However,
con- sidering these difficulties, construction of the road (358 km) started in
March 1976 is making satisfactory progress and is approximately 80 percent
complete. Likewise, total project cost is now estimated to be about 67 per-
cent over the appraisal estimate as a result of the extra quantities of rock
that had to be excavated, the additional drainage and protective works needed
because of floods and the general increase in the price of construction
equipment and materials. Construction and road maintenance equipment have
been procured. Consultants (Dorsch-Germany) have completed the economic
studies and the final engineering of the Naqabah-Beihan roads. Consultants
(Sotechni-Italy) have completed the technical assistance component and the
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 7
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
overseas training program has been completed with six Yemeni engineers having
completed 9-12 months training courses (4 in the UK and 2 in West Germany).
The project is expected to be completed by December 1982. The credit would be
closed June 30, 1982 when 90 percent of the works are expected to be completed.
CR. No. 584-YDR       Aden Port Rehabilitation Project:  $3.2 million Credit of
September 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 3,
1976; Closing Date: March 1, 1982
The project which is being cofinanced by the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development is assisting the PDRY Government in rehabilitating the
port of Aden to reattract traffic passing through the reopened Suez Canal.
The project provides for (a) the procurement of floating craft, cargo-
handling, workshop and navigation equipment, spares and stocks; (b) rehabili-
tation of the slipway for the National Dockyard Company; and (c) technical
assistance. All equipment except some navigational items have been received
and most are already in use, although there has been a substantial delay in
the rehabilitation of the slipway. A cost accountant and a marine engineer
have been appointed. There was a savings of $850,000 in the purchase of
floating craft and IDA agreed that this can be used to purchase containers
handling equipment required for the port. This equipment has been delivered
and the project is substantially completed. The final withdrawal application
is being processed.
CR. No. 615-YDR       Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project:  $7.0 million Credit
of April 22, 1976; Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project aims at increasing agricultural production on about 8,100
ha of irrigated land in the Wadi through the adoption of improved cultural
practices and the provision of agricultural equipment and supplies, cons-
truction of feeder roads and extension services. It also includes provision
for a date packing plant and a rural water supply component, and funds for a
hydrogeological survey and feasibility study for increased groundwater use.
The date packing plant has been completed, the rural road component is
progressing satisfactorily, but the pace of village water supply works has
been slow. The hydrogeological survey and feasibility study have since been
completed and form the basis for a second phase project aiming at intensi-
fication of irrigation on about 3,700 ha.
Initial problems, with staff recruitment and retention, delayed
execution of the project by about two years. The project was extended for one
year in July 1981. High cost of labor, inefficient tractor services, market-
ing restrictions, and pricing policy of the agricultural produce have been
impediments to increased production. Government has recently taken steps to
improve its agricultural pricing and subsidy policy, and a consultant's study
(financed under Credit No. 768- YDR/Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project) on agri-
cultural prices, taxation and subsidy has been completed and is under dis-
cussion with a view to improving these policies. The increased availability



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
of the agricultural machinery purchased under the project and improvement in
pricing and marketing policy of the agricultural produce would assist in
achieving the project's objectives.
CR. No. 768-YDR       Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project:  USt5.2 million Credit
of March 22, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project seeks to improve agricultural production on cooperatives
and state farms through an increased use of inputs, improved practices and the
construction of an improved groundwater irrigation network. Inputs and farm
machinery are to be provided through credit. A new expatriate project manager
has been appointed. All other technical assistance staff are already on
post. A water management study and an agricultural prices, taxation and
subsidy policy study has been completed. Construction of a village water
supply scheme is well advanced and survey work for feeder roads was started.
The Arab Fund, which cofinances this project, approved its loan of $6.1
million in February 1980. With a total area of 7,000 ha, the project has
36,000 principal beneficiaries, while the water supply scheme would benefit
about 6,000 persons.
CR. No. 829-YDR       Wadi Hadramawt Power Project:  $5.0 million Credit of
July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 18, 1979;_
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is providing an impetus to agricultural development in
Wadi Hadramawt by electrifying irrigation water pumping in the Wadi through
the erection of a 16-MW diesel generating plant and the construction of about
1,000 km of related transmission and distribution networks. Institution-
building objectives would be achieved through technical assistance comprising
training of the power company's (PCEP) personnel, and consultants' services
for a tariff study. The contract for equipment and materials has been awarded
and the first 4 MW unit has been commissioned in March 1982. The tariff study
is completed and the Government increased tariffs by an average 39 percent
between September 1, 1981 and January 1, 1982. The project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1985.
CR. No. 865-YDR       Education II Project:  $4.0 million Credit Approved
December 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project will assist the Government in establishing three voca-
tional training centers (VTCs) which would be the forerunner of VTCs to be
constructed in other parts of the country to train urgently needed skilled and
semi-skilled workers. The project consists of construction of an industrial,
an agricultural and a commercial training center, and the procurement of
furniture and equipment. Fellowships, financed from bilateral funds have been
completed. Construction of the commercial VTq in Mukalla started in June
1980, about 11 months behind the appraisal estimate due to delays in designs
and tender, and is now expected to be completed in Summer 1982. With IDA's



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
approval, two existing schools are being converted into agricultural and
industrial VTCs in lieu of constructing two new VTCs. The redesign work
caused a delay of approximately 15 months. These conversions should be com-
pleted by mid-1983. Bids have been awarded on about 80 percent of the furni-
ture and equipment. Satisfactory curricula have been developed. Because of
the delays to this project, the Closing Date was extended to December 31, 1984.
CR. No. 932-YDR       Fisheries II Project:  $10.0 million Credit and $3
million EEC Special Action Credit of August 10, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: April 3, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project seeks to increase income and economic well being in the
Sixth Governorate, which is one of the poorest and most remote regions of
PDRY, and consists of the construction of a fisheries-cum-general cargo port
together with supporting infrastructure at Nishtun; the construction of fish
receiving, processing and storage facilities together with the development of
an efficient system for exploiting fish; and the construction of a 19 km road
to provide a link between the new port and the nine fishing villages which
would supply fish under the project. The project also includes technical
assistance comprising consultants' services to assist with project implemen-
tation and operation; experts to assist with cold store operations and export
marketing; and a national study to assess nutritional deficiencies for a
possible future IDA-financed project. The project was delayed two years
because of the difficulty in finding cofinanciers. This has resulted in a
cost overrun of about $11.5 million, which is being financed by the Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development. The contract for the construction of the
port and related shore facilities has been awarded and construction has begun.
CR. No. 1038-YDR      Aden Water Supply Project:  $13.2 million Credit of July
11, 1980; Effectiveness Date: March 27, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project, which constitutes the first construction stage of a
long-term water supply master plan, seeks to increase the critically short
supply of potable water, and meet the maximum demand up to 1987, in Aden, the
capital and largest urban area in PDRY, and to rehabilitate the existing
system which is fast deteriorating. It provides for the expansion of the
distribution network into the poorer districts of Greater Aden to allow
low-income residents to be directly connected to the public system. The
project also provides for technical assistance aimed at improving PWC's
management capability. Initial implementation proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1050-YDR      Petroleum Development Assistance Project:  $9.0 million
Credit of July 11, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November
19, 1980;  Closing Date:  September 30, 1983
The project is supporting the Government's efforts to intensify the
search for indigenous oil/gas reserves and assist in improving its planning
of the petroleum subsector by strengthening the Petroleum Exploration Depart-
ment's (PED) capacity to carry out and supervise geophysical surveys and



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
interpret their results. It includes (a) a 15-month seismic survey to provide
a loose grid of key reconnaissance seismic profiles over a large portion of
the onshore area prospective for petroleum and natural gas in PDRY; and (b)
technical assistance to PED for project management services, data evaluation
to promote exploration acreage to foreign investors, and training of PED's
staff. The primary objective is to uncover prospects sufficiently attractive
to oil companies to undertake exploration in PDRY. The seismic survey is
underway and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1144 YDR      Third Highways Project:  $12.5 million Credit of July 27,
1981; Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
The project is financing the construction of a two-lane paved road
(92 km) from Naqabah to Nisab in the presently isolated Shabwah Governorate.
This road is expected to stimulate agricultural production in the vicinity of
these towns. It would also strengthen PDRY's road construction capabilities
(i) through about 130 manmonths of consultants assistan ce to the Ministry of
Construction (MOC) for improvement of project preparation capabilities,
management, and operations of the MOC's construction units, including the
independent construction unit (ICU) established under the project and (ii)
through training of MOC and ICU staff including about 90 manmonths of long
and short-term overseas fellowships. The IDA credit became effective concur-
rently with the loans from the two cofinanciers, the Kuwait Fund and the OPEC
Fund. The management team of consultants have mobilized, consultants have
been appointed to provide technical and construction supervision assistance
to the Ministry of Construction, and bid evaluations for equipment for the
project unit are complete and contracts with suppliers have been signed.
Construction is expected to begin in May, 1982 as scheduled.
CR. No. 1145-YDR      Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project: $8 million
Credit of July 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date: April 29,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The project is designed to increase agricultural production and farm
income on about 4,000 ha. of mixed spate (flood) and well irrigated lands in
the Beihan subgovernorate by rehabilitating the spate irrigation network and
improving the groundwater irrigation system of Wadi Beihan and by providing
technical assistance, farm inputs and agricultural equipment for Wadi Beihan
and Wadi Ain. It would establish a program of hydrometeorological observa-
tions in Wadi Beihan for improving knowledge of its water resources and ensur-
ing their optimal utilization. In addition, it would improve access between
agricultural and population centers in Wadi Beihan by constructing feeder
roads, and improve the nutrition of the local population by increasing produc-
tion of fruits, vegetables and meat. Initial implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily, a project manager has been appointed and recruitment of other
key staff is under way, and bid documents for staff housing are under prepara-
tion. A cofinancing loan agreement for $6 million equivalent has been signed
with the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD).



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
CR. No. 1159-YDR      Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation Project:  $3.5
million Credit of July 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
December 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project will rehabilitate the existing water supply system of Al
Mukalla, the second largest city in PDRY and prepare detailed plans of new
water production facilities for this city. It provides for an immediate
increase in water production to meet water demands up to 1985 and for the
expansion of the water distribution network into the poorer sections of Al
Mukalla. The project also provides for the formulation and implementation of
a health education program designed to encourage the population in Al Mukalla
to improve health practices and sanitary conditions. It further includes:
hydrogeological studies needed for the design of the water production facili-
ties; an urban growth study to forecast the pace of urbanization in the Al
Mukalla area and to plan for the expansion of basic urban services in this
area. A total of 122 manmonths of consulting services is provided. The
project would provide substantial health and environmental benefits to the
population of Al Mukalla. Initial implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1222 -YDR     Third Education Project:  $6.0 million Credit of May 25,
1982; Effectiveness Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987.
The project will (a) help alleviate urgent manpower needs by provid-
ing buildings and equipment for the training of skilled workers and techni-
cians and by improving the methods and data base available to manpower
planners; (b) upgrade the skills and knowledge of existing poorly qualified
teachers and increase the output of new primary teachers; and (c) improve the
quality of school buildings by establishing school building maintenance units
in two regional education directorates and by determining urgent school
furniture and equipment needs. The project will also help to strengthen both
male and female training and primary education in remote areas. Specifically,
the credit is financing construction, equipment and furniture for (i) a com-
mercial technical institute at Aden (750 places); (ii) an agricultural tech-
nical institute at Saber (450 places); (iii) an in-service teacher upgrading
center at Aden (630 places), and (iv) a regional primary teacher training
institute at Seiyun (590 places). Two fully-equipped mobile building main-
tenance units and technical assistance for two studies are also being financed
by the credit. Technical assistance relating to the above project items is
being financed by the Government through bilateral sources under ongoing
programs. Initial implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SECOND POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project first presented to IDA:       October, 1979
(b) Time taken by PDRY to prepare         One Year (October 1979 to
the project:                            October, 1980)
(c) Agency which prepared the project:  Public Corporation for Electric
Power (PCEP)
(d) Departure of appraisal mission:       October, 1981
(e) Completion of negotiations:           April, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:        By November, 1982
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Conditions of effectiveness:
(a) the signing of the loan agreement with the OPEC Fund (para. 45);
and
(b) the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Govern-
ment and PCEP, which is satisfactory to IDA (para. 46).
2.  Other conditions.  The Borrower has agreed to:
(a) arrange settlement by March 31, 1983 of all unpaid electricity
bills owed to PCEP by Government agencies, State Farms and State
Enterprises for consumption of electricity through December 31,
1982 (para. 51);
(b) take all measures necessary to ensure that PCEP's receivable on
account of Government departments, State farms and State
enterprises at no time exceed the equivalent of three months of
their electricity consumption (para. 51).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) remove entirely its annual fuel subsidy payments to PCEP by
December 31, 1985 according to a program which is satisfactory to
IDA (para. 53);
(d) allow PCEP to increase its average tariff by 10 percent as of
January 1, 1983 and by 15 percent as of January 1, 1984 and 1985
(para. 53);
(e) review and approve the report of the committee established
within PCEP to value the existing assets in PCEP's branches by
February 28, 1983 (para. 54); and
(f) ensure that its Central Board of Audit carries out its audit of
PCEP's annual accounts and financial statements within four months
of their submission (para. 54).
PCEP has agreed to:
(a) select training institutions and trainees for PCEP's overseas
training program which are satisfactory to IDA (para. 48);
(b) arrange settlement of arrears through December 31, 1982 by all
Government departments, State farms and State enterprises by March
31, 1983 (para. 51).
(c) reduce its accounts receivable to not more than three months of
electricity sales by March 31, 1983 and thereafter maintain this
ratio (para. 51);
(d) earn revenue sufficient to ensure removal of the Government fuel
subsidy to PCEP by 1985 and to cover its full operating costs
including interest expenses and depreciation charges calculated on
revalued assets in its fiscal year 1986 (para. 53);
(e) not incur any long-term debt in any year without IDA's prior
approval unless a reasonable forecast of its projected net
revenues for each year during the term of the debt before depre-
ciation and interest shows that the net revenues would be not
less than 150 percent of its projected debt service requirements
for such year on all its debt including the debt to be incurred
(para. 53);
(f) complete the report of the committee established within PCEP to
value the existing assets in its branches in such time that
permits the Government to review and approve this report by
February 28, 1983 (para. 54); and



-34_
ANNEX III
Page 3
(g) submit 1981 unaudited accounts for the Aden system by November 30,
1982 and within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year there-
after, submit 1983 unaudited accounts for branches by September
30, 1984 and within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year there-
after; and submit 1980 audited accounts by September 30, 1982,
1981 audited accounts by March 31, 1983 and within 10 months of
the end of each fiscal year thereafter (para. 54).



09 30'                                          N ,                                                                              FEBRUARY  1982
c)m7 r                                                                                                                                               V,5 I j < ; ; . g ,, s served by th-e   ge-nr o Pr I
\  .Jf                                                                  '        t < '                        '' \  '1/     1,                          '                                       Hob,09       ,  \
* | / S, .  4f *EMEN    I                                                                                    X                                                                                    ,A ,    ,                   ='   t ,M  \\/;}t
Th,onooflseoOerorepaoO OvinehWorldBvrOSSreffclusIvo,olrroirtheonro,Hce.
Ooo(ooflnnorf,4n md000rof04 O rOepot o wkh/ sprfch Te Weommrlosdsd 04 4h    ,\O.P  f/    i 1 s 111\..  
o,hhares,.mrionto  o AoflorEor a    Hh0dor.o,r ,,or 0AI Haodio                                                al                                                                                                       *1,'
,rf,ioroo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Na SnyJodqo,r0r 00 inC Aq\0rro \n orrnrrroorr,oeo                                      /'                                         Ii                      - - t 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K  -     u0' /A  
ETHIOPIA       OF MAP                 8z/                           5-                                              -FI'VE TOWNS EAST OF MUKALLA
'",'-)\\ /t.-  ,     , /              A:;f:EE \   ::;        EE   X :Ei  E             \Ef        :E      ELE--CTRIFIiCATION   :PROJEEC¢T   aVf                               f t
'.' g   '9  1/  , > '                                                                     / -:  '- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33 kv Overhead  Line      Roads or Troxcks
t ,.\\/vH : : ::0\ \:in :\ 0: \ : :\:\ 2 0\13 g \ :; : : : - 11 ksv Overhead; Lrine                                                   0        Towns
-   {',    >    ft    4:   \0:9:  :  : :(:   \ 5 i  f  ei \ \:   ; i;    i                      .:      33fil~~~~3 / 1 Ky Subsrtohons       °       VillaJges
ff ", / ,>)/ : :: A: | 1' ! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Diesel Power Station -~-  -c-. -- Rivers
Hami     Towrs Served by Project          -3IC~      Wadis
10                     0 A                    1                                                                                 Airport
I H.-
//:30i:ii                                          ,-:2l ;;,,                                                                                            :2j\                                                  0;:J;A:0: 0 p1\::: 2 ::\: KO ERS\  :2   'i : \ :;9 \49°.30'0\:2::  Por .  Tob.lt.h
AtMviliollo  AIKI,ojaf ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    Al 
t4'3O                                                                                                                                                                                                                         140 30i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l h..
Al F.,I. ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ 49   0                                                                                                                                0'0



I
I



_________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD  15175R
TU RKIEY                           i U  SR                                                                                                                           50.                                                                               AUGUST  1981
LEC7                         S<A                              PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
seAEL, IRAO.  IRAN    I-2u  IDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS  BY SECTOR                                                                                                                                                                                                      20'_
NEOT~~~~~~A~~~                                         P~ROJECTS
\                  00TE    Ri/2<  AAE     -OQATA                                 Agr cu tore
AFRt . N>     SAU D I                                                               FEA  Fshenies
I    ARABIA                                                        IJt      Petroleum  Explora,on  Ass-st-nce
S X yC,,D\AN  2lt*   5 ,  fJ H    Ar.                 g                        hEd ct yn                              s                                               ,1 )
SUDA         Y~             ot 4 IV   V                                           Highorays-                                                                                                     /
JEI    OJIROO                                                          22 2  S f ?  z  ;-   Power Stations '.-
Tr -nsmission  Lines
*       Water Supply
4~ Port  Eteoelop,nent                                        V.\5i::;:0:5    :l5S:ie ;::iiidE  
.0                             FI~~~~~~~SCAL                              -
PROJECT                      YEAR APPROVED .6
HIGHWAYS 1                         1971                                                                                                                                                              HYA
1     FISHERIES 1                        1973                                                                                                                                                            GHADA
-W             5    )     LEDU1LATION t                       1975                                                                    s  HLA 2.                             -
HI GDH WAYS 01                     1 975                                                                                                                                                     i   oo
~~  1N         O~~~DEN PORT REHABILITATION         19756.,.                                                                                                                                   
WADI HADRAMOUTAGRICULTURE          1976                                                        -
WADI TUBAN AGRICULTURE             1909
N          0WADI HAPRAMOUTPOWER                1978
r\ 1     ADNWATERSUPPLYENGINFERING           1979                                             0        7                                                            N       L      t      2<
>1    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                      Ii.i                          C'
5)       VOirSCLuAwATIONOEpLy               1079 0       Ap                       7                                      .n9                                     "                                   EXISTING  FEATURlES
FISHERIES I                        1                -f 9f                                      >   N       r    C   2                                 ,                                      _=  ___Ro
PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT              1980                          . I       i                                                     <'J         "''                                             Goon--rte Capitals
ASSISTANCE                               B                              IiT~                      V                        ~    ~     c,                                                     o  olCpt
1<  ADDES WATE R StIPP L Y1980                         t I       NISC   A                                              C               Rvar -''' SE
HIGHWVAYS 5519                                             N~4                                                                    UAL                                                         ot
V ADI BEIHAN AGRIC[TURRE           I9 E91VAT j                                                                   7DION _sernis
MUKALLAWATER SUPPLY                1981                A 4                                                            '2 -                                                                   R,oernra4ndWaies
LNGINEERING                                               n                    "V                                    ~200
V '                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pnisr,=y RZoads
"V  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ OO....J~~~~~~~~~~~SD~~~~~MCC'\ ~~~~~~~~1058
'Brr Al                               7~~~~~~~~~~2000                  Secodary Roodis
G-Coe-orore Rooodaries
\  1 lseri 4 >, , r-~~~~~>4 9 \ tf \ "                                    I                                                                                                                     ;  :  International Roondor en 0
Ee\ r                                                                                                                                                                            KI; E .BAg; 2 q F L 7 M tF g 9 g \ \ ; A Q | hEOERd S > Nasd -- ie XorJJSP.nS SI E
_!2  , 4                                          NJIBA R         50 4       (l&S3//LX OF    Ar DEAL                                                                               "'oniN .c, _a,Zi    27 A   .D, 2.'   Z  d E  A/
735'  AH  ""'                                                                                                                                 .2.272,2,.it >72227077~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .
A  ~~~DEN        46



