týEDIT NUMBER 1268 YDR
Project Agreement
(Second Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PUBLIC CORPORATION FOR ELECTRIC POWER
Dated                    |{       , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1268 YDR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  4         Il               , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and PUBLIC CORPORATION FOR ELECTRIC POWER (herein-
after called PCEP).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (herein-
aftercalled the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (3DR 6,800,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that PCEP agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PCEP, the proceeds of the credit pro-
vided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to PCEP on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS PCEP, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PCEP shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence


﻿-2-
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist PCEP in the supervision of
the construction of the Project, PCEP shall employ, not later
than October 1, 1982, engineering consultants whose selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the
principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. For the purpose of carrying out the training
provided under Part C of the Project, PCEP shall prepare and
furnish to the Association for its approval a detailed fellowship
program,  including   the  list  of   names,  qualifications  of
candidates and the proposed locations for training, and shall,
after the Association's approval thereof, carry out such program.
Section 2.05. PCEP shall ensure that the committee set up to
value its branch assets shall complete the work and submit its
recommendations for review and approval by the Borrower not later
than February 28, 1983.
Section 2.06. (a) PCEP undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower   against   hazards   incident   to   the   acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by PCEP to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) PCEP shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.07 (a) PCEP shall furnish to the Association,
prorptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,


﻿3 -
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) PCEP:   (i)  shall  maintain   records  and  procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including itw cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by PCEP of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between PCEP and the
Association, PCEP shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such 6-tail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by PCEP and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) PCEP shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of PCEP and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 2.08. PCEP shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, PCEP shall not take or concur in any


﻿-4-
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.09. (a) PCEP shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) PCEP shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by PCEP of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PCEP
Section 3.01. PCEP shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. PCEP shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. PCEP shall: (a) take out and maintain with
responsible insurers insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice; or (b)
insure  against   such  risks,   to  the   satisfaction  of  the
Association, through other arrangements, including Governmental
guarantee.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PCEP shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. PCEP shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for each year so audited and (B) the report
of each audit by said so auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, as
soon as available, but in any case not later than (1) Septem-
ber 30, 1982 for fiscal year 1980; (2) March 31, 1983 for fiscal
year 1981; and (3) ten months after the end of fiscal year 1982
and the subsequent years; and (iii) furnish to the Association:
(1) not later than November 30, 1982, the unaudited accounts of
its Aden branch for the fiscal year 1981, and thereafter not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year; and (2)
not later than September 30, 1984, the unaudited accounts for its
branches outside of Aden for the fiscal year 1983, and thereafter
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year; and
(iv) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of PCEP and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, PCEP shall take all measures necessary on its part to
ensure that:
(a) its receivables 'or electricity supply shall not exceed
the equivalent of three months of sales; and
(b) the arrears on account of the Borrower's departments,
state farms and state enterprises for electricity consumption
through December 31, 1982 shall be settled not later than
March 31, 1983.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, PCEP shall not incur any long-term debt in any fiscal year
unless a reasonable forecast of PCEP's revenues and expenditures
shows that its projected net revenues for each full fiscal year
during the term of the long-term debt to be incurred shall be for
each year at least 1.5 times its projected debt service require-
ments for such year on all long-term debt of PCEP, including the
debt to be incurred.


﻿-6-
(b) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) "Long-term debt" means any debt maturing more than
one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(ii) "debt" does not include      debt incurred in the
ordinary course of business and maturing by its
terms on demand or less than one year after the
date of its incurrence;
(iii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement on the date of such
loan contract or agreement; (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into but only,
except in the case of a guarantee of debt of a
subsidiary, to the extent that the guaranteed debt
is outstanding;
(iv) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of the currency of
the Borrower debt payable in any other currency,
such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable by PCEP for the purpose of servicing
such debt or in the absence of such rate of
exchange,   another   rate   acceptable   to    the
Association;
(v) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from
all sources, less all operating and administrative
expenses, excise duties, fees, taxes, royalties
and other levies, if any, but before provision for
depreciation ann. interest and other charges on
debt;
(vi) the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by PCEP in the fiscal year in which the
debt in question is proposed to be incurred, which
both the Association and PCEP accept as reasonable
and as to which the Association has notified PCEP
of its acceptability, provided that no event has
occurred since such notification which has or may


﻿- 7 -
reasonably be expected in the future to have a
material adverse effect on the financial condition
or future operating results of PCEP; and
(vii) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate   amount   of  amortization    (including
sinking fund payment, if any), interest and other
charges on debt.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, PCEP shall take all steps necessary to set and maintain
tariffs at such levels as may be required to provide it with
revenues sufficient to ensure removal of the fuel subsidy by
December 31, 1985 in accordance with a program satisfactory to
the Association and, with effect from its fiscal year 1986, to
cover its operating costs including depreciation and to meet
interest expenses.
(b) For the purpose of this Section, the term "operating
costs" means all operation, administration, overhead and adequate
maintear-a. expenses, straight-line depreciation based on the
useful life of the assets, revalued annually on the basis of a
methodology acceptable to the Association, taxes, interest and
other charges on debt.
Section 4.06. The foregoing provisions of Sections 4.02,
4.04 and 4.05 supersede the agreements set forth in Sections
4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of the Project Agreement (Wadi Hadramout
Power Project) dated July 14, 1978 between the Association and
PCEP.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of PCEP thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:


﻿-8-
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)  If  the  Development Credit Agreement    terminates   in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
PCEP of this event-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿9 -
For PCEP:
Public Corporation for
Electric Power
Hedjuff, Maalla
Aden
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Cable address:                    Telex:
ADENLEC                            275 ADENLEC
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PCEP may be taken or executed by its
Executive Chairman or such other person or persons as the
Executive Chairman shall designate in writing, and PCEP shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrumento
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By      A Aa,r.o.
Regional Vice President
Europe, Rddle East and North Africa
PUBLIC CORPORATION FOR ELECTRIC POWER
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for Prucurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, PCEP shall prepare and forward
to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the
Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. PCEP shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿-11 -
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PCEP shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PCEP
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the con-
sultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform PCEP and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, PCEP shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit


﻿12
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform PCEP and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, PCEP shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform PCEP and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed he Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
FOR SECRETARY


