CREDIT NUMBER 1268 YDR
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Power Project)
between
PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated           u UI            , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1268 YDR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    AIvuab    i               , 1982, between
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of thf Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)  the Project will be carried out by the Public Corpora-
tion for Electric Power of the Borrower (hereinafter called PCEP)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to PCEP the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C)   the Borrower intends to contract from other external
sources of finance (hereinafter called the Co-Financiers) loans
(hereinafter called the Co-Financiers' Loans) in an aggregate
amount equivalent to about seven million five hundred thousand
dollars ($7,500,000) to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in agreements (hereinafter called
the Co-Financiers' Loan Agreements) to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Co-Financiers; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and PCEP;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto herebv agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
SeLtion 1.025 Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise rcquires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "PCEP" means the Public Corporation for Electric Power
of the Borrower;
(b) "Project AgreeLment" means tne agreement between the
Association and PCEP of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PCEP pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(d)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated August 31, 1981 and
September 30, 1981 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(e) "Yemeni Dinars" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
i-wer, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to six million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 6,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Pro-
ject Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Pro-
ject Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the dates on which amounts shall be with-
drawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be can-
celled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purpose of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstaiding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service and commitment charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principa, amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1992, and ending April 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such priicipal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. PCEP is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
mcnt, the Borrower shall cause PCEP to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of fuads, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PCEP to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
PCEP under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and PCEP under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association, providing inter alia that PCEP
shall: (i) repay the equivalent in terms of Yemeni Dinars of the
proceeds of the Credit so relent (such equivalent to be
determined as of the respective dates of withdraT-:l from the
Credit Account) in equal or approximately equal anr Rl or
semi-annual installments over a period of twenty years itn:.uding
a grace period of five years, and (ii) pay interest at thn rate
of 11.60% per annum on the principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.


﻿-5-
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Stibsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall remove its annual fuel-
subsidy payments to PCEP by December 31, 1985 in accordance with
a program satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that: (i) bills invoiced by PCEP to the Borrower's
departments, state farms and state enterprises for electricity
consumption through December 31, 1982 shall be settled not later
than March 31, 1983; and (ii) thereafter PCEP's receivables on
account of the Borrower's departments, state farms and state
enterprises shall not at any time exceed the equivalent of three
months of their electricity consumption.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause its Central Board of
Audit to audit PCEP's accounts referred to in Section 4.02 of the
Project Agreement within four months of their submission.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall review the recommendations
of the committee referred to in Section 2.05 of the Project
Agreement and shall, on the basis of said recommendations,
approve the evaluation of PCEP's branch assets not later than
February 28, 1983.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to enable PCEP to generate sufficient revenues, with effect from
its fiscal year 1986, to cover its operating costs including
depreciation and to meet interest expenses.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Any of the Co-Financiers' Loan Agreements shall have
failed to become effective by January 31, 1983 or such later date


﻿-6-
as the Association may establish provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower or PCEP under
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
(b) PCEP shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
PCEP will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower's Law No. 38 of the year 1969 establishing
PCEP shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived ;o as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
PCEP to perform any of its ob gations under the Project
Agreement.
(e) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PCEP or for the suspension of its operations.
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any of the Co-Financiers' Loans shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor; or
(B) any of the Co-Financiers' Loans shall have become
due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, can-
cellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms


﻿-7-
and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement and of PCEP
under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) The ev"nt specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association tro the Borrower and PCEP.
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
(c) The event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
4.01 of t Ls Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagr, h (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Terminatiin
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of SecLion 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PCEP; and
(b) the Co-F anciers' Loan Agreements have been duly
signed on behalf of .e parties thereto.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PCEP, and is legally binding upon PCEP in accordance
with its terms; and


﻿- 8 -
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PCEP and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PCEP in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date KOqV     "e   tI le q2     is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrover; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
P.O. Box 1193
Tawahi, Aden
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Cable address:                         Telex:
TAKHTEET                            289 TAKHTEET AD
Aden
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By IS      k quaLoS rrwL PvO
,tji5     Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Materials and              31967,000            100% of for-
equipment                                      eign expendi-
under Part B                                   tures
of the Project
(2) Installation and             921,000            100% of for-
erection under                                 eign expendi-
Part B.1 (i),                                  tures
(ii), (iii) and
(iv) of the Project,
including related
civil works
(3) Consultants services         664,000            100% of for-
(engineering and                              eign expendi-
supervision)                                   tures
(4) Training under Part          192,000            100% of for-
C of the Project                               eign expendi-
tures
(5) Refunding of Project         270,000           Amount due
Preparation Advance
(6) Unallocated                  786,000
TOTAL        6,800,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For che purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or ser-
vices, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on
or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Categoty, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such


﻿- 12 -
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project represents the first stage of a program for the
supply of electricity to five towns east of Mukalla and thirteen
nearby villages. The Project consists of:
Part A:
The provision and installation of a 3 x 2.2 MW diesel power
station at As Shihr.
Part B:
1.   The provision and installation of:
(i) About 84 km of 33-kV and 11 km of 11-kV overhead
transmission lines.
(ii) Six 33/11-kV    substation  transformers  totalling
10.5 MVA.
(iii) About 146 11/0.415 kV distribution transformers
totalling 8,400 kVa.
(iv) About 51 km of 11-kV and 48 km of low voltage
distribution lines.
(v) Meters and service connections for about 7,300
consumers.
2.   The provision of vehicles for transporation of materials and
equipment for construction and erection of transmission and
distribution lines.
Part C:
Overseas training for management and technical staff of
PCEP.
The Project is expected to be completed by. December 31,
1984.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  L/     Lday of
198 1.
FOR SECR,ETARY


