Document of                FILE  COJP Y
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2367-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
BANGKOK TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
November 30, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     = Baht (B)
US$1              =  B 20
B I               =  US$0.05
B I million       =  US$50,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)           =  39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (sq m) =  10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)  =  35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)      =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare             =  10,000 sq m or 2.471 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMA         -  Bangkok Metropolitan Administration
BMTA           Bangkok Mass Transit Authority
EGAT        -  Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
ETA         -  Expressway and Rapid Transit Authority
IEAT        -  Industrial Estates Authority of Thailand
IFCT        -  Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
MWWA           Metropolitan Water Works Authority
NGOT        -  Natural Gas Organization of Thailand
RTG         -  Royal Thai Government
TOT         -  Telephone Organization of Thailand
UTPO        -  Urban Transportation Planning Office
GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
BANGKOK TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiaries:             B'angkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA); Bangkok
Mlass Transit Authority (BMTA); Traffic Police
D)ivision; and Urban Transport Planning Office (UTPO).
Amount:                    $16 million
Terms:                     20 years, including five years of grace, with interest
at 7.35% per annum.
Project Description:       The purpose of the project is to make Bangkok's
existing transportation system more efficient with
mninimum additional investments and to strengthen
appropriate traffic related institutions.  The
lproject would consist of: (a) specific policies to
discourage the use of low occupancy vehicles includ-
ing area pricing, parking controls, and staggering
of working and school hours; (b) strengthening of
urban traffic management through provision of tech-
nical assistance, training and traffic monitoring
iequipment, (c) low-cost measures to increase the
capacity of the urban road network, such as traffic
signalling improvements, construction of selected
road flyovers and road links, street widening,
junction improvements and improved road signing;
and (d) improvement of the management and operation
of public transport through technical assistance and
training. The project entails risks, principally
related to political acceptance and enforcement of
the proposed area pricing scheme. These risks,
'however, should be weighted against the exceptionally
large economic benefits that successful project
implementation would generate. All road users in
Bangkok will benefit, with lower-income groups who
travel by public transport benefiting relatively
more than the more affluent.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost:                         --    $ million ---------           % of
Local       Foreign      Total        Total
Policy measures /a                  0.3         0.2           0.5           1
Urban management                    0.6         2.6           3.2 /b        9
Road capacity increase             10.2 /c      8.8          19.0          56
Public transport improvement        0.9         0.8           1.7           5
Design and supervision              2.4          -            2.4           7
Contingencies:
Physical                          1.8         1.8          3.6           11
Price                             1.8         1.8          3.6           11
Total                         18.0        16.0         34.0         100
Financing Plan:                    -------- $ million ---------           % of
Local       Foreign      Total        Total
IBRD                                0        16.0         16.0          47
Government                       18.0           0         18.0          53
Total                         18.0        16.0         34.0         100
Estimated Disbursements                       --------- $ million --------
from Bank loan:                 Bank FY:   1979    1980    1981    1982
Annual:                                     2.80    6.70    5.80    0.70
Cummulative:                                2.80    9.50   15.30   16.00
Rate of Return:      56% on about 94% of project investments; i.e., excluding
those associated with policy changes. If such policy changes
are included, the overall rate of return would be about 140%.
Appraisal Report:  No. 2105a-TH, dated November 30, 1978
/a Signing, sales outlets, gantry signs.
/b In addition, the UK Transport and Road Research Laboratory will provide,
on a grant basis, about $72,000 worth of project monitoring assistance to
UTPO.
/c Including acquisition of land and property, $0.5 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A BANGKOK TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $16.0 million to help
finance a Bangkok Traffic Management Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 7.35% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report forges a link between the overall development
of the economy and the extent and incidence of poverty. It concludes that
Thailand's rapid economic growth over the past 15 years has led to a significant
reduction in absolute poverty, but that nevertheless important groups have
lagged behind. It identifies the essential characteristics of these groups
and points to the need for continued rapid overall development as well as the
initiation of specific measures to deal with the poverty problem. It further
discusses the constraints that will have to be faced if these policies are to
be successfully implemented. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Despite frequent changes at the top levels of government, there is
a fundamental stability in Thai society and the bureaucracy. Recent changes
in governments have mainly reflected differences in view about Thailand's
external relations and on -the political decision-making process within the
country. With regard to external relations, the civilian government formed
in November 1977 under the Prime Ministership of General Kriangsak Chomanan,
then Commander in Chief of the Army, has moved successfully to consolidate
Thailand's external position by improving and stabilizing relations with
Thailand's Indochinese neighbors and by strengthening relations among its
ASEAN partners. Domestically, under the interim constitution promulgated by
the Kriangsak Government, a general election was to be held within one year
of its formation. However, the new constitution has not yet been approved
and elections are likely to be postponed until early 1979.
4.        A broad concensus has been developing over the last several years on
the priorities for socioeconomic development. This is reflected in the fact
that all recent governments have endorsed the objectives and major strategies
of the country's Fourth Five-Year National Economic and Social Development
Plan (1977-81). There is now increasing concern to achieve a widespread
/1 Parts I and II of this report are essentially the same as in the recent
President's Report (P-2404-TH) dated November 1, 1978 for the Second
Northeast Thailand Irrigation Project, distributed to the Executive
Directors on November 2, 1978 under cover of Secretary's memorandum
R78-243.



distribution of the benefits of growth. The Government is increasingly
turning its attention towards socioeconomic issues, recognizing that an
improvement in the conditions of the poorest farmers and those living in the
more remote areas is not only desirable by itself, but would also counteract
insurgency in the long run.
Past Socioeconomic Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  Although
there was some deceleration in recent years, the average annual real GDP
growth rate from 1960 to 1977 was 7.6%, or 4.4% per capita. Real agricultural
growth of 5% was a leading factor sustaining this expansion. The cultivated
area increased by about 4% per year, water control was improved, irrigation
expanded and the cultivation of relatively new crops, including maize, cassava,
kenaf, sugar and rubber, grew rapidly. As a result, agriculture has also been
a major contributor to export growth. The Government maintained economic and
price stability throughout the period and encouraged private savings and
investment. As a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and
24%, and total investment between 20% and 27%. The high level of private
investment contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% and a real growth
of manufactured exports of 30% per year since 1970. All this was achieved
with a limited inflow of foreign resources; until recently the resource gap
remained below 5% of GDP, and in most years it was considerably smaller.
6.        The growth in incomes has, however, not been evenly distributed
throughout the country and at present there are very significant regional
differentials in incomes and access to economic and social infrastructure.
While the regions are very different in terms of topography, climate, soils,
urbanization, etc. and present quite distinct problems for future development,
there appears to be a close correlation between development and proximity to
the center. The Central Region, including Bangkok, has the highest average
per capita income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools,
public health and other services than the other three regions, the North,
Northeast and South. The incidence of poverty is estimated at only around
10% in the Center, around 25% in the North and South, and around 35% in the
Northeast. Within the regions there is also considerable variation, implying
a high incidence of poverty in some of the subregions. The most important
group which has lagged behind is that of rainfed rice farmers in the Northeast
and North. Given a well-functioning labor market, the low incomes of this
large group have tended to depress labor incomes throughout the economy.
7.        Overall, the rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s to 6.4% p.a.
In addition to external factors (the oil price increase and its aftermath),
the major domestic factor responsible for this deceleration is the increasing
scarcity of land. Production has been pushed into less fertile soils causing
a decline in agricultural growth to about 4% p.a. since 1970. During 1973 and
part of 1974, this secular deceleration was hidden by very high prices for
Thailand's main export products and a domestic investment boom. In conjunction
with rapid domestic inflation, the latter led the Government to curtail sharply
public investments in 1974 and 1975. As economic growth slowed, however, the
newly elected government increased its expenditures in 1976 and 1977 for
countercyclical as well as structural reasons.  In addition, 1975 and 1976



were years of major political uncertainty in the region. The economy has
demonstrated considerable resiliency in the face of external shocks and
real GDP growth rate never fell below 5% during the 1970s and exceeded 6% for
the period 1976-77. Price stability has largely been restored and private
domestic investment remains high at 17-18% of GDP.
8.        Thailand's terms of trade and agricultural export prospects are now
less favorable than in the early 1970s. The balance of payments, which recorded
surpluses in 1973-74, has since been running large deficits. The current
account deficit reached $1,092 million, or 6% of GDP in 1977. The Government
has significantly increasecl its foreign borrowing from traditional sources,
from the Euro-dollar market: and from the IMF to finance these deficits.
Temporarily, foreign exchange reserves have also been used. To contain the
balance of payments deficit, the Government in March 1978 raised tariffs on
141 "nonessential" imports and increased excise taxes on a number of items,
most notably gasoline.
Objectives, Constraints andl Prospects
9.        Thailand is currently in the second year of its Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan (1977-81). The first two plans concentrated on providing
necessary economic infrastructure to facilitate and accommodate the rapid
growth that was taking place in the economy. The strategy proposed in the
Third Plan moved beyond the noninterventionist, growth-supporting strategies
of the previous plans to "alleviate problems related to the widening income
gap and inequitable distrilbution of social services."  However, actual
budgetary allocations have not always reflected these priorities, as year-to-
year changes in allocations have been too small to effect the major shift in
expenditure patterns which would be required. A major factor impeding reallo-
cation of resources has beien that the senior staff of the ministries are
concentrated in Bangkok and that the ministries are highly centralized at the
level of the Directors-General. These officials have a great deal of indepen-
dence of action within their respective ministries. As a result, there is
little regional delegation of authority, and the close cooperation within and
among ministries necessary to implement new-style integrated development
projects effectively has been lacking. These problems have been recognized
and the Government is implementing a number of long and short-term measures
to modernize its development administration and expedite project execution,
including a major reform in 1976 of the civil service personnel, planning and
staffing procedures, establishment of special project committees, and implemen-
tation of a revolving fund scheme to speed implementation of Bank-funded
projects. Continued improvement in development management will be one of the
principal objectives of our policy dialogue with the Government.
10.       The Fourth Plan continues the gradual shift in emphasis started in
the Third Plan.  Its principal objectives include a growth target of 7%,
equitable distribution of income, reduction in the rate of population growth,
faster generation of employment opportunities and a balanced development of
the different regions. Projected public sector development expenditures
amount to $12.5 billion for the Plan period, a 90% increase in real terms over
the Third Plan. However, the Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies
only in broad terms, and concrete policies and programs to meet the Plan's
economic and social objectives remain largely to be defined. The Bank has



initiated an intensive program of economic studies to help the Government
define a policy and investment framework to help achieve the objectives of the
Fourth Plan. These studies, as well as concurrent work under way within the
Government, are focusing on problems of employment, income distribution,
industrial policy, and regional development.
11.       In looking ahead towards the 1980s, it is clear that the Thai economy
has many positive features which have sustained a rapid rate of economic growth
over the past two decades, and which augur well for rapid and broadly distri-
buted growth in the future. These include a relatively equitable distribution
of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved technology; extensive,
albeit uneven, provision of infrastructure by the Thai Government; and dynamism
of the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also major gains have
been made in family planning in recent years, as the annual rate of population
growth slowed from 3% during the 1960s to 2.5% in 1977./i
12.       However, some less favorable domestic factors are emerging.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the past, the labor force is expected
to grow at 3% over the next decade, necessitating a very high rate of job
creation. At the same time, additional fertile land, which has provided an
essential outlet for new entrants into the labor force and has supported
agricultural export growth in the past, is becoming increasingly scarce. In
view of these factors, continued reliance on the past development model would
lead to a deceleration in agricultural and overall growth in the next decade,
resulting in persistently large balance of payments deficits, higher rates of
unemployment or underemployment, and stagnating or declining real incomes of
the poorer segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among
unskilled workers. Thus, a shift in the development pattern is necessary not
only for social, but also for economic reasons.
13.       The central development issue in Thailand today, therefore, is how to
shift the economy from a pattern of growth based on the extension of land under
cultivation and on import substitution industries to one based on increasingly
intensive use of land and on industries producing for domestic and export
markets under competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs will be
necessary to ensure that economic growth is maintained and income disparity
not widened during this period of transition. In the past, the Government's
role has been confined to largely short-term economic management, where its
performance has been good, and to the provision of basic economic and social
services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth transition, the Government
will now have to undertake more coordinated and longer-term actions.
14.       For the time being it is clear that agriculture, which produces
one-third of GDP, provides about 65% of exports, employs 70% of the labor
force, and on which most of the country's poor depend for their livelihood,
remains the key sector. Future growth of the sector will have to be based
mainly on more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, improvement in
yields, continued diversification of crops, including, in some areas, different
/1 This is a further decline from the 2.9% average growth recorded in Annex I
for 1970-75.



forms of cropping patterns and farming practices, and availability of agricul-
tural credit. All of these require increased government assistance to
the rural sector. As a matter of high priority, special programs will have to
be formulated to accelerate income growth for that significant part of the
rural population which has not fully participated in the recent growth in
rural income. Specifically, these programs would attempt to develop upland
and other rainfed areas through research, extension services and rural infra-
structure development. In addition, wherever technically feasible, irrigation
development, with the associated introduction of high yielding varieties,
greater use of fertilizers and other commercial inputs, would be continued.
15.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the burden of sustaining future growth
will have to shift progressively to the industrial sector. Industry, construc-
tion and services will haves to provide an increasing share of employment for
the growing population. This will require modifications of industrial policy
and programs with the primes objective of creating jobs for the rapidly growing
labor force at rising leveLs of productivity and wages. Greater effort will
be required to encourage the location of industries outside Bangkok and to
promote small-scale and ru:ral industries. While continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports is essential, the large domestic rural sector also offers
opportunities for a balancied industrial growth strategy based on production of
consumer goods for low-income households, agricultural inputs and equipment,
and processed agricultural products. Our policy dialogue will concentrate on
efforts to reduce price distortions, increase the availability of credit, and
eliminate impediments to efficient production for domestic and foreign markets
so that the dynamic private sector can realize its potential for spurring
growth and creating jobs.
Resource Requirements
16.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate
of economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GNP (13.4% in 1977) is low compared to
other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. The
Government has recently improved resource mobilization through increased
taxation of property and income and better collection efforts. It is currently
investigating other more efficient tax systems, such as the value added tax.
Such changes would also make it feasible to reduce taxation of foreign trade,
particularly on rice and other exports, which has inhibited agricultural
growth.
17.       During the coming 5-10 years, there will be significantly greater
demands on external resources than has been the case in the past as the cost
of any attempt to reduce the presently existing resource deficit rapidly would
be high in terms of growth and employment opportunities foregone. Despite an
average real growth of exports in excess of 8% and a modest improvement in the
terms of trade, large trade and current account deficits are expected through
the mid 1980s. Because of the large present deficit, the percentage growth in



- 6 -
exports would have to be significantly larger than that in imports even to
keep the deficit stable in absolute terms. The needs for capital goods
imports for industry and for modern inputs to raise agricultural productivity
are such that the current deficit is not expected to decline rapidly. In the
longer term, the exploitation of the natural gas fields in the Gulf of Thailand,
further development of its lignite resources, the continued growth of manufac-
tured exports and the development of Thai industries should restore external
equilibrium and significantly reduce the current account deficits in the
second half of the 1980s. Although the levels of foreign borrowing needed to
finance these deficits are high in relation to Thailand's past experience,
they are not high in relation to the current needs of the Thai economy or in
comparison to other countries at similar stages of development. With a
dynamic private sector and a long history of conservative monetary and fiscal
policy, Thailand should be able to use the resources effectively and service
the debt.
18.       Official donors, particularly Japan, the Asian Development Bank and
IBRD, have been able to expand their programs to meet a part of the rising
requirements. The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond
markets, and by the utilization of IMF resources. The Government has estab-
lished a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to coordinate and approve all foreign
borrowing by the Government and public sector. The Bank of Thailand is
establishing procedures for recording private borrowing abroad in order to
keep track of total foreign debt. Thailand's external public borrowing
requirements to the end of the Fourth Plan period (1981) will be considered at
the next meeting of the Consultative Group to be held in Paris on December 5
and 6, 1978.
19.       It is likely that net disbursements will more than double in current
terms for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private borrowing
by 1985, although in real terms the growth is much less. Even with this
increase in borrowing, the debt service ratio on public debt (2.5% in 1976)
would remain below 10% through 1985 and decline thereafter. The debt service
ratio on total civilian borrowing, currently about 11%, would not exceed 20%.
IBRD exposure in Thailand would fall as other donors increased their programs.
Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion of
manufactured exports, these debt service requirements will be within Thailand's
capacity and will not endanger its credit standing. It should be noted,
however, that these projections assume a significant level of concessional
assistance from other donors, particularly Japan, in view of that country's
announced intention to expand its foreign aid program.



PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
20.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received 46
loans amounting to $1,241.2 million, net of cancellations. Most of these have
been for transportation ($295.5 million), irrigation ($218.8 million) and
power/energy and rural electrification ($245.9 million) with, in addition, one
for a dual-purpose power and irrigation project ($65.8 million). The remaining
loans have been for water supply ($55 million), telecommunications ($153 mil-
lion), education ($52.3 mi:Llion), industry ($42.8 million), rural development
($21 million), livestock (.$5 million), rubber replanting ($50 million),
national agricultural extension ($28 million) and a sites and services project
in Bangkok ($8.6 million); the rural development and livestock loans were made
under Third Window terms. Thailand has also received four IDA credits: one
for $19.5 million for an education project; two credits totaling $12.5 million
for irrigation improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population
project. In general, Bank-financed projects have been carried out satisfactor-
ily and in accordance with expectations, though disbursements, particularly
for projects in new areas, have lagged behind projections. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of September 30, 1978.
21.       Over the past five years, the Bank has dramatically shifted its
lending to Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional
infrastructure projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74)
to a program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's
efforts to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since
FY75, investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for only about 40% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 45% of
lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a program balanced
between irrigation (including land development and support services to the
farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside the
central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agriculture extension,
research and rural development). Projects in the social sectors - which prior
to FY75 were limited to three in education accounting for 6% of the program -
have both diversified and increased in number; such projects have in recent
years included education, population and low-income housing for about 13% of
the program.
22.       The findings of the recent Basic Economic Report not only verify the
appropriateness of the above shift, but also underscore the need to move even
further to design programs; which help the rural population, and particularly
those farmers in rainfed a,reas who have so far been largely bypassed by recent
economic growth. In the aLgricultural sector, therefore, we are redoubling
efforts to develop a package of investments to lift the rainfed farmers out of
a subsistence existence. A combination of education, agricultural research
and extension, credit and improved infrastructure is foreseen, though a viable
package for the poorest, eand most remote farmers has yet to be developed.



- 8 -
Expansion and improvement of irrigation systems will continue, with increased
emphasis on reaching those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern
and northeastern regions. The program of transportation, power, water supply
and telecommunications projects will also continue to have a rural focus. A
key element of the strategy outined in the Basic Economic Report is the
creation of jobs and stimulation of economic activity away from Bangkok. We
therefore intend to redirect the bulk of our urban and industrial lending to
the provinces and are now assisting the Government in the preparation of
projects to enhance the attractiveness of regional urban centers.
23.       Implementation of the above strategy will require a significant
effort by both the Government and the Bank. Preparation of viable investment
packages to assist rainfed farmers will test the administrative capacity of
the Thai bureaucracy and present new challenges to agriculturalists and
economists alike. The Government has requested Bank assistance in identifying
and preparing such projects.
24.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$365.2 million, as of December 31, 1977, representing about 34.7% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (5.8% of GDP in 1977). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below
25% of total public external debt by 1982. The Bank's share in total debt
outstanding would remain at about 15%, and its share of debt service is
not expected to exceed 10%.
25.       IFC has made two equity investments totaling $380,000 in the Indus-
trial Finance Corporation of Thailand; three loans and an investment, totaling
$32.17 million, in the Siam Cement group; a loan of $300,000 to Concrete
Products; an equity investment of about $300,000 in Mutual Fund Company; and a
loan of $2.5 million and an equity investment of $200,000 in United Sugar
Terminal Company; a loan of $4.85 million and an equity investment of $250,000
in the Bangkok Glass Industry Company; a loan of $36 million and equity
investment of $4 million in Siam City Cement Company; and a $150,000 equity
investment in Thai Orient Leasing Company. IFC has recently approved a line
of credit of $2.0 million for small- and medium-scale enterprises to be
administered by Siam Commercial Bank. IFC has also completed the appraisal of
a project for producing carbon black. Prospects for other IFC operations are
reasonably good. IFC has been asked to arrange the debt financing of approxi-
mately $50 million for a $90 million zinc mining and refinery project. Other
likely operations are the development of privately sponsored industrial
estates and a project to expand cement production. At the Government's
request, the Capital Markets Department carried out a reorganization study of
the Government Housing Bank, which is currently being implemented by the
latter institution.



PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
National Urban Perspective
26.       Thailand's urban sector is characterized by a relatively low level
of urbanization, a moderately rapid rate of growth and the predominance of
Bangkok. During 1976, 7.3 million people (or 17% of the nation's population)
lived in urban areas and, between 1970 and 1976, the urban areas grew at an
average rate of 4.9% per annum, compared to a total national population growth
rate of about 2.9% per annum. Bangkok, with a 1977 population of 4.8 million
and an annual growth rate of about 5%, accounts for 60% of Thailand's total
urban population. Although the city accounts for only 10% of the country's
total population, it contributed 27% of national GDP in 1976, and its Gross
Regional Product per capita (B 20,000) was 2.6 times greater than the Gross
Domestic Product per capita (B 7,600).
27.       Bangkok is economically a very dynamic city.  The private sector
is characterized by small firms, competition and price responsiveness. The
city's manufacturing industries are diversified, with textiles and apparel
accounting for almost 30% of industrial employment. Basic metal industries,
including manufacture of metal products, machinery, transport equipment and
appliances, account for another 28%. Unemployment rates have been unusually
low, estimated at less than 2.5% during the first half of the 1970s.
28.       Bangkok can be generally typified as a highly amorphous city with
a mixture of land-use activities which minimizes work-related travel. Shop
houses, with their attendant residential, industrial and commercial uses, can
be found in all parts of the city. There is no single strong central business
district in the western sense, and in the core area of the city, which is
about 5 km in diameter, a large amount of residential development is mixed
with commercial development.  On the city's north and east sides, large areas
of predominantly residential use have developed, but, even in these areas,
there is a mixture of income levels and dwelling types as the population tries
to remain close to places of work and commerce.
29.       Responsibility for the city's administration rests primarily with
the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA), created in 1972 to consolidate
urban management functions in the greater metropolitan area. BMA has over
30,000 employees. Its responsibilities include primary education, construction
and maintenance of roads and canals ("klongs"), sanitation, drainage, medical
services and social welfare, with over half of its 1978 budget of approximately
$142 million equivalent going to education (21%) and public works (29%).
While BMA enjoys considerable local autonomy, several municipal services are
provided by other government agencies, the most important being the Metropolitan
Water Works Authority, the Metropolitan Electricity Authority, the Telephone
Organization of Thailand, the Metropolitan Police Bureau, the National Housing
Authority and the Bangkok Mass Transit Authority. The tax base of the city is
weak and only about 14% of BMA's revenues are levied locally. The bulk of
BMA's revenues comes from business tax (30%), vehicle registration (25%) and
government grants (11%); only 2% come from property valuation taxation.



- 10 -
Bangkok's Urban Transport Subsector
30.       Bangkok's transportation infrastructure can be generally charac-
terized as having a very low proportion of space devoted to roadways (not more
than 10% in the inner core) and a road network dependent on a limited number
of major roads with only a few connecting links, particularly outside the grid
network in the central area of the city. The remaining road network consists
of a discontinuous jumble of minor streets ("sois") which are typically
narrow and winding with limited access. The net result is a supply and
configuration of road space that is unable to cope adequately with existing
transport demand, let alone projected or latent transport growth. As the
motor vehicle fleet is expanding at an approximate rate of over 8% annually,
the comparatively modest road building and traffic management measures that
have been introduced have not been able to keep pace. Travel speeds have
accordingly declined and will decline further until a point is reached
where certain trips are deferred or are altogether eliminated as the costs of
travel become too high. There is some evidence to indicate that this point
may have been reached already: typical car speeds in the central area of the
city are only 12 km/h and bus speeds, 9 km/h during the heaviest travel hours.
Furthermore, congestion has reached such high levels that no discernible
"peak hour" can be determined as heavy traffic spreads throughout most of the
working day.
31.       Despite Bangkok's relative prosperity compared to the rest of the
country, only about 20% can afford some form of private motorized transporta-
tion. The remainder, including the urban poor (about 10% of the total), rely
exclusively on buses for mechanized transport. Nearly 70% of person-trips
in the primary direction of travel on arterial streets are carried by public
transport, which comprises less than 20% of passenger vehicles. Private
transport, on the other hand, comprises over 80% of passenger vehicles, but
carries only about 30% of person-trips. Thus the passenger-carrying capacity
of the road system would be substantially increased if public transport were
to carry an even bigger share of the load.
32.       Fixed-route bus services are provided by the Bangkok Mass Transit
Authority (BMTA). The BMTA was established by the Government as a state
enterprise under the Ministry of Communications in April 1976 by the amalgama-
tion of 24 private bus companies. The Authority has recently expanded its
fleet, assisted by Government financing, and now has over 4,700 units, making
it one of the largest city fleets in the world. It operates about 100 regular
routes and an additional 11 routes which offer airconditioned services. In
March 1978, the total number of daily passenger trips averaged about 3.3 mil-
lion. Estimated peak demand was about 75% over off-peak, but peak supply
was only 35% above off-peak; thus considerable overloading of buses occurs
during peak travel hours. In order to accommodate more travel on buses, BMTA
must improve its operations. Certain factors adversely affecting BMTA's
services, such as traffic congestion, are beyond its control. However, BMTA
has to overcome internal problems, created by the amalgamation of the private
bus companies and basically related to the enlarged scale of activities in
management, operations, maintenance and finance.



- 11 -
33.       Because of poor financial performance since its establishment, BMTA
has accumulated operational deficits which at October 31, 1977 amounted to
about B 340 million ($17 million) and exceeded the paid-up capital of the
Authority. According to the summary balance sheet available at that date,
total assets amounting to about B 690 million ($34 million) were represented
entirely by external debt liability of which 40% related to trade creditors
and overdraft facilities. Current assets amounted to about B 10 million
($500,000) compared to current liabilities of nearly B 300 million ($15 mil-
lion). A fare increase on April 1, 1978 from B 0.75 ($0.03) to B 1.00 ($0.05)
will help stem further deterioration in financial performance, but additional
measures will need to be taken to rationalize the Authority's capital structure
and secure financial viability over the medium term. Technical assistance
included in the project provides for a detailed review of BMTA finances and
development of financial targets and the design and installation of effective
systems for financial control and forward planning.
34.       Approximately 10,000 privately owned minibuses also operate in
Bangkok. These minibuses, most of which are small converted trucks, perform a
valuable service as they haindle excess peak demand for public transport and
ply many narrow streets not: accessible to standard size buses. To date, only
about 2,500 minibuses have been licensed, but the Government is currently
reviewing the proper role of minibuses in the context of a broader review of
public transport in Bangkolk to serve the needs of the travelling public.
The Government agreed to consult with the Bank in developing its policy with
regard to the roles of the various modes of public transportation during the
course of 1979 and to implement a mutually agreed policy by mid 1980 (Sec-
tion 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Recent Developments
35.       Work is currently in progress on a number of road investments
in Bangkok which are compleamentary to the proposed Bank project and will help
to ease traffic congestion in the core area of the city (Map #13578). A
toll expressway is being constructed by the Expressway and Rapid Transit
Authority (ETA) from the port area to Dindaeng road where it links up with the
major highway to the north, connecting the city with Don Muang International
Airport. BMA is constructing a "middle ring" road, one third of which has
been completed, as well as a Sathorn road extension and bridge which will
provide a much needed by-piass to the congested core area. A road extending
eastward from the intersection of Dindaeng road and the new "middle ring"
road, providing traffic relief to Petchburi road and better access to the
developing northeastern quadrant of the city, is also under construction. In
addition to these road investments, the ETA has appointed consultants to
undertake a feasibility study of constructing a mass transit system. A
decision to go ahead with such a scheme has not been taken, however, and the
scheme may be unnecessary if other measures prove successful.
Bank Strategy in the Urban Sector
36.       The Bank has made three loans for projects designed to improve the
living standards of Bangkok's urban population: a water supply project which
is helping to improve the supply of potable water to the city's residents, a



- 12 -
sites and services and slum.improvement project which is providing housing for
low-income residents, and an industrial estate project designed to encourage
industrial expansion outside the congested central area while providing 12,000
jobs for its residents. The main thrust of these projects as well as that
proposed in this report is the strengthening of agencies providing services to
the urban populace and the development of low-cost, replicable programs to
meet the demands of the dynamic urban sector, particularly the urban poor,
without diverting scarce resources from other high-priority development needs.
In order to have a better understanding of the appropriate level of services
for the Bangkok municipality, the Bank is exploring the possibility of providing
technical assistance to BMA to review the structure of expenditures and the
appropriate tax base. Future Bank involvement in Thailand's urban sector will
be increasingly directed at developing regional cities, while assisting in
selected projects to ensure that the urban poor are provided with basic services.
Future possible projects include Bangkok drainage and solid waste disposal,
provincial water supply, low-income housing, small-scale industries, and
integrated regional cities development.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
37.       Bank involvement in the urban transport sector in Bangkok dates back
to 1969 when the Government requested Bank assistance in preparing terms of
reference for an urban transport study to be financed by the Government of the
Federal Republic of Germany. At the request of the Government, the Bank
reviewed the results of the study, which was carried out by a team of German
consultants F. H. Kochs and Rhein-Ruhr Ing-GMBH from 1973 to 1976.  The
consultants proposed a number of short-term measures including completion of
67 low-cost missing links and several intersection improvements; construction
of long-term, high-cost extensions to the transport infrastructure such as
expressways and mass transit systems; and establishment of a central agency
with full responsibility for transport planning in the city. Initial attempts
following completion of the study to define an urban transport project for
possible Bank financing were unsuccessful as the Government gave greater
emphasis to constructing urban expressways and other major road improvements
than to strengthening urban management or discouraging the use of private
automobiles, both of which were felt to be essential prerequisites to continued
Bank involvement in the urban transport sector.
38.       In the face of continually deteriorating traffic conditions, however,
the Government has come to recognize that physical investments alone are
not sufficient to solve the problem and that, in the long run, stringent
policy measures aimed at discouraging the uneconomic use of private automobiles
are essential if the transport needs of the dynamic urban sector are to be met
at a reasonable cost. It therefore approached the Bank in late 1977 to help
develop a project for accelerated implementation comprising policy measures,
strengthening of urban traffic management, selected low-cost infrastructure
improvements, and improvement of public transport. The Government's high-level
National Traffic Board appointed four subcommittees to work with the Urban



- 13 -
Transport Planning Office (UTPO) (see para. 45) to prepare implementation
plans for the policy package to be introduced under the project. Consultants,
employed under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, have been assisting
the UTPO since July 1978 to gather the necessary data to define an appropriate
set of proposals applicable to Bangkok's unique situation. The Government has
agreed to submit a detailed package of policy proposals, including an area
pricing scheme, parking controls, staggered work and school hours and traffic
noise and air pollution controls, to the Bank no later than June 30, 1979
(Section 3.02[b] of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.       At the Government's request, the Bank financed short-term technical
assistance for project preparation from January through May 1978. The project
was preappraised in February, and appraised in April/May 1978. Negotiations
took place in Washington from August 23 to 29, 1978. The Government delegation
was led by H. E. Klos Visessurakarn, Thai Ambassador to the United States,
assisted by Khun Wittaya Kesonsaovapark, Director-General, Office of Policy
and Planning, Ministry of Interior and by Khun Manas Leeviraphan, Inspector-
General, Ministry of Finance.
Project Description
40.       Bangkok's traffic situation has deteriorated to the point where
congestion is placing serious constraints on the continued economic develop-
ment of the city. The costs of travel (measured in person-time and vehicle
operating costs) are very high and promise to climb still higher, threatening
strangulation of economic activity and a decline in Bangkok's economic poten-
tial. Accordingly, the principal project objectives are to increase (a) travel
speeds and (b) person-trip capacity of the existing transportation system in
order to facilitate the continued economic development of Bangkok, without
diverting scarce resources from other high priority development activities in
Thailand. The project further aims to improve the capability of Bangkok
officials to plan, design, execute and enforce projects and programs directed
at maintaining and improving transportation conditions within the metropolis.
Recognizing the importance of decentralizing urban development in Thailand, a
separate but related project objective is to encourage urban and industrial
growth outside of Bangkok lthrough the preparation of regional cities develop-
ment projects.
41.       The project comprises:  (a) specific policies to discourage the use
of low-occupancy vehicles including area pricing, parking controls, and
staggering of working and school hours; (b) strengthening of urban traffic
management through provision of technical assistance, training and traffic
monitoring equipment; (c) Low-cost measures to increase the capacity of the
urban road network such as traffic signalling improvements, construction of
selected road flyovers and road links, street widening, junction improvements
and improved road signing; and (d) improvement of the management and operation
of public transport through technical assistance and training. Further details
are provided in the report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Thailand: Bangkok
Traffic Management Project" (No 2105a-TH dated November 30, 1978) which is
being distributed separately to the Exective Directors. Supplementary project
data are given in Annex III.



- 14 -
Policy Measures
42.       Area Pricing.  In order to reduce the demand for road space and
ensure that any expansion in road capacity will not attract additional traffic
and leave road congestion much as before, the proposed project includes a
scheme to charge vehicles directly for the use of roads in central Bangkok. A
set of specifications and guidelines to serve as the starting point for
detailed technical investigations of a viable road pricing scheme have already
been developed and are the basis of work now being carried out by the National
Traffic Board. The actual design of the scheme will be set forth in the policy
package to be submitted to the Bank in mid-1979 (para. 38). The Government
has agreed to introduce an appropriate area pricing scheme by December 31,
1980 (Section 3.02 (d) of draft Loan Agreement), when physical works necessary
to accommodate changed traffic patterns will have been completed and public
transport will have been improved sufficiently to absorb the expected modal
shifts. The small financial allocation for this component covers the need for
clear and distinctive traffic signs, related street improvements, and sales
outlets for licenses.
43.       Parking Controls.  On-street parking charges will be increased
and the enforcement of parking regulations will be improved to ensure better
usage of existing parking spaces and to increase the capacity of arterial
streets. The policy package to be submitted to the Bank will include specific
proposals for enforcement and a timetable for implementation (Section 3.02 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       Staggering of Working and School Hours.  Surveys show that at
least 90% of governmental offices located in the central area have official
work hours beginning between 8:30 and 9:00 am and terminating between 4:30 and
5:00 pm. This concentration of work-oriented travel is exacerbated by heavy
concentrations of school travel, particularly by public transport during much
of the same time period. A program of staggered working and school hours
would spread bus loadings, which would improve comfort and reduce delays for
bus passengers, and might also delay the need to increase the bus fleet size
as transport demand increases. Accordingly the Government will introduce a
formal staggered work and school hour plan for all public offices and schools
beginning in the central area, and will seek similar commitments from large
private concerns and private schools in the same area. The Government proposals
will be submitted to the Bank as part of the policy package referred to above.
Strengthening of Urban Traffic Management
45.       Transport Planning and Regulation.  In late 1977, after agreement
with the Bank on the need for a strong policy package to control traffic
development in Bangkok, the Government took steps to strengthen its Urban
Transport Planning Office (UTPO) in the Ministry of Interior's Department of
Policy and Planning, a unit originally proposed by its transport consultants
in 1975. Though initially made up of a small cadre of traffic engineers with
general responsibility for recommending traffic improvement measures, the unit
has gradually been transformed by a series of ministerial orders into one with
full responsibility for traffic engineering and planning nationwide. All
traffic improvement measures proposed by other parties (including the traffic
police and BMA) must now be reviewed by UTPO, whose recommendations on major



- 15 -
policy matters are submitted to the National Traffic Board for submission to
the Cabinet for approval. To further strengthen the authority of UTPO, the
Government decided to transform the National Traffic Board into a permanent
"Committee for the Systematization of National Traffic," with the UTPO given
departmental status and staff to act as its secretariat and implementing
agency. Legislation to this effect has recently been submitted to the National
Assembly for enactment.
46.       Under the project, the staff of the UTPO will be increased from
the 70 people now temporarily assigned to it to some 200 permanent staff,
including transport planners, economists, engineers, etc. The unit will be
strengthened through the provision of 120 man-months of technical assistance
in administration and development as well as in project design. An additional
six man-months of technical assistance will be provided to UTPO to assist
it in advising the general public on the rationale and purpose of the various
policy measures to be introduced. Permanent and temporary traffic counting
stations, equipment for measuring traffic speeds and air pollution and noise
detection equipment will a:Lso be provided to UTPO to enable it to conduct
monitoring and noise abatement programs.
47.       Traffic Control and Law Enforcement.  To date, responsibility
for traffic control and traffic law enforcement in Bangkok has been undertaken
by 700 traffic police with assistance from police assigned to each of the
city's 42 district stations. Realizing the need for more coordinated action
in order to control traffic flow effectively, the Government has decided to
assign a total of about 2,000 officers to a reorganized Traffic Police Division
with its own line of command and career structure. Under the project, equip-
ment including motorcycles and radio communications would be provided to
the traffic police to enhance police mobility and reduce the need for point
duty at individual junctions. There will also be a need to undertake traffic
police training, and hence about eighteen man-months of consultancy services
have been included in the project for assistance in establishing appropriate
courses.
48.       Regional City Planning. The Government's Five-Year Economic and
Social Development Plan identifies as a high priority the need to develop
regional cities as alternative growth poles to Bangkok. But an explicit
strategy has not been formulated as to how these cities might be made more
attractive to new and expanding industrial concerns. The project includes the
provision of 100 man-months of technical assistance for the preparation of
regional cities development projects outside the project area.
Increasing Urban Road Capacity
49.       The project will provide for improvements in traffic control
(Map #13577R) through coordination of traffic signals at 92 junctions, upgrading
of existing signals, and the further installation of signals at new intersec-
tions. In the core area, new traffic signal controllers will be installed at
48 junctions and connected to a mini-computer at a traffic control center.
Outside the core area, the requirement for computer control is reduced because
junctions are more widely separated. Here, all traffic controlled intersections
will be coordinated through cableless linking equipment, which also provides
for different control plans to be selected automatically by time of day.



- 16 -
50.       Road flyovers (Map #13578R1) will be constructed at principal road
intersections where the greatest person-trip time savings can be realized once
traffic management procedures - i.e., signal timing and intersection channeli-
zation - have been improved. Seven sites have been selected for inclusion in
the proposed project: Phaholyothin/Padipat/Suthisarn; Sukhumvit/ Rama IV/Soi
71; Sathorn/Rama IV/Wireless; Dindaeng/Raj Prarop; Raj Withee/Rama VI; Rama I/
Phya Thai; and Si Ayudhaya/Phya Thai.
51.       The project includes construction of ten missing road links, most
of which are less than one-half km in length. Completion of these few links
will contribute effectively to the traffic capacity of the main road system,
by providing alternatives to existing widely spaced arterial roads or by
providing interconnections within large traffic generating areas. Additional
capacity will be provided through selected road widening, junction improvement,
and improved signing and road marking. These were identified as low-cost
improvements with high returns in terms of improved traffic flow.
Improvements to Public Transport
52.       Bus priority measures (Map #13579R).  To improve public transport
availability and speeds, this component will provide for about 100 km of
"with-flow" bus lanes along roads where traffic queues are the longest and the
highest volumes of bus passengers are carried. About 40 extended bus bays and
100 bus shelters will also be constructed and other measures will be introduced
giving priority to buses and pedestrians on selected streets.
53.       Strengthening of the Bangkok Mass Transit Authority.  With a view to
providing efficient bus services, consultants will assist BMTA in organization,
management, traffic operations, accounting and finance. The consultants will
provide about 75 man-months of technical assistance over a 15-month period.
While the technical assistance will cover almost all aspects of BMTA operations,
special focus will be on traffic operations, including rationalization of
routes and schedules, management and management information systems, and
establishment of a long-term financial policy. The Government has agreed that
it will review the consultants' recommendations with the Bank and implement
such measures as shall be mutually agreed (Section 3.06(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Implementation
54.       The Government has designated the UTPO as the agency responsible
for overall project implementation and monitoring. It will be supported by a
Project Executive Committee, chaired by the Minister of Interior and comprised
of representatives of involved agencies, that will have authority to make
decisions required to expedite project implementation. The project will be
implemented over a three-year period (1978-81). Technical assistance to UTPO
and BMTA is already in place and much of the procurement is well advanced.
Equipment procurement and installation under the project would be completed by
January 1980, and civil works related to physical components would be completed
by June 1981. All policy measures would be in place by December 1980.



- 17 -
55.       The UTPO will review and approve all project-related investment
proposals by other implementing agencies. The BMA will be responsible for
preparing final designs and tender documents, for supervising construction,
and for maintenance of completed works. Its Public Works Department will
supervise civil works under the proposed project, to be carried out by suitably
qualified contractors. The Department has done a substantial amount of similar
work itself, and is capable of designing and supervising the works included in
the project. The police equipment to be provided under the project will be
procured, operated and maintained by the traffic police. Through its traffic
control division, the UTPO will be directly responsible for specifying,
ordering and maintaining the traffic signal and control systems and for
overall supervision of traffic control center operations.
Project Monitoring
56.       The UTPO will be responsible for setting up and implementing a
monitoring program, both to assess project impact and to gather data for its
long-term role in regulating urban traffic flows. It will focus on key
transport characteristics, which will enable assessment of the impact of
transport improvement measures. The Transportation Engineering Department of
the Asian Institute of Technology, assisted by the UK Transport and Road
Research Laboratory, financed by UK technical aid, will assist UTPO in the
monitoring process. The monitoring program will include the following measure-
ments: (a) traffic speeds and flows along street links improved as part of
the project and also, on a sample basis, at other points on the road network;
(b) bus and car occupancy, on a sample basis; (c) door-to-door journey speeds
by bus and car, on a sample basis; (d) air pollution and noise levels, on a
sample basis; and (e) sample household surveys of travel characteristics of
different income groups, including daily distance travelled, number of trips,
and total time and money spent on travel.
Project Costs and Financing
57.       The total project cost is estimated at $34 million, including
taxes and duties of $3 million, with a foreign exchange component of about
$16 million or about 47% of total project cost. Property and land acquisition
costs included are about $0.5 million. The estimate includes physical contin-
gencies of 15% and price escalation estimated at 6.5% to 7% for equipment
and 7.5% to 8% for works and services. For technical assistance, local
services are estimated at an average inclusive rate of $1,500 equivalent per
man-month, and foreign services at $7,500 per man-month, including allowances
for accommodation and transport.
58.       The proposed Bank loan of $16 million would finance the project's
foreign exchange cost or 52% of total costs net of taxes, duties and land
acquisition ($3.5 million). Local expenditures, amounting to $18 million
equivalent, would be met through annual government budgetary allocations to
the executing agencies. To expedite the project, UTPO and BMTA appointed
consultants in July 1978 in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank
and awarded a contract for procurement and installation of an urgently needed
traffic control system. Retroactive financing not exceeding $1.75 million is
recommended for expendiltures incurred after June 1, 1978 for the consultants
and the procurement and installation contract and for minor civil works.



- 18 -
59.       The project will generate substantial revenue through (a) road
pricing and (b) more extensive and higher priced parking charges. The Govern-
ment is considering whether to allow these collections to be part of general
revenues or to earmark them in a Bangkok Road Improvement Fund. The Government
will provide the Bank with a financial plan on the collection and disbursement
of funds generated by area pricing and increased parking charges as part of
the policy package to be submitted in June 1979.
Procurement
60.       Civil works contracts for flyovers, with an estimated total value
of about $10.5 million equivalent, net of contingencies, will be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. All
other civil works contracts, estimated value about $7.0 million equivalent,
are too small and diverse to interest foreign bidders. These contracts will
be awarded following competitive bidding advertised locally, and contracting
procedures acceptable to the Bank will be followed. With the exception of a
part of the traffic signal equipment for which the Government has negotiated a
contract (see para. 61), all contracts for equipment estimated to cost $150,000
or more and totalling about $1.5 million, will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. A pref-
erence margin equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost of competing imports or the
customs duty, which is lower, would be granted to local manufacturers. Smaller
equipment and vehicle contracts, totalling about $500,000 equivalent, would
not be attractive to foreign bidders. They will be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with contracting
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
61.       The Government signed on June 28, 1978, a $1.7 million contract
with Traffic Engineering Systems Limited, a Thai company associated with
GEC-Elliott Traffic Automation, UK, for procurement and installation of
a traffic control system in Bangkok. The contract provides for completed
installation by June 1979. This contract has not been awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding, but on the basis of a proposal by GEC,
who has supplied and installed almost all existing traffic signals in Bangkok.
The equipment offered is appropriate for the required system and the cost of
the contract is reasonable. By awarding this negotiated contract, the Govern-
ment will achieve the principal advantage of time savings of up to two years,
due to the complexity of drawing up detailed but fair specifications if the
equipment were to be put to international tender. It is proposed that the
foreign exchange component (about $900,000) under this contract be eligible
for reimbursement from the proposed loan.
62.       It should be noted that in addition to the above traffic signal
control system, modernization of about 70 existing signalized intersections
and about 20 new signal installations at intersections currently not served
and located outside the central area of Bangkok, would also be part of the
proposed project. Because procurement of this equipment is less urgent,
the Government will award the corresponding contract on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 19 -
Disbursements
63.       Disbursements from the proposed Bank loan would be made at the
rate of 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment,
100% of total expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured equipment,
and 65% of total expenditures on items procured locally. For civil works,
disbursements would be at the rate of 40% of total expenditures. Disbursements
for consulting services, technical assistance and training would equal 100% of
total expenditures. It is expected that the proposed loan would be fully
disbursed by June 30, 1982.
Benefits and Risks
64.       For the purpose of economic evaluation, project components can be
divided into three groups: (a) policy measures, (b) traffic management
measures and (c) infrastruc:ture improvements. The policy measures such as
road pricing and bus priorities reap substantial benefits with negligible
physical investments (only 6% of total project costs). If formal economic
returns were calculated on these policy changes, the results would be very
substantial. Minor road improvements associated with traffic management -
such as signing, channelization, one-way routing and improved signalling -
also yield large and early benefits at a relatively low cost. These invest-
ments, accounting for aboul: 22% of total project costs, recover their costs in
less than one year and earn rates of return greater than 100%. Selective
improvements in the infrasitructure to increase road capacity are also appro-
priate; in the case of Bangkok, these include increasing the capacity of key
road junctions by construciting flyovers, by road widening or by constructing
missing links. These components, which together account for about 70% of
project costs, earn rates of return of 39%, 57% and 33% respectively. The
overall economic rate of return on the project, excluding the benefits to be
derived from policy changes, is 56%. If such policy changes are included, the
overall rate of return is 140%.
65.       The above ratios assume certain 'values of time" - the extent
people are willing to trade time for money - and rates of growth of benefits
over time. In making the above calculations, working time is valued at the
wage rates of the people concerned. Nonworking time is valued at one-third of
wages, and the resulting rates applied to all travellers in the relevant
income groups whether wage earning or not. Travel to and from work is regarded
as nonworking time. Savings in vehicle operating costs are assumed to increase
in proportion to the increase in the vehicle population, i.e. 8% a year;
additionally, benefits from time savings are assumed to grow in proportion to
income growth, i.e. 4% per year. A sensitivity analysis shows that even if
the time valuation is assumed zero, and growth rates are halved, the overall
economic return of the project would be about 74%.
66.       The proposed project, by increasing efficiency in the use of
Bangkok's road system, would benefit all classes of road users except certain
private car travellers. Ihis group may become worse off by being priced out
of some journeys. The main benefits will accrue to those who use buses,
minibuses, shared cars, and- other modes that are economic in road use.
Operators of public transport (buses, minibuses, taxis) and of commercial
vehicles would also benefit. Many of the benefits may be passed on: for
example, reductions in bus operating costs could result in more frequent,



- 20 -
or less costly, public trarsport services. Bus service improvements would
benefit all classes. Considering the substantial economic rate of return
estimated for the project, the investment could be justified solely on the
basis of the benefits accruing to the relatively poor population of Bangkok
(15%)/1 whose mobility and access to jobs will be increased.
67.       The proposed area pricing for Bangkok, which is likely to involve
price restraints on traffic for the entire working day (at least ten hours)
over a wide area (as much as 20 sq km), is without precedent anywhere. Only
Singapore has implemented an area-wide traffic restraint scheme and this
only for a 6 sq km area over a limited time period (approximately three
hours) each day. The risks are principally ones of enforcement and political
acceptability. There are also attendant technical and economic impact risks
associated with such a new approach to traffic management. While these risks
must be viewed as being considerable, the potential payoffs as indicated above
are very high. Even without the application of road pricing, it is expected
that the potential project payoffs will be substantial; with area pricing
restraining the uneconomic use of low occupancy vehicles, the benefits would
be exceptionally large.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 30, 1978
Washington, D.C.
/1 The relatively poor are those who have less than one-third the average
per capita personal income of the country, adjusted to take account of
the higher cost of living in urban areas.



Annex I
PaRe I of 5
TABLE 3A
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                   THAILASD                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL             514.0                                                     SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      238.5                              '  MST RECENT        GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   100.0        200.0     410.0            616.0       432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       64.0        247.0      284.0            522.0       251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         26.6         36.3       44.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.7           15.0      16.8             30.1        24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KE.                         52.0        71.0       86.0            156.8        42.7         50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    112.0         152.0      185.0            794.8        95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENI)
0-14 YRS.                          45.1         44.8       43.7             40.8        44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                          52.9         52.3       53.2             55.4        52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.6          2.9       3.1              3.2         3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.2          3.0       2.9              2.3         2.7          2.5
URBAN                                5.1          5.0       4.6              5.1         8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       44.9        41.4       34.9             34.6        42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       13.8         10.7       8.9              8.7        12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..          3.2       3.1              2.6         3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUsANDS)         ..       405.6    2680.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           14.0      37.0             22.1        14.2         20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              68.0        100.0      104.7            106.8       104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     96.0        103.0     107.0            108.7        99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAHS PER DAY)            47.0         52.2      50.0             57.7        56.8         63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          8.4          ..       14.6             17.0        17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       10.4          5.3        ..               4.0        7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    49.0           55.5      58.0             59.0        53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..         80.0      56.3             44.0        82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         17.0      25.0             21.9        31.1         56.8
URBAN                                 ..        60.0       69.0             58.3        68.5         79.0
RURAL                                 ..         10.0      16.0              9.8        18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         17.0      40.0             28.6        37.5         30.9
URBAN                                 ..        65.0       58.0             66.6        69.5         45.4
RURAL                                 ..          8.0      36.0             14.8        25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            7800.0      7070.0    6750.0            4103.1      9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..      6650.0    4330.0            1520.2      2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1340.0 /f    890.0      770.0            657.1       786.5        493.9
URBAN                                 ..        280.0     290.0            145.5       278.4        229.6
RURAL                                 ..       1380.0    1140.0           1011.8      1358.4       2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         31.0       19.0             19.0       19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.5 /f       5.8        5.5              5.2         ..          5.2
UYRBAN                               5.3 1ff      5.9       5 .5             5.2          ..5.0
URURAL                               5.6 /f       5.9       5.5              5.4                      5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL
2.0
URBAN                                                                          *3 -        * 2        2.5
RURAL                                                                                    2 3          27 5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                                      24.6              39.1       28.3         64.1
URBAN                                            63.0 /R                                 10 3        67.8
RURAL                     ..        ~~~~~        ~~      ~~~~13.0           lo:; 0.      34.1



Annex I
Page 2 0Of 
TABLE 3A
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
THAILAND                                                   /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 1b      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION Lc   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 136.0         81.0       78.0              95.6        75.8         99.8
FEltALE               128.0         77.0       75.0             93.7         67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    8.0         17.0       25.0              43.3        17.7         33.8
FEMALE                  6.0         14.0       21.0              38.6        12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 19.0            24.0       13.0              11.3         7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              36.0         35.0       30.0              30.0        34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                            20.0         16.0       21.0             25.4         23.5         22.2
ADULT  LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         68.0         79.0       82.0              84.0        63.7          71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            2.0          5.0        7.0               9.3         7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TNOUSAND
POPULATION                            6.0         78.0      135.0              97.6        71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            2.3          7.0       17.0              21.8        14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    11.0         24.0         ..              25.9        16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..         1.7              4.6         1.6          4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    12757.0         16163.0   18514.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     48.3         47.3       46.9              33.2        28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                82.0         78.0       76.0              48.4        54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    5.7          7.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  51.3         46.6       45.6              38.9        37.8         33.8
MALE                                   52.7         49.3       48.6              48.6        50.3         48.1
FEMALE                                 49.8         43.9       42.6              28.4        20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0           1.1        1.2              1.2         1.3           1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGNEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8 /h         23.8 /i   14.0               17.3        19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9 th         49.7 /i   42.2                5 6        48.9         52.3
LOHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2 /h          6.1 /i    7.6J               6.i5        5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9 /h         15.9 TL   19.                17.3        15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      120.0             140.8       155.9        191.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..       90.0            112.8         97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                ..      143.7         319.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..       93.0             76.8        87.3         197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       11.0             27.7        22.9          19.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..       28.0             40.4        36.7          35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the east populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia b Pacific;   /d  Lower Middle Income (9281-550 per capita 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle Income
(S551-1135) per capir., 1976);   /f  1962;   '&  Percent of Puoslatioc in Bangkok metropolitan area;
/h  1962-63, /i  1968; /j from preliainary data for 1975-76.  Due to lack of data on national basis, the
sethodology for aggregating the available regional data overstates incomes of low income groups and
understates incomes of high  Income groups.  Thus this date is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
Septomber, 1978



DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                      Page 3 of   5
Note:  The adjusted group averages for each isdicator are population-weighted geometric =esos, excludlig the Xetree  values of the i=dicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countr,.ea among the indicators depends us aveilability of data sod is not siforo. D.o to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and secrets disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric seans without the eclusion of entremes values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                               Population per hospital bad - total, urban.  and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Moat recent eatimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public ard private general end spacialised hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishoents permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establishnenta providing principally custodial
care are not tncluded. Rural hospitals. hovevar, include health and mmdi-
GN'P PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita esteoates at current market prices,                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician  (but by a medical as-
calculated by sane conversion method as World Bans  Atlas (1975-77 balis);                siatant, nurse, lidwife, etc.) vhich offer tn-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                               provide a limited tongs of medical facilitias.
Admissiona per hospital bed - Total number of admissionn to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual coosumption of comme-cial energy                      from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydre-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalsmt per capita.                     HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban. and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATTSTICS                                                              A household consiats of a group of individuals who abare living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-pear eatimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                            the household for statistical purpeses.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (Perceat of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect cnmparability                    Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nu=-
of data among countries.                                                                 ber of parsons per rose ia all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellinge, respectively.  Dvwllings  exclude non-permanent strcturoes and
Per  oq. km. - Mid-year ppoulation per square kilneeter (100 hectares)                    unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per s. km. aericulture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Csoavstional dwellings with elctrioity in living quorters as peroestage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Popolation age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-6f  years). and retired (65 years and ever) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population grewth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound aonual                    Primary achool - total, and female - Total and female enrollmett of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as p.rcentages of reepactivaly primary sohool-oge
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year popslation; ten-year arithetic averages ending in 1960 and                       cation u rs ollent may aooe-d 105  percent since =ore pupils  reo  below  or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for nost recent estimate.                      above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total. ad female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; tnn-pyet arith-etic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tihn requires at least four yearn of approved primary iDntruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate.                           vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rats - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal seproduotive period if she sapari.rce   present ago-                      excloded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family olasnit0 - acceptors  annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of aecondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices' of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning progra.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family pla.ninf - users (percent of married women)  - Perceoage of                          spondits levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and ever.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUMPTION
lnden of food productin per capita (1970-100) - Indem number of per                     Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars c-nprin maoter cars
capita annnal production of all fond commodities....                                   seating Ses than eight peruons; exludes ambulance, hearses and military
per capita supply of cslories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand Population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic productios. imports less                broedoasrt  to general public per thousaud of population;  -cludes unlicenced
soports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio seti  was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.   Re-                  effect; data for recent years may not be comptarble since noat countries
quirements were estimated by PAO based on pbyaioLogical needs for nor-                 abolished li-e-ning.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperatore. body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to gene4r
weights, age end sex diatributions  of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tries  nd in years when registration of TV sets was in offoct.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper cirolation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply oE food is defined as                     tion of "daily general interest oewspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requiraents for all countries estoblished by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording ganeral newe.  It is considered to
a mini=um allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which LO grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standarda are lower than those of 75 greas  of total protein and                   sold during the year. including admissions to drioe-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein a. an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from  animal and pulse - Protein supply of food              EliPLOYHENT
derived from  animals and pulaea in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - Econo.irally active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per tho-s-nd) - Annual deaths por thoun-                   forces and unemployed but excluding houswives,  tudents, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tioms in various countries are not coaparable.
Female (Percent) - Female lsbor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life espectancy at birth    ers  - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (perceot) - Labor force in mining, construction, menufacturihg and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Aunual deaths of infanta under                   Participation rate (percent) - total,  ale, and female - Total, male., and
one year of age per thonsand live birhts.                                                fe=ale labor force as percencagen of thnir respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban,  nd rural -                    These are ILOII  adjusted participation rates reflecting  ge-se-
Number of people (ttal. urban, and rural) with reasnable accesa to                        structure of the population, 2nd 1ong tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated bht                   Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor fooce in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as peroentages of their respective populati.ns.
To as urban area o public fountain or standpost located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
onahble access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent. poorest 20 pe-cent. and poorest 40 perccnt
imply that the housewife or msabers of the household do sot have to                       of hou. hold.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to eN creta dispeo   l (Percent of pulation)    total, urban, and                 Estimated absolute poverty :ncome level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
raral - Number of people (total, urban, end rural) served by emoraet                        Absolute poverty income l'evel is that income level below which a nOminal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excrete                         nutritionally adequate diet plt  essential non-food requirements is not
dlsposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                         affordable.
treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relative poverty 'ncome level (U1$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installati.on.                                      Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per phYsician - Population divided by snumber of practicing                      per capita personel income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at unliversity level.                      Estimated population below  poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Populatiom  per nursing person - Populatiton divided by number of                           Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Ec-omic and Soial Data Division
Econo=ic Analysis and Projections Department



ANKgx I
Paae 4 of 5
ECONOMIC D0VtLOPM4E4r DATA sOIEr?
Actual                  Eot.               Projected                    Grouch rates (1)            1975 share
1965      1970      1976      1977     1978        1979      1980      1985   1965-77  1977-79  1979-65  1985-90  of GDP Cl)
A. National Accounts
(Million US0$ t 1975 prices)
1. Gross dooestic product        6,843.8  10,323.0  15,712.6  16,685.5  18,022.2  19,395.2  20,692.9  29,256.7    7.7        7.8      7.1       7.0       100.0
2. Gais from teres of trade       -44.3      42.8   -507.7   -978.1   -629.0    -572.9   -533.8   -518.2                                                  -3.2
3. Crass domestic income         6,799.5  10,365.8  15,204.9  15,707.4  17,393.2  18,822.3  20,159.1  28,738.5    7.2        9.5       7.3      7.0        96.8
4.  Imports                      1,659.9   2,989.4   3,699.1   4,460.8   4,700.6   5,082.8   5,440.4   7,507.8    8.6        6.7       6.7      6.8        23.5
5. Exports - volune             -1,593.2  -2,274.8  -3,808.4  -4,506.9  -4,145.1  -4,481.1  -4,862.1  -7,448.5    9.1       -0.3       8.8      8.7        24.2
6.  Exports - adjusted for TOT -1,548.9  -2,317.5  -3,300.7  -3,528.8  -3,516.2  -3,908.1  -4,328.3  -6,930.3    7.1         5.2      10.0      8.8        21.0
7. Resource gap - adjusted
for TOT                      111.0     671.9     398.4      932.1   1,184.5   1,174.7   1,112.1      577.5                                            2.5
S.  Total consumption            5,302.3   8,007.0  11,709.5  12,370.3  13,839.7  14,809.7  15,740.4  21,253.9    7.3        9.4       6.2      6.1        74.5
9.  Investent                    1,608.2   3,030.6   3,893.8   4,269.2   4,738.0   5,187.2   5,530.8   8,062.0    8.5       10.2       7.6      7.5        24.8
I0. National savings              1,576.4   2,500.8   3,477.7   3,312.5   3,603.0   3,970.7   4,300.3   7,037.7    6.4        9.5      10.0      9.6        22.1
11. Domestic savings adjusted
for TOT                    1,497.2   2,358.7   3,495.5   3,337.1   8,553.5   4,012.6   4,418.7   7,484.6    6.9        9.7      10.9      9.3        22.2
12. GDP at carrest US0            4,052.9   6,543.3  16,284.3  18,156.9  20,917.6  24,093.0  27,401.6  55,355.9   13.3       15.2      14.9     13.4
B. Sector Output
(ihare of CDP)                4,052.9   6,543.3  16,284.3  18,156.9  20,917.6  24,093.0  27,401.6  55,355.9   13.3       15.2      14.9     13.4
1. Agrirulture                      0.391     0.346     0.301      0.281     0.272     0.264     0.258      0.229
2.  7edustry                        0.208      0.227     0.269     0.288     0.296     0.304     0.309      0.335
3. Services                         0.401     0.427      0.430     0.431     0.431     0.432     0.432      0.437
C. Prices (1975 - 100)
1. Export price index               46.43     48.04      91.65     89.35    103.13    113.40    123.48    172.32    5.6      12.7       7.2      5.1
2.  Import price index              47.76      47.15    105.75    114.12    121.58    130.03    138.71    185.20    7.5       6.7       6.1      5.0
3. Terr. of trade index             97.22    101.88      86.67     78.30     84.83     87.21     89.02      93.04   -1.8      5.5       1.1      0.1
4. GDP deflator (US1)               59.22      63.39    103.64    108.82    116.07    124.22    132.42    189.21    5.2       6.8       7.3      6.0
5.  Annual average exchange rate    20.80      20.80     20.40     20.40
D. Selected Indicators                      1965-77  1977-79  1979-85  1985-90
1. ICOR                                  3.56     3.32     3.80      3.97
2. Import elasticity                     1.09     0.87     0.95      0.97
3. Averag  n tional savings rate         0.24     0.20     0.23      0.26
4. Marginal national savings care        0.18     0.25     0.32      0.35
S. Imports/GDP                           0.27     0.26      0.26     0.26
6. Investment/GDP                        0.27     0.26      0.27     0.28
7. Resource gap/GDP                      0.04     0.06     0.04      0.01
Value added /b                      Labor force -c                    V.A. per worker /b In
E. Output, Labor Force and Productivity in 1975              US$ million            x               million            2                US           I of average
1. Agriculture                                              4,559             31.3             13.4              75.7              340                41.5
2. Industry                                                  4,442            30.4               1.4              7.9            3,170               356.7
3. Services                                                  5,588            38.3              2.9              16.4            1,930               235.4
Total/average                                         14,589           100.0              17.7            100.0              820               100.0
F. Public Finance (2 of GDP)                 1965       1970      1974      1975     1976        1977/a
(Central Covermeest)
1. Current rave-es                       13.5      13.8       14.5      13.6      13.4     14.6
2. Ta. revenue                           12.3       12.5      13.5      12.0      12.1     13.3
3. Current expenditures                  10.5      12.6       10.7      12.1      13.0     12.5
4. Budgetary navings                      2.9        1.2       3.7       1.5       0.4      1.1
5. Total public investment                6.5       7.7        3.8       4.9       5.3       5.4
C. PFa Imports (Current US$ millions)        65.0      112.0    628.6      711.7     833.7     923.0
(2 of tota  iports incl. NFS)             8.3       8.0       18.4      20.0      21.1      19.7
/a Preliminary.
/b At currnt Larket prices.
/e REtimate.



ANNEX t
Page 5 of 5
BALAC! o0  FAYMENTS. ETEXNAL  ASSISTANCE. DtBT MAD C8!DITWORTHlNtSS
(Current USS mtIlions)
Actl                             et.__
ii 7-3 -   1974        1975       1976        1977 Ia  *T70"         1979    -- 1990         19935      1990
Sumna,ry of Blan-ce of Payments
EiPrprc  (iNcl Sdiog NFS)                         2,084.7    3.025.4    2,796.5    3,490.6    4,027.1    4,274.9    5,081.7         6,004.0    12,835.0    24,967.7
Imports (including NFS)                           2.258.3    3,353.2    3,437.3    3,911.9    5.090.8    5,715.0    6,609.1         7.546.7    13,904.5    24,650.4
Resource balance                                   -173.6      -327.8    -690.8    -421.3  -1,063.7  -1,440.1  -1,527.4   -1.542.7    -1,069.5                 317.3
Net factor service income                           -20.8        -0.7         5.4      -41.6       -72.6       -9.6      -134.3      -243.4       -925.0   -1,412.5
Nat interest payments                                7.0       36.0        69.0       26.1        32.1       31.0      -81.7       -187.9       -766.9    -1,170.7
Of vhich nn public X 6 LT Iloan                 -25.1       -28.1      -34.5       t44.3      -59.6       -95.5    --133.1       -174.5       487.1       -882.0
Direct investment income                          -28.0       -37.0       -64.0      -66.1       -74.0      -62.0       -75.5       -80.0      -192.5       -290.0
Iorkers remittances (not)                            0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       21.4        22.9        24.5         34.4        48_2
Cvrrent tra.sfera (net)                              145.5      241.0        80.1       22.8        44.5       70.0        80.0        80.0        100.0       110.0
2alanca on  urrnet account                          -48.9       -87.5      -605.3    -440.1   -1,091.8  -1.379.7   -1,581.7    -1,706.1    -1,994.5           -985.1
Private direct innestment                             67.0      135.6        85.5       79.1       106.1      120.0       140.0        156.8       276.3      4*7.0
Grants 6 grent-like flows                              0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
Public M L LT lOans
Disbursements                                      69.0        95.9       149.2      241.7       251.7      666.7       816.6     1,010.8      1,960.4     2,697.6
Amortization                                      -29.8       -32.3       -38.7      -43.4       -66.6      -97.5    -164.1        -222.1      -620.1   -1,092.7
Net disbursements                                   39.2       63.5       110.5      198.3       184.8      569.2       652.5       768.7      1,340.3     1,604.9
Other K 4 LT loans
Dist- rseYmts                                      178.9      326.2       299.6      279.7       303.2      531.8       672.1     1,02S.8      1,393.0       462.2
Amoctieation                                     -223.1      -197.2    -235.1       -245.9    -260.7    -401.4         -202.8      -266.5      -850.6   -1,167.8
Not disburseanta                                   44.2       129.1        64.5       33.B        42.5      130.5       469.3       762.3        542.4      -705.6
Use of IMF reso.rees                                   0.0        0.0         0.0       77.1        17.1       100.0      100.0       -30.0        -30.0         0.0
Shart-ten cepite1 trnactcions                        42.0        55.5       127.5      136.2       250.1      110.0       120.0       128.4        180.1       252.6
Capitol transactions NEI                              57.9       96.3        77.2      -11.4       138.8        0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
Change in r er-ves (- - Imraase)                   -113.0    -392.7         140.1      -73.0       352.4      310.0       100.0      -100.0       -414.8      -654.5
Net foreg8n exchanga reserve /b
(end of period)                                 1,306.0    1,599.0    1,406.0    1,444.0    1,395.0    1,045.0          9U3.0     1,045.0      2,634.5     5,320.9
Grant and Loan Connitmonta
Offirtal grant                                        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Tta1 public I 6 LT loae,                            87.1       436.5      223.4       372.3       633.0    1,031.0
D8RD                                               15.0       142.0       95.0       158.0      137.8       211.0
IDA                                                23.0         7.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        27.0
Otheraoltilateral                                   6.4        77.2       62.7        92.1        47.0      119.0
Governments                                        24.0       200.5       47.7        22.2       106.4      264.0
)f vhtch centrally planned econonSes It             C.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Supplier-                                           0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        85.0
Financial institutions                             16.7         9.7       18.0       100.0      341.9       325.0
Other M 6 LT loans (where  available)               178.9       415.9      392.5       360.2       348.9      533.8
Memor.anum Items
Grantrelement of total comitments (2)              44.600      31.400      16.700     11.500      10.200     14.869
Average interest (S)                                0.0144      0.057      0.076       0.081      0.080       0.072
Averoge mturIty (years)                            29.I00      23.800     23.500      18.500      14.000     12.832
Medium end Long-Torn D bt (Disbursed only)
Tnt.L debt out.tndog  DOD  nd of period)            9031.9    1,160.7    1,345.6    1,606.S    1,931.9    2,217.4
I,cloding undiobur.ed                             1,182.4    1,770.0    2,009.5    2,404.0    3,145.9    4,054.7
ublic debt Service                                  -54.9       -60.4      -73.2       -87.7     -126.4    -193.1
Interest                                            -25. 1      -28.1      -34.5       -44.3      -59.6       -95.5
Other n & LT debt service                          -255.8      -266.9     -314.5      -245.9     -326.6      -421.9
Total debt narvic.                                 -310.7      -327.2     -)87.7      -333.6      -453.0     -614.9
Debt I-rden (X)
Debt service ratio                                   14.9        10.8        13.9        9.6        11.3       14.4
Debt *ervIce ratco Id                                14.2       12.0        16.2       11.5        13.1       15.8
Debt sereICe/CDP                                      23.9        2.5         2.7        2.0         2.5        2.9
Public debt service/Coverneeat ravene                 14.3        2.5         3.5        3.7         4.4        0.0
Ter. (1)
interest on total DODIttal DOD                       5.7         5.5        5.6         5.4         5.7        5.2
TotaI debt  iervice/total  0D                       132.4        11.8        11.9       10.7        12.0       27.7
Dependency Ratios for M i LT Debt (2)
Cro-s dlsbursemnto/itports (incl uding NFS)          I11.0       12.6        12.9       13.3        10.9       21.0
Net cr.-ofer/lopocrt  (including NFS)                -2.8         2.8         1.8        4.8         2.0       10.2
Net tranefer/grosn disbur"ments                     -25.3        22.5        13.6       36.0        18.4       48.7
E.pos.re (2)
IBiD di.bu-sements/gro-a total disbursenents         14.8         8.0        9.1         8.3        12.0        9.3
Bcnk Croup dtabur ....ta/S.n..  ottl d1soua-ementa 1.1.           8.3         9.7        9.5        13.6        9.9
18RD DOD/total DOD                                   24.2        20.8       20.0        18.6        17.9       20.2
Bank Group DOD/total DOD                             24.2        20.9        20.4       19.2        18.9       21.3
13RD debt ser"ice/total debt service                   9.0        8.5        8.3        10.9         9.8        7.8
Rank Group debt  -ereice/total debt service           1.0         8.5         8.3       10.9         9.8        7.v
EItern.l Debt (Disbursed only)                            Outstandino 12/31/76
(Current US$ n1ilions)                                  Amount          2
1BtD                                                       345.7       32.9
Dhnk Group                                                 365.2       34.7
Other multilateral                                         137.5       13.1
Covernennts                                                379.7       36.1
Of  bhich centrally planned economies lc                  0.0         0.0
Suppliers                                                   13.2        1.3
Finoncial lostitutiona                                     156.6       14.9
Bonds                                                        0.0        0.0
Public debt net                                              0.0        0.0
Total public M & LT debt                                 1,052.1      100.0
Other M & LT debt                                          879.9       83.6
Total public debt (including undl.borsed)                2,266.1      215.4
Total M 4 LT debt (Including undisbursed)                3,145.9      299.0
/P Prdiminary.
/b  Net ...n   aet.        U2S eU uivalent of Line 31.
7Z Includes CI!.A countries, Peoples Republic of China, North tores, Nortb VSlt 11".
7 Including net direct investment income.






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF' BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1978) /a
Loan or                                                           Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                           Less Cancellations
Number  Year    Borrower                 Purpose         Bank   TW    IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-five loans/credits fully disbursed               388.9      -   5.5        -
822     1972       RTG                   Education       15.4      -     -      7.8
864     1972       TOT                   Telecomm        37.0      -     -      4.8
870     1972       RTG                   Highways        28.6      -     -      1.5
369     1973       RTG                   Education          -      -  19.5      7.0
461     1974       RTG                   Irrigation         -      -   7.0      2.1
977     1974       EGAT                  Power           75.0      -     -    24.0
992      1974      IFCT                  Industry        12.0      -     -      1.1
1021    1974       MWWA                  Water           55.0     -      -    18.4
1149    1975       RTG                   Irrigation    95.0       -      -    79.9
1198    1976       RTG                   Rural Dev.         -  21.0      -    15.1
1199    1976       RTG                   Livestock          -   5.0      -      4.6
1243    1976       RTG                   Rubber          50.0      -     -    45.4
1253    1976       TOT                   Telecomm        26.0     -      -    13.2
1271    1976       RTG                   Education       31.0     -      -    27.5
1327    1976       IFCT                  Industry        25.0      -     -    21.5
1393    1977       RTG                   Agriculture   28.0       -      -    26.5
1468    1977       RTG                   Irrigation    55.0       -      -    52.1
1485    1977       EGAT                  Power           50.0     -      -    45.2
1492    1977       IEAT                  Industry         4.8     -      -      4.6
767     1978       RTG                   Population        -       -   33.1/b 33.1
1519    1978       RTG                   Highways       110.0     -      -   104.9
1527    1978       PEA                   Power           25.0     -      -    25.0
1556    1978       RTG                   Housing          8.6     -      -      8.6
S-10    1979       NGOT                  Energy           4.9     -      -      4.9
Total                                      1,125.2  26.0   65.1  578.8
of which has been repaid                  179.7    -        -
Total now outstanding                        945.5  26.0   65.1
Amount sold /c                      68.5
of which has been repaid          34.9     33.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA               911.9  26.0   65.1
Total undisbursed                            516.9  19.7   42.2
/a  Loan 1620-TH of $90 million to the Telephone Organization of Thailand was
signed on October 4, 1978 and a loan of $17.5 million to the Kingdom of
Thailand for irrigation was approved by the Executive Directors on
November 14, 1978.
/b Of which $3.1 is NORAD grant participation.
Th  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1978) /a
Amounts ($ million)
Year          Company            Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Concrete Products
Aggregate Ltd.                                 0.30       -     0.30
1964   IFCT                      Industry                   -   0.38      0.38
1969   Siam Cement Group         Cement and Construc-
tion Materials      18.33   3.75    22.08
1975   Siam Cement Group         Cement and
Construction
Materials           10.00       -    10.00
1977   Mutual Fund               Capital Market
Company Limited                                   -   0.30      0.30
1977   United Sugar              Food and Food
Terminal Limited         Processing            2.50   0.20      2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries    2.00        -     2.00
1978   Siam Cement Group         Cement and Construc-
tion Materials          -   0.09      0.09
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited       Glass Containers        4.85   0.25      5.10
1979   Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited         tion Materials      36.00   4.00    40.00
Total gross commitments                         73.98   8.97    82.95
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                        48.33   2.56    50.89
Net held by the Corporation                     25.65   6.41    32.06
Total undisbursed                               35.85   4.25    40.10
/a An equity investment of $150,000 in the Thai Orient Leasing Company was
signed October 6, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of September 30, 1978)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of May !4, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972: Original
Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: July 31, 1980
This project involves development of Kasetsart University and the
relocation of certain units to a new campus. Although the technical assistance
and educational aspects of the project are largely on schedule, civil works
are about three years behind schedule with consequent delays in furniture and
equipment procurement. Delays in civil works are due to: (a) an initial
15-month delay in contracting consultant architects; (b) an 18-month delay in
completing tender documents; and (c) 2-5 month delays in contracting civil
works. The situation of contract awards is improving: all civil works
contracts and about 50% of equipment packages have been awarded, and the
remaining equipment packages will be contracted in late 1978. Construction is
progressing well, and the specialist services program under the project is
nearly completed. All the fellowships have been awarded; 84 recipients have
completed their training. Total project cost will exceed appraisal estimates
by 36%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education ProJect; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8. 1973: Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Project implementation is about 18 months behind schedule, but
substantial progress was made during the last two years. Contracting has
reached 95% of civil works and 70% of furniture and equipment. Technical
assistance is progressing well. The expert services program is virtually
completed. Ninety-five percent of fellowship funds have been committed.
Loan No. 1271    Fourth Education Project; $31 Million of September 13. 1976;
Effective Date:  February 9, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30. 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977: Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is generally maintaining the revised time schedule
established in 1975 following initial delays in procurement. Procurement
action on all Bank-financed items is now substantially completed. Expansion
of the local telephone network has also been substantially completed. Delayed
procurement of long-distance transmission equipment under a bilateral loan
will cause the project completion to slip to September 1979.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The procurement action on all components of the project has been
substantially completed. Civil works are in progress. Local network expansion
is expected to be completed as per schedule by mid-1979 but due to a year's
delay in tender award for transmission equipment under a bilateral loan, the
long-distance network expansion for the project is only expected to be completed
by September 1980, nine months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of October 4,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Loan was signed on October 4, 1978.
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Works under the project have been divided into nine contracts, of
which four have now been completed. Work on seven of the contracts was
interrupted in 1974 because rapid increases in costs led to financial problems
for the contractors. Work was resumed on three contracts after renegotiating
the contract prices with the Government. The other four contracts were
terminated by agreement between the Government and the contractors; new
contracts were awarded and work was resumed in early 1976. Over 80% of the
work has been completed. Because of higher prices in the bids for completing
the unfinished work, total cost of the project is expected to be around $75 mil-
lion, or about 28% above the appraisal estimate, with Government financing
the overruns. Despite these difficulties the project is likely to be completed
no more than one year behind the original schedule. The highway maintenance
study and feasibility studies for future projects have been completed, and
detailed engineering of the roads found to be feasible has been completed.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1519    Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project:  $110 Million
of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Loan declared effective on June 22, 1978.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project will be completed two years behind schedule through
initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving equipment.
During the 1977/78 working season there was a marked improvement in the pace
of construction, especially on the tertiary canals. Work on rehabilitation
of main canal systems has been satisfactory and will be completed in 1979.
The estimated project cost is $30.3 million, compared with $12.5 million
at appraisal. In part, the increased cost is due to price inflation being
higher than foreseen at appraisal. Also, a large part of the increase is due
to a decision to provide new tertiary canals over an area of 34,700 ha rather
than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and the adoption of higher standards
for tertiary development than envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are
compensated for by increases in projected commodity prices and the economic
rate of return is now estimated at 24% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress
on the rainfed rice component is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Prolect: $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975: Effective Date: October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Although the start of major construction was delayed by about
a year, prospects are good that the project can be completed on schedule
in 1984.  A contract for the diversion dam was awarded in October 1977 and the
first of three contracts for canal construction was signed in April 1978.
Most of the equipment for ithe project is now delivered or on order. The
on-farm works are proceeding on schedule, with four pilot projects in operation
and construction of the first large block under way. The consulting services
for the project were recently reorganized to provide a nucleus of resident
staff and a greater level of assistance in project management. Systems for
monitoring project benefits and water-associated diseases are being established
and the reporting of project progress has improved. The preliminary phase of
the Chao Phya Basin Study, also financed from the loan, has been completed
and the next phase is continuing. Consultants have recently been appointed
for the RID Administration and Organization Study.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1468    Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project;
$55 Million of September 23, 1977; Effective Date:
December 23, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Preparatory activities are progessing well. A Project Director,
Project Managers for the Chao Phya and Mae Klong components, and a Project
Coordination Committee have been appointed and consultants have been engaged
for the Chao Phya component. Equipment procurement has begun and designs and
contract documents are being finalized for the 1978 on-farm construction
program of 10,900 ha. Project monitoring and cost recovery systems are being
set up and the Chao Phya project area came under the National Agricultural
Extension Project in October.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has seven components: construction of 1,300 km of
village access roads; strengthening maintenance programs for 2,000 km of
existing rural roads, including provision of equipment; rural electrification;
village water supplies; development of improved techniques for upland crop
cultivation; an agricultural extension program in four provinces; and agricul-
tural development in two existing land settlements. After a delay of one year
in appointing consultants good progress is being made on the engineering of
the village roads and the first of nine construction contracts has been
awarded. Procurement problems continue to delay the water supply component.
Progress on rural electrification is excellent and this component will be
completed on schedule in September 1978. Progress on agricultural extension
and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow start-up, the upland crop
component is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million of February 27,
1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Progress of the main component is satisfactory. The seed production
and pasture development programs are progressing reasonably well, although the
"loaned" bull program has been hindered by the delay in importation of cattle.              *
Permanent staff are being appointed to the project, and the technical assist-
ance component is being ably implemented by the New Zealand Government.
Disbursements are considerably behind schedule, but should pick up within the
next few months once outstanding requests for disbursements are received in
the Bank.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Despite some initial delays in procuring fertilizers, project
implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million of
May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1. 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation in the field is progressing well with most
staff appointments completed in fifteen provinces. There is already some
encouraging evidence of adoption of new technology by farmers as a result of
improved extension services. Procurement is on schedule, but the civil works
program is about one year :Late because the scope and cost of the proposed
civil works program was larger than envisaged at appraisal and allowed by the
Budget Bureau. A reduced construction program was agreed to and rebidding is
in progress for works in eLeven provinces. Disbursements are also behind
schedule because of the deLays in the civil works program. Both the civil
works program and disbursements are expected to come on schedule during 1979.
Extension and civil works consultants provide DAE with excellent assistance.
Loan No. 977   Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million of September 23,
1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7. 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is satisfactory.
Loan S-10       Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million of
July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Loan declared effective on September 25, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily.  The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision of
construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. The quality of
work on the ADB portion of the project - the transmission and distribution of
pipes - has not been satisfactory but MWWA is taking corrective measures.
Because of the initial delays in contract awards, the project is expected to
be completed in late 1979, about 20-21 months behind the original schedule.
Extension of the June 30, 1979 Closing Date by about 9-12 months would be
required for full disbursement of the loan. Due to inadequate tariffs, which
were last revised in May 1972, MWWA's financial performance continues to be
poor. MWWA's proposals for raising the water tariffs in line with the increased
operating costs, shelved by the previous Government, have been withheld by the
new Government pending general improvement in water supply.
Loan 1556-TH   Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million of June 15.
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981
Loan declared effective on September 22, 1978. Project implementation
is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 992   Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project: $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974: Original Closing Date: September 30,
1978; Current Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The full amount of the $12 million Loan has been committed. The
commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have also
been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCTs
financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of sharply
depressed investment climate in 1976. Capital structure and liquidity position
have improved, however, with success of share capital increase. Satisfactory
progress has been made on institution-building aspects of project.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project;
$4.75 Million of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24. 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Construction
of on-site infrastructure is proceeding on schedule and land sales are well
ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million of February 27, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is satisfactory.






ANNEX III
THAILAND
BANIGKOK TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: Approximately five months, from
January to May 1978.
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  Urban Transport Planning
Office with assistance of Bank-financed, short-term consultants.
(c) Date of first Ban1k mission to consider the project: The project was
proposed to the Bank for possible financing during a sector review
mission in Novemlber 1977 and was preappraised in January 1978.
(d)  Departure of the appraisal mission:  April 1978
(e)  Completion of negotiations:             August 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          March 1979
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action:  None
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a)  The Borrower has agreed to:
(i) define its policy in regard to the roles of the various modes of
public transport by December 31, 1979 and implement the agreed
policy by mid-1980 (para. 34);
(ii) submit to the Bank, by June 30, 1979 proposals for introduction
of an area pricing scheme, parking controls, staggered work and
school hours and a traffic noise abatement and air pollution
detection program (para. 38);
(iii) introduce a mutually agreed area pricing scheme by December 31,
1980 (para. 42); and
(iv) review with the Bank the consultant's recommendation on BMTA's
operations and implement such measures as shall be mutually
agreed (para. 53).






JRRD 13577d
THAILAND
Bangkok Traffic Management Project
TRAFFIC SIGNAL SYSTEM COORDINATION
of  f a"RID9E' 1 / /,, / R o"\d I~~~~~~~IL                                                                               -     Etsotro moods
-~-Bridgee-ndf]y-or
/   ,'   /         /         \                       0     > \    __                                77R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~overs, rorole, rakes
LaftOd,gorr-yorr...
/\ Compoyer controed eL re
roopd soo11 ...r orr
Prop-ned -ml road
Prop-dr rod p-,  Zn
vt    V;                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ll,::ETE
R-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J~
0~~~~~~~     I                                               r~~~~~I      IL A
our=
BANGKOK METROOIS0 
Barr Band Net.rkol                    re
sErGe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tr~Pann                                            Sno e






[BED 13578Rl
~~---*-'7'                     Th0,M,aro  ~~~~~~~~~~~THAI L AN'                                                                                                  709717
Bangkok Traffic Management Project
887.8 8                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED AREA ROAD PRICING ZONE
AND ROAD FLYOVERS
Br idge
Prop-sd-rod p-,cng zn
` Prp-9d OIyo81 - 09 78 7
Prop-Sd -01. r-oodd
0     18
8            O EM. BP 
" THA I LA N D7
7'         <V9,9 ET
f -
MALAY8
V.                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BANGKOK METROPOLIS  "~988
B.,k R..d N.777107-k






> /     ~9B~9s7,,57,hoo,,.~ N                 -                                                     NN.7O                                                               THAILAN.D            NOVeMENRE 170
79 .90~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~N9'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 07995~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD159
Bangkok Traffic Management Project
Proposed Bus Lanes
N d9s a, *d ^ ly K-rve
ZV7~R       k-l NNI,ne
Prop-od to I -OdN
O/KX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.I HI, .1 -d A._,
L                                                              d  \    f  f   ss@ jF S ;<  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rpd t f-bb .-
-       ,O-rf      t-.-
Es0 oosoto00wbooe
A0                                                                                                                               K LOMETE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SK,RTR
0 
SURMA,
<~~o~~-  /  RPOPL'S 
DEM, REP,
X-~~~~~~~~
Ibsa PooTdoAo   L     N 



