CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1638 TB
Loan Agreement
(Bangkok Traffic Management Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 25, 1979


﻿L AN NbMBER 1638 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 25, 1979, between KINGDOM OF
THAILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Apr" ment accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated Iarch 15, 1974, with the
same force and ffect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Condil.tons Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "MOI" means the Borrower's Ministry of the Interior;
(b)  "UTPO" means the Urban Transportation Planning Office
established by the Borrower in the MOI, or any successor thereto
that is acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank;
(c) "Project Area" means the Bangkok Metropolitan Area;
(d)  "BMA" means the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration;
(e)  "TPD" means the Traffic Police Division of the Metro-
politan Police Bureau;
(f)  "BMTA" means the Bangkok Mass Transit Authority; and
(g) "National Traffic Board" means the Board established
by the Borrower pursuant to Cabinet Resolution No. SR-0202/14994,
to formulate naticaal traffic policy and planning, or any
successor thereto with similar functions.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million
dollars ($16,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1982,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and thirty-five hundredths per cent (7.35%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
the assistance of UTPO, TPD, BMA and BMTA, whose respective
responsibilities are set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agree-
ment, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, traffic engineering and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
staff, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Sectian 3.02. The Borrower shall in carrying out Parts A and
B (iii) of the Project:
(a) maintain in existence, urtil at least the completion of
the Project, the National Traffic Board;
(b) furnish to the Bank by June 30, 1979, detailed proposals
made by the National Traffic Board for carrying out such Parts of
the Project;
(c) exchange views with the Bank on the proposals made by
the National Traffic Board and thereafter take, or cause to be
taken, the action required to implement the proposals mutually
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank; and
(d) take, or cause to be taken, all such action as may be
necessary to carry out Part A (i) of the Project, in a manner
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, by December 31, 1980,
or such other date as may be agreed with the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) cause UTPO to be
responsible for (A) coordinating the carrying out of the Project,
including the monitoring of Project planning and administration;
(B) approving and coordinating the preparation and furnishing to
the Bank, for its prior approval, of all plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules and
any material modifications thereof or additions to such documents;
and (C) approving all applications for disbursements in respect of
expenditures under the Project; (ii) employ at all times in UTPO
suitably qualified personnel in sufficient numbers to carry out
the Project and in particular to employ qualified and experienced
key staff in accordance with Schedule 6 to this Agreement, to


﻿enable it to carry out efficiently the Parts of the Project for
which it is responsible and implement a program of staff training
in traffic engineering and traffic control that is satisfactory
to the Bank; and (iii) establish a Project Executive Committee,
having the Minister of the Interior as its Chairman, with autho-
rity to make decisions required for Project implementation and
to supervise the overall administration of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (i) cause TPD to implement
a program of staff training in traffic control and law enforcement
that is satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) assign to or, if
necessary, recruit sufficient qualified and experienced staff to
enable TPD to carry out the Parts of the Project for which it is
responsible.
Section 3.05. In order to operate and maintain the equipment
procured under Parts B (i) and C (i) of the Project, the Borrower
shall provide, or cause to be provided, in a timely manner the
resources, staff and facilities required for such purpose.
Section 3.06. (a) In order to assist UTPO in carrying out
the Parts of the Project for which it is responsible, the Borrower
shall cause UTPO to employ traffic engineering and transportation
planning consultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part
D (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall (i) cause BMTA to
employ management, accounting and financial consultants, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; (ii)
exchange views with the Bank regarding the recommendations made
by such consultants; and (iii) take, or cause to be taken, the
action necessary to implement the recommendations of such con-
sultants that are mutually acceptable to the Borrower and to
the Bank.
(c) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B
(viii) of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) employ consultants,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; and
(ii) exchange views with the Bank regarding the recommendations
made by such consultants.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.07. The Borrower, by December 31, 1979, in consul-
tation with the Bank shall define its policy in regard to the role
of various modes of public transportation to serve the needs of
the travelling public in Bangkok and implement the agreed policy
by mid 1980.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause UTPO to introduce
and maintain in existence, a monitoring and evaluation system
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, which will, inter alia,
monitor and evaluate the impact of the Project.
Section 3.09. (a)   The Borrower shall cause UTPO, BMA and
TPD to: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) permit the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request regarding the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause UTPO to prepare and
furnish to the Bank, within 30 days of the end of each quarter,
commencing with the quarter ending December 31, 1978 and until
the completion of the Project, a report in a form satisfactory to
the Bank on the progress made in carrying out the Project.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods


﻿- 6 -
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken:
(a) all such action as shall be necessary to acquire by
not later than December 31, 1979, all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project
and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available; and
(b) all reasonable measures to ensure that the Project is
carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall cause BMA, whenever this is
necessary, to make satisfactory arrangements to compensate any
residents in the Project Area who are required to move as a result
of the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or dis-
tribution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allo-
cation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no


﻿-7-
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrowef shall: (i) cause UTPO, BMA and
TPD to maintain separate Project accounts adequate to r,-Pflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
their operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
parts of the Project being carried out by them; and (ii) cause
UTPO to maintain a consolidated Project account in a similar
manner, that reflects the operations, resources and expenditures
of UTPO, BMA, TPD and BMTA in connection with the carrying out of
the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause UTPO, BMA and TPD
to: (i) have their separate Project accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of


﻿- 8 -
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of UTPO, BMA and BTP and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause UTPO, BMA and TPD
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appro-
priate practice for the parts of the Project being carried out
by them.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date April 25, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok
Thailand
Cable address:                            Telex:
MINANCE                                    TH-2823
Bangkok


﻿-9-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s/ Klos Visessurakarn
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                8,900,000         40%
(2) Goods and vehicles         2,600,000
(a) directly                                100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) locally                                 65%
procured
(c) manufactured                            100% of local
locally                                 expenditures
(ex-factory)
(3) Consultants'               2,700,000         100%
services,
technical
assistance and
training
(4) Unallocated                1,800,000
TOTAL     16,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and


﻿- 11 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,750,000
may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after June 1, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the


﻿- 12 -
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to enable more efficient use to
be made of existing and planned urban transportation facilities in
the Project Area. It consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Implementation of policy measures designed to discourage
the uneconomic use of low occupancy vehicles:
(i) introduction of an appropriate and justified area
pricing scheme aimed at discouraging the use of
congested roads by low-occupancy vehicles (princi-
pally cars) in the central area during the working
day;
(ii) parking controls to discourage long-term "commuter
parking", to encourage short-term business parking,
and to remove obstructions to moving traffic; and
(iii) staggering of working and school hours to reduce
passenger overloading of the bus system during peak
travel hours.
Part B:   Improving urban management through the provision of:
(i) specialized police equipment to improve police
mobility and communications in improving traffic
management and the enforcement of traffic regula-
tions;
(ii) traffic monitoring equipment to quantify changes
in traffic volumes and speeds and to determine
levels of air and noise pollution;
(iii) a traffic noise abatement and air pollution detec-
tion program to reduce noise and air pollution
along major road arteries;
(iv) about 120 expert-months of consultancy services to
UTPO, to assist in the preparation and implementa-
tion of the Project;
(v) about 6 expert-months of consultancy services to
UTPO, to augment traffic monitoring activities;


﻿- 14 -
(vi) training programs for the staff of UTPO and TPD;
(vii) public relations assistance to UTPO to advise the
public on Project matters, with particular emphasis
on policy measures; and
(viii) about 100 expert-months of consultancy services
to assist the Borrower in the preparation of
regional development projects outside the Project
Area.
Part C:   A program to increase the capacity and safety of the
road system through:
(i) improvements in traffic signalling, including cen-
tralized traffic signal control, the modernization
of existing signals and the installation of new
traffic signals;
(ii) the construction of road flyovers at critical
intersections in the road network;
(iii) street improvements, including road widening,
junction improvements, and street signing and
marking; and
(iv) the construction of missing road links to provide
additional road network elements, capable of
handling significant traffic volumes.
Part D:   The improvement of public transport through:
(i) the introduction of bus priority measures includ-
ing reserved bus lanes, special bus and pedestrian
street priority measures, extended bus bays and bus
shelters; and
(ii) about 75 expert-months of consultancy services
to assist BMTA in improving its management and
financial procedures.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1984
through   June 1, 1998                        535,000
On December 1, 1998                                485,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
curreacy other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.10%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                        2.20%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.05%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                        5.90%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                        6.60%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.35%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods, vehicles and
civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and civil works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall cause to be
prepared and forwarded to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
and works in question. The Borrower shall cause the Bank to be
provided with the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for civil works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 18 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of the Thailand may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of the Thailand if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in
the Kingdom of Thailand equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Kingdom of the Thailand.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.  All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 19 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
The Borrower may: (i) negotiate directly with and, after
obtaining the approval of the Bank, cause to be awarded to Traffic
Engineering Systems Company Limited contracts in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,700,000, for the supply
and installation of traffic signal and control systems under Part
C (i) of the Project; (ii) cause contracts to be awarded for all
civil works other than the road-flyovers specified in Part C (ii)
of the Project by means of competitive bidding advertised locally,
in accordance with its normal procedures; and (iii) cause con-
tracts to be awarded for goods and vehicles in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000 by means of competitive
bidding advertised locally, in accordance with its normal pro-
cedures.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, when pre-
qualification is required under paragraph A.3 of this Schedule
and before such qualification is invited, cause the Bank to be
informed in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall
cause such modifications to be introduced in said procedure as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Borrower shall cause
the list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification to be furnished to the Bank for its
comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's
decision, and the Borrower shall cause to be made such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or more and civil works to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding:


﻿- 20 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall cause the
Bank to be furnished with, for its comments, the text of the
Invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising pro-
cedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall cause such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank
shall reasonably request to be made. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
cause the Bank to be informed of the name of the bidder to which
it is intended to award the contract and shall cause to be
furnished to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with recommendations for the award of the said
contract and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The teras and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its executiott and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with an analysis of the respective bids,
their recommendations for award and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of


﻿- 21 -
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall cause the Bank
to be informed of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Division of Project Responsibilities Between UTPO, BMA, TPD
and BMTA.
Project Activity(a)
Planning,     Structural
Traffic        Design,
Engineering   Installation
Design and        or         Operation
Related    Construction,       or
Project Component            Research    Maintenance   Enforcement
Part A: Policy
Measures
(1) Road
Pricing
Scheme               UTPO            BMA       TPD/BMA
(ii) Parking
Controls             UTPO            BMA       TPD/BMA(b)
(iii) Staggered
Work and
School
Hours                UTPO             -        MOI(c)
Part B: Improve
Urban
Management
(i) technical
assistance
for trans-
portation
planning,
project
design and
monitoring           UTPO


﻿- 23 -
Project Activity(a)
Planning,     Structural
Traffic        Design,
Engineering   Installation
Design and        or         Operation
Related    Construction,       or
Project Component            Research    Maintenance    Enforcement
(ii) equipment,
vehicles
and train-
ing for
traffic
control
and traf-
fic law
enforce-
ment                 TPD             TPD          TPD
(iii) noise abate-
ment and
air pollu-
tion detec-
tion in the          UTPO                        TPD
Project Area
(iv) technical
assistance
for Project
related
public
relations                                        UTPO(d)
(v) technical
assistance
for planning
regional
urbaniza-
tion                 MOI


﻿- 24 -
Project Activity(a)
Planning,     Structural
Traffic        Design,
Engineering   Installation
Design and        or         Operation
Related    Construction,       or
Project Component            Research    Maintenance    Enforcement
Part C: Increase
Capacity
and
Safety
of Road
System
(i) Traffic
Signalling
Equipment            UTPO(e)     UTPO(f)     TPD/UTPO(8)
(ii) Road Fly-
overs,
Missing
Links,
Street
Widening,
Junction
Improve-
ments,
Street
Signing
and
Marking              UTPO(e)      BMA
Part D: Improve
Public
Transport
(i) Technical
Assistance
to BMTA                -          -             BMTA


﻿- 25 -
Project Activity(a)
Planning,     Structural
Traffic        Design,
Engineering   Installation
Design and        or         Operation
Related    Construction,       or
Project Component            Research    Maintenance   Enforcement
(ii) Bus Lanes,
Bus Bays,
Bus Shel-
ters                 UTPO            BMA          TPD
(a) UTPO responsible f or review of all Projiect related procure-
ment.
(b)  Collection of all charges will be carried out by parking
attendants employed by BMA.
(c) Ministry of Interior acts as agent for Government in assuming
plan compliance among all central government and BMA
agencies.
(d) UTPO to coordinate all public relations efforts.
(e) Location, traffic engineering details, and priority to be
determined by UTPO.
(f) New equipment to be maintained initially under contract with
equipment supplier.
(g)  TPD responsible for routine daily operation; UTPO engineers
to have iverride authority.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 6
Minimum Staff of UTPO for Project Implementation
Minimum Key Staff
Required*
Time
By      By    Commit-
January January ment to
Position           Qualifications       1979     1980   Project
Chief of Office   Degree in Related Field      1       1       -
and 5 years Transport
Planning experience,
at least 2 supervisory
Deputy Chief      5 years experience in        1       1     (f.t.)
office management
Chief Engineer    Degree in Engineering       1        1     (p.t.)
and 5 years experience,
at least 2 supervisory
Senior Engineer   Degree in Engineering       3      10      (f.t.)
and 3 years experience
Engineer          Degree in Engineering      10       20     (f.t.)
Senior Transport Advanced Degree in           -       1      (p.t.)
Planner          related field and
3 years experience
Transport         Degree in Related Field     2        4     (f.t.)
Planner
Senior Transport Advanced degree in           1       1      (p.t.)
Economist        Economics and 3 years
experience in Economics
Transport         Degree in Economics         1        2     (f.t.).
Economist
Chief Accountant 5 years related expe-        1       1      (p.t.)
rience


﻿- 27 -
Minimum Key Staff
Required*
Time
By      By   Commit-
Position           Qualifications     January January ment to
1979    1980   Project
Accountant/       2 years related expe-      2       2     (f.t.)
Bookkeeper       rience
Chief Draftsman   3 years experience,        1       1     (p.t.)
at least 2 super-
visory, or a civil
engineer with a
degree
Chief of Signal                              1       1     (f.t.)
Maintenance
TOTAL                                25      46       -
(f.t.)    Full time equivalents for first two years of Project.
(p.t.)    At least 50% committed to Project for first two years.
*    Assumed to be permanently assigned to UTPO to carry out
important mission of office after completion of the Project.


