CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1365 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Sixth Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 4, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 4, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Perusahaan Umum Lis-
trik Negara (hereinafter called PLN) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Birrower will make available
to PLN the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and PLN;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and PLN of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agree-
ment and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PLN pursuant to Section 3.02
(a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time; and


﻿-3-
(c) "Governing Laws" means Government Act No. 19, 1960, Pres-
idential Decree No. 17, 1967, Law No. 9, 1969, Government Regula-
tion No. 18, 1972, and any other legal provisions at any time gov-
erning the organization and operations of PLN, as any of them may
be amended or supplemented from time to time.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hun-
dred sixteen million dollars ($116,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for the construction re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause PLN to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action necessary or appropriate to enable PLN to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance. To that
end, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds to
cover the budgeted expenditures estimated by PLN to be made for
the Project during each quarter shall be available to PLN not later
than the fifteenth day of such quarter.
(b) Until the Bank shall have notified the Borrower and PLN
that it has determined that PLN's tariffs are adequate to generate
revenues sufficient to cover all of PLN's operating expenses (in-
cluding administration and overhead expenses, maintenance, adequate
provision for depreciation and bad debt, and taxes, if any) and
debt service requirements in excess of depreciation, the Borrower
shall transfer to PLN, in addition to the funds referred to in
the preceding paragraph, and as and when required, sufficient funds
to finance PLN's necessary capital investment expenditures to be
made until such notification.


﻿-7-
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan to PLN under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into betveen the Borrower and PLN, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all action to ensure
at all times that amounts owed to PLN for services provided by it
to any department or agency of the Borrower be promptly paid when
due, and, to that end, the Rorrover shall ensure that sufficient
liquid funds to cover such amounts owed to PLN shall be available
to each department or agency not later than the fifteenth day of
the month during which such amounts shall be payable.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the position of
President Director of PLN shall at all times be filled by a quali-
fied and experienced person.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or diLtribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿- 9 -
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "publIc assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold aai other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower desires to supervise the procure-
ment activities of PLN pursuant to Article 29 of Regulation No.
12/PRT/1975 of its Minister of Public Works and Power, without,
however, limiting or restricting PLN's autonomy as defined in Gov-
ernment Regulation No. 18 of 1972 of the Borrower. The Borrower
ensures that, in exercising its governmental function, its involve-
ment in the procurement activities of PLN will be limited to super-
vision of the evaluation of bids received by PLN for goods or ser-
vices to be financed out of funds included in the Borrower's national
development budget.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall through PLN:


﻿- 10 -
(a) adopt the lower of the two demand forecasts which are
included in the Java Power System Development Plan prepared by
consultants under Part C of the project described in Schedule 2
of the Development Credit Agreement (West Java Thermal Power
Project) of June 22, 1973, between the Borrower and the Association,
as a guideline for the development of electric power generation,
transmission and distribution on Java until fiscal year 1983/84.
(b) review annually with the Bank potential changes in the
load growth of electric power on Java and the variations of PLN's
development programs for Java that are required as a result of
such changes; and
(c) review annually with the Bank PLN's investment budget
for the next fiscal year before its final approval by the Borrower,
in order to enable the Bank to express its views on the priorities
assigned to the investments included under the budget and on the
balance among the generation, transmission and distribution of
electric power which would result from such investments.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance by PLN of any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall have taken any action for the dissolu-
tion or disestablishment of PLN or for the suspension of its opera-
tions, without having obtained the prior concurrence of the Bank;
(c) the Borrower shall have suspended, terminated, repealed
or substantially amended any of the Governing Laws or any provision
thereof, without having obtained the prior concurrence of the Bank;
and
(d) PLN shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PLN or
by others whereby any of the property of PLN shall or may be dis-
tributed among its creditors.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 12 -
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or (d) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of PLN
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and PLN, respectively, has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(c) PLN has contracted the consultants referred to in
Section 2.02 (i) of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PLN, and is legally binding upon PLN in accordance
with its terms; and


﻿-14 -
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly aut,io-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and PLN, respectively, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and PLN in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date May 5, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrover; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is des-
ignated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Sec-
tion 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:               Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE             44379
Jakarta
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INTBAFRAD                    440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
Unit No. 4
(1) Major equipment           34,100,000         100% of foreign
(boilers, turbine                           expenditures for
generators, elec-                           directly imported
trical equipment,                            goods, 95% of
and transformers)                           ex-factory cost
for locally manu-
factured goods,
and 65% of total
expenditures for
imported goods
procured locally
(2) Minor equipment            7,800,000         100% of foreign
and materials                               expenditures for
directly imported
goods, 95% of
ex-factory cost
for locally manu-
factured goods,
and 65% of total
expenditures for
imported goods
procured locally


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3) General construc-
tion
(a) Civil works            4,000,000         67% of total
expenditures
(b) Mechanical            10,900,000         100% of foreign
and electrical                          expenditures
works
Unit No. 5
(4) Down payments for           7,300,000         100% of foreign
major equipment,                             expenditures
erection and
field services
(up to 20% of
total cost), and
ocean freight for
major equipment
(5) Minor equipment             7,800,000         100% of foreign
and materials                                expenditures
for directly
imported goods,
95% of ex-factory
cost for locally
manufactured
goods, and 65%
of total expendi-
tures for imported
goods procured
locally


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) General construc-
tion
(a) Civil works            4,000,000         67% of total
expenditures
(b) Mechanical            10,900,000         100% of foreign
and electrical                          expenditures
works
Consultants' Services
(7) For units nos. 4            4,200,000         100% of foreign
and 5                                        expenditures
(8) For Semarang                3,000,000         100% of foreign
no. 3                                        expenditures
(9) For Java inter-             5,000,000         100% of foreign
connection                                   expenditures
(10) Unallocated               17,000,000
TOTAL     116,000,000


﻿- 20 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
(i) in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement; or


﻿- 21 -
(ii) in respect of expenditures under Categories (4),
(5) or (6), unless and until arrangements have
been entered into, in form and substance satisfac-
tory to the Bank, for the financing of the major
equipment included in the fifth thermal power unit
referred to under Part A of the Project.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A.   Construction of a fourth and fifth thermal power unit
(200 MW each) at the Muara Karang power plant situated
in the northwestern outskirts of Jakarta.
Part B.   Engineering and design of, including the preparation of
bidding documents and evaluation of bids for, a third
thermal power unit (200 MW) at the Semarang Harbor steam
power station.
Part C.   Provision of engineering services for a Java inter-
connection system including detailfd design and prepara-
tion of bidding documents for phase I of the inter-
connection.
Part D.   A comprehensive financial recovery plan taking into ac-
count all aspects of PLN's administration and operations
and designed to allow PLN not later than its fiscal year
1978/79 to cover out of the revenues from its sales of
electricity all its administrative and operating expenses
(including maintenance, adequate provision for deprecia-
tion and bad debt, and taxes, if any) and interest and
other charges on debt.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January, 1982
through   July 1, 1996                       3,74o,ooo
On January 1, 1997                                3,8oo,ooo
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-24-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                         2.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         4.65%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                   6.80%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                   7.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                         8.50%


