CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1365 IND
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Sixth Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
Dated February 4, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 4, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA (hereinafter called PLN).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundered sixteen
million dollars ($116,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that PLN agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
PLN, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement
will be made available to PLN on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS PLN, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obli-
gations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PLN shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate public utility, administrative,
financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist PLN (i) in the supervision
of construction under Part A of the Project and (ii) in carrying
out Parts B and C of the Project, PLN shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of em-
ployment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for the construction required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the finan-
cial recovery plan included in Part D of the Project, PLN shall:
(i) prepare and submit to the Bank during the third quarter of
each of PLN's fiscal years a definitive draft of a detailed finan-
cial recovery program of measures for the following fiscal year,
designed to improve PLN's administration and operations and sched-
uled to be implemented by realistic target dates specified in the


﻿-'4-
program, together with an analysis of the expected financial effects
of such measures; (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment on such draft; (iii) thereafter, adopt a program consisting
of the measures specified in said draft as modified to take into
account the Bank's comments thereon; and (iv) implement that pro-
gram expeditiously.
(b) PLN shall: (i) review during the first quarter of each
of its fiscal years the implementation of its annual financial re-
covery program during the preceding fiscal year on the basis of
its unaudited financial statements for that preceding year; (ii)
review during the third quarter of each of its fiscal years the
implementation of its annual financial recovery program during the
first fiscal semester on the basis of financial statements for that
semester; and (iii) prepare such financial statements in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices, and
furnish to the Bank certified copies in the English language of
such financial statements and the result of such review.
Section 2.05. (a) PLN undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision-.for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by PLN
to replace or repair such goods.


﻿(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PLN shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Proj-
ect.
Section 2.06. (a) PLN shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Proj-
ect, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) PLN: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to iden-
tify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) PLN shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of PLN and any relevant records and documents.


﻿-6-
Section 2.07. PLN shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, PLN shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) PLN shall, at the request of the Bank, ex-
change views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Proj-
ect, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) PLN shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by PLN of its obligations under this Agreement and un-
der the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PLN
Section 3.01. PLN shall at all times manage its affairs, im-
prove its financial position, plan its future expansion and carry
on its operations, all in accordance with sound engineering, admin-
istrative, financial and public utility practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
experienced and competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. (a) PLN shall maintain its existence and right
to carry on its operations, and shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all interests in land and other prop-
erties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the carrying out of the Project or in the
conduct of its business.
(b) PLN shall at all times operate and maintain its plants,
facilities, equipment and other property, and promptly as required
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance
with sound engineering and public utility practices.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PLN shall not
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of
its business and undertaking.


﻿Section 3.03. PLN shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions, including self-insurance, satis-
factory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PLN shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PLN shall: (i) have its eccounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by in-
dependent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its finan-
cial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of PLN and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank and PLN, with the approval
of the Borrower, shall otherwise agree, and after having attained
full financial recovery in accordance with the plan included in
Part B of the Project, PLN shall:
(a) from time to time take all steps (including but not lim-
ited to increases in its tariffs and charges) as shall be required


﻿- 10 -
to provide revenues from PLN's sales of electricity sufficient to
cover all PLN's administrative and operating expenses (including
maintenance, adequate provision for depreciation and bad debt, and
taxes, if any), interest and other charges on debt, and a reason-
able contribution towards new capital investments of PLN; and
(b) within the first and third quarters of each of its fis-
cal years, review on the basis of reasonable estimates whether
the revenues from its sales of electricity shall be sufficient to
cover during the current fiscal year the costs specified in para-
graph (a) of this Section, and furnish to the Bank the result of
such review.
Section 4.04. PLN shall pay all its debts within one month
after their respective due dates.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PLN
shall not incur any debt, unless:
(i) all debt service payments (if any) on account of
such debt to be made before PLN has attained full
financial recovery in accordance with the plan in-
cluded in Part D of the Project shall be deferred
until PLN will have attained such financial recov-
ery; and
(ii) PLN's net revenues for the fiscal year next preced-
ing such incurrence or for a later twelve-months


﻿- 11 -
period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever
amount is greater, shall be equal to or exceed the
maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt, including the debt to be
incurred. ,
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" shall mean all indebtedness of PLN ma-
turing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred un the date of ex-
ecution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other instru-
ment providing for such debt.
(c) The term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from
all sources, adjusted to take account of PLN's tariffs in effect
at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not
in effect during the fiscal year or twelve-months period to which
such revenues relate, less all operating and administrative ex-
penses (including adequate maintenance and taxes, if any), but be-
fore provision covering depreciation and interest and other charges
on debt.
(d) The term "debt service requirement" shall mean the aggre-
gate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt.


﻿- 12 -
(e) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the pur-
poses of servicing such debt.
Section 4.06. PLN shall ensure that on the first day of every
calendar month the aggregate amount due to it on account of elec-
tricity supplied by it to customers, other than departments or
agencies of the Borrower, will be less than the aggregate amount
charged or to be charged by it to such customers on account of
electricity supplied by it during the three calendar months imme-
diately preceding that day.
Section 4.07. (a) PLN shall ensure that the tariff surcharges
that PLN will levy in addition to its applicable rates and that
are to become effective after the date of this Agreement will at
all times be related to PLN's actual costs on account of which they
are levied and to PLN's basic tariff structure.
(b) PLN shall embark on a program of tariff surcharge rear-
rangements and corresponding billings ensuring that by March 31,
1979, or such later date as the Bank may agree, all PLN's tariff
surcharges then in effect are related to PLN's actual costs on ac-
count of which they are levied and to PLN's basic tariff structure;
and PLN shall thereafter promptly as required take all such actions
as shall be necessary to maintain effectively such relationships.


﻿- 13 -
(c) PLN shall adopt a basic tariff schedule that incorporates
all PLN's tariff surcharges then in effect and that specifies cost
related tbriffs for each class of PLN's customers. This basic tariff
schedule shall become effective on or before April 1, 1979, or such
later date as the Bank may agree.


﻿ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of PLN thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Sec-
tion, the Bank shall promptly notify PLN of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 16 -
For PLN:
Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara
Kantor Pusat
Jl. Adityawarman
Blok MI No. 135
Kebayoran Baru
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                Telex:
PLNPST                        46186 (JKT)
Jakarta
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PLN may be taken or executed by the Presi-
dent Director of PLN or such other person or persons as the Presi-
dent Director of PLN shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. PLN shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the
person or persons who will, on behalf of PLN, take any action or
execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed
by PLN pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
By /s/ Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for construction shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.   With respect to contracts for equipment or materials, identi-
cal or similar items to be procured shall be grouped together to
the extent practicable for the purposes of inviting bids, and such
grouping of items shall be subject to the approval of the Bank.
3.   Bidders for civil works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs


﻿- 19-
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to PLN of inland freight and other expenditures in-
cidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or in-
stallation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Indo-
nesia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of PLN and the Bank that the manufac-
turing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Indonesia.


﻿- 20 -
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among thent.elves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, &:s a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the 3:west bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 21 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Construction;
Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for construction included under
Category 3 (a) or Category 6 (a) of the table set forth in Schedule
1 to the Loan Agreement and to be procured in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, PLN may grant a
margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification apply-
ing also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part of
the data for qualification, such information, including details of
ownership, as shall be required to determine whether, according to
the classification accepted by the Bank, a particular firm or group
of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by PLN, re-
sponsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.


﻿- 22 -
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. PLN shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be fol-
lowed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bid-
ders, together with a statement of their qualifications and, where
applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part
C above, and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification and for such eligibility shall be furnished by PLN
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
PLN's decision, and PLN shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards End final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PLN shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the speci-
fications and other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and
shall make such modifications in the said documents or procedures


﻿- 23 -
as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PLN shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02
of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and PLN and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, PLN
shall furnish to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior


﻿-24 -
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform PLN and state the
reasons for such determination.


