Report No. 404a-YOR                                                           FILE  Copy
Appraisal of an Education Project
in the People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen
May 29, 1974
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY BQUIVALENTS
US$1.00      =      Yemen Dinar (YD) o.3448
YD:1         =      US$2.90
YD 1,000     =      US$2,900
YD 1 million =      US$2.9 million
M4EASURES
2
1 m         =     10.764 sq.ft.
1 km=             0,38 sq. mile
1 hectare   =      2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT IN THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................**.*. ,  . * * * .  i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION   ...................   , ...* ........        1
II.   SOCIO ECONOMIC SETTING ........... .........                2
Socio-Economic Background .........................         2
The Structure of the Economy       ............             2
Economic Development Strategy and Manpower Needs...         3
III.  EDUCATION AND TRAINING ............                         4
The Education System                                        4
General Education ...o.....                                 5
Teacher Education *** ....* ...     ..... ***.** *          6
Agricultural and Technical Education                        7
Other Education ..7
Educational Development Strategy..                          8
Education Finance                ....                      10
External Aid .........                                     10
IV.   THE PROJECT ..11
General   .......... ..... .... ....   .... ...........    71
Primary Teacher Training Institutes                        12
Secondary-Preparatory Schools.                             13
Preparatory Schools .. .... ... ....... . ............  ,   14
Farm Machinery and IRural Skills Training Center           14
Expansion of the Tawahi Trade Training Center              15
Rural Development Centers ..........* ...                  15
Technical Assistance .     ...................,.,.,        16
Project Institution Staffing...                            16
Cost of the Project ...,                                   17
Financial Plan ..........        .....                      s    18
Recurrent Costs .. ........... , ... .. .......             18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen in November/December 1973. The
mission consisted of Messrs. R. Savas (agricultural educator), A. Andonyadis
(architect), B. Grindrod (technical educator), B. Masters (general educator),
and C. Taylor (economist). Mr. A. Salmon (general educator) participated in
the appraisal during the last two weeks.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)                                       Page No.
V.   1'!PLEIENTATION ................ .                       19
Project Administration ............ ................     19
Design and Construction Standards ..............Is..     19
Professional Services .......................... .       20
Sites ............................. 0......  ......... ....  20
Implementation Period   .............................    20
Procurement .......so....... .... .0.........................  20
Disbursements ............... ......    ..............   21
VI.   BENEFITS  .............     *     *                     21
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............      22
APPENDICES
1.  The Education and Training System
2.  Manpower Requirements
3.   Technical Assistance
ANNEXES
1.  Comparative Education Indicators
2.  Estimated Annual Manpower Supply and Demand
3.  Recurrent Expenditure and Capital Expenditure on Education
4.  Projected Recurrent Education Expenditure
5.   Primary and General Secondary Educational Development
6.  Primary Teacher Requirements
7.  Preparatory and Secondary Teacher Requirements
8.   Technical and Agricultural Education
9.   Students Graduating from Universities Abroad
10.   Schedule of Technical Assistance
11.   Enrollment, Output, Student:Teacher Ratios and Use Factors
12.   Staff Requirements for Project Institutions
13.   Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
14.   Contingency Allowance
15.  Unit Capital Costs
16.   Financial Plan
17.   Implementation Schedule
18.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CIHARTS
1.  Organization of the Ministry of Education
2.  Structure of the Education System
3.  Education Pyramid
MAP



BASIC DATA - P.D.R.Y.
(Anx 1)
1. General (1973)/I
Population                1.6 million
Annual growth rate        2.7% to 3%
Rural population          1,200,000 (75%)
Urban population            400,000 (25%)
Modern sector employment    55,000
G.D.P. per capita         under $100
2. Education (1972/73)
Levels of Education         Enrollments        %        Percent of age group/2
Primary                       156,900         85.8             71%
Preparatory                    19,600         10.7             20%
Secondary/3                     6,100           3.3             6%
Higher                             300         0.2            0.4%
Total                         182,900        100.0
Public Expenditures on Education (1971/72)                 (YD million)
Recurrent education expenditure                                2.934
Capital education expenditure /4                                 .040
Total education expenditure                                     2.974
Recurrent expenditure on education as % of total
recurrent expenditure                14.5%
Capital expenditure on education as % of total
capital expenditure                   7.7%
Total expenditure on education as % of total
government expenditure               14.3%
Total expenditure on education as % of GDP/5                    4.0%
/1 Estimates by mission based on data supplied by the Central Planning
Commission (CPC)
/2 Including overage students
/3 Including technical and agricultural
jT Most school construction was locally and externally financed and is not
part of the Ministry of Education expenditure
/5 Mission estimate






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an education project in the People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen for which an IDA credit of US$5.4 million is proposed to as-
sist the government to modernize the education system, to produce adequately
trained manpower required by the economy and to equalize educational opportu-
nities.
ii.       Since independence in 1967, the government has advocated equal op-
portunity for formal education with a resultant upsurge in enrollments par-
ticularly from overage pupils; enrollments in primary schools have increased
by 300%, in preparatory schools by 100% and in secondary schools by 500%.
This expansion of the formal education system has been carried out under
pressure of social demand and for political reasons. It has taken place
utilizing out-moded curricula, inadequate buildings and equipment, and a
large untrained teaching force -- 72% of primary, 68% of preparatory and
50% of secondary teachers were untrained in 1972/73. The result is an
education system of poor quality and of little relevance to regional and
national socio-economic needs.
iii.      This rapid growth in public education has been achieved by nationa-
lizing private and Koranic schools, obtaining about 65% of secondary school
teachers from bilateral sources and by introducing a compulsory national
teaching service for secondary school graduates. The government's targets
are over optimistic for expanding formal education in relation to the man-
power requirements and financial resources of the country, while insuffi-
cient attention is being given to skill training. If maintained these tar-
gets would further restrict the supply of skilled and semi-skilled workers,
while creating a problem of educated unemployed, particularly among ill-
prepared secondary graduates.
iv.       Imbalances exist in educational opportunities.  Schooling outside
Aden, except in the more developed Fifth Governorate, is sparse. Little op-
portunity was previously available for girls to obtain any schooling other
than through religious or private schools. Technical, commercial and agri-
cultural education are limited to the Aden area.
v.        The government has taken some steps to improve the education system
by establishing a central Ministry of Education with directorates in each of
the six governorates, revising some curricula to include more appropriate na-
tional content, expanding literacy programs, initiating in-service training
to upgrade primary teachers and establishing agricultural, trade and para-
medical training programs.
vi.       Despite these efforts and advances, major problems persist and the
education system remains largely ill-suited to the nation's needs. If the
Government's policy of quantitative expansion of formal education is main-
tained, the projected supply of preparatory and secondary school leavers is
likely to exceed the labor market's demand annually by about 6,000 and 9,000
respectively during the period 1978/79 - 1984/85. Based on the mission's en-
rollment projections, recurrent education expenditure would rise from 18% of
total government revenue in 1971/72 to an estimated 22% in 1978/79 and 26%



- ii -
in 1984/85. The proposed project would include assistance in introducing
qualitative improvements at the preparatory and secondary levels in the ex-
pectation that such assistance would provide the Association with a point of
entrv appropriate for favorably influencing the future orientation and growth
rate of these levels.
vii.      In coordination with other external programs designed to assist the
government by providing supplementary school buildings, secondary teachers
and technical advisers, this project would provide assistance for (a) supply-
ing annually about 50% of new primary school teacher requirenments and upgrading
about 30% of existing unqualified teachers; (b) introducing more practical
broad-based curricula into preparatory and secondary schools which would ac-
commodate about 4% of the total enrollment by 1978/79 and 2% by 1984/85 --
with facilities being used for adult education and community activities; (c)
training urgently needed skilled manpower for agriculture, industry and social
services; and (d) creating pilot Rural Development Centers which would coor-
dinate the service functions of selected agencies toward providing non-formal
training programs in the more remote rural areas of the country.
viii.     Specifically, the project would comprise:
(a) the construction, or rehabilitation and equipping of:
- two new primary teacher training institutes;
- two new preparatory schools (one replacement) and
rehabilitation of three existing schools (two secondary,
one preparatory;
- a new farm machinery and rural skills training center;
- an expansion of a trade training center;
- two new rural development centers.
(b)  the provision of vehicles for the various project Centers
and the Project Unit.
(c) technical assistance to (i) strengthen curriculum develop-
ment capability; (ii) provide specialist teachers for project
institutions; and (iii) support project implementation and
develop school building standards.
ix.       A Project Implementation Unit, responsible to the Permanent Secretary
of Education for overall supervision and management of the project, would be
established within the Ministry of Education. Three of its principal officers,
the Project Architect, Procurement Specialist, and Furniture Expert would be
financed under the credit. Contracts for civil works, furniture and equip-
ment for the project institutions would be awarded in conformity with the



- iii -
Association's guidelines for international competitive bidding; furniture and
equipment for the Project Unit and Building Unit and miscellaneous items for
project institutions may be procured in accordance with the normal procure-
ment procedures of the government. For the purposes of comparing foreign and
local bids, local civil works contractors, in accordance with a classification
to be estabilished by the government and acceptable to the Association, may be
awarded a preference margin of 7.5% and local manufacturers of furniture
would be awarded a 15% preference over foreign bidders' c.i.f. prices. All
imported goods to be used for the project institutions would be exempted from
customs duty.
x.        Total project cost is estimated at US$6.0 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$4.0 million (about 67% of the total cost). The
project forms a suitable basis for an IDA credit to the Government of the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen of US$5.4 million, equal to 90% of
the total cost of the project.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      On the basis of the findings of a Unesco Reconnaissance-in-Depth
Mission which visited the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) in
October-November, 1972, an IDA pre-preparation mission discussed with the
government the possible contents of a project suitable for IDA financing.
A Unesco mission assisted the government during September 1973, in prepar-
ing a proj,lct which was appraised in November-December 1973, by an IDA mis-
sion comprising Messrs. R. Savas (agricultural educator), A. Andonyadis
(architect), B. Grindrod (technical educator), B. Masters (general educator),
and C. Taylor (economist). Mz. A. Salmon (general educator) participated in
the appraisal during the last two weeks.
1.02      During appraisal, the government was agreeable to the mission's
recommendations for modifying the proposed project, as follows:
(a) the deletion of one of the three originally proposed (combined
primary/preparatory) Teacher Training Institutes and their
preparatory sections, since three would be surplus to the
primary school teacher needs and the existing Higher College
of Education has adequate capacity to continue training pre-
paratory school teachers;
(b) the rehabilitation or replacement of two existing preparatory
and two secondary schools and the construction of one preparatory
school rather than the establishment of six new schools, in
order to provide the necessary workshops and equipment to intro-
duce new experimental curricula;
(c)  the revision of tht.. training objectives of the Farm Machinery
and Rural Skills Training Center to meet the existing needs for
semi-skilled and skilled training for the agricultural sector,
while technician t-aining would be provided only in ad hoc
programs in limited numbers sufficient to meet specific man-
power needs;
(d) the provision of equipment and technical assistance to the
Tawahi Trade Training Center instead of the requested exten-
sion of the Maalla Technical Institute in view of the inade-
quate justification for expanding further the training of
technicians and tne urgent need for training semi-skilled and
skilled workers;
(e)  the reductionl of th2 technical assistance component of the pro-
posed proiect in view of the existing possibilities for the
governmenL -.o receive bilateral assistance for the project
institutior_s.



- 2 -
II. SOCIO ECONOMIC SETTING
Socio-Economic Background
2.01      With a per capita income of about $100, a very poor resource base,
very high illiteracy rates, lack of basic infrastructures and a new but limited
administration system, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) is one
of the least developed countries in the world.
2.02      The harsh geography of the country and difficult ecological and
climatic conditions have arrested ec,nomic progress for centuries. The
country covers an area of about 290,000 km2 along the southern coast of the
Arabian peninsula. Beyond the sandy coastal plain, the terrain is mountain-
ous, arid and unsuitable for cultivation, except in the central Wadi Hadhraaout
and the irrigated areas of the western region.
2.03      Population is estimated at about 1.6 million, about 5 to 10%
nomadic, and is growing at the high rate of 2.7-3.0% p.a. About 50% of
total population is below the age of 20 and about 10% is literate. The
relative dispersion of population coupled with the difficulties of commu-
nication represent serious obstacles to national unity.
2.04      Following independence in 1967, the country which until then had a
service-oriented economy centered around Aden, was plunged into a major econ-
omic crisis, whose impact is still felt today. The closure of the British
military base at Aden eliminated an important source of foreign exchange and
an outlet for construction trade and services. The phasing out of the British
budgetary support contribution took away what used to be the main source of
government revenue. Furtherr..ore, the closure of the Suez Canal reduced ship-
ping traffic through Aden by 65% and all but eliminated transient tourism.
Open unemployment probably grew to over 20% of the labor force.
2.05      The new government, emerging from a political revolution inspired
by the principles of socialism, took drastic financial measures to tackle
the crisis and, at the same time, started a determined drive to modernize
society along egalitarian ana socialistic lines. A one-party system was
adopted, ambitious land reform schemes were launched, many economic activ-
ities were nationalized including all foreign banks, insurance companies,
port services, petroleum distribution companies, and some commercial and
residential buildings, and a central planning machinery was set up.
The Structure of the Economy
2.06      PDRY is essentially a subsistence-oriented agricultural society.  At
present, agriculture and fisheries provide a living for at least 75% of the
population. Farms are generally small and traditional farming predominates.
Increasing numbers of agricul:ural and fisheries cooperatives are being es-
tablished. Extension services are verv weak and can reach only a negligible
percentage of faLAers.



-3-
2.07      Notwithstanding the present weaknesses, PDRY's agriculture has a
considerable potential for expanded output. At present, agriculture depends
largely on flood irrigation, which usually permits only one crop per year
with a high seasonal work peak. As a result, only 70-100,000 ha., or about
0.3% of PDRY's total area, are normally cultivated. Recent surveys have
indicated that known water resources could permit this area to be substan-
tially increased and to expand cash amd export crops as well as cereals and
livestock products, of which PDRY is a net importer. Substantial investments
in physical facilities will be required to realize these potentialities. At
the same time, an upgrading of the level of farmers' education will be indis-
pensable to cope with the technical and managerial requirements of non-
traditional agriculture.
2.08      Similar needs and opportunities exist for the fisheries sector,
which can exploit one of the richest fishing grounds in the world for both
the export market (lobsters) and the domestic market. Thus far, exploitation
of fish resources has been hindered by traditional fishing techniques and lack
of appropriate shore facilities for landing, storage and processing.
2.09      Apart from petroleum refining in Aden, industrial activity in PDRY
is very limited. A few small industrial enterprises are engaged in tradi-
tional activities such as sa'.t production and building and repairing of wooden
vessels. Although some new industrial projects were completed in recent years
the small size of the domestic market, the scarcity of industrial raw mate-
rials and the lack of skilled manpower and technical know-how are the main
constraints on industrial development.
Economic Development Strategy and Manpower Needs
2.10      Although the modern sector of the economy will probably play an
increasing role in the development of the country (particularly after the
Suez Canal reopens), PDRY is likely to remain in the foreseeable future
basically an agricultural society. The immediate need - which is recognized
in the first Development Plan (1971/72-1973/74) - is to transform the country's
service-oriented economy to one based on production, to reduce import dependence,
particularly in food, to create export surplus and, most importantly, to reduce
unemployment. In the longer run, improvements of physical infrastructures,
institution building and upgrading of the educational profile of the population
will probably be pre-conditions for any further socio-economic development.
2.11      Within this framework, the objectives of reducing illiteracy, up-
grading and expanding basic educaLion and improving rural skills have ob-
viously the highest priority, in terms of both equity and productivity criteria.
2.12      Given the low educationra  orofile of most of the labor force (55,000)
employed by the public administration, industry and other sections of the uiodern
sector, it is also urgent to a?grade available skills and complement with ap-
propriate training schemes, the professional experience gained by workers on
the job or through traditional cha'nels of informal training.



- 4 -
2.13      On the other hand, the quantitative requirements of additional spe-
cialized manpower for the modern sector are likely to remain fairly limited.
If the Aden port is revitalized after the reopening of the Suez Canal, the
average annual manpower demand during 1973-1985 (Annex 2) is estimated to
be roughly of the order of 2,000 craftsmen and semi-skilled workers, 1,000
secondary education graduates and middle-level technicians and 500 profes-
sionals and higher technicians. A comparison with the projected outputs
from the education system (Annex 2) indicates that while reorientation or
limited expansion of the formal system in selected areas is justifiable on
manpower grounds, the government's avowed policy of expansion of general
preparatory and secondary education if maintained would, by 1984/85, produce
an output of school leavers exceeding the annual demand by about 6,000 and
9,000 respectively.
III.  EDUCATION AND TRAINING
The Education System (Appendix 1, Charts 1 & 3, Annexes 5-9)
3.01      Following independence in 1967, a Ministry of Education was estab-
lished to unify the education system with regional directorates. Due to lack
of qualified manpower, except in the higher levels of the Ministry, adminis-
tration is cumbersome and planning is inefficient. The government is aware
of these deficiencies and through overseas and local programs is training
administrative staff.
3.02      Over the previous five years, the average annual growth rates for
primary (Grades 1-6), preparatory (Grades 7-9) and secondary (Grades 10-12)
levels have been 17%, 30% and 41% respectively. This growth is high, par-
ticularly at the upper two levels, in comparison with countries at similar
levels of economic and social development. By 1972/73, enrollments repre-
sented 71%, 20% and 5% of the relevant age groups. Such expansion at all
levels in the government system has been compounded by the gradual nation-
alization of private and Koranic schools which represented about 7% and 50%
of all enrollments respectively in 1967, by attempts to redress severe re-
gional imbalances in enrollments (about 50% in Aden) and to overcome inade-
quate schooling opportunities for girls (about 20% of enrollments). This
expansion has resulted in increasing employment of unqualified and expatriate
teachers, use of ill-suited and overcrowded houses as schools, virtually no
replacements of or additions to equipment, extremely poor maintenance, in-
sufficient supply of furniture and textbooks and general deterioration in
the quality of education.
3.03      Arabic is the language of instruction except in some commercial
and technical courses. Double shifts operate at all but secondary levels
in the larger centers. Lxaminations for promotion between grades have been
abolished and no statistics are available on repeater rates or overage pupils.
Certificate examinations determine eligibility for entry to each higher level
0f educatioi. .  'i tce prepar.ory and secondary levels an academic curriculum,
with no practical application, presents schooling largely irrelevant to the
needs of the country.



-5-
General Education
3.04      The following table summarizes the basic statisticELl data related
to the three levels of general education:
General Education Statistics - 1972/1973
Primary           Preparatory       Secondary
Pupil Enrollments
Boys                 123,350  (109.4%)/1  15,620 (31.5%)  3,940   (8.5%)
Girls                 33,590  ( 30.8%)       4,030 ( 8.2%)    940   (2.1%)
Total                156,940  ( 70.8%)    19,650 (19.9%)  4,880   (5.4%)
Teachers
Male                   4,160  ( 26%) /2        640 (34%)        210   (47%)
Female                  1X180  ( 36%)          220 (30%)         60   (55%)
Total                  5,340  ( 28%)           860 (33%)       270   (50%)
Pupil:Teacher Ratios         29:1                    21:1            18:1
Completion Rates              43%                     69%               76%
/1   Mission's estimate as % of age-group including over-aged students.
/2   % trained.
3.05      The uneven distribution of enrollments by governorate is revealed
in the following table:
Governorate              Primary               Preparatory        Secondary
I (Aden)                26%                     44%                65%
II                        18%                    15%                 5%
III                        21%                     13%                3%
IV                         9%                     5%                 1%
V                        24%                    22%                26%
VI                         2%                      1%                -
3.06      The average annual rate of growth in primary education over the next
decade is expected to decline from 18% in 1972 to 10% by 1978 and 5% by 1985.
The expected decline in growth rate will be due to the government's targets
for reaching universal or near-universal primary education by that time
(Annex 5). Government resources will be strained to provide sufficient suit-
able accommodation, equipment and trained staff at all levels. The present
pupil:teacher ratios, student:teacher contact hours and average class sizes
are low but the government is unwilling to accept significant increases. At
the same time, the government is extremely concerned about the regional



- 6 -
imbalance and is striving to spread education to the faster growing eastern
region. To correct some of these imbalances, over 80% of the proposed project
would be located outside Aden.
Teacher Education
3.07      The primary teacher training system comprises four institutes, two
each at Aden and Mukalla, providing a three year course at post-preparatory
level. In 1973/74, enrollments were 361 at Aden and 105 at Mukalla. The
output from all institutes in 1972/73 of only 82 (of whom 24% were women)
was insufficient to meet even replacement needs of 160 teachers. The pro-
posed project would provide two new co-educational teacher training institutes
one in Zengibar and one in Al Hauta. By 1979/80, these two institutes would
produce annually 220 teachers in a total planned output of 420 from five
institutions located in four governorates. This pre-service output will be
sufficient to meet the annual increased demand (about 250) and the replacement
needs (about 200) after this date (Annex 6).
3.08      Government policy is to upgrade gradually the 3,900 (72%) untrained
primary school teachers through in-service training programs. Since 1970,
a summer course, extending over three years, has provided upgrading for over
900 teachers; annual qualified output is 240, showing a high retention rate
(80%) for the duration of the course. Short-courses in new curricula for
specific subjects are organized on an ad hoc basis; the government proposes
to increase such short courses as curricular revisions occur. The government
also intends to introduce an in-service professional course for about 40
teachers annually who lack any teacher training. The annual output from
in-service programs by 1980/81 would be about 440 of whom 120 (30%) would
be trained in the project institutes.
3.09      Preparatory and secondary teacher training through two-year diploma
and four-year degree courses respectively is provided only in Aden at the
Higher College of Education. With an enrollment of 260 in 1972/73, the Col-
lege is utilizing less than 30% of its capacity due to low intake (only 9%
of Grade 12 graduates in 1972/73) and unattractive incentives which are paid
irregularly during training. To meet the government's projected annual re-
quirements of about 240 and 360 by 1978/79 and 1984/85, respectively, the
intake would need to be trebled. The present buildings, furniture and equip-
ment are adequate to meet this need with only minor extensions by the latter
date.
3.10      With over 68% and 50% of preparatory and secondary teachers un-
trained, the Higher College has initiated a weekly in-service course for 30
teachers extending over 16 months. The government anticipates that this en-
rollment would be trebled within the next five years, thus upgrading almost
all preparatory untrained staff by 1984/85. No provision exists within the
country to upgrade secondary teachers. However, the government is consider-
ing the possibility of providing training programs for about 40 untrained
secondary teachers annually through bilateral fellowships to study overseas
or at the Higher College of Education. The government indicated that the
College may be relocated to form the nucleus of a future university; the



- 7 -
timing of such a move is uncertain as is the future of the extensive build-
ings presently occupied by the College. Considerable foreign assistance
would be necessary, in addition to continued UNDP support, to establish a
suitable center for degree-level study, which is inconsistent with devel-
opment prospects at this stage.
Agricultural and Technical Education (Annex 8)
3.11      The provision of agricultural, technical and trade training, in
both formal and non-formal programs, has been limited to areas within a 50-
mile radius of Aden. Such restriction has left the Wadi Hadhramout, in par-
ticular, bereft of training opportunities. Formal agricultural programs are
provided at the Nasser Institute of Agriculture where a four year degree pro-
gram for 25 students commenced in 1972/73; a three year course enrolling about
50 students annually at secondary level, previously established with Egyptian
assistance, is also in operation. The output of these courses would be suf-
ficient to meet needed requirements at these levels. Non-formal training is
conducted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform in four insti-
tutions for about 700 government employees and farmers in the western region.
Supported by UNDP and bilateral agencies, these courses are well accepted by
the farming communities but, as yet, only reach less than 1% of the farmers
annually.
3.12      Technical education is provided at the Maalla Technical Institute
in secondary level courses for full-time (280) and part-time (160) students
in technical and commercial subjects. Half of those enrolled annually in the
part-time apprenticeship program (40) receive a sound one-year preliminary
training from the BP refinery. Most of the instruction at the Institute
is in English. Equipment, buildings and maintenance are superior to gen-
eral secondary schools. With UNDP assistance, the government intends to
extend the existing courses in mechanical, electrical and building construc-
tion to two-year post-secondary level over the next three years. Such courses
would be more than adequate to provide sufficient technicians to meet demand
in these areas during the next decade.
3.13      The Tawahi Trade Training Center is administered by the Department
of Labor and Social Welfare. In 1972/73, training was provided for 140 and
260 students in full-time (18 months) and part-time courses covering general
mechanics, electrical, automotive and building trade skills. Under Algerian
assistance, well-equipped and extensive workshops have been established with
adequate room for expansion. The proposed project would finance the cost of
furniture and equipment needed at this center to provide training in new
areas for which skilled and semi-skilled labor is in demand.
Other Education
3.14      Only the Nasser Higher Institute of Agriculture and the Higher
College of Education presently provide post-secondary level courses. In
1972/73, nearly 800 students were studying abroad, 110 on fellowships. Al-
though the government has projected the number of trainees in various fields
of study for the next five years (Annex 9), the numbers of graduates return-
ing from overseas were not available.



- 8 -
3.15      Since its inception in 1970/71, the Lepartment of Adult Literacy
has arranged courses for about 5,000 adults annually. The government is
seeking Unesco's assistance to establish other such courses in rural areas.
3.16      In 1973, compulsory teaching service was introduced for the major-
ity of Grade 12 graduates; about 900 temporary teachers were sent to primary
and some preparatory schools throughout the country. The government expects
that about 10% of these national service teachers will remain as untrained
teachers, who will require subsequent basic teacher training.
Educational Development Strategy
3.17      Lack of reliable data and limited availability of administrative
skills have been major obstacles to the development of education planning.
Howiever, the government has proposed broad goals for its educational develop-
ment to include:
(i) continued quantitative expansion of education and equalization
of opportunity to achieve universal primary education by 1978/
79 and to provide sufficient places for 80% and 70% progres-
sion rates into preparatory and secondary education respec-
tively (para. 3.18);
(ii) development of pre-service and in-service teacher education
to replace untrained and expatriate teachers, to produce fully
t,-ained local teaching staff required by planned enrollment
increases and to introduce modern teaching methods (para. 3.20);
(iii) improvement of the quality and relevance of education through
initiation of modern curricula, to introduce pre-vocational
subjects in preparatory and secondary schools, and to expand
skill training (para. 3.21);
(iv) extension of educational opportunities for post-secondary
education and adult training (para. 3.22).
3.18      The government's top priority--the quantitative expansion and
equalization of educational opportunity--will be difficult to achieve in
a country in which, traditionally, women have never been accorded equality,
where population is widely dispersed and where educational resources--
buildings, equipment and teachers--are hlimited. The goal of universal
primary education cannot be achieved by 1978/79 as only about 30% of the
girls in this age-group are currently enrolled. Total primary enrollments,
including overage boys, would be 241,000 by 1978/79 and 296,000 by 1984/85,
representing 91% and 94% of the age-group. Using these primary enrollment
projections, the government's progression rates of 80% and 70% proposed for
preparatory and secondary growth would provide enrollments of 57,000 and
25,000 respectively by 1978/79 which would be equivalent to 47% and 23% of
the relevant age-groups. By 1984/85, enrollments would reach 94,000 (66%)
and 52,000 (40%) respectively, placing PDRY in the upper quartile among de-
veloping countries for net secondary enrollment ratios.



- 9 -
3.19      If the present expansion policy is maintained, the projected supply
of preparatory and secondary school leavers during the period 1978/79-1984/85
versus the labor market's expected demands (Appendix 2), indicates that the
annual supply of preparatory and secondary school leavers would then exceed
the demand by a ratio of about 4:1 and 5:1 respectively. The potential over-
supply of school leavers was brought to the attention of the government which
indicated that it was aware of the order of magnitude of the supply. This
project would finance the rehabilitation of 2 preparatory schools and 2 sec-
ondary schools and the construction of a new preparatory school. These schools
would not contribute significantly to the planned expansion at these levels,
but would improve the quality and relevance of the instruction. At the same
time, they would constitute a point of entry which could provide the basis
for the Association for a further dialogue with the government on its expan-
sion policy and hopefully might influence the government subsequently to re-
duce the scale of expansion.
3.20      The second above-stated goal--teacher preparation and upgrading--
is a major objective of the government. The need is two-fold: to prepare
sufficient teachers to meet the increased enrollment and to upgrade the
existing untrained stock in the teaching force. The mission's enrollment
projections and the student/teacher ratios accepted by government indicate
an annual average demand, including attrition, for 250, 220 and 170 primary,
preparatory and secondary teachers respectively after 1978/79 (Annexes 6 and
7). The two proposed primary teacher training institutes would produce 220
teachers annually which would comprise 50% of the total output from all in-
stitutes thus meeting replacement needs and increased demands. The prepara-
tory and secondary teacher demand and upgrading will require the trebling of
enrollments at the present Higher College of Education (para. 3.09). From
1978/79, in-service training programs will upgrade more than 400 primary,
100 preparatory and 40 secondary untrained teachers annually. The present
percentages of untrained teachers at each level would thus be reduced from
72`%, 68% and 50% respectively to about 7%, 9% and 15% by 1984/85.
3.21      To realize the third goal--the improvement of the quality and rele-
vance of education--the government is aware that major revisions will be nec-
essary in curricula, equipment and teaching methods. Some revisions to
academic subjects have already begun. The introduction of pre-vocational
curricula into preparatory and secondary schools, to be effective, would
require qualified and experienced staff, laboratories, workshops and equip-
ment. These would be so expensive that the government will not be able to
expand the preparatory and secondary school system, as intended, and at the
same time introduce Dre-vocational curricula on a scale sufficient to produce
any significant impact.
3.22      Non-formal aiid for--al training in technical, trade and agricultural
skills is provided for on1v aD-.?  700 workers which is insufficient to meet
manpower demands (Annex 8). T;-e government plans to extend skill training
which is at present co.ncentrated in Aden: with Russian assistance a trade



- 10 -
training center is being built at Mukalla; UNDP will upgrade the Maalla Tech-
nical Institute in Aden; and the proposed project would establish a Farm
Machinery and Rural Skills Training Center at Saywun and extend the rar.ge
of courses at the Tawahi Trade Training Center in Aden (para. 3.13). With
the exception of Maalla which will produce technicians, these planned addi-
tioIis will provide skilled and semi-skilled workers appropriate to the needs
of the economy.
Education Finance
3.23      Accurate estimates of total capital expenditure' on education are
not available. In 1971/72, government capital education expenditure was
about YD 0.04 million, only 2% of the total investment in education. If
the government's enrollment objectives are to be realized, capital expendi-
tures will have to average about YD 2.0 million p.a. over the 1972-1978 pe-
riod and YD 1.7 million p.a. from 1978 to 1985. This is an exceedingly
high figure for a country with such limited resources as PDRY.
3.24      Since October 1973, when the nationalization of all private schools
was completed, all schools have been publicly owned and financed, and tui-
tion has been free. Eighty percent of the recurrent expenditure of YD 2.94
million in 1971/72 was allocated for salaries and only 20% for materials
and maintenance; the latter was insufficient, especially at the preparatory
and secondary levels. Primary education absorbed an estimated 67% of recur-
rent expenditure, preparator? 17%, and secondary 7%, leaving 4.5% for admin-
istration, 3% for teacher training, 1% for technical education and about 0.5%
for agricultural education. This is further indication that vocational edu-
cation, especially in agriculture, has been seriously neglected.
3.25      Based on enrollment projections (para. 3.18), recurrent costs are
estimated to be about YD 4.9 million by 1978/79, and about YD 7.9 million
by 1984/85; corresponding to 22% and 26% of total government revenue re-
spectively. The largest increases will be at the preparatory and secondary
levels, with preparatory school expenditures expected to rise from 17% at
present to 24% in 1984/85 and secondary school expenditures to increase from
7% at present to 17% in 1984/85.
3.26      As a result of the government's present policy for expanding all
levels of the formal education system, government total education expendi-
tures are expected to increase from YD 3.0 million in 1971/72, 18% of
total government revenue, to YD 6.8 million in 1978/79, 22% of expected
total government revenue.
External Aid
3.27      Since independence, external assistance has helped greatly to de-
velop PDRY's educational system. For general secondary education, six schools
were constructed under bilateral assistance. In 1972/73, 15 countries granted
110 fellowships to students studying abroad at the post-secondary level. At
the same time, 7% of preparatory teachers, 65% of secondary teachers and 57%



- 11 -
of primary teacher trainers were expatriates provided under international or
bilateral assistance. In preparatory and secondary teacher training at the
Higher College of Education in Aden, 7 out of 45 staff are currently provided
under bilateral agreements and 10 are Unesco experts.
3.28      In technical education, under a UNDP/Unesco financed project, the
Maalla Technical Institute is being upgraded to offer post-secondary techni-
cian courses. Algeria has provided assistance for the Tawahi Trade Training
Center. A similar center is planned for Mukalla to be financed by USSR.
Agricultural education and training receive assistance from many quarters:
The Nasser Higher Institute of Agriculture (Egypt); the Fisheries Training
and Research Center (USSR); the Agricultural Training Center (UNDP/FAO);
the Cooperative Education and Training Center (UNDP/ILO); and, the Insti-
tute for Animal Production and Veterinary Research and Training (USSR,
German Democratic Republic and Cuba). Health education is largely dealt
with by the UNDP/WHO project in the Institute of Health Manpower Department.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The project would assist the government to implement qualitative
improvements in the educational system and to meet priority manpower needs by
(a) expanding and improving primary teacher training; (b) introducing pre-
vocational curricula for preparatory and general secondary education; (c)
establishing the first rural development centers; (d) expanding skill training
for youths and adults; and (e) providing technical assistance--experts and
fellowships for curriculum development, and to strengthen the staffing of
project institutions. The project would comprise construction and equipping
of new facilities and rehabilitation and equipping of existing facilities as
follows:



- 12 -
Student Places             Accommodation (IDA)
Replace- Rehabil- Annual Student       Staff
Type of Institution  Grades  New   ment        itation Output Boarding    Housing
Two Primary Teacher                                          /1
Training ITstitutes  10-12    840                         340--  520           10
Two Secondary-Prep-   7-9                        720      240        /5
aratory Schools       10-12                      960      320     160--
Three Preparatory
Schools                7-9      240   480        480     400
One Farm Machinery    7 &       220                      610/2    20
and Rural Skills      10-11 &
Training Center       ungraded
One Trade Training                                           /3      /5
Center                ungraded                    88     350--    60--
Two Rural Develop-   ungraded 200                      2,0Q0'M
ment Centers                        _
1,500   480      2,248   4,260      760          10
/1   220 pre-service, 120 in-service;
/2   30 skilled workers, 60 semi-skilled workers, 20 technicians, 500 adults;
/3   50 full-time, 300 part-time;
/4   courses as required varying in length from one week to six months and
meetings and conferences of less than one week duration;
/5   Furnishing and equipping of existing boarding facilities.
Primary Teacher Training Institutes
4.02      Two new co-educational primary teacher training institutes, one at
Zengibar and one at Al Hauta, will each provide 360 pre-service places. The
combined annual output by 1978/79 of 220 will be 50% of the total output from
all institutes and would be sufficient to meet replacement needs and increased
demands annually. The present pre-service curriculum would be modified, in
consultation with curriculum experts during project implementation, in order
to place greater emphasis upon school/community leadership, adult education
and literacy methods, practical vocational training related particularly to
local handicrafts and cottage crafts, and actual preparation of teaching
materials and curricula adaptable to small communities as well as urban
schools.



- 13 -
4.03      The teacher training institutions, both new and established, are seen
as the maiastays for improving quality of education in PDRY; similarly, the
quality of training is dependent in large part on the opportunities available
for conducting practice teaching in actual classroom situations. In view of
this, the government has agreed that an adequate number of classes from among
the existing primary schools in the Zengibar and Al Hauta areas would be:
(i) designated as practice classes to the Primary Teacher Training Institutes
in both cities; and, (ii) adequately rehabilitated and furnished prior to the
scheduled commencement of operation of the institutes. The government has
also agreed to provide suitably qualified teaching and administrative staff
in adequate numbers and on a full-time basis for the project institutes from
local and bilateral sources.
4.04      In-service accommodation for 120 teachers at the proposed project
institutions would increase the output of the two institutes to 340 annually.
These 120 in-service places would represent 30% of the annual in-servize out-
put as the government intends to supplement the present summer courses (para.
3.08) with short courses in the existing institutes (Annex 6). The courses
in the project institutes would offer methodology and psychology as well as
upgrading where new curricula have been introduced, and would extend for five
months (including one month of summer vacation) over two consecutive years.
An expert in in-service training methods and administration, provided under
bilateral assistance, would je attached to the Curriculum Department of the
Ministry of Education to assist in the development and coordination of these
programs.
Secondary-Preparatory Schools
4.05      Two existing schools (Aden and Al Qatn) would incorporate a prepara-
tory and a secondary level and permit the introduction of a multilateral sec-
ondary curriculum including workshop instruction.
4.06      At Al Qatn, a large agricultural city in the Wadi Hadhramout, the
project would provide additional workshops, classrooms and practical accommo-
dation and equipment for both the boys' preparatory (360) and secondary (480)
schools under construction. The preparatory curriculum will include commer-
cial studies (11%), elementary agriculture (13%) and wood and metal crafts
(13%). Four streams (arts, science, agriculture and commerce), in addition
to the 50% core of general studies, would permit specialization durinig the
three years of secondary education.
4.07      The other secondary school (Aden College), located in the industrial
and commercial area of Aden, would require rehabilitation of the existing 26
classrooms, laboratories and boarding accommodation, and addition of five
laboratories and workshops. Co-education would be introduced at the prepar-
atory and secondary levels by providing about 120 and 160 places respectively
for girls out of a total enrollment of 840 at this school. The curriculum
would introduce a broad range of subjects at the preparatory level and permit
specialization for 50% of the time at the secondary level in one of the four
streams (arts, science, commerce and industrial arts/home economics).



- 14 -
4.08      The government intends to use the classrooms, laboratories and work-
shops in these secondary schools and in the proposed preparatory schools for
non-formal adult education after school hours. The non-formal program, at
present, is not clearly defined but the proposed experts in curriculum devel-
opment would assist in its design and implementation.
Preparatory Schools
4.09      Three boys preparatory schools would provide accommodation for 1,200
full-time students. Two schools would be established in areas adjacent to
agricultural cooperatives. One school at Al Hauta for 480 will comprise (i)
rehabilitation of 11 classrooms and a laboratory, (ii) the construction on a
nearby site of three workshops, a laboratory and a classroom, and (iii) equip-
ment for the new curriculum incorporating agriculture, commercial studies,
and wood and metal crafts. The other school would replace an obsolete and
inadequate school and would provide accommodations for classrooms, laboratories,
commercial rooms and workshops adjacent to a cooperative farm at Al Husn. The
third school, located at the coastal town of Sayhut, would accommodate 240
students and would be the first such school in the sixth governorate, the
curriculum would emphasize programs related to the fishing industry as well
as commercial studies, wood md metal crafts and science.
4.10      The school at Sayhut is intended to serve the whole region and about
60'i of the enrollment is expected to come from outside the community.  In view
of this, the government has agreed that 140 boarding places would be provided
prior to the schools' opening. The government also has agreed that suitably
qualified and trained staff will be made available from local and bilateral
sources for each of the three preparatory schools.
Farm Machinery and Rural Skills Training Centeie
4.11      This Center would be constructed at Saywun in the Wadi Hadhramout,
the most important agricultural area in PDRY. The Hadhramout farmers have a
long experience in well-irrigation, and it is expected that the cultivated
area in the wadi could be quintupled to over 40,000 ha. by about 1985. The
Center would offer (a) a two-year full-time post-preparatory course to train
skilled agricultural workers (30 per year); (b) a one-year post-primary course
for youths (minimum age of 15 years) in semi-skilled agricultural training
(60 per year); (c) short-courses for adults on farming techniques, building
construction, rural mechanics and home economics (about 500 per year); and
(d) specialized technical-level courses including, inter alia land surveying,
farm machinery and irrigation on an ad hoc basis (about 20 per year). Candi-
dates would be recruited by priority from Wadi Hadhramout, but trainees from
other agricultural areas would be accepted at the Center for special agricul-
tural engineering training. The project would provide hostel accommodations
for 20 trainees to be recruited from remote areas.
4.12      The Center would be operated by the Ministry of Education in close
cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform to: (i) re-
cruit candidates; (ii) develop a suitable curriculum; and, (iii) use exist-



- 15 -
ing facilities of the two nearby institutions, the Higher Agricultural Machinery
Station and the Agricultural Research sub-station, to provide supplementary
practice training. In order to secure a close collaboration among agencies,
the government has agreed that a Governing Board would be established with
regulations and composition satisfactory to the government and to the Asso-
ciation, approximately six months prior to the scheduled opening of the Center.
Expansion of the Tawahi Trade Training Center
4.13      The expansion of this Center would mainly provide workshop equipment
for 88 additional student places in the existing buildings and the furnishing
and equipping of boarding accommodations for 60 students. In addition to exist-
ing skill training courses (para. 3.13) this expansion would provide full-time
accelerated courses for 22 trainees in each of the following skill areas: (i)
air-conditioning and refrigeration; (ii) radio/TV and communications; (iii)
tailoring/sewing and needle work; and (iv) shorthand and typing. The duration
of these courses would be 18 months. The Center would also offer part-time
evening classes varying in length from 6 months to two years in the above
skill areas.
4.14      The expansion of the Center would assist the government to train
semi-skilled and skilled workers urgently needed by the labor market. The
Center, after expansion, would train annually the equivalent of 130 students
in full-time courses and about 550 in part-time evening sessions of whom 50
and 300 respectively would be trained under the proposed expansion. New
classes would meet the manpower requirements of the labor market which are
estimated at about 50 skilled and 150 semi-skilled new workers annually in
the above mentioned skill areas, while about half of the part-time evening
classes would provide upgrading for about 150 existing workers. Training
would be sufficiently broad-based in each subject area to ensure the widest
range of employment possibilities on completion of a course. About 80% of
the instruction would be practical.
4.15      The project would provide also the furniture and equipment for the
existing boarding accotaniodations for 60 trainees in order that they may be
recruited from the entire Western Region. The Ministry of Labor and Social
Welfare would continue to administer the Center.
Rural Development Centers
4.16      This project item would provide for the construction and equipping
of two Rural Development Centers. Each center would have a capacity for 100
trainees and it is estimated that approximately 1,000 people (about 600
adults and 400 youths) wouldd receive training in each Center annually.  when
completed, the administratior of the Centers would be vested in the Ministry
of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform.  The Centers would be operated in close
cooperation with other appropriate agencies in order to enhance the effective-
ness of the various public and private support services aimed at rural devel-
opment. An expert in rural development would be provided under the credit.



- 16 -
4.,7      The Rural Development Centers would have facilities for:  (a) the
educational activities of the Ministry of Education, including: (i) supporting
existing local crafts, such as building construction, carpentry, weaving and
silversmithing; (ii) expanding skill training into areas such as simple me-
cnanics for maintenance of transport vehicles, farm tractors, irrigation pumps
and modern farming techniques; (iii) adult literacy education and non-formal
basic education for over-aged children; (b) programs sponsored by the Women's
Union of Yemen, youth clubs and organizations, Trade Unions and the National
Union of Students; (c) the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform especially through the extension service and cooperatives;
and, (d) the activities of the Ministry of Health, including family care and
nutrition. The various training programs to be carried out at the Centers
would be prepared with the assistance of the expert in consultation and co-
ordination with members of the Curriculum Department and the organizations
concerned.
4.18      In order to promote close collaboration between all interested groups
and to ensure that the Rural Development Centers would respond to actual local
needs, the government has agreed that a Governing Board, whose regulations and
composition would be acceptable to the Association, would be established for
each of the centers not later than six months before the scheduled commencement
of operations.
Technical Assistance (Appendix 3)
4.19      Due to the shortage of qualified Yemenis, the project would provide,
in accordance with a plan to be approved by the Association, expatriate
specialists acceptable to the Association to: (i) strengthen curriculum
development capabilities in order to prepare new curricula and teaching me-
thodologies for formal and non-formal training; (ii) teach special courses in
one project institution; (iii) undertake a building survey to develop adequate
standards for design and construction methods; and (iv) support project im-
plementation. Fellowships will be provided for national counterparts in the
above areas who will return to work with the expatriate specialists and also
for training in educational planning and in manpower and employment. As this
training program is essential for the future operation of the project insti-
tutions and for the development of the education system as a whole, the gov-
ernment has agreed that qualified counterparts acceptable to the Association
would be recruited in accordance with a plan to be prepared by the Ministry
of Education and approved by the Association. Twelve experts totalling about
17 man-years and 12 fellowships for one year each, at a total cost of about
US$0.75 million, would be financed by the Credit. The government, in con-
sultation with the Association, will also employ four specialists, totalling
seven man-years, to be provided from other sources; two for curriculum devel-
opment and two for the Tawahi Trade Training Center.
Project Institution Staffing (Annex 12)
4.20      In addition to the technical assistance experts noted in para. 4.19,
the project institutions would require about 200 teachers and 24 administrators;
the Ministry of Education does not anticipate difficulties in recruiting the



- 17 -
required number of qualified teachers from national or bilateral sources.
The government has agreed that suitably qualified teachers and administrators
would be provided in adequate numbers and on a full-time basis for each of
the educational institutions in the project.
Cost of the Project
4.21      The estimated cost and foreign exchange component of the various
project items are summarized below and in Annex 13.
Y.D. (million)          (US$ million)       % of
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Total
Two Primary Teacher Training
Institutes                    0.14   0.20    0.34  0.42    0.58   1.00   24.8
Three Preparatory Schools       0.08   0.14    0.22  0.23    0.42   0.65   16.2
Two Secondary-Preparatory
Schools                       0.07   0.12    0.19  0.20    0.34   0.54   13.5
One Farm Machinery and Rural
Skills Training Center        0.04   0.08    0.12  0.10    0.23   0.33    8.3
TDwo Rural Development Centers 0.04   0.07    0.11  0.10    0.23   0.33    8.2
One Trade Training Center
(Equipment and Furniture
only)                        0.01   0.04    0.05  0.02    0.12   0.14    3.6
Professional Services           0.01   0.06    0.07  0.04    0.16   0.20    5.0
Project Implementation and
Building Units (including
Equipment)                    0.02   0.09    0.11  0.06    0.25   0.31    7.8
Technical Assistance and
Fellowships (including
Equipment)                    0.03   0.14    0.17  0.10    0.41   0.51   12.6
Total Project Cost Without
Contingencies                 0.44   0.94    1.38  1.27    2.74   4.01  100.0
Contingencies /1
(a) Physical Increase        0.04   0.07    0.11  0.11    0.20   0.31    7.7
(b) Price Increase            0.22   0.36    0.58  0.63    1.05   1.68   41.9
Sub-Total                 0.26   0.43    0.69  0.74    1.25   1.99   49.6
Total Project Cost              0.70   1.37    2.07  2.01    3.99   6.00
/1   Contingency estimates were revised since project appraisal in accordance
with "Revised Interim Guidelines on Treatment of Project Cost Increases"
concerning rising costs due to the recent oil price increases (paragraph
4.24).



18 -
22      The cost of civil works and furniture for the project institutions
,ere developed from data on recently completed school buildings and adjusted
to standards and quality compatible with those envisaged for the project
schools. The average unit cost for civil works in Aden, including covered
areas, is equivalent to US$60 per m2 of gross floor area while the unic cost
for rehabilitation of existing schools is equivalent to US$30 per m2 of gross
tioor area. The relatively low cost for new construction is due mainly to a
1digh percentage (40%) of outdoor covered areas estimated at US$28 per m2 of
gross floor area and generally to the low cost, equivalent to US$1.75 and
US$3.00 a day, for unskilled and skilled labor respectively.
4.23      The foreign exchange component of about US$4.0 million has been
calculated as follows: (i) civil works 54%; (ii) furniture, 60%; (iii) equip-
t.ent, 90%; and (iv) technical assistance, professional services, project ad-
ministration, and fellowships, 80%. The foreign exchange costs represent
about 67% of the total project costs (US$6.0).
4.24      The project cost would include a contingency allowance for unfore-
seen physical increases equal to 10% of the estimated cost of civil works,
professional services and furniture and 8% for equipment. Price increase
estimates are based on an analysis of expected price increases for local and
foreign components of various project items. The price increases thus esti-
nated (8% annually for civil works) were increased since appraisal by 125%,
90'% and 50% for the years 1974, 1975, and 1976 respectively, to adjust for the
effects of the recent oil price increases. Price escalation for furniture
and equipment is accordingly estimated at 14%, 11% and 7.5% for the years
1974, 1975 and 1976, respectively. The adjusted price escalations for the
period of implementation of the project are estimated to be (i) 53% for civil
works; (ii) 35% for furniture and equipment; (iii) 36% for consultant archi-
tects fees; and (iv) 12% for the cost of fellowships. Total contingencies
would represent about 50% of the total project cost without contingencies and
about 33% including contingencies.
Financial Plan (Annex 16)
4.25      Due to the country's fiscal constraints, the proposed credit of
US$5.4 million would equal 90% of the total cost of the project, and would
finance 100% of the foreign exchange component and 70% of the total costs.
The balance would be financed by the government. The proposed financial
plan is summarized in Annex 16.
Recurrent Costs
4.26      The annual recurrent costs of the project institutions at full ca-
pacity would be about YD 263,000 (US$771,000), including the total recurrent
costs of those institutions to which the project adds only minor facilities.
These costs would represent about 5% of total public recurrent education
expenditure in 1979, if the government's education expansion plan is realized.
The government will be able to finance the project's recurrent costs.



- 19 -
V. DMPLEMENTATION
Project Administration
5.01      The Ministry of Public Works is responsible for the design, construc-
tion and maintenance of most of the government buildings in PDRY; however, its
technical section has limited capacity and is staffed with only a few experienced
professionals assisted by young technicians and trainees. In view of this, a
Project Unit would be accommodated within the Ministry of Public Works, but
would be responsible to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education
for the implementation of the project. The principal officers of the Unit
would be a Director, Architect, Procurement Officer, Educator, Furniture
Expert and an Accountant; all would be acceptable to the Association and,
except for the Accountant, would be appointed on a full-time basis upon terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association. The Director, Educator, and
Accountant would probably be nationals. The Project Unit Director would be
responsible directly to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education
and would maintain continuous coordination with other ministries involved in
the project, especially the Ministry of Public Works, which would provide on-
site supervision during construction and follow-up maintenance control. To
ensure employment of experienced specialists, the services of the Architect,
Procurement Officer, and Furniture Expert--the latter with a six-month
assignment--would be expatriates financed by the proposed credit (about 6
man-years estimated at US$250,000). In addition, furniture and office equip-
ment for the Project Unit and Building Unit, estimated at US$57,000 is included
in the proposed credit.
5.02      The establishment of the Project Unit and the appointment of the
Project Director and Architect would be a coAdition of effectiveness of the
Credit Agreement. The Procurement Officer, Educator, Accountant and the
Furniture Expert would be appointed not later than three months after the date
of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement. The government has agreed that tech-
nical staff of the Ministry of Public Works such as quantity surveyors, land
surveyors, engineers and experienced superintendents would be provided to the
Project Unit for the implementation of the Project, as required, and that the
Project Unit would be provided with adequate supporting staff and accommodation.
Design and Construction Standards
5.03      Conceptual design and construction standards would be developed by
the Building Unit (Appendix 3) and the Project Architect as part of the briefs
to be provided for the use of the consultant architects selected for the de-
sign of project institutions. The objective would be to construct school
buildings in conformity with local climatic and social conditions and having
sufficient flexibility to adapt to different functional arrangements. Design
development would take into account and utilize to the maximum degree possible,
local materials and construction methods which would be acceptable to the
Ministries of Education and of Public Works.



- 20 -
Professional Services
5.04      As the technical staff of the Ministry of Public Works does not
have the technical capability and capacity to initiate designs for the proj-
ect schools and prepare tender documents for international bidding, consult-
ing architects acceptable to the Association would be appointed under terms
and conditions agreeable to the Association.
Sites
5.05      The sites proposed for the project institutions are government pro-
perties. The government has agreed that these sites, or suitable alternatives
acceptable to the Association, would be acquired, as and when needed, for the
construction and operation of the facilities included in the project. The
cost of the sites is not included in the project cost.
Implementation Period
5.06      The period of implementation would be about five years; construction
would be completed within about 3 years from the date of signing the Credit
Agreement (Annex 17).
Procurement
5.07      All contracts for clvil works will be awarded on the basis of in-
ternational competitive bidding. Although at present there are no organized
large local construction firms in the country to bid on the project, it is
expected that existing capabilities can be mobilized to participate in the
competition. The additional construction volume due to the project institu-
tions is within the potential capability of the PDRY construction industry.
For the purposes of comparing foreign and local bids, local civil works
contractors, in accordance with a classification to be established by the
government and acceptable to the Association, may be awarded a 15% preference
over foreign bidders' c.i.f. prices.
5.08      The Project Unit will be responsible for the award of contracts for
civil works as well as for the supply of furniture, equipment and vehicles, all
in conformity with the Association's guidelines for procurement. Detailed fur-
niture and equipment lists will be prepared during the design stage of project
implementation, and would be approved by the Association prior to inviting bids.
Items such as typewriters, etc. whose unit cost or aggregated cost would not
exceed $2,000 would not be included in these lists. Such items would be in-
cluded in one miscellaneous category for each educational institution, the
amount of which would not exceed $20,000 for each institution. Items included
in the miscellaneous categories and the furniture and equipment for the Project
Unit and Building Unit (about $57,000) could be purchased in accordance with
the normal procurement procedures of the government. Items would be grouped
to the extent practicable to form sizeable bid packages and to permit bulk
procurement. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids, local manu-
facturers of furniture would be awarded a 15% preference over foreign bidders'
c.i.f. prices, or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is less. All in-
structional equipment will be imported. All imported goods to be used for the
project institutions will be exempted from customs duty.



- 21 -
Disbursements
5.09      The proposed Credit would be disbursed on the basis of 100% of the
salaries of the Project Architect, procurement specialist, and furniture ex-
pert, 100% of the other technical assistance experts, 84% of the total cost
of the civil works, 100% of the cost of the equipment and 60% of the cost of
the furniture. The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 18.
Undisbursed funds, if any, would be available for further development of the
project in accordance with a program agreeable to the Association.
VI. BENEFITS
6.01      The project would assist the government to (i) upgrade the quality
of the school system by providing two primary teacher training institutes and
introducing pre-vocational curricula into three preparatory and two secondary
schools; (ii) improve the curriculum development capability through the pro-
vision of much needed technical assistance; and (iii) meet highest priority
manpower needs. One main component of the project relates to institution
building by providing needed expertise and advisory services in assisting the
government to: (i) strengthen curriculum development capabilities in order to
prepare new curricula and teaching methodologies for formal and non-formal
training; and (ii) undertake a building survey to develop adequate standards
and methods for the design and construction of schools.
6.02      The second part of the project is designed to provide educational
opportunities in specialized fields. In particular, over 80% of the project
will be directed towards persons living in rural areas. The project institu-
tions would: (i) supply annually about 50% of new primary school teacher
requirements and upgrade about 30% of existing unqualified primary teachers;
(ii) initiate the government's goal of improving the quality of preparatory
and secondary education by introducing pre-vocational courses into five se-
lected schools; (iii) provide facilities to train the required semi-skilled
and skilled workers in fields which are urgently needed for the expected
development of agricultural, industrial and service sectors during the next
decade; (iv) introduce two new Rural Development Centers in semi-nomadic and
cooperative farming areas of the country. These pilot Centers are expected
to be significant in the further development of basic education and non-forl-mai
training opportunities for adults and youths; in addition, the Centers wOcul
provide various activities and facilities appropriate to community development.
The Centers could be instrumental toward achieving the government's policy
to expand the cooperative movement in rural areas and to enhance the eFfec-
tiveness of rural programs sjonsored bv the various public agencies such as
the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, the Ministry of Health and
Social Welfare, and private support services for rural development.



- 22 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement has been reached on the following principal points:
(i)  1lot later than six months prior to the scheduled commencement
of operations of the Farm Machinery and Rural Skill Training
Center and the Rural Development Centers, a Governing Board
will be established for each center under such regulations
and with such composition as shall be acceptable to the
Association (para. 4.12 and 4.18);
(ii)  fellowships will be awarded to candidates acceptable to the
Association in accordance rqith a plan which shall have been
approved by the Association; technical assistance specialists
acceptable to the Association will be employed under the pro-
ceeds of the Credit upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. The technical assistance specialists pro-
vided from other sources will be employed in consultation with
the Association (para. 4.19);
(iii)  the six principal officers of the Project Unit, all to be
acceptable to the Association and employed upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association will, with the
exception of the Accountant, be appointed on a full-time
basis; the Project Procurement Officer, the Project Educator,
the Accountant and the Furniture Expert will be appointed
within three months of the Effective Date of the Credit
Agreement (paras 5.01 and 5.02);
(iv) suitably qualified and trained teachers and administrators
in adequate numbers and on a full-time basis will be pro-
vided for each of the project institutions (paras. 4.03 and
4.10).
7.02      A condition of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement would be the
establishment-of the Project Unit, and the appointment of the Project Director
and Project Architect (para. 5.02).
7.03   .  The project would provide a satisfactory basis for an IDA Credit of
US$5.4 rmillion to the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.



Appendix 1
Page 1
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Administration and Structure
1.        Education throughout the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
(PDRY) is administered by the Ministry of Education in Aden through its
directorates in each of the six governorates. Established under Law No. 26
of 1972, the Ministry is sparsely staffed by administrators who have nearlv
all undertaken post-graduate studies abroad. Although each unit in the
Ministrv is small (Chart I), government policy seems intended to develop a
cohesive national educational system while having regard for differing local
customs, previous educational inequalities and economic and social demands.
Decentralization of administration within this policy framework requires in-
creased training for the directorate staff, and attention to immediate and
long-range planning.
2.        Prior to independence and the unification of the education system
which commenced in 1968, two separate systems operated concurrently: a
4-3-4 structure in the western region centered in Aden, and a 4-4-4 structure
in the eastern region. In 1973 the last Koranic and private schools were
nationalized. Arabic is the language of instruction with English taken from
Grade 5 through secondary school.
3.        The education and training system (Chart II) provides free educa-
tion for six years of primary (commencing at age 7), three years of prepara-
tory and three years of secondary (general, technical, commercial and agri-
cultural) schooling.   Higher education is offered only at the Nasser Higher
Institute of Agriculture and at the Higher College of Education while nearly
800 students are studying abroad at the post-secondary level. The government
intends to extend the range and length of courses at post-secondary level
before the end of the decade. Although pre-school (kindergarten) education
is included in the official statutory regulations, only four private kinder-
gartens were operating in 1972 and the first government kindergarten opened
in the fifth governorate in 1973. Non-formal education is provided in tech-
nical and agricultural fields and through adult literacy prograns.
4.        Expenditure on education has risen by 17% per annum since 1967 and
by 1972/73 represented 14% of total government budgeted expenditure. With a
population of 1.6 million this equates to US$5.6 (YD 1.9) per capita. In
1971/72 the budget allocation was 67%, 17% and 7% to primary, preparatory
and secondary education respectively. Recurrent expenditure was absorbed
by salaries (80%), books and teaching materials (4%), transport (5%) and
maintenance and other miscellaneous items (11%).  Capital expenditures have
been dominated by local contributions of materials, labor and buildings while
all new buildings since independence have been aided from bilateral sources.
5.        The educational policies of the government may be summarized as
seeking to achieve unification of the education system, to provide access



Appendix 1
Page 2
to education at all levels, to implement equalization of opportunity parti-
cularly in the development of rural facilties, to encourage co-education
and to emphasize curricula changes which would prepare students for occupa-
tions. In comparison with other developing countries, the quantity of educa-
tional expansion is high but this is not matched by quality or comprehensive-
ness in curricula or teaching.
6.        Enrollment in primary education accounts for 86% of overall enroll-
ment, with 11% in preparatory and 3% in secondary education. These enroll-
ments, including over-age pupils, are equivalent to 71%, 20% and 5% of the
relevant age groups (Chart III).
Primary Education
7.        In 1972/73, primary schooling was offered to 156,830 pupils -  of
whom 35,590 (21%) were girls - in 949 schools having 5,342 classes. This is
equivalent to 109% of boys and 31% of girls for the relevant age groups,
but with greatly inflated over-age enrollments for boys in the first three
grades (Chart III).
8.        The average annual increase in enrollments in government schools
for the five-year period 1968-1972 was 16.3%, but this includes enrollments
in all private and Koranic schools nationalized during the period.
9.        The quantitative expansion of primary schooling is considerable,
but the quality of the system needs to be improved. From the cohort enrolling
in 1967, 85% completed Grade 4 (literacy level), 73% reached Grade 6 with
53% of the initial intake passing the final examination.  This is high in
comparison with other developing countries.
10.       Of the 5,344 primary teachers in 1972/73 -  of whom, 1,181 (22%)
were women - only 26% of the men and 36% of the women were considered
qualified under government regulations with 72% of all primary teachers
having received only preparatory schooling or below.
11.       The average student:teacher, student:class and enrollment:population
ratios (29:1, 36:1 and 100:1000 respectively) at the primary level are mis-
leading due to imbalances among the six governorates and between rural and
urban areas. The average work load of a teacher is 32 in a 36 period week.
Double shifts operate in most major towns. Government policy decrees that
the Ministry of Education is not responsible for any class of less than
thirty children. No record exists of teacher absences, nor of teacher wast-
age from year to year, indicating inadequate planning and control of the
teaching force.
12.       Curriculum committees for each subject review the syllabi to in-
troduce more national content. Arabic reading books for grades one and two,
mathematics books for grades one and four and civics, geography and social
science books for grades four, five and six have been produced by the Curri-
culum Department on an experimental basis for 1972/73; the reading books have



Appendix 1
Page 3
been printed in Cairo. Lack of facilities and the use of teachers, lecturers
and administrators on a voluntary part-time basis as authors and critics,
hamper the production and distribution of this material. A shortage of
trained teachers and the inability of the system to provide in-service train-
ing in these revised subject fields makes the implementation of these expe-
rimental syllabi difficult.
Preparatory Education
13.       In 1972/73, preparatory education was available to 19,644 students
of whom 4,028 (21%) were girls -- in 72 schools and 486 classrooms. Classes
for girls in all three years were offered in the first, second, third and
fifth governorates and for boys in all governorates except the sixth, which
had only one first-year class. These enrollments, including overage pupils,
were equivalent to 31% and 8% of the age-group (13-15) for boys and girls
respectively.
14.       Of the 859 preparatory level teachers in 1972/73, 31 were from
bilateral sources and 22 women were employed in contract teaching assign-
ments. Onlv thirty-four percent of the men and 30% of the women teacners
at this level were trained.
15.       The average student: teacher ratio was 21:1 but this varied both
between sexes and among governorates. Class periods were of 35 minutes
(double shift) or 40 minutes duration in a 36 period week. Teachers' average
working load varied between 21 and 27 periods per week depending on the loca-
tion and size of the school. The average number of students per class was
37 for girls and 42 for boys. Double shifts operate in most major cities.
16.       Changes in emphasis have occurred in the preparatory school
curriculum since 1968.  New textbooks have been prepared for grade eight
and nine civics, history and geography. Religion is being replaced by a study
of Arabic and Yemen culture and society. Nevertheless, it is an entirely
academic curriculum with no practical or pre-vocational orientation.
17.       About 80% of third-year enrollments pass the final preparatory
school certificate examination, and progression rate into secondary schools
was 60% in 1972/73. The other avenue for academic progress from preparatorv
school is into the technical, commercial, agricultural and primary teacher
training institutes.
Secondary Education
18.       In 1972/73, secondary education enrolled 4,882 pupils -  of whom
942 (19%) were girls -- in fifteen schools with 121 classrooms. This is
equivalent to 8% of boys and 2% of girls in the relevant age groups.
19.       Of the 269 teachers in secondary schools, 92 were Yemeni (25 women)
and 176 (33 women) were fron Egypt, Liby'a, Kuwait, Iraq and Syria. For all
secondary teachers, 53% of the men and 45% of the women were untrained and
unqualified.



Appendix 1
Page 4
20.       The average student: teacher ratio of 18:1 varies according to
governorate and sex. The number of students per class averages 37 but ranged
from 32 to 44 pupils in 1972/73. Pupil:teacher contact hours varied from
only 17 to 24 in a 36 period week. Facilities in many secondary and prepara-
tory schools were being used on a double shift basis either by pupils at this
level, or more generally, by primary level pupils.
21.       The curriculum in the secondary schools provides a common core of
courses in grade 10, branching into arts and a science stream for the last
two years. The number of periods of 40-minute duration was reduced from 39
to 36 per week in 1973. In the second and third years several changes, em-
phasizing the specializations in each stream, occurred between 1969 and 1973.
This specialization resulted in the elimination of math/sciences from the
arts stream and of social studies from the science stream.
22.       The government is proposing to introduce new vocational options into
secondary schools to provide a multilateral system with co-education also
being slowly introduced. Students in all three years of secondary education
would then have the opportunity to opt for an arts stream, a science stream,
an industrial or agricultural stream, and a commercial stream. In each
stream a basic core comprising Arabic language and culture, English, physical
education, and some math/sciences, social sciences, and commercial studies
will be provided, making up approximately 50% of the curriculum in each year
of study; the remaining part of the curriculum is devoted to the specialized
stream selected by the student.
23.       The secondary school certificate is based on an examination set
d marked in Cairo. In 1972/73, 215 private students not attending second-
ary schools sat for the secondary school certificate examination in addition
to the 1,219 students registered in secondary schools and the 82 students
registered at the Maalla and Nasser Institutes; this produced an overall
pass rate of 82%. The Maalla Technical Institute technical stream still
retains English as the language of instruction, and students sit for the
GCE "0" level examinations.
24.       Compulsory national service training was introduced in 1973/74 for
all grade 12 leavers. This training, with few exceptions for those selected
for the Higher College of Education and overseas scholarships, requires all
leavers to undertake one year of teaching in primary (and some preparatory)
schools. There is no indication what effect this will have on the teaching
force, although government expects no more than 10% of these national service
men and women to remain as teachers. However, this would seem to be a low
estimate and such additional supply of teachers accumulating over the next
five years may not only meet the demand for teachers brought about by the
increased enrollments but may require a massive in-service program (perhaps
a one-year professional training period or two training periods in two con-
secutive years for five-months' duration).



Appendix 1
Page 5
Teacher Education
25.       Teacher training is provided in three year post-preparatory level
teacher training institutes (for primary teachers) and at the post secondary
Higher College of Education for preparatory (diploma - two-year) and second-
ary (B. Ed. -- four-years) teachers.
26.       In 1972/73, 375 students - of whom 90 (24%) were women -- were
enrolled in primary teacher training institutes at Aden and Mukalla. The
output in 1972/73 was 32 - of whom 23 (28%) were women - with 66 of these
obtaining the teacher training diploma at the final examination, which is set
and assessed by the Higher College of Education in Aden. The two primary
teacher training institutes in Aden (one male, one female) are combined in
one building with an enrollment of 390 which could be increased to 500.
The women's teacher training institute in Mukalla was initiated in 1972/73,
however, these students prefered to remain as secondary students in their
second year in 1973/74; a new group of 16 first year teacher trainees com-
menced in 1973/74 in the secondary school for girls, as the new eight-room
teacher training institute for girls, built by Kuwait, is unlikely to be
equipped and staffed before 1974/75. In 1972/73, there were 92 men enrolled
at Mukalla in an old building with inadequate facilities and little equipment.
There is an acute need for female primary teacher trainees, particularly in
a society where the school sytem is almost completely separate for boys and
girls and in which increasing emphasis is being given to the education of
women. The government should consider introducing shorter courses of train-
ing for more highly qualified students, devoted to professional preparation
and thus provide a more mature group of teachers in a shorter period of time.
27.       The lack of trained teachers at all levels (72% primary, 68% prepa-
ratory, and 50% secondary untrained) places a great burden on the teaching
system. Since 1970 several attempts have been made to provide in-service
teacher education. At the primary level, 175 teachers were initially enrolled
in 1970 in a six-week summer course. Of these, 161 returned for the second
summer of the course, of whom 141 graduated as trained teachers following
the third summer of the course in 1972. These summer courses in professional
preparation have doubled their enrollment and with only a 20% wastage rate for
the second series of the course commencing in 1971, 240 teachers graduated
at the end of summer, 1973. Withi the existing facilities and staff from the
teacher training institutes, it is unlikely that this output could be greatly
increased.
28.       Short courses of four to eight weeks' duration have been provided
in specific subjects (for example, reading Grade 1, math Grade 1, audio-
visual aids, home economics, an6 English methods) and a course for new women
teachers with less than Grade 9 qualifications from the fifth governorate.
In 1973/74, the summer courses for primary in-service training are to be
supplemented with attendance at evening classes twice per week for one hour
held in secondary schools during the period January to May. In the three



Appendix 1
Page 6
year period at least 550 lecture hours (three summer sessions x 144 hours and
two winters x 60 hours) will provide professional and academic upgrading for
preparatory certificate holders with one year's prior teaching experience
who agree to teach for a further three years following graduation.
29.       Thirty-one untrained preparatory teachers from the first governor-
ate have commenced, in 1973/74, a sixteeen-month (120 hours) in-service
course in math, physics, chemistry, and biology conducted once a week and
over the summer vacation at the Higher College of Education. There is no
provision for professional training for the currently untrained secondary
teachers.
30.       The post-secondary Higher College of Education, assisted under a
UNDP program, commenced in 1970/71 with a two-year diploma course to train
preparatory school teachers and a four-year bachelor course for secondary
school teachers. In 1972/73, 35 diplomates (9 women).graduated. The ex-
tensive facilities of the Higher College of Education could provide for ap-
proximately 1000 students if maintenance and boarding facilities were im-
proved. In 1973/74 only 314 (of whom 61 were women) were enrolled, 112 in the
preparat:ory diploma courses and 202 in the four-year degree courses. Student
stipends, irregularly provided, are equivalent to US$45 per month. The first
secondarv teachers are anticipated at the end of 1973/74, with 21 (1 female)
B.Sc. and 26 (12 female) B.A. graduates. From the 1,185 secondary school
graduates in 1972/73, only 9% (123) entered the first year courses (diploma
and degree) at the Higher College.
31.       The curriculum is heavily weighted to the academic disciplines
with only 20% devoted to education. Practical teaching opportunities are
limited particularly for those in the degree course where professional
training is relegated to the fourth year. Earlier practical teaching, and
greater emphasis on child and adolescent psychology may promote increased
relevance in all courses.
Technical, Vocational and Agricultural Education
32.       Technical education is offered only at the Maalla Technical Insti-
tute with fulltime courses in technical and commercial studies for three
years at the secondary level, leading to the G.C.E. "0" level technical
certificate, and to a diploma in commerce from the Arab Republic of Egypt.
Instruction in technical subjects is in English. Enrollment in 1972/73 was
128 technical and 151 commercial in a total of 279 students. The Institute
is assisted by a UNESCO/INlP-financed development program, which has as its
aim the upgrading of training programs to technician level (two years post-
secondary) by 1977.
33.       Vocational trainina is conducted mainly as part-time apprenticeship
training administered by the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare.  In 1972/73,
training was provided for 40 apprentices at the Maalla Institute in secondary
level courses in the afternoons and evenings in mechanical, electrical, and



Appendix 1
Page 7
building construction. The British Petroleum Company also provides a one-
year course for its apprentices prior to their entry to the Institute for
their final three years of training.
34.       Trade training, under the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, is
provided at the Tawahi Trade Training Center in a fulltime, 18-month course
for 140 adult trainees and 264 trainees on a part-time basis in the fields
of mechanical, eletrical and automotive trade-training, carpentry and joinery,
and building construction. A new training center with Russian bilateral
assistance is being established at Al Mukalla in the fifth governorate to
operate, from 1975, in the fields of automotive, mechanical, and electrical
trade-training. The Ministry of Labor is also responsible for a training
center for the blind and a center for maladjusted, delinquent children.
35.       Agricultural education commenced in 1969 with the establishment of
the Nasser Higher Institute of Agriculture. In addition to a 3-year post-
preparatory course, a 4-year degree course started in 1972. At present, two
institutions, the Agricultural Secondary School and the Faculty of Agricul-
ture are sharing the same facilities. The Institute is located in a 65-
acre irrigated farm near Lahej, 30 miles from Aden. An existing building,
which was converted for the Faculty, was not designed for teaching purposes
and the present equipment in the laboratories and farm is not adequate for
degree-level studies. The Institute used to be under the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Agrarian Reform, but now is administered by the Ministry of
Education. The first output of the Agricultural Secondary School was 25 in
1972 with about 20 receiving fellowships for further studies abroad. The
number of graduates was 37 in 1973. The total enrollments in the Agricultural
School and in the Faculty were 152 and 25 respectively in 1972/73, and 173 and
51 (including 8 females) in 1973/74. There were 15 Egyptians and 5 Yemenis
on the staff of the Institute.
36.       In addition to formal agricultural education provided by tn1e Nasser
Higher Institute, the MIinistry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform provides
training programs through its various institutions:
(a)  The Institute for Animal Production and Veterinary Research
and Training (Aden), with a staff of 19 including 4 Yemenis,
which was established with assistance from the USSR and
German Democratic Republic and equipped with modern laboratory
facilities, provides the following training programs: (i) a
two-year post-secondary course (6 months theory, 18 months
practice) to train laboratory technicians; 10 were trained
in 1972/73; (ii) a 6-month post-preparatory course to train
semi-skilled workers on animal production and veterinary sub-
jects: in 1972/73, 37 were trained to be employed in state
livestock farms and veterinary sub-stations; and (iii) a one-
year course to train artifical insemination officers (under
Cuban bilateral assistance): ten persons were trained in 1973.
During the five-year develonment plan period (1974/73-1978/79)



Appendix 1
Page 8
the Institute would train 80 semi-skilled workers for animal
husbandry and veterinary services in two courses of 9-month
duration each. In addition, 60 veterinary assistants would
be trained in a 2-year post-secondary course.
(b) The Cooperative Education and Training Center (Dar 3a'ad) was
established under a UNDP/ILO project in 1973 to provide pre-
service and in-service training for (i) cooperative employees
in accounting and management and (ii) cooperative officers
and organizers. The center will also carry on training programs
with mobile wings (mobile educational unit) for local leaders
and cooperative members at the village level. In 1973/74 the
Yemeni Director of the Center was assisted by three Yemeni
lecturers, two instructors, and three ILO experts.
(c) The Agricultural Training Center (Giar) was established in
1970 as part of the Agricultural Research and Training project
of UNDP/FAO. The Center provides courses for (i) farmers and
the workers of the state farms (1-week); (ii) local agriculture
cooperative leaders and secretaries (4-week), (iii) pre-service
training for Nasser Agricultural Secondary School graduates
(2-week); and (iv) extension field workers (2-month). During
1970 to 1973, about 320 farmers and agricultural workers, 150
cooperative leaders and secretaries, and 140 extension workers
(field workers and Nasser Agricultural School graduates) were
trained in the Center. The staff of 8 UN experts and a Yemeni
Director are also involved in research at the Elkod Agricultural
Research and Training Center, five miles away.
(d) The Fisheries Training and Research Center (Aden) was established
under a PDRY/USSR bilateral agreement. The Center is,well
equipped and has a staff of 7 Russian instructor/researchers,
3 interpreters, 3 Yemeni teacher/administrators and 4 part-time
Yeneni teachers. The first one-year post-secondary course was
not very successful; only 17 out of the 40 completed the course.
In 1971/72, a 3-year post-preparatory course started with 35
trainees; it is expected tilat the remaining 23 will complete
the course in 1973/74. This course will accept students every
other year; in 1973/74 intake was 42. Trainees in this course
will specialize in technology, refrigeration or maintenance of
fishing gear and will be employed by the fisheries corporation.
The Center also holds courses for fishermen: in 1970/71, 109
fishermen were trained in 3-month courses. In order to provide
more theory and practice, a 9-month course was adopted in 1972.
The program consists of 6-month practical training and 1-month
workshop (on nets) in the Center, and 2-month practice at sea.
In 1972, 19 fishermen out of 26 comnpleted the course successfully;
another 26 are following the course in 1973.



Appendix 1
Page 9
37.       Health education is provided through the Institute of Health Man-
power Development (Aden), established under the Ministry of Health in 1970,
which is assisted by a UNDP/WHO/UNICEF program. Eight experts assist in
training the 426 students distributed over 12 categories of courses varying
in length from 6 weeks to 3 years at post-preparatory level. Training is
conducted mainlv at the Aden center but branche, of the Institute have also
been established at Lahej (2nd Governorate) and Makhzan (3rd Governorate)
for Practical Nurses, and in Mukalla (5th Governorate) for Medical Assistants.
38.       Adult education and literacv programs commenced in 1970 with the
establishment, by the MEinistry of Education, of the Adult Literacy Department.
In December 1973 a new law on literacy was presented. The estimates of illi-
teracy in 1973 indicate that 84% of the men and 95% of the women aged 15
years and over are illiterate. In a one-year course, with two-hour classes
held four nights per week in preparatory and primary schools, over 5,000
adults were taught in 1972/73. Examinations equivalent to the fourth grade
level are held annually and a certificate of literacy is awarded. In addi-
tion to the classes conducted by the Department of Literacy, private classes
organized through the Literacy Department, which provides textbooks, are
instituted in industry for the illiterate workers, taught by those within the
industry who are educated beyond the primary level. Follow-up classes for
women graduating from the literacy classes have been operating in Aden,
studying Arabic, weaving, cooking, and sewing; the enrollment in 1972/73 was
220. Teachers for the adult literacy programs provided by the Department of
Literacy are recruited from primary and preparatory teachers in local areas;
from 1973, these teaclhers will not receive any remuneration, nor do they have
any particular training for literacy classes.






F ags 
Manpower Requirements
Manpower projections for PDRY are very tentative because current
employment data are unrelible and future economic prospects are imoertain,
The manpower       require& by 1985 will depend crucially on the impact
of the possible reopening of the Suez Canal, Accordingly, a nuaber
of projectiona were made of which two are presented here: (1) assumes the
Canal does not reopen; and (2) asiunes that it does.
Table 1 - Manpower       -Required by Sector - 1973, 1985
1973           1985              1985
Employment      Manpower          Manpower
'(1)               (2)
Agriculture        345,J000         492,ooo           492,000
- Farming        332,000          472,000           472,000
- Fisheries       13,000           20,000            20,000
Industry            140,00           30,000            38,000
- Manufacturing    6,000           12,000            15,000
- Construction     6,500           15,500            19,000
- Public Utilities 1,500            2,500             4,000
Services            41,000           69,ooo            86,000
- Education       11,500           22,000            22,000
- Health            2,000           3,500             4,000
- Other           27,500           43,500            60,000
T 0 T A L       1400000         591000            616,000
By assuuing a 3% rate of attrition due to deaths, retirements and
emigration, and a characteristic composition of the labor force in each
sector, these estimated        figures can be translated into annual manpower
demands (University, secondary and preparatory levels correspond approximately



Page 2
to the occupgtional levels of professional, subprofessional and skilled
worker respectively).  In Table 3 below, tkue figures are compared with the
projected output of the formal education system onto the labor market.
Table 2 - AnuLal kAerage Manpower   Demand by Sector 1979-85
t1.)  __      _ __ _ _     - ___ ___ _ond___al
Preparatory, Secondary    Total       Preparatory, Secn        Tota
& University Levels                   & Uhiversity Levels
Agriculture        280          10      1,000   81         280         8      21,Q00  77
Industry           620          21      1,700    7         780        22       2,100   8
Services 1/      2,010          69      3,300   12       2,510        70       4t,200  15
TOTAL          2s910         100     26,000  100       3,570       100      27,300 100
Y Mainly Education
Table 3 - Aimual Averag    Maipeer Demmd and SUPPly 1979-85
Supply            Demand                                            Diffe-
rence
(0)               (1) V                            (2) O tolEu     (0)-(2)
Occupational  Educ.      a      Occupational Educ.  As a %
l_________ .Demand                 Demand  of (0)    Demand       Demand of (0)   _
University
Level                400                               500
Secondary
Level    10,900      860        1,500    14         1,070       1,850  17      9,050
Preparato
Level     7,900    1,650        1,650    21          2,100      2,100  27      5,800
j "Educational" demand is derived from "Occupational" demand by assuming that there
is a 10% attrition through average university courses and a 30% failure rate in final
professional examinations.
Table 3 indicates that the planned formal education expansion is far too rapid from the
manpower viewpoint.



Appendix 3
Page 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        The Technical Assistance component of the project is designed to
provide expatriate specialists and fellowships in the following areas which
are considered essential for the improvement of the education system and for
successful implementation of the project. Twelve experts, totalling about 17
man-years, and 12 fellowships for one year each, with a total cost of about
$0.75 million would be financed by the Credit. An additional four experts,
two for the Tawahi Trade Training Center (4 man-years) and two for the Cur-
riculum Development (3 man-years) would be provided through other sources.
2.        Curriculum Development.  The proposed education project is dependent
largely on quality improvement of the teaching force and the introduction of
a pre-vocational curricula for preparatory and secondary schools. In order
that such curricula can be planned, implemented and modified to meet the needs
of the communities, the Curriculum Development Department of the Ministry of
Education would be strengthened by providing 5 experts (3 IDA, 2 other sources)
totalling 7-1/2 man-years. The Department woul/ maintain a close liaison with
the Higher College of Education and the teacher training institutes. The
primary responsibilities of the Department would be to design, on the basis
of limited research and observed needs, curricula suitable for introduction
in the project preparatory and secondary schools. The second function would
be to modify the syllabi for the preparation of primary, preparatory and
secondary teachers with particular emphasis on professional preparation for
trainees already possessing a high degree of skill in a particular occupation.
The third function of the Curriculum Development Department would be to continue
tc reform the curriculum at the primary level, placing a greater emphasis on
national culture and content. The Department would also be required to devise
outlines for content in non-formal education, pre-vocational education, and
women's education, and, in consultation with the staffs of the teacher train-
ing institutes, to provide guidelines for teachers in the methodology of com-
munity leadership and development. The Department would also have the respon-
Qibility of assisting in the design and construction of learning materials and
aids and in the production of teachers' guides and student textbooks for all
levels of education. Finally, the evaluation of curricula, especially those
introduced in the project schools, would be an essential function of the
Curriculum Development Department. The committee organization of the present
Curriculum Department would be strengthened by the addition of experts -ro-
vided under the proposed project, national subject area specialists from
different geographical regions and members of the community. Thus, Curriculum
Development would form an essential part for the government's proposed re-
orientation of the curricula at all levels and for the improvement of quality
education throughout the country.
3.        Farm Machinery and Trade Training Centers.
(i) Two experts, two man-years each, would be assigned to the
Farm Machinery and Rural Skills Training Center at Saywun.
A farm machinery specialist/manager will assist the Director



Appendix 3
Page 2
in the technical management of the Center and in the
preparation of curricula and syllabi for the various
courses offered at the center, in coordination with all
appropriate institutions and agencies. A rural crafts
specialist will assist in preparing and teaching courses
in rural crafts.
(ii) Two experts, two man-years each, would be assigned to the
Tawahi Trade Training Center in Aden. A refrigeration and
air conditioning specialist and a telecommunications and
television specialist will assist in the preparation of
training programs, in the organization, layouts and equipping
of workshops and in teaching full-time and part-time courses.
4.        Rural Development Centers.  An expert familiar with agrarian or
rural development through non-formal service programs and agencies would as-
sist in the coordination and administration of the two project centers. Dur-
ing implementation this expert, and the counterpart previously trained under
the fellowship program, would be attached to the Ministry of Education but
operate in close liaison with other relevant Ministries and agencies. Once
the centers have been established these two people would be attached to the
Director of Agrarian Reform. Two man-years would be provided for this expert.
5.        The Project Unit will be provided with specialist services totalling
about 5-1/2 man-years; an architect (3 man-years), a procurement specialist
(2 man-years) and a furniture specialist (1/2 man-year).
6.        Building Unit.  A short-term  (3 months) building unit composed of
a senior architect, an associate architect and a civil engineer, in cooperation
with the Ministry of Public Works, would (i) conduct a survey on construction
methods and materials used presently for schools and training institutions in
the various regions of the country, (ii) evaluate the typical school layouts
from functional and space standard points of view, constructed during the
last decade and the schools under construction or being designed by the
Building Design Section of the Ministry of Public Works and other agencies,
(iii) review maintenance problems of schools in use and develop more effective
and inexpensive methods for continuous maintenance of school buildings and
furniture, (iv) on the basis of their findings prepare briefs for use by the
architects in the design and implementation of the civil works included in the
project. The members of the Building Unit would be recruited within three
months from the date of the signing of the Credit Agreement in order to
complete their assignment in sufficient time for their recommendations to
be incorporated in the terms of reference for the consultant architects.
The IDA-financed cost of the Building Unit is estimated to be about $35,000.
7.        Fellowship Program.  To obtain trained local staff capable of re-
placing satisfactorily the specialists described above, a phased fellowship
program is devised to provide overseas training in selected subjects to be
followed by a period of internship in PDRY under the supervision of the ex-
patriate specialists. The program would include fellowships for overseas
training for 12 graduates (5 curriculum development, 2 farm machinery, 2



Appendix 3
Page 3
trade training, 1 rural development, 1 education planning and 1 manpower and
employment) for 12 months each. This program, supplemented by the anticipated
trainees who would return to Yemen after completion of their studies abroad,
would considerably reduce the need for expatriate personnel for the project
institutions.






ANNEX 1 to Appendix 3
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
BUILDING UNIT                             EXPERTS                             FELLOWSHIPS
IDA               Bilateral                 IDA
No./m               No.    i/m              No.    e
Senior Architect                  1      3
Associate Architect               1      3
Associate Engineer/Architect    1        3
3      9
PROJECT UNIT
Architect                         1     36
Procurement Specialist            1     24
Furniture Specialist              1      6
3     66
PLANNING
Education Planning                                                             1      12
Manpower & Employment                                                          1      12
2      2
CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT
Curriculum development spec.    1         24                                   1       12
Community develop. & non-formal
education specialist           1      18                                    1      12
Pre-vocational education
specialist                                         1       18               1      12
In-service teacher education
specialist                                         1       18               1      12
Women's education specialist    1         12                                   1       12
3      5            2      36                5      60
FARM MACHINERY AND RURAL
SKILLS TRAINING CENTER
Farm machinery spec.(manager)   1        24                                    1       12
Rural crafts specialists          L      24                                    1      12
2      48                                    2      24
TRADE TRAINING CENTER
Refrigeration and Air
Cond. spec.                                        1       24               1      12
Telecommunication & TV spec.                          1       24               1       12
2      4d               2       24
RURAL DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
Rural development spec.           1       24                                   1       12
Total                    12      201           4      84              12      144
=16 3/4 m/y          =7 Miy                    12 m/y






-0OE20E00270   1002-96A-200
40000202  0.p. do)  02112.20011    p0122o2E~ ~ 027)92                                                                                                   (13220 000)7 0EEEE 2E227 00020to E2.  2   E
0A        02014,          4oslo                                                                                                                                          100)"4
3.  ~ ~ ~ ~      4.~~~         I,m~~~~      94                 1~~~~~          1.4(0              6).           (20             (2              9)             10)90)(
2.601.   .... E2EA   II20Y    o.0.7                                 17          E.  .          .0           0                  S0.                               .              0               00  0                        02              E 1              00               20
-1~          20420          0006002                        00         0.              ,    0.    22                  24             2.               00.0:7           92'06                        0                 0,  6 2       EdI              06lE
EEl, E0E22E22O  jo 62. OoOloooOo.0  0  0.0.170                             07.            2,160         0022                                .              16 0470                                        4.,.2                                                             0
ly 4y 00,. E,oO EE220A112 LOlA~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44                                                            1
l222o~~~~~~0A   20420E2) 020 o.loOoo  070220~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
20E 20200 220E2022EE 00 2202 bA.~ ~~~~~~~1''7'                       .9                                                                             7 ~             1              4
02220.   E2oo62622.02202222 0.  0E222                    020            2          0000          2 0                0 2              2              20 6            0  0            3  0          0  2            E  0           577              2  0                I
20020.11-00,  LA 22E2822. 2010-  .  02214        127         04.00         8,220         066                12               .0             17.0 F           0              32            12               00             00               094024
07E220620.1 2222.  02120,2220  2.  6.2.6.              ~~~~~         ~~~~~102  .6650     ,                          4              400             2315              002            84            13              023
1)  2E22A.00A22  22000100260  F 6.  00202p02          0971~~~I'l   11- 20.         "II          14A                              40              4.                12             02I0                                          45
(1     23.  0I',?22                    00            0.lo21                                        2              47                02              4              46             6               2              13                I
602_-022  0,002122                      10. .-  4,0 022                               0.17000                    "4                 1              5,0              47 1              E0                                           430                                        
.o.2.22y   2.00 o ...    ,2.       00.  11252072                                 0.            3W00        40                                 37              01.000                          3              0201020292
72222 0202020222 of 0702 (0 2,  10~~. 020022                    120             21           079        12                  2              2.0             20.0'            12             00              0               2241
0222021,  0.,21620, 2g20020422171    21   0220122   097          00.4 4           2602       23                  0             2 6 0             7.4             04             21.020                                        00LI  0776
01  d 2g20-                 1021         565             10                                            I.,0            I-                000            20            01              02             05                2
07) 6,oO,2.22oo,Oloo,2,  122002-  10.   0~1o,o  0.22           90           2.4 02                     0                                 1.                00               20                          13               29              5                02
06,, 22.02.   2302012.               05    220217                                  1.0              7          02.                                                0.1 0'                9 ~       02            21               12220
222.612220  200 0122-22222,2002  02.  24222            ~~~~~        ~~~~1202 6.0     104        ..4                                 .5 220.240                       30 0           34  0                                         71               10                0 
11.  00.22210  1071  03.0   110 0       . ..               2              4.0              06.4             22             45             2                2             00               12          3~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  1 1 ~ 11  I  ;'A    4L
O)"Llo.oooy  02702'  (020.3)  23.  770200,00.      2007          3.31            721        5                  2              4.0             22.2              II6II 275                                                   23                 6                 1
2004272107 o6.O. 0.2.            00 ..0..2022227                                       10.01            30         1    281.70                                        19.02            72I                                           02                                                  2
20224222.   002.27 11040621220907   , 2.  02212                  27          1.24            32          01                                 .               74E22                          0              230 
22A,002111 0222 222 2260E002 022126- 7. 2200021 200 0032200022
02-0 I00            ......2071             2.  1220E2                       07           1.7      ~     00         20                45               0.-17                           22.                            01               0             0                 11                5
0.  12,212122002242111  19E2  1.1 0          050 ~~     ~~~4 00                            7. 4 0          07.2             32              2             2                               0021 
5)  2f4   002002221400211072-  2.110210.220  0969  3.20  2264   4056              1210            020              07.400           002            00            050             072             ..               202                 20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  ~   .132 1
00 20)  0206022 .02 202020020 00-  0.  202,                      977       192.01            0           21                                 .               220 I4                          22            140 07                        01 0I
222000.0020222202  Eo 121122902027    04.  20222089                           001            701        9                  2                .              12.1             022             12            13               9             '2.3                                  1
0,  060~~~~02222  1080        0.1 0          450~~~~~~~7  0  0             10              0.              22.2             0               02            130                             2                  61
02    022201.220   26122' (0212.    1.  0011102.0  02 OAbloo  167  0.2          940        22                 12              5.2             10.2             90              93            40A0)                          63               20 6
'222E0 00222122262222220020~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1M                                                   .
220 102 0020225210 of 20000000  E20702 22780220~~~~~~~I 
.0002006222 200221, p29l62 ,oO  1.  6,2227              0~~~ ~ ~~~~~909  904          7  2      6                  02.                              406                             01            16              02..                              0                7 
,622.040011o1202002200.OloO      3~~~~1.  0072'227  1000                       0.7             3200~      232                1300444                                          020                           101              32            0002
0202120022 222 020010,2012).  02-  0.  2022  ~~~~~~~~~1000           2.              40          22                10              4.3              11.I       11 023400 1                                                                         22062
0.  2220,  (7220.22  9920  14.9  432      23                15              4.2             02.1              28 2           50 2          522             06 0           20 0              27 0             172~.6-1) (-M  I-)  (-36)1-36
3.  142020.62  0971  212.2            07        SE                  0 2            2.6 03     ~ ~~~~~~         ~    ~~~~      ~~~~ 00.0 017 40  29  150           2              1
0-02                10            0.              5          3                  7              51               22               00             1              0                              62                20 
0,  Jood.2     2900          0.4 9          2632        50 0               7.0            *.6             07.) 3            22             04 0          3--              9              00.1






PEOPLEIS DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED ANNUAL MANPCWER SUPPLY AND DEMAND, 1978/79 - 198W85
Occupational Demand                        Derived j
Agriculture  Industry  Services  Total        Demand        Supply         (1) as a
(1)           (2)          % of (2)
Professional             20           120       360       500
Subprofessional          40           160       870    1,070        1,850        10,900            17
Skilled Worker          200           500    lhOO    2,100         2,100         7,900             27
Semiskilled
and
Unskilled            2
Workers              2074c          1,320     1,570   23,630
Total I/            21,000         2,100     4,200   27,300
j The subprofessional level derived demand is the sum of the professional and subprofessional occupational
demands with an allowance for attrition during professional training.
2/ These figures are the residue between the estimated demands in higher occupational categories and
estimated total demand,
These figures are rounded to the nearest hundred.






PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TEMEN
EDUCATION PROJECT
RECURRENT EXPENDITURE (BY CATEGORY) AND CAPITAL PEENDITURE  1 ON EDUCATION 1967/68-197;/72
Salaries     Books,                   _                            Total Recurrent  Capital            Total
Stationery, etc.    Transpo rt        Other           Expenditi re  . renditure          Expenditure
:i:2 r ~~% 21                                 -IL r                %              -i      -  _ /_I
1967/68   1,678,376 79.    96,464        4.5  112,711 5.3   235,587   11.1   2,123,138  99.8   3,926    0.2           2,127,064
1968/69   1,449,853 79.2   74,413       4h0   92,246 5.0  214,499    11.8  1,831,011  99.9   1,618    0.1             1,832,629
1969/70   1,582,047 80.    60,117        3.1   84,0L) 4-.3  227,569    11.   1,953,747  100.0    046    0.0         1,95h,693
1970/71   1,968,745 79.7  104,119        4.2 113,809 4.6  285,026    11.5  2,471,699   99.2  20,287   0.8             2,491,986
1971/72   2,384,043 81.    89,260        3.0 127,959 4.4  332,686    11.4  2,933,948   98.7  40,h38   1.3             2,974,386
1/ "in does not incthde community-financed building
These percentages are calculated with respect to Total Recurrent Expenditure.
These percentages are calculated with respect to Total Expenditure.
SOURCE: Ministry of Finance and Department of Finance, Al Mukalla.



PROJECTED RECURRENT EDUCATICN EPENDITURE 1978/79 and 1984/85
(YD 000w)
An a percentage
of projected
government
Primary   Preparatory   Secondary   Other Central Administration   Total          revenue
1978/79         2,648         919            610      529         235                  4,941          22%
54%         19%             12%     10%           5%                  100%
1084/85         3,627       1,927          1,373      593         376                  7,896          26%
46%         24%             17%      8%          5%                   100%
/ Assuming 5% growth of government revenue per annumn, based on 1971/72.
1i



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
PRIMARY AND GENERAL SECONDARY EDUCATI)NAL DEVMOPMENT 1/
1972/73 - 1984/85
Average Annual Enrollment                                 Enrollments                                           Teachers                          Student:Teacher
Level                                Growth Rate                                                                                                                                     Ratios
1968-72  1973-76  1979-85             1972-73              1978-79 3/              1984-85             1972-73  1978-79  1984-85             1972-73  1978-79  1984-85
Male                   157,        47%       1%            123,3S0 (109%) 2/    161,000 (119%)    166,300 (102%)             4,163    4,600    4,750                 30:1    35:1        35:1
Primary
Female                 21%        16%        9%            33,590 (31%)            80,000 (62%)       130,000 (84%)          1,180    2,300    3,730                 28:1    35:1        35:1
Male                   31%        17%        5%             15,617 (32%)           43,000 (71%)        59,900 (83%)             640    1,430    2,000                24:1    30:1        30:1
Preparatory
Female                 29%        23%       17%              4,028 (8%)            13,850 (23%)        35,000 (50%)             219       462      1,170             18:1    30:1        30!1
Male                   50%        28%       10%              3,939 (9%)            20,050 (36%)        36,700 (56%)             211       802      1,470             19:1    25:1         25:1
Secondary
Female                 32%        29%       18%                943 (2%)             5,360 (10%)        15,380 (24%)              58       215        615             16:1    25:1        25:1
TOTAL                                    n.a.       n.a.      n.a.          181,467                 323,260             443,280                6,471    9,809    13,735                n.a.    n.a.        n.a.
11 Excluding Teacher Training, Technical, Agricultural and Commercial Training
2/ As % of relevant age-group
3/ End of the Second Development Plan period



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
PRIMARY TEACHER REQUIREMENTS
1972/73      73/74     74/75       75/76      76/77      77/78      78/79      79/80      80/81      81/82      82/83      83/84      84/85
Primary Enrollment-Y               157,000    169,000   181,000    196,000   211,000   227,000   241,000   253,000   263,000   271,000   279,000   288,000   297,000
Pupil:Teacher Ratio                 29:1        30:1      31:1        32:1       33:1       34:1       35:1       35:1       35:1       35:1       35:1       35:1       35:1
(a) Teacher Requirements                 5,340       5,600      5,800       6,100      6,400      6,600      6,900      7,200      7,500      7,700      8,000      8,200      8,500
PROJECTED:
Trained Output - Preservice
Existing institutes               80         130        130         140        230        200        200        200        200        200        200        200        200
Project institutes                 -           -         -           -          -          30         30        220        220        220        220        220        220
(b)       Total                              80         130        130         140       230        230        230        420        420        420        420        420         420
Trained Output - Inservice
Sumner Courses2/                 240         240        240         240        280        320        320        320        320        320        320        200         40
Project Institutes                 -           -          -          -          -          40         80         80        120        120        120         120        120
(c)       Total                             240         240        240         240        280        360        400       400        440        440         440        320        160
(d) Previous Trained Stock                1,510       1,780     2,090        2,390     2,690      3,100      3,580      4,080      4,750      5,440      6,110       6,760      7,280
(e)  TOTAL TRAINED  (b)+(c)+(d)           1,830       2,150      2,460       2,770      3,200     3,690      4,210      4,900      5,610      6,300      6,970       7,500      7,860
Untrained Stock  (a)-(e)             3,510       3,450      3,340       3,330      3,200      2,910      2,690      2,300      1,890      1,400      1,030        700        640
1/ Based on mission's estimate of 80% f=eale and 100% male age-group enrollment in Grade 1 by 1978/79 and 3% growth rate.
2/ Summer courses and additional short courses at exiating institutes.
ii,



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
PREPARATORY TEACHER REQUIREMENTS
1972/73    73/74    74/75    75/76    76/77    77/78    78/79    79/80    80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84    84/85
Preparatory Enrollments-/         19,600    24,500   32,700   38,500   45,300   50,900   56,900   63,600   71,200   79,200   85,700   90,700   93,800
Student:Teacher Ratio              21:1       23:1      24:1      25:1      27:1     28:1      30:1      30:1      30:1      30:1      30:1      30:1      30:1
Teacher Requirements                  860     1,030    1,300    1,460    1,650    1,770    1,890    2,120    2,370    2,640    2,860    3,020    3,130
Projected Trained Output:
Preservice                       35         40        60       115       180      200       220       220       220       220       220       220       220
Inservice                        -          -         30        65      100       100       100       100       100        80        80        80        80
Total                            35         40        90       180       280      300       320       320       320       300       300       300       300
Stock Trained                         280       305       335       410       570       825    1,090    1,370    1,640    1,900    2,130    2,360    2,540
Total Trained.!/                      315        345      425       590       850    1,125    1,410    1,690    1,960    2,200    2,430    2,660    2,840
Untrained Stock3/                     545       685       875       870       800       645       480       430      410       440       430       360       290
SECONDARY TEACHER REQUIREMENTS
1972/73    73/74    74/75    75/76    76/77    77/78    78/79    79/80    80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84    84/85
Secondary Enrollments-/            4,900      6,300    9,300   12,900   16,200   21,600   25,400   29,900   33,500   37,600   41,900   47,000   52,000
Student:Teacher Ratio               17:1      18:1      20:1      21:1      22:1      24:1      25:1     25:1      25:1      25:1      25:1      25:1      25:1
Teachers Required                     270        350      460       600       710       900    1,020    1,190    1,340    1,500    1,680    1,880    2,100
Projected Trained Output:
Preservice                      -           45        45        50        50       100       160      180       180       180       180       180       180
>c
Inservice                                   -         -         20        25        30        35       40        40        40        40        40        40
Total                           -           45        45        70        75       130       195      220       220       220       220       220       220
Stock Trained                         130        125       165      205       265       330       450       625       820    1,010    1,195    1,375    1,550
Total Trained-/                       130        170       210       275      340       460       645       845    1,040    1,230    1,415    1,595    1,770
Untrained Stock-                      140        180       250       325      370       440       375       345       300       270       265       285       330
1/ Based on present primary enrollments with 80% and 70% progression rates to preparatory and secondary respectively.
2/ Assuming 3% attrition.
3/ Including national service and expatriates = teachers required - total trained.



TECHNICAL AND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
ENROLLMENTS BY LEVEL AND TYPE OF EDUCATION 1972/73
Name of Institution   Locality    Level,   Type       and   Grady         Enrollmenta          Type of personnel trained
Maalla Technical Ins-
titute      Aden      Secondary  Technical       10-12            128                 Skilled workers
Secondary  Commercial      10-12            151                 Skilled workers
Post-primary Vocational      ungraded         160 (part-tine)    Semi-skilled workers
Tawahi Trade Training
Center      Aden   Post-primary Vocational       ungraded         140                 Skilled workers
264 (part-time)    Semi-skilled workers
Nasser Higher DInsti-
tute of Agriculture    Lahej    Secondary  Agricultural   10-12               152                 Middle-level technicians
Post-second-
ary    Agricultural   13-16              25                 Professionals
The Institute for       Aden   Post-sec.    Veterinary       ungraded          10 (ad-hoc basis) Laboratory technicimis
Animal Production &            Post-prep.  Veterinary        ungraded          37                 Semi-skilled workers for state
Veterimary Research                                                                               farms & veterinary sub-stations
and Training                   Post-prep.   Veterinary       ungraded          10 (ad-hoc L,,is) Artificial insemination officers
Cooperative Education                                                                             Cooperative employees, officers,
& Training Center      Dar Salad  Courses of various                                              organizers and leaders
duration            ungraded       n.a.
Agricultural Training                                                                             Farmers,agricultural workersex-
Center      Giar       Courses of various                                              tension field workers;pre-service
duration            ungraded         200                 and in-service for gov.employees
Fisheries Training &   Aden   Secondary    Vocational        10-12             23                 Middle-level technicians            I
Research Center                    9-month  course           ungraded          26                 Fishermen                            X
The Center commenced in 1973



ANNEX 9
Students Graduating from Universities Abroad
1973/74 - 1978/79
1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78        1978/79
Economics                    26          15          23          19           8           3
Medicine                     11           2          12          41          27          48
Agriculture                    8          8          12           7         11            2
Fisheries                     -           3           3          12          14          17
Engineering (general)        14          29          26          33         28           33
Sciences                      8          12          16         12          17           17
Law                           10         18          37          11          33            5
Other Human Sciences          4          23          13           5           3          13
Total                    81         110         142         1-4o       141          138
Source:  Central Planning Commission



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC HEPUBLIC OF XEMEN
SaIEDULE OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TE OF TECHNICAL                                                        F                  F          LT  A
UNITS                      ASSISTANCE            DESCRIPTION                                                     4        2
Proj PCt
Implementation              Experts              1 Senior Architect *
1Procurement Specialist                                                               *
1 Furniture Specialist
Building                     IxyX1Senior Architect                                                                                                             i. i i
1 Associate      Architect
1Associate Eagineer/Architect                                                           I
Planning                    Fellowships           1 Education Planning                                      1lIll1liii III
1 Manpower & Employment                             _           l    il                 i_.i
Development                 Experts               1 Curriculum Development spec.                i-ij
1GCommunity Dev. & Non-formal ed. spec.                                   *    f
(*)1 Pre-vocational ed. specialist                         i
(*1In-service Teacher Education specialist                       _   _t
1 Women's Education specialist
Fellowship           1 Curriculum davel opment                                   i t     mu                                        t L         
1 Coimnnity develop. & non-frmled.                         111li         ii
1 In-service Education and TV Spec           LIiit
1 Pre-vocational education                                 liii11 II       I
1 Tmen's eduication adVi     11111                                       li     |i
Farm  Machinery and           Experts               1 Fann Machinery Specialist                                         ---
Rural Skills Training                               1 Rural Crafts Specialist
Fellowship           1Farm Machinery                                                                 |
1 Rural CraftsI                                                                          11IIDINi
Trade Training Center         Expert             (*)l Refrigeration and Air-Cond. Spec.I 
(*1Tele-communication and TV Spec.             I_                                     
Fellowship           1 Refrigeration and Air Cond.                              iiiiu11 li
1_Tele-coimmunication and TV.                              1l .  i ,_11111 MI                Ii,i
Rural Development Centers    Experts               1IRural Development Spec.                                                                                       f
Fellowship           1 Rural Development
E XP ERT S    1
FELLOWSHIPS                                      Date of Credit Agreement
(*) Experts to be provided by the Government.
ai,



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ENROLLIENT. OUTPUT. STUDENT:TEACBER RATIOS ANS USE FACTORS
IN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
e-rolbusnis               Graduates
Institutio-                          Location          Level     Grades        Duration           Places          Annually IAnnualy                                Boarding       Staff                            Student-Teacher
Forma     Non Po-I          Por-o    Boo Formal       Places.        Nooing       Use Pantuc-             Rtios 4
Pr--ary Teacher Teaiing
(a) Preservire                      Zengib-r    Seoundary       10-12          3 years           360        360            -             110                        2 260           5            85%                  17:1
Al Hassta    A Teacher
Tra-niog                                        360       360                          110            -            260            5             857                 17:1
(b)  essen-ite                      Zengibar     Teacher          -          2 semesters          40         40            -              40                                        -
AU duuto     Trainiog                                          80        No                           80
Total                                                                                      8040         0           -             340            -            520           10
2  Secondary-Propuratory               Aden          Preparatory,  7-9            3 years            360       360            -             120            -            160            -             80%                 23:1
schools                                          Secondary &  10-12            3 years           480        480            -             160            -
Ron-formal   ungraded        various             -         -           1500             -           1500
Al Qats      Propara-try,  7-9             3 years           360        36U            -             120            -             -             -             50%                 23:1
Secondary &  10-12           3 years           480        480            -             160            -
Bun-forgal   ungraded        varians             -         -           1500             -           1500                   -                     -                   -
Total                                                                                     1680       1680         3000            560          3000            160
3. Pr-paratory Schools              (1) Al Russ      Prepuratnry   7-9             3 year.           480       480          600             160           600            -             -             79%                  25:1
(2) Al Hanta   and         2  and                               480        480          600             160          600             -             -             79%                 25:1
(3) Sayhut      no--forgal-/ ungraded            -              240        240          300              80           300            -             -             847                 24:1
Total                                                                                     1200       1200         1500             400          1500
4. Fass Machisery and                  Saywun        sdslt           7 A
RuesS Skills Training                             eon-formal   10-11            v-rians           220         -          610 3/           -            610            20            _             76b                  24:1
Centers                                                        ungraded
5 Trode Training Ceeter                T-alhi        adult        ungr-ded         various            d8 4/      -          440              -            350            60            -             70%                  25:1
(Aden)        non-foegal
6 Rural Development                    3rd A 5th      on- formal   ungraded        various           200         -         2000              -           2000                   -                      -                    -
Ceeters                            govarnooates
Grand Total                                                                                      4228       3720        7550            1300          7460           760
I/ Estimated as an average on formal instruction only
2/ Non-f-rnal progrems will utili-e facilities out of formal school hours
3/ FrPo shart e..rssn for adults, technicians, semi-skilled and skilled levels
4! laces avIlahble is addition to present facilities, through provinios of equipment, in an 10 insth course
v; Prom parE-r.me secelerated evenig classes + full time enrollments provided by the exposion
6/ In two cnsters each ascooseodating 100 people



ANNEX 12
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Staff Requirements for Project Institutions
Total                     National/Bilateral                   IDA
Voca-
Arts  Science  Commerce   tional    Other  Admin.
1.  Two Primary Teacher
Training Institutes   58       12     12          -         4        24       6 6
2.  Three Preparatory
Schools                53      15     13          5         13        2       5      -
3.  Two Secondary-
Preparatory Schools   80       26     24          8         14        -       8      -
4.  One Farm Machinery
and Rural Skills
Training Center        15       2      -          -         8         -       3      2
5.  One Trade Training
Center  /               5       1                 -          4        -       -      -
6.  Two Rural Develop-
ment Centers           18       2      _          2        12         -       2
Total for Project
Institutions          229     58      49         15        55        26      24      2
Curriculum
Development            10                                             7              3
Specialist for Rural
Development Centers    2                                              1              1
Project Unit           10                                             71/            3
Building Unit           6                                             3              351
Sub-Total           28                                            18             10
Grand Total        257     58      49         15        55        44      24     12
=               m          =          =        -      ;
j  Including professional methodology staff and librarians.
j  Only staff for the expansion provided by the project.
j Project director, educator, accountant (part-time), quantity surveyor and three secretaries.
Project architect, procurement officer and f'arniture specialist.
S Senior architect, associate architect and architect/engineer.



ANNEX 13
PEOPLE'S DEKOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
PROJECT COSTS BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign  Total   % of Total
1 Constriuction
Academic & Commnmal
Facilities                0.21    0.25     0046    0.61    0.72       1.33       33.2
Boarding                     0.07    0.08     0.15     0.20    0.23      0.43       10.7
Staff Housing                0.01    0.01     0.02     0.03    o.04      0.07       1.7
Site Development,            0.03    0.03     o.o6     0.08    0.10      0.18       4.5
Professional Services        0.01    0.06     0.07     0.04    0.16      0.20        5.o
Sub-Total                    0.33    0.43     0.76     0.96    1.25      2.21      55.1
2. Furniture                    0.02    0.o4    o.o6      0.07    0.11      0.18       4.5
3. EquiPment                    0.03    0.27     0.30     0.09    0.78      0.87      21.7
Sub-Total                    0.05    0.31     0.36     0.16    0.89      1.05      26.2
4. ProJect Implementation       0.02    0.07     0.09     0.05    0.21      0.26        6.5
(including Building
3urvey Unit)
5. Technical Assistance         0.04   0.13      0.17     0.10    0.39      0.49       12.2
and Fellowships
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(excluding contingencies)           _09_ __2_7 ____                      __00
0.hh    o.g49h     5      1.27    2.74      4.01      100.00
6. Conti:neencie 
(physical and price)        0.26    o.43      0.69     0.74    1.25      1.99      49.6
TOTAL PROJECT CC,ST          0.70    1.37     2.07     2.01    3.99      6.oo
(including contingencies)
NOTE: Y.D. 1.00 - US$2.90



PEOPLE'S DEMIOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN - EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCE
Profeasional                     Technical                 Assistance
Construction           Furniture            Equipment               Services                        Experts                Fellowships           Total Project Cost         Total C-otingeaciex
Local      Fr-ign       Local   Foreigo   Local    Foreig              o _          rn  igLocal                Forein       Local    Foreign   Local    Forei          Total       as 7. of tatal
I.  Contingenctes (As % of Project Cost)
1. Unforeseen                                     10            10         10          10         8           8          10           10                _-                                 -
2. Prtce  .scalatiool'                            53            53         35          35        35           35         36           36                -         _            12         12
3. Total                                          63            63         45          45        43          43          46           46                 -        -            12         12
II.  Pro1ect Cost (W/O Coutigenc.e. )                                                                                                                                                                                                          49.6%
Thousands of Y.D.                                319           375         25          37        30          270         14            55               47       188            5         20         440        945      1385
Thousands of US$                                 926         1087          72         108        87          783         40          160               136       544           14         58        1275       2740      4015
% Foreign Exchange                                            54%                     60%                    90%                     80%                         80%                     80%                   68%
III. Contingencies (Amounts)
1. Unforeseen      ('000 Y.D.)                    32            37          2           4         2           22          2             5                -         -           -           -          38         68       106
('000 US$ )                    93          108           7          11         7          63           4           16                -         -            -          -          111        198       309
2. Price Ic-r-use (000 Y.D.)                     189           222         10          14        11          102                       22                -         _            1           2        216         362       57B
('000 US$)                   547          642         28           41        33         296          16           64                _         _             2          7         626       1050      1676
3. Total            ('000 Y.D.)                  221           259         12          18        13          124          7            27                _                      1           2        254        430        684
('000 US$)                   640          750         35           52        40         359        .120           80                -         -             2          7         737       1248      1985
% Foreign E-change                                        54%                     60%                   90%                      80%                        80%                      80%                   63%
IV. Total Project Coat (vith co-tinge-cie-)                                                                                                                                                                                                    33.0%
Thoutands of Y.D.                                540           634         37          55        43         394          21            82                47       188           6         22         694        1375      2069
Thousaads of US$                                1566          1837        107         160        127       1142          60           240               136       544          16         65        2012        3988      6000
% Foreign Exchaoge                                             54%                    60%                    90%                      80%                        80%                      80%                  67%
Rate of e-chege: Y.D. 1.00  = US$2.9
1/                                      Adlested Contingencies
1974              1975       1976      Total0
3.0 years  constroetion   18%                 15%        12%        53%
3.0 years furniture &
equipmant        14%               11%        7.5%       35%
2.0 years p-ofeessinal
services         18%               15%                   36%
1.0) year Rellovships                                               12%
0 Compoonded



PEOPIEIS DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC CF YEMEN
EDUCATION PROJECT
UNIT CAPITAL COSTS
C O S T S  (in  VS$)
Type of Facilities                       Area in m2         Building 1        Furniture        Equipment         Total
1. Primary Teacher Training Institutes
- Academic & Communal                   5.4   (5.9)         380               33              116             529 (707)
- Boarding                              9.8*  (7.8)         830               80                              910 (650)
- Staff Housing                        80e0   (103)       8,100                -               -           8,100 (10,393)
2. Secondary schools
- Academic & Communal                   6.3   (5.9)         420               42             134              596 (707)
3. Farm Machinery and Rural Skills
Training Center
- Academic & Communal                   8.3   (12.4)        620               26              618           1,264 (1,740)
- Boarding **                          18.3   (8.2)       1,940              157               _            2097 ( 650)
4, Tawahi Trade Training Center                                -
(Furniture & equipment onfi j            -                                   135 Y           820
5. Rural Development Centers**
- Academic & Communal                   10.8  (12,4)         934               72           638            1,644  (1,740)
(  ) = Median value of previous Bank Group financed projects (1970 prices) -
Professional fees and contingencies not included.
/ Including dining-room furniture for entire enrollment.
*  Based on single bunking and includes covered outdoor areas (25%).
** Including staff accommodation



ANNEX 16
PEOPLEIS DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
EDUCATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL PLAN
Government            IDA               Total
Amount      %          Amount            Amount
----------------US$ Millions -----------------------
1. Construction
(i) Schools (including
site development)           0.25       12          1.26      63      1.51         75
(ii) Boarding                    0.07        3          0.35      17      0i43         21
(iii) Staff housing               0.01        1          0.07       4      0.07          4
Sub-Total                  0.33      16           1.68      814     2.01        100
2. Professional Services               -         -           0.20    100       0.20        100
3. Furniture                         0.07       40           0.11     60       0.18        100
4. Equipment                           -         -           0.87    100       0.87        100
5. Technical Assistance
(Including Project
Implementation Unit)              -                        75    100       0.75       100
Baseline Cost               0.40       10          3.61      90      4.01        100
6. Contingencies
(Physical and Price
Increase)                        0.20       10          1.t9    90          1.99      100
TOTAL                       o.60       10          5.40    90         6.oo       100
_ _ _ _- 



PEQPIE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
IMPIENMATION SCHEDUIE
Year 1/                                 1                 2                  3                   4
1, Project Unit                   RK  I           I       I   I   I
2. Building Unit        O      C        O
3. Task Force of Ministry of
Public T,Torks                                          ___,   ___                     -                                _
It. Professional Services            k R         * . . .   h . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . *
5. Civil Works                              X X X AAX X X X ATT 50 CC0 &CO  CCG Cftt t ' N N N NN N N   NN NNN
AA
6. Furniture                                FP    ETTr 15MtM V MM f      AM/1MM MM$ I=           JKJ NNIO N NW   MNNM IJ MWNNN N
7. Equipment                                     F,P PAA fTTv  P     r  rrT 7 W5 Mk  M IM 111   f Iti'      M  N'NN     NN MM
3. Technical Assistance                        -           -                                          - _  _             -   -
+  Survey of sites                                                        C  Construction Execution
O  Survey on Building Construction                                        A  Review and Approval
X  Preliminnry Design for Civil Works                                     * Professional Services
X  Final Designs for Civil Works and Bid Documents                        P  Designs and Master Lists
T  Lnvitation nnd Tendering of Bids                                       P  Final Designs snd Bid Documaernts
R  Recruitment                                                            N  Manufacturing
B  Bid Evaluation and Awarding                                            I  Delivery and Installaticn
S  Signing of Contrncts                                                   g  Guarantee and Liability Period
NI M3intenance
1/ Time is calculated from date of Credit Agreement.
Ix



ANNEX 18
P.D.R. YEMiEN
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Millions)
ACCUMULATED        UNDISBURSED
QUARTER *            DIgBURSEMENTS        DISBURSEMENTS       BALANCE
AMOUNT         %      AMOUNT    %       MOUNT
1                            -           -         -     100.0    5.40
2               2 o         0.11         2.0      0.11    98.0   5.29
3               2.5          0.14        4.5      0.25    95.5   5.15
4               2.7          0.15         7.2     0.40    92.8   5.00
5               3.1         0.17         103     0.57    89.7   4.83
6               3.3         0.18         13.6     0.75    86.4   4.65
7              11.9         o.64        25.5       1.39    74.5   4.01
8              13.2         0.71        38.7       2.10    61.3   3.30
9              20.5          1.11       59.2       3.21    40.8   2.19
10             18.7           1.01       77.9      4.22    22.1    1.18
11             13.2          0.71        91.1      4.93     8.9   0.47
12               1.7         0.09        92.8      5.02     7.2   0.38
1.3             1.3          0.07        94.1      5.09     5.9   0.31
14              1.3          0.07        95.4      5.16     4.6   0.24
15              1.0          0.06        96.4      5.22     3.6   0.18
16              0.6          0.03        97.0      5.25     3.0   0.15
17              o.6          0.03        97.6      5.28     2.4    0.12
18              0.6          0.03        98.2      5.31     1.8   0.09
19              o.6          0.03        98.8      5.34     1.2   0.06
20              o.6          0.03        99.4      5.37     0.6   0.03
21              o.6          0.03       100.0      5.40     0.0   0.00
* Beginning from date of Credit Agreement



Chart I
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
| ECouncati fon  !                           L       Minister's Office                  Scholarship
|   Higher Technical   |                         -|    Technical Office                   Information
Committee          l._                                                      l        ll
Committee for               _                         Curriculum & Aids              Planning Statistics &
| Higher Education l                                                                   umsu um | 5 ! : International Relations
PraetSecretary
| General Directorate              Technical & Admini-            General Directorate
of Education                    strative Guidance              for Financial and
Administrative Affairs
Primary Education               Literacy & Adult                     Finance        j
Education
Preparatorv &
Secondary                       Examinations                       Personnel
l  Educationl_l
Teacher Training&   1                                             G       S
Staff Development                                                 General Services
Youth         1                                               Equipment &
l  l                                  -l        Stores
Directorates of
Education in the                                               Housing & Building
Governorates
World Bank-8571






PEOPLE'S DEMONCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM 1973-1974
PN.m-rY Teac-e, T--,ny Institutes
FarrxsJ Ed-ct-O
* IDA P,oit.ct Classes
D   East,re0 Clatnes_                                                                                                        {         3 
Classes to be Established
.,                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~             ~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A..dem-c  H,gh.r College 9 Educa1-o
Nao- Fo.-al Ad-lt & Ooer-9e Youth
*   IDAPlolect Clessos                                                                                              
o   b ESt 5t Classest
OT-ahl TrIdl T,.i-9nt  Ce-ese
Rua Degreetrt  eeet
Teehmealoo1 PsC-ta- r1                  Higher Teehnieal Se-tid-e
Pre Voc-tIonal A-IieulTura                                                  +               H,gher Ag9icu-tural-InstidBen
urlSk,lls T......Cnte
Rural D-i.lp-et C-ner-l
Instwut of Hettith
P,e Sehoo                           PrH-at                                                    Prepara.tor                                      Etonay                                                H,gher
World Bank-85701RI






PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                                c
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1972-73                                                                                   u 
w:   w        W   ,,       eo
GRADES                                                                                                                                                                                              w  E
HIGHER                                                                                                                                                                                             U. c
16
15V
281    046.2%   0.3   0%  0.1%  14.1%
14                                                                                           _ _ .                                                                   I  I  !               4j
SECONDARY
12                                                              154001                     990   247                     14200
11                                                               154001                   1123    312                     115000                                      2.7%   5.4%  85%   2.1%  19.3%
10                                                               154001                  1826     384                      115700
PREPARATORY
9                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16100!  4157        1207                    15700
167001               4477           894                       16300                                    10.8%!19.9%1 315%  8.2%  20.5%
-_7 _                                                         167000___--6-983i                  - | 6  1927
PRIMARY
6R                                                           < 1 7600'         106i         <           _                        _ 2758  17100                                              T
F)                                                        18400{               --    l              5 0_ _          _         17100                                 1|                 
4                                                          180                                                                                                                                    1.4%o
3                                                      2028   118600                                                                                                     3% 708  109.4% 30.8%
2                                            26866              190                                         6500                 18600
--1-                                 3        3        3        6         0      1i 11         l i        969 3                   19600                                  V                30 8
40               30               20               10                0               10                20               30               40
BOYS                          (in thousands)                       GIRLS
Enrollment                                                          Age-group
World Bank-8569






ttOA~                                                        - i   it A N
PEOP'LeS DEMOCRAT1C REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ARAO     s<<Nb^   iEDUCATION  PROJECT
\pii,i          A           A a A .
OE  A GY'lSD ASA Bt R
Ssi V     EE~ / Xi   t                                   *  Primary Teacher T xning institutes
i"i  F,T,A.  t    "OF  fN                        *  Farmi Machinery  oRural Sills Training Center                                     PI
f    tA m     AtIAs                            0  Tawchi Trade Training CenTter 
*  Rural Development Centers
A  Secondary -Preporotory Schools
o     _    _    _ ! <         > 20                                                                                   P 40   rBO    If A   Prepartory Schools 
MtIES                                                                                                                      . /                           -                              OMAN
OMA
KliLOMETERSShh.O
i  - s ;L"g 6 T 'r5  ;>   . /   1    .-'                                  Habr.3l\
f   fJ         *                                      ,                    / .        /                  fi T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Phamud  ./                         \,
/ Zsmak         ;      /bBir Tamis      /                                                           \\    .
Y E M  E'N                              .Zama
/16 % \ -                              A                        R                          A B . /  -Q  ~AI Abr \4 ..   *   >   FTDt-GhoydOh
'ARA  E                                                       <AI-Abr \                                                                                                                          16'-,
-   ~~~~    Soywun/ 
oo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                                                                           /   t-icWu   
iv R E  i.U              L''L  C                                                                OQatn                                                        /
/                                                            O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ishn 
,OShabwsh,.                                                                      Lab   -
r, '- '                                  .                 /                   ,, * "  'Sayhuhy-
. 1*   t               + .                     \              _-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Qusayir
a '8oihan           (GAtaq                                                   Ash Shihr
>   V                                    .}f  \  ~~~~~~~~~~                                     ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~NisobO    O  ,} Ar Riyan
-tJ                              {f   . \.   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~As Scid&    ,             ,rA    ukalla
-14              i,              .ukayras    -a b a h
> 1A        i < *'iO aq   LawdaOr<<dyt                                   ir li                                                 t                          Primory Rocds
*eiz ;f      hala  ,,O /  an BaqA  Ayr           Wadi Sabi                                                                                              --        Tracks
,o           Dh Noqee AIKalla        /         *                                                                                       1                          Roads Under Construction
tiumair  0A~~~~~~~~~~ Qarati  Ahwar                                                    N                       -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Roads
Kst   OMus ymobatiN 0                                                                                                                                         E @ J Agricultural Areas
r   *5gw O_4  Nurkibeni Al- usSroh                                  Fr      a                                                                       Governorates
Am Farsh    A   *  byrw Del/a          ~~~~~~                                                                                                ~~~L  ......... Governorate Boundaries
/~~~i ' " bai       Lshej.    ,:                                 C,                                                                                               -> -  _:_  International Boundaries
.44      _          A                 46.                                   48                                      50.



