Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3115 ME
                  (Forestry Development Project)
                              between
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 25, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3115 ME
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September  25,  1989, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (the Guarantor)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Guarantor  and  Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
(the Borrower), having been  satisfied  as  to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agree-
ment, have requested the Bank  to  assist  in the financing of the
Project;
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the  Borrower,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  extend to the
Borrower a loan  in  various  currencies  equivalent to forty-five
million and five  hundred  thousand  dollars ($45,500,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in  the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of  such  loan and to undertake such other
obligations as provided in this Agreement;
Page  2
     (C)  by the Banxico Project  Agreement of even date herewith,
between the Bank and  Banco  de  Mexico  (Banxico), the latter has
agreed to  undertake  the  obligations  set  forth  in the Banxico
Project Agreement;
     (D)  by the Banrural Project Agreement of even date herewith,
between the Bank and  Banco  Nacional de Credito Rural (Banrural),
the latter has agreed  to  undertake  the obligations set forth in
the Banrural Project Agreement; and
     WHEREAS  the  Guarantor,  in   consideration  of  the  Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement  with the Borrower, has agreed so
to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions, in the Preamble
to this Agreement and in the  Preamble  to and Section 1.02 of the
Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01.  Without limitation  or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally  guarantees,  as  primary  obligor  and not
merely as surety, the  due  and  punctual payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges  on, the Loan, and the premium,
if  any,  on  the  prepayment   of  the  Loan,  and  the  punctual
performance of all the other  obligations of the Borrower, Banxico
and Banrural, as  set  forth  in  the  Loan Agreement, the Banxico
Project Agreement and the Banrural Project Agreement.
     Section 2.02. (a)  The  Guarantor  shall:  (i) enter into the
contractual arrangements with the  Borrower referred to in Section
3.01 (a)  of  the  Loan  Agreement;  (ii)  enter  into contractual
arrangements with Banxico, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, which shall provide,  inter alia, for the transfer to
FIRA of such portion  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan as shall be
required by FIRA for the  purpose  of  carrying  out Part A of the
Project;  and  (iii)  enter  into  contractual  arrangements  with
Banrural, under terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank,
which shall provide, inter  alia,  for  the  transfer to FICART of
such portion of the proceeds of  the  Loan as shall be required by
FICART for the purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project.
     (b)  Except as the Bank  shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor
shall  not  change  or  fail  to  enforce  any  provision  of  the
contractual arrangements  referred  to  in  paragraph  (a) of this
Section.
     (c)  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
Section 2.01 of this  Agreement, the Guarantor specifically under-
takes, whenever there  is  reasonable  cause  to  believe that the
funds available to Banxico, Banrural,  or both, will be inadequate
to meet the estimated  expenditures  required for the carrying out
of the Project, to  make  arrangements,  satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to provide or cause  to be provided to Banxico, Banrural,
or both, with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
     Section 2.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
Page  3
2.02 (c) of this Agreement,  the  Guarantor shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, take  all  necessary  action to prevent any
material capital erosion, in real  terms, which FIRA or FICART may
incur on account of all their lending operations.  For the purpose
of this Section the  term  "capital"  means  the  sum of the total
paid-in capital, retained earnings, and reserves of FIRA or FICART
not specifically allocated to cover other liabilities.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and to this end shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out, Parts C, D and E of  the  Project through SARH, Part F of the
Project through SEDUE, and Part G  of the Project through INI, all
with due diligence, efficiency  and in conformity with appropriate
administrative,  financial  and   forestry  practices,  and  shall
provide, or cause to be  provided,  promptly as needed, all funds,
facilities, services and other  resources  required for such Parts
of the Project.
     Section 3.02. The Bank and the Guarantor agree that the obli-
gations set forth in  Sections  9.04,  9.05,  9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09  of  the   General   Conditions   (relating  respectively  to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports,  maintenance  and  land  acquisition)  in  respect of
Parts C, D, E, F and G of  the Project shall be carried out by the
Guarantor.
     Section 3.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of goods,  works  and  consultants' services required for
Parts C, D, E, F and G of  the Project and to be financed from the
proceeds of  the  Loan  shall  be  governed  by  the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall, through SARH:
     (a)  maintain   until   Project    completion   the   Project
Coordination Unit with organization,  structure and functions, and
staffed with qualified  personnel  as  shall  be  adequate for the
purpose of coordinating the Project;
     (b)  coordinate the  monitoring  of  the  Project through the
Project  Coordination  Unit  in  accordance  with  the  Monitoring
Program;
     (c)  prepare semiannual Project  monitoring reports providing
details of the  progress  and  expenses  of  carrying out Parts C,
D, E, F and  G  of  the  Project  and,  no  later than June 30 and
December 31 of each year,  beginning  on December 3l, 1989, submit
such reports to the Bank for its review;
     (d)  coordinate Project  evaluation  with  the  assistance of
agencies independent of the Project Coordination Unit; and
     (e)  submit annual Project evaluation  reports to the Bank no
later than June 30 of each year for the preceeding calendar year.
     Section  3.05.  The  Guarantor   shall:  (i)  no  later  than
October 31 of  each  year  until  Project completion, beginning on
October 3l, 1989,  cause  each  of  SARH,  SCT,  SEDUE  and INI to
furnish to the Bank, through the Project Coordination Unit, a Plan
of Work, satisfactory to the Bank, specifying in reasonable detail
the Project activities to be  carried  out by SARH, SCT, SEDUE and
INI, respectively, during  the  following  calendar year; and (ii)
provide to the Bank no later  than  December 31 of each year until
Project completion, beginning  on  December 3l, l989, satisfactory
evidence that adequate funds have  been allocated by the Guarantor
for carrying out the activities of the Project.
Page  4
     Section 3.06.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions of Section 2.02 (c),  Section  3.01 and Section 3.05 of
this Agreement, the Guarantor shall take  or cause to be taken all
actions and measures  to  make  available  adequate  funds for the
timely execution of the Project.
     Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall, through SARH:
     (a)  carry out the studies included  in Part E of the Project
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
     (b)  by January 31, 1990, submit  to  the Bank for its review
the final completed study referred to in Part E.3 of the Project;
     (c)  by January 31, 1991, submit  to  the Bank for its review
the final completed study referred to in Part E.4 of the Project;
     (d)  by June 30, 1991, submit to  the Bank for its review the
final completed study referred to in Part E.1 of the Project;
     (e)  by June 30, 1992, submit to  the Bank for its review the
final completed study referred to in Part E.2 of the Project;
     (f)  by December 31, 1992, submit  to the Bank for its review
the final completed study referred to  in Part E.5 of the Project;
and
     (g)  promptly  after  submitting  to  the  Bank  the  studies
referred to in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this Section exchange
views with the Bank on the conclusions and recommendations of such
studies.
     Section  3.08.  The  Guarantor  shall,  acting  through SARH,
enter into Fee  Convenios  with  road  users  for  the roads to be
rehabilitated under Part C.1 of  the  Project at the time that the
design and  bidding  process  for  such  roads  are initiated and,
unless otherwise agreed by the  Bank,  shall not change or fail to
enforce any provision of such Convenios.
     Section 3.09. The Guarantor  shall  cause each of the parties
to the SEDUE Carta de Compromiso, the INI Carta de Compromiso, the
SCT Convenio and  the  Fee  Convenios  to perform their respective
obligations thereunder, and shall not:  (i)  take, or permit to be
taken, any  action  which  would  prevent  or  interfere  with the
performance of  such  obligations;  and  (ii)  permit  any  of the
parties thereto to amend,  suspend,  abrogate, modify or waive any
of the provisions thereof.
     Section 3.10. In addition to its other obligations under this
Agreement, the Guarantor shall  take,  or  cause  to be taken, all
reasonable measures to ensure that  the execution and operation of
the Project are  carried  out  with  due  regard to ecological and
environmental  factors,  and   in   particular   that  all  forest
management,  harvesting,   manufacture   and  road  rehabilitation
activities will  prevent  the  negative  environmental  impacts of
traditional forestry and forest industry practices.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The  Guarantor  shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, separate records  and accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance  with  sound  accounting  practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts C, D, E, F and G of
the Project  of  the  departments  or  agencies  of  the Guarantor
responsible for carrying out such Parts of the Project or any part
thereof.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall:
          (i)  have the accounts referred  to  in paragraph (a) of
Page  5
               this  Section  for  each  fiscal  year  audited, in
               accordance   with   generally   accepted   auditing
               standards and  procedures  consistently applied, by
               independent and qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year a  certified  copy  of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said accounts and  the audit thereof and
               said records as the  Bank  shall  from time to time
               reasonably request.
    (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect  to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Guarantor shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation,  can  be  relied  on  to  support  the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                          Other Covenants
     Section 5.01. Without any  limitation or restriction upon any
of its obligations under  this  Agreement, the Guarantor shall not
take, or permit to  be  taken,  any  action which would prevent or
interfere with the performance by Banxico of its obligations under
the Banxico Project Agreement, or with the performance by Banrural
of its obligations under the Banrural Project Agreement.
     Section 5.02. For purposes of  Sections  6.02 (c) and (d) and
7.01 (e) of the General  Conditions, the obligations of the United
Mexican States  under  the  General  Interest  Rate  Agreement are
hereby incorporated as  obligations  of  the  Guarantor as if they
were fully set forth herein.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Director  General  de Captacion de Credito
Externo of the Secretaria  de  Hacienda  y  Credito Publico of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
Page  6
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Direccion General de Captacion de Credito Externo
            Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
          Palacio Nacional
          Primer Patio Mariano, 4© Piso
          06066 Mexico D.F.
          Mexico
                                            Telex:
                                              1777313-SHDCME or
                                              01774300
                                              Mexico City
     For the Bank
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                     UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                     By /s/ Pedro Aspe Armella
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
