Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3115 ME
                  (Forestry Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                  BANCO NACIONAL DE CREDITO RURAL
                     Dated September 25, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3115 ME
                    BANRURAL PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  25,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and BANCO
NACIONAL DE CREDITO RURAL (Banrural).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  (the  Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various  currencies  equivalent  to  forty-five  million  and five
hundred  thousand  dollars   ($45,500,000),   on   the  terms  and
conditions set forth in the  Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that Banrural agree to undertake  such obligations toward the Bank
as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a Guarantee Agreement to  be entered into between the
United Mexican States (the Guarantor)  and  the Bank, of even date
herewith, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of  the  Loan  and to undertake such other
obligations as set forth in said Guarantee Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS Banrural,  in  consideration  of  the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a)  Banrural  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate  administrative,  financial,  industrial  and forestry
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required by FICART for the said Part of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of  this  Section,  Banrural  shall  enter  into  the  contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 2.02 (a)(iii) of the Guarantee
Agreement. Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree, Banrural
shall  not  change  or  fail  to  enforce  any  provision  of such
contractual arrangements.
     (c)  Banrural shall carry  out  the  lending operations under
Part B.1  of  the  Project  in  accordance  with sound operational
policies and in conformity with  the principles and procedures set
forth in this Agreement, the Schedule to this Agreement and FICART
Lending Policies and Operating Manual.
     Section 2.02. (a) Banrural shall cause, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, all Sub-loans included in Part B.1 of the Project
to be made on terms  whereby  the Participating Bank shall obtain,
by written contract with  the  Beneficiary or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to  protect the interests of Banrural
and the Participating Bank and  to  accomplish the purposes of the
Project,  including  the  right  of  the  Participating  Bank  to:
(i) require the  Beneficiary  to  carry  out  and operate the Sub-
project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical,  financial,  industrial,  forestry and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (A)
the procurement of the  goods,  works  and services to be financed
out of the  proceeds  of  the  Sub-loan  shall  be governed by the
provisions of Part B (3) of  Section  I  of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement, and (B) such  goods,  works  and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project; (iii) inspect,
by  itself  or  jointly  with  representatives  of  the  Bank  and
Banrural, if the Bank shall so  request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and  construction  included  in the Sub-project, the
operation thereof, and  any  relevant  records and documents; (iv)
require that the  Beneficiary  shall  take  out  and maintain with
responsible insurers such  insurance,  against  such  risks and in
such  amounts,  as  shall   be  consistent  with  normal  business
practice; and that such  insurance  cover  hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of Sub-loans to the place of use or installation, and
that any indemnity thereunder be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Beneficiary  to  replace  or  repair such goods; (v)
obtain all such information as  Banrural or the Participating Bank
shall reasonably request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and to the
administration,  operation   and   financial   condition   of  the
Page  3
Beneficiary; and  (vi)  suspend  or  terminate  the  right  of the
Beneficiary to  the  use  of  the  proceeds  of  the Sub-loan upon
failure by such  Beneficiary  to  perform  any  of its obligations
under its contract with the Participating Bank.
     (b)  Banrural shall cause each Participating Bank to exercise
its rights in relation  to  each  Sub-loan  in  such manner as to:
(i) protect the  interests  of  the  Bank, Guarantor and Banrural;
(ii) comply with its  obligations  in respect of the corresponding
Sub-loan; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
     (c)  Banrural   shall   suspend   the   eligibility   of  any
Participating Bank to  make  Sub-loans  whenever the arrears under
loans made by any such Participating Bank and discounted by FICART
exceed 15% of the aggregate outstanding amount of such loans.
     Section 2.03.  No  Sub-loan  financed  by  Banrural under the
Project in excess  of  the  equivalent  of  eight hundred thousand
dollars ($800,000),  or  such  other  amount  as  shall  be agreed
between the Bank and Banrural, shall be eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the  Loan  unless  the Bank shall have approved
the  Sub-loan.  When  applying  to  the  Bank  for  such approval,
Banrural shall furnish  to  the  Bank  a  description  of the Sub-
project and such technical,  economic and financial data regarding
such Sub-project as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 2.04. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for Part B of the Project  and  to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed  by  the provisions of Schedule 4 to
the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.05.(a) Banrural shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of this Project
Agreement and Part B of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
Section 9.07 of the General  Conditions, Banrural shall provide to
the Bank semiannual reports,  beginning  on December 30, 1989, and
thereafter through completion of  the  Project, on the progress of
implementing Part B of the Project, including analysis of Sub-loan
disbursements and repayment of Sub-loans.
     Section 2.06. Banrural shall: (a) at the request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan; and
     (b)  promptly  inform  the   Bank   of  any  condition  which
interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with  the  progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of  the  purposes  of the Loan, or the
performance by Banrural of its obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of FICART
     Section 3.01.  Banrural  shall  carry  on  the operations and
conduct the affairs of FICART in accordance with sound administra-
tive, financial and  forestry  practices  under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by adequate staff.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  Banrural  shall  maintain,  or cause to be
Page  4
maintained, separate records and  accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with  sound  accounting  practices,  the operations and
expenditures of FICART in respect of Part B of the Project.
     (b)  Banrural shall:
          (i)  have such accounts,  including the financial state-
               ments (balance  sheets,  statements  of  income and
               expenses and  related  statements)  of  FICART, for
               each  fiscal  year   audited,  in  accordance  with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent and qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said  accounts  and financial statements
               as well as  the  audit  thereof,  as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Loan Account  on the basis of statements of
expenditures, Banrural shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation,  can  be  relied  on  to  support  the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of Banrural thereunder  shall  terminate  on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall  terminate  in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly notify Banrural thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
Page  5
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For Banrural:
          Banco Nacional de Credito Rural, S.N.C.
          Agrarismo 227- 7o Piso
          18800 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
                                            Telex:
                                              BNCR 1772 666
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Banrural  may  be  taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons as Banrural shall
designate in writing, and  its  Director  General shall furnish to
the Bank sufficient evidence  of  the  authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                    BANCO NACIONAL DE CREDITO RURAL
Page  6
                    By /s/ Gustavo Petricioli
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
      Banrural Lending Policies and Procedures for Sub-loans
I.   Medium-and Long-term Sub-loans
A.   General
1.   Banrural, acting as  trustee  for  FICART, shall finance Sub-
loans made by the  Participating  Banks. FICART's determination of
eligibility for such financing  shall  be based primarily upon the
appraisal as to technical  feasibility  and satisfactory return on
investments. Each  Sub-loan  shall  be  appraised  and approved by
qualified technicians of,  or  acceptable  to,  FICART before such
Sub-loan is made. In addition, appraisals of Sub-projects shall be
reviewed from time to time  by  FICART, in order to determine that
appraisals by such  technicians  show  the technical, economic and
financial viability of the  Sub-projects  and that the appraisals,
approvals and supervision are  in compliance with FICART's Lending
Policies and Operating Manual.
B.   Lending Policies and Procedures
2.   Banrural shall make available to the respective Participating
Banks, promptly as needed, amounts sufficient to cover the balance
remaining on each Sub-loan  after  the Participating Bank has made
the required contribution  in  accordance  with paragraph 3 below.
The financing made  available  by  Banrural to Participating Banks
shall have the  same  payment  terms regarding principal, interest
and  other  charges  as  the  Sub-loans  financed,  and  shall  be
evidenced by negotiable  instruments  representing the Sub-loan to
be financed, signed by the Beneficiaries.
3.   In financing Sub-loans, the following rules shall apply:
     Minimum                 Minimum
   Beneficiary            Participating
  contribution            Bank contri-
   (percentage            bution (per-                Maximum
   of cost of              centage of               percentage
   Sub-project              Sub-loan                of Sub-loan
    financed)               financed)           financed by FICART
       10%                     10%                   up to 90%
4.   No Sub-loan shall be  made  to  an individual Beneficiary for
investment if the amount  of  the  proposed Sub-loan together with
the aggregate principal amount  outstanding  of Sub-loans made for
investment to such Beneficiary and  financed by FICART exceeds the
equivalent of $260,000, or  such  other  amount as shall be agreed
between the Bank and Banrural. In case the Beneficiary is composed
of a group of  persons,  such  amount  shall  be multiplied by the
number of members of such group.
5.   The lending terms and grace periods  shall be as set forth in
the technical and financial plans for each Sub-project. Repayments
of principal of Sub-loans shall range from 2 to 15 years and shall
include grace periods of 1 to  3 years; provided however, that any
Sub-loans made for a Sub-project under  PVP shall not have a grace
period and in calculating  the  economic  rate  of return for such
Sub-project, capitalized interest shall  be included in investment
cost. In exceptional cases  only  and  with the prior agreement of
the Bank, repayment of principal  for  Sub-loans may extend for up
to 20 years and, if not made  under PVP may include a grace period
of up to five years.
Page  7
6.   Interest  rates  on   Sub-loans   shall  be  established  and
periodically readjusted in accordance  with  the provisions of the
General Interest Rate  Agreement.  In  financing Sub-loans made by
Participating  Banks,  Banrural  shall  allow  a  margin  to  such
Participating Banks of up to  10%  of  the Reference Rate (as that
term is defined in the General Interest Rate Agreement, also known
as "CPP") for the month  preceding  the making of the Sub-loan, or
such other percentage of  the  Reference  Rate or percentage point
margin as shall be agreed between the Guarantor and the Bank, with
respect to Sub-loans to Beneficiaries.
II.  Short-term Sub-loan Policies and Procedures
A.   General
1.   The appraisal and approval of Sub-projects to be financed out
of the proceeds of  a  Short-term  Sub-loan and the supervision of
the same shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the FICART Lending
Policies and Operating Manual.
B.   Lending Policies and Procedures
2.   Banrural shall make available to the respective Participating
Banks, promptly as needed, amounts sufficient to cover the balance
remaining on each Sub-loan  after  the Participating Bank has made
the required contribution  in  accordance  with paragraph 3 below.
The financing made  available  by  Banrural to Participating Banks
shall have the  same  payment  terms regarding principal, interest
and  other  charges  as  the  Sub-loans  financed,  and  shall  be
evidenced by negotiable  instruments  representing the Sub-loan to
be financed, signed by  the Beneficiaries. In financing Short-term
Sub-loans, the interest rate  to  be  charged to the Beneficiaries
shall be as provided for  in  the General Interest Rate Agreement;
repayment of principal shall not exceed two years.
3.   In financing Short-term Sub-loans,  the following rules shall
apply:
                                    Minimum
                Minimum bene-     Participating      Maximum
                ficiary contri-   Bank contri-      percentage
                bution (percen-   bution (per-      of Sub-loan
                tage of cost of   centage of Sub-    financed
                Sub-project       loan financed)     by FICART
                financed)
                _______________   _______________    __________
                     10%              10%            up to 90%
4.   Short-term Sub-loans to be  financed  out  of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be incremental to FICART's total short-term lending
for the previous year. By  November  30  of each year, starting on
November 30, 1989, FICART will  provide  the Bank with an estimate
of its incremental  short-term  lending  for  the subsequent year.
Such amount shall be  revised  against FICART's actual incremental
Short-term Sub-loans financed under  the  Project during each such
year, as audited, and any  difference resulting therefrom shall be
added to or substracted from,  the estimated amount to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan as Short-term Sub-loans during the
following year.
