Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROE'ICHE COPY                                                 Report No. 10503-GA
Report No. 10503-GA   Type:  (SAR)
TALL, MADA/ X35180  / J3811I/ AE'lAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
JUNE 10, 1992
Agricultural Operations
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be tu ed by recipients oniv in the performance of
their offici'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1   = CFAF 278 (December 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BADEA           -    Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique de
l'Afrique
CCP             -    Comite de Coordination du Projet
CENA            -    Club des Ecologistes et Naturalistes Africains
CENAP           -    Centre Natior.al Anti-Pollution
CFG             -    Compagnie Forestiere du Gabon
CIDA            -    Canadian International Development Agency
CTFT            -    Centre Technique Forestier Tropical
DGEF            -    Direction Gdnerale des Eaux et Forets
DFC             -    Direction de la Faune et Chasse
DGEPN           -    Direction Generale de l'Environnement et de la
Protection de la Nature
EAP             -    Environmental Action Plan
ENEF            -    Ecole Nationale des Eaux et Forets
FAC             -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FAO/CP          -    Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative
Program
FEG             -    Front des Ecologistes Gabonais
GTZ             -    Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(Federal Republic of Germany)
IADR            -    Inter-Assistance pour le Developpement Rural
IRAF           -    Institut de Recherches Agronomiques et
Forestieres
IRET            -    Institut de Recherche en Ecologie Tropicale
IUCN            -    International Union for the Conservation of
Nature
MEF             -    Ministere des Eaux et For&ts
METPN           -    Ministere de l'Environnement, du Tourisme et des
Parcs Nationaux
MESRS           -    Ministere de l'Education Secoidaire et de la
Recherche Scientifique
NEAP            -    National Environmental Action Plan
OCTRA           -    Office du Chemin de Fer Transgabonais
ORSTOM          -    Office de la Recherche Scientifique dans les
Territoires d'Outre-Mer
PCU             -    Project Coordination Unit
SAL             -    Structural Adjustment Loan
SHM             -    Societe de la Haute Mondah
SNBG            -    Soci6te Nationale des Bois du Gabon
SOMIVAB         -    Societe de Mise en Valeur du Bois
TFAP            -    Tropical Forestry Action Plan
UNDP            -    United Nations Development Program
WWF             -    World Wildlife Fund
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE FROJECT FILE .  ..............iii.....  ..Lii
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................................                     iv
I.    INTRODUCTION .................1....................                                  1
II.   SECTOR BACKGROUND ..............................................                     2
A.    Economic Setting ...................         ..1..................... 
B.    The Agricultural Sector ...................................                    6
C.    The Forestry and Environment Sector ........................                   7
1.    Forest Resources .....................................                   7
2.    Other Natural Resources ..............................                   7
3.    National Parks and Reserves ..........................                   8
4.    Environmental Legislation ............................                  8
5.    Institutions in the Sector ...........................                  9
6.    Forest Exploitation ..................................    12
7.    The Timber Industry ..................................                 13
8.   The Fiscal System ....................................                  13
D.   Sector Strategy ...........................................                    14
E.    Donor Activity ......       ................        ......................    15
F.    Bank Involvement in Gabon .................................    16
G.    Lessons Learned ...................        ..       ......................    17
III. THE PROJECT ....................................................                     17
A.   Project Rationale, Objectives and Description ....                 .........    17
B.  Detailed Features .......................                                       19
(a)  Institutional Strengthening ..........................    19
(b)  Forestry and Environment Training ....................    20
(c)  Forestry and Environment Research ....................    21
(d)  Forest inventory and Rehabilitation ..................    22
(e)  Creation and Maintenance of Reserves ....                 .............    23
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. PROCUREMENT. DISBURSEMENT. ACCOUNTS AND
21DITS. AND REPORTING ..........................................    24
A.    Project Costs .............................................                   24
B.    Project Financing ..................         ..      .....................    25
C.    Procurement . ..............................................    26
D.   Disbursement           ....................................                    28
E.    Financial Ma.    ment, Accounts and Audits, and Reporting ..                  28
This report is based on the findings of a Bank Appraisal Mission which
visited Gabon from November 18 to December 7, 1991. The mission was led by
Mr. Madani M. Tall (AFlAG), and consisted o:' Messrs./Mme. M. Grut (AFlAG),
F. Wencelius (AFTAG), C. Morin (LEGAF), G. Gloriod, R. Berger, B. Martin
(Consultants), and S. Kerpen (UNDP). Ms. Cynthia Cook (AFTEN) was the Peer
reviewer. Ms. Tuyet Anh HoanX provided secretarial support. The Project
Advisor is Ravmond D. H. Rowe (AGRPS). Messrs Michael. J. Gillette and
Theodore Nkodo are Country Director and Sector Division Chief respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



- ii -
Paae
V.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ..........................  29
A.  Project Management and Implementation     .....................    29
B.  Annual Work Programs ........ .    ........................ ..   30
C.  Monitoring  and  Evaluation  ......... ...........................  30
VI.  PRODUCTION. MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS .... ......  30
Ae  Production  ................................................  30
B. Markets and Prices ...... .. .  31
C.  Budgetary  Implications  ........... .. . ......................  32
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .. ...................   32
A.  Benefits    .     . ... ... ..                    .......   32
B.  Economic  Justification  ....................................  32
C. Risks  . ..........    .                                     33
VIII.    ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION ....  .............  34
ANNEXE§
1.  MEF Organization Chart
2.  METPN Organization Chart
3.  Terms of reference for a fiscal study
4.  Letter of Sector Development Policy
5.  Environmental Impact Assessment Summary
6.  Terms of Reference of the Resident Technical Assistance
7.  Environmental Training Modules
S.  Cost Estimates
Table 1. Summary Accounts by Project Component
Table 2. Project Components by year
Table 3. Summary Accounts by year
9.  Disbursement Profile
10.  Implementation Schedule
11.  Supervision Schedule
12.  Economic Analysis
13.  Implementation Arrangements
14.  Key Performance Indicators
MAP IBRD No. 23575



- iii -
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS
1.   Natural resource Sector Review, Solomon, September 1988.
2.   Assessment of Wood Products Manufactuiring and Marketing in
Gabon, General Woods, December 1988.
3.   Projit For&t/Environnement, Rapport de Pr6paration, FAO/CP, July
1989
4.   Rapport de Mission de Pr6parationt Volet Environnement, J. R.
Mercier, Octobre, 1989.
5.   Conservation before the Crisis: A Strategy for Conservation in
Gabon, T.O. McShane and McShane-Caluzi, (WWF US), January 1990.
6.   Rapport de Seconde Mission de Pr6paration: Volet Environnement,
J.R. Mercier, AoCt 1990.
7.   Rapport de Mission: Etude sur le Potentiel Touristique du Gabon,
G. Hilz-Ward, AoGt 1990.
8.   Rapport National sur l'Environnement, PNUD/Minist4re du Plan/
Breche, Mai 1991.
9.   Rapport sur la Formation Forestiere, Banque Mondiale/AFOCEL/
GABON, Decembre 1991
10. GABON - Agricultural Sector Review, Report No. 10629-GA.
B.   WORKING PAPERS
1.   Fiscal System
2.   Environmental impact Assessment Report
3.   Project Costs
4.   Forestry and Environment Training
S.   Forestry and Environment Research
6.   Forest Rehabilitation and Management
7.   Institutional Strengthening



- lv -
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FORRSTRY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowert       The Gabonese Republic
Beneficiaries: Minletry of Waters and Forestry (MEF)
Ministry of Environment, Tourism and National Parks (METPN)
Amount:         US$22.5 million equivalent
Terms:          15 years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate
Proiect
Description:   The project would: (a) contribute to a better use of
forestry resources by implementing, on a pilot basis, a
management plan in the depleted coastal zone; (b) reinforce
the strategic planning and operational capacity of
government institutions in the sector through the
restructuring and strengthening of the Ministry of Waters
and Foxestry (MEF) and the Ministry of Environment (METPN);
(c) resume forestry and environment research activities;
(d) make lorestry and environment training more practical
and tailo:ed to the needs of the private sector and to
conservatior 'needs; (e) help prevent environmental
degradatiorn -; rough the implementation of recommendations
from key enYx_: amental studies; and (f) support the
Government in -he creation and maintenance of wildlife
reserves. The project would represent the first phase of a
long term effort to bring about the rational utilization of
the country's natural resource base.
To meet the above okjectives, the project would include the
following components:
(a)  Instit"tional Strenothenina.  Assistance would be
provided in restructuring MEF to streamline and better
define the functions of its directorates; and in
supplying other resources (field housing, offices,
vehicles, etc.) to increase MEF and METPN operational,
planning, and monitoring capabilities, and more
importantly increase their presence in the field so as
to enable them to better supervise logging operations.
In addition, the Directorate of Game and Wildlife at
MEF would be provided with the resources needed to:
(i) improve its operational capacity; (ii) enforce
legal issues related to the environment; (iii)
increase its presence in the field; and (iv) prevent
poaching and other actions which could have a negative
impact on the environment.
(b) Forestry and Environment Trainina. Activities under
this component would consist of (i) promoting a
forestry and environment training program tailored to
the needs of the private sector; (ii) providing
professional training and retraining for forestry
graduates; and (iii) implementing a management and
conservation plan for the Mondah Forest.



(c) Forestry and Environment Research. Activities
envisaged under this component would center on: (i)
genetic improvement of Okoum6 trees; (ii)
sylvicultural operations on natural forest and
plantations with a view to bringing about durable and                    L
rational management of forest resources; and (iii)
stabilization of agricultural production systems in
forest areas through agroforestry techniques--this
need was highlighted during the Environmental Impact
Assessment (EA) process. Some equipment and
refrigeration facilities would be provided to the
National Arboretum to ensure the conservation of its
unique collection of plant species.
(d) Forest Inventory and Rehabilitation. Project support
would include the preparatinn -:d imp% tntation of a
management plan subsequent to -,e reha L'ttation and
protection of 40,000 ha of natur-X Okc' .' sands
identified from an inventory of 275,OC;. a"  n th
coastal zone; and rehabilitation of 5,000 to 6,000 ha
of artificial Okoum6 stands.
(e)  Creation and Maintenance of Reserves.  This component
concerns the protection of the Moukalaba and Sett6-
Cama reserves and provision of infrastructure for the
creation of additional reserves. In concert with the
World Wildlife Fund (WWF), the reserves would be
strengthened and, in time, be opened for eco-tourism
purposes.



- vi -
Estimated Proiect Costs
of-
Local    Foreign    Total   Base Costs
…- --(US$ million)-------
A.   Institutional Strengthenina
1.  Management Support          0.7        1.5        2.2        7.4
2.  Dir. Waters & Forestry      3.9        5.8        9.7       32.5
3.  Dir. Wildlife                1.7       2.0        3.7       12.5
4.  Dir. Environment            0.6        0.9        1.5        5.0
Sub-Total                   6.9       10.2      17.2        57.3
B.   Forestry and Env. Training       0.7        1.6       2.3         7.6
C.   Forestry Research                0.9        1.2       2.1         7.1
D.   Forest Rehabilitation
1.  Natural Okoum4 Stands       2.4        1.2        3.6       12.0
2.  Plantations                 2.0        0.2        2,2        7.5
Sub-Total                   4.4        1.4       5.8        19.5
E.   Reserves
1.  Moukalaba                   0.3        1.2        1.5        4.9
2.  Sette Cama                  0.6        0.5        1.1        3.6
Sub-Total                   0.9        1.7       2.6         8.5
Total Base Costs               13.8       16.2       30.0      100.0
Physical Contingencies          0.7        1.1        1.8         6.2
Price Contingencies            .1.5        4.9        6.4       21.3
Total Project Costs             16.0      22.2       38.2      127.4
Estimated Disbursements from the IBRDL Loan
IBRD Fiscal Year
1993   1994   2995    1996    1997    1998    1999
--------------------US$ million-------------------
Annual                 1.8    3.8    5.2      5.4      4.2     1.8      0.3
Cumulative             1.8    5.6   10.8    16.2    20.4    22.2    22.5
Benefits and Risks
The proposed project would improve the management and protection
of Gabon's forest resources and its environment. Measures envisaged under
the project would help: (a) stop overexploitation in the coastal zone; and
(b) initiate a sound forest management plan for the remaining areas of the
country. The project would serve as an important instrument for
implementing government policies dealing with forestry and the environment,
and would further strengthen the scope of these policies. The project
would strengthen NEF and METPN's planning and operational capacity through
the implementation of training programs, studies, and the provision of
vehicles, equipment, and infrastructure. As a result of the National
Environmental Action Plan initiated during project preparation, more
appropriate conservation policies would be developed and implemented. The
project would also encourage private sector involvement in the



- vii -
implementation of activities which would have a significant impact on the
conservation of the forestry sector, and provide significant employment
potential for the rural sector. Through the implementation of a revamped
iraining program at ENEF, the project would make forestry and environment
training more relevant to the needs of the private sector and to
conservation needs.
The main risk of the project lies in the fragility of
institutions in the sectors. The restructuring of MEF and the reassigning
of some of its staff to field offices, represent sensitive issues, but need
to be undertaken if the competitiveness of the wood sector and the
envisaged conservation objectives are to be attained. To reduce the risk,
MEF would be formally restructured prior to negotiations and an acceptable
field staff transfer plan would be made a condition of effectiveness.
Also, the shortage of adequately trained staff will be minimized through
improved training programs and technical assistance.
With regard to the environment, the Government's capacity to
follow-up on environmental issues and the willingness of private foresters
to participate in forest conservation programs pose potential risks. The
NEAP would clearly &jtablish each party's role and help formulate policies
to better protect the environment.
A final risk concerns the timely availability of counterpart
funding which, in the past, has been delayed and inadequate for the
forestry and environment sectors. This risk is minimized, however, by the
fact that the Government has come to realize the importance of forestry and
the environment and, therefore, is committed to supporting the sector.
Also, counterpart funds are made available in a timely fashion in ongoing
Bank-financed projects (Technical Assistance, Road Maintenance). In
addition, considerable efforts have been deployed to involve the Planning
and Finance ministries since the early stages of project preparation, to
ensure that the Government's contribution is properly provided for in the
investment program.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR I
The ERR on the project's natural forest rehabilitation component is
estimated at 18% before taking into account non-wood forest products of
nutritional and medicinal value for rural communities, and the ecological
benefits from reduced deforestation. The ERR on the plantations component
is estimated at 13%.



- vriii -
THR GABONESE REPUBLIC
FORESTRY AND rNVIRON"MNT PROJECT
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURAL AND FORESTRY SECTORS 11990)
1.   Poo latLon
Total (Thousand)                                                1,100
Growtn Rate (%, 1980-87)                                          2.8
Rural as % of Total Population                                     50
2.   Economic Overview
Total GDP (USS million)                                         4,495
GDP Real Growth Rate (%, 1980-90)                                 2.1
GDP per Capita                                                  2 850
Agricultural/Forestry GDP as % of Total GNP                      10.3
3.   Forestry Areas
Total Land Area (km2)                                         267,000
Forests - Forestry 2one ('000 ha)                              22,000
- Savannah ('000 ha)                                    4,000
Plantations ('000 ha)                                              30
4.   Proeuction
Logs (m3)                                                   1,600,000
Fuel Wood (m3)                                              1,222,000
Charcoal - tons
- m3 equivalent                                           -
Processed Timber
Plywood (m3)                                                 52,000
Other (m3)                                                   53,200
5.   Exports
Logs (m3)                                                     995,127
Plywood (m3)                                                   47,170
Other (m3)                                                    392,616
Value of Timber and Wood products
(CFAF billion)                                                   48
Total Exports (CFAF billion)                                      510
Total Timber exports as percent of Total Exports                  9.0
6.   Goverr me§  Revenues
Tax revenues from timber (CFAF billion)                           5.0
Total tax revenues (CFAF billion)                               278.5
Percent of total tax revenues                                     2.0



THE GABONESE BPUBLIC
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Gabonese Gov.,rnment has requested assistance from the Bank
for a Forestry and Environment Project. The proposed project was
identified as a priority investment in the strategy outlined in the
Agricultural/Forestry sector review carried out in 1988 by the Bank and the
Gabonese Government, and prepared by FAO/CP in 1989. The project reflects
the Government's concern with p-otecting and rationally utilizing a
valuable resource base, and coping with localized forest depletion and
environmental degradatir-.
1.02      Consequently, susti tial emphasis is given in the project to
improving the sector's contr4Jution to the economy through a sound forest
management program, and the strengthening of institutAons in the sector to
enable them to undertake the necessarv policy reforms, increase revenue
generation, arad better protect and m.age forest and wildlife reaources.
Furthermore, the Government was encouraged during preparation to undertake
a National Ervironmental Action Plan (NEAP) which is expected to serve as a
catalyst to preserving the country's ecological balance and channeling
donors' actions in the sector.
II. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Settino
2.01      The Gabcnese Republic is located astride the Equator, extending
from 2N to 4S in latitude and from BE to 15E in longitude. Covering an
area of 267,000 km2, it is bounded by Equatorial Guinea and Cameroon to the
north, and the Congo on the east and the south. A 750 km Atlantic coastline
forms Gabon's western boundary. Approximately 85 percent of the country is
covered with tropical forest and the remainder is covered by savannahs.
Gabon is an oil pr. iucing country with a sparse population estimated to be
1.1 million inhabitants (1989), more than 50 percent of which is living in
urban areas. Demographic growth is estimated to be 2.8 percent per annum.
Gabon has historically been an exporter of primary commodities, relying
almost entirely on extractive, enclave-type industries.
2.02      Until recently, the combination of political stability, rich
natural resource (oil, manganese, uranium, timber), substantial foreign
investments, and inflows of cheap labor from neighboring countries has
allowed Gabon to achieve a GNP per capita of $2,850 in 1990, down from
$4,000 in 1980, but still the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. Gabon's
position as an upper-middle-income country disguises, however, severe
structural imbalances associated with its dependence on oil exports and the
absence of a sustainable productive base outside the oil and mining
sectors.
2.03      The oil price shock of 1. 3 started a new era in Gabon's
development, marked by a growing linkage of the domestic economy to swings
in the international oil market, an unparalleled growth of the public
sector, and emergence of structural rigidities in response to fluctuations
in demand. The oil sector became the dominant force in the economy,
contributing 45 percent of GDP and accounting for 63 percent of budgetary
revenue and 83 percent of export receipts in 1985. The two major oil price
increases in 1973 and 1980 led to an acceleration of GDP in succeeding



-2-
year3, followed Ij periods of major contraction when oil prices dropped
between 1977-79 and after 1985. In ;980-85, real GDP growth averaged 2.3
percent p.a. (non-oiE
GDP: 4.2 percent); inflation, however, averaged 15 percent. In 1985-89,
real GDP declined by 3 percent p.a. (non-oil GDPs -4.1 percent). The
recurring economic instability has confirmed the economy's vulnerability to
changes in the international oil market, and thus underlined the need for
comprehensive policy reform to diversify the economy and remove price and
other distortions that have accompanied Gabon's oil prosperity.
2.04      The domestlc recycling of oil windfalls did not lead to a
sustained transformation of the economy, primarily because massive
government spending ignored the constraints posed by Gabon's limited
absorptive capacity. Theae include a narrow, high-cost domestic market, a
small labor force, and weal .esponse by the private sector. With fiscal
revenues doubling between 1980 and 1985, the Government continued its
strategy of financing large-scale, but poorly conceived investment projects
and creating a large parastatal sector. Although capital expenditure rose
twice as fast as revenue during that period, less than 10 percent of the
investment budget was devotad to directly vroductive activities or
smallholder services. With a portfolio of 65 public enterprises, the
Government acted increasingly as a direct producer of goods. However, most
of the expansion of non-oil productive activities through inefficiently
operating PEs relied on heavy subsidies and highly protected markets for
internationally uncompetitive products. Subsequently, when oil revenues
declined, the growth momentum quickly faltered and Gabon's expenditure
pattern became unsustainable.
2.05      The 1986 collapse in dollar oil prices (-55 percent), in
conjunction with the 23 percent appreciation of the CFAF against the U.S.
dollar compared to 1985, triggered severe external and internal imbalances.
The current account deficit jumped from 4.4 percent of GDP in 1985 to
nearly 31 percent in 1986, as oil export earnings dropped by 66 percent to
CFAP 245 billion.   Government oil revenue declined by almost a third,
causing the fiscal deficit to widen from 5 percent of GDP (1985) to 15
percent in 1986. Hoping that the deterioration in oil prices would prove
to be temporary, the Government relied on external financing to cover the
fiscal gap. As a result, the stock of external debt, which had dropped to
US$ 0.7 billion by 1984, almost doubled between 1985 and 1987 to reach
US$1.7 billion (53 percent of GNP) in 1987.
Fiscal Stabilization and Structural Adjustment
2.06      Faced with a worsening financial situation, the Government
adorted a first stabilization program at the end of 1986 with support from
the IMF.  It aimed at regaining budgetary control and containing the
current account deficit. Prompted by the 75 percent decline in oil revenue
in 1987 ove.r their 1986 level (total revenues -50 percent), the Government
slashed capital expenditure from CFAF 400 billion (1986) to CFAF 70 billion
(1988) and reduced PE subsidies. The 10 percent decline in non-oil revenue
in both 1987 and 1988 reflected the deepening recession in the rest of the
economy. Although the budget deficit was reduced from 12 percent of GDP in
1987 to 7.5 percent of GDP in 1989, the Government's stabilization efforts
stayed below expectations. In particular, the Government failed to tighten
control over current non-interest expenditures, notably with regard to
public sector wages, and fully implement revenue enhancing measures. A
second stand-by program, concluded in October 1989, became inoperative
towards the end of the year, owing to increased budgetary expenditure that
followed rising social tensions (para. 2.15) and lower-than-programmed oil
revenue collection. The uncertainty surrounding the Government's
stabilization efforts in turn led to delays in the disbursement of external
assistance. As a result, the Treasury had accumulated payment arrears of



-3-
CFAF 40 billion (3.5 percent of GDP) at the end of 1989, most of which vis-
a-vis Paris Club creditors.
2.07      Following a 16 percent contraction of real GDP in 1987, Gabon's
economy expanded by 2 percent and 3.8 percent in the following two years,
reflecting the gradual resurgence in oil exploration and production
activities. In contrast, value added in all other sectors declined
further, translating into rising urban unemployment. Most severely affected
by this protracted recession, which was passed on via substantially reduced
public expenditures, were construction, transport, and service related
activities. Figures for 1990 confirmed the growing disparity between a
growing oil sector (30.0 percent increase in production) and the continuing
recession in the non-oil economy (- 4.6 percent), wAth overall GDP
increasing by a real 5.3 percent in 1990. It is important to note that
events during the Gulf crisis contributed significantly to the booming of
the oil sector.
2.08      The situation in Gabon's balance of payments remained critical
between 1987 and 1990, with little change in the size of the overall
deficit (-10 percent of GDP), but a markedly different composition. On the
one hand, higher export receipts for oil and other minerals helped improve
the current account deficit from 31 percent in 1986 to just 5.5 percent in
1989, with a surplus of around 3 percent for 1990. On the other hand, the
capital account deteriorated sharply in 1989-90. This reflects not only
reduced drawings on publicly guaranteed loans, but also a decrease in
direct foreign investment and considerable private capital transfers
abroad. The size of fiscal and current account deficits required continued
external support, primarily in form of debt relief obtained through Paris
and London Club rescheduling in addition to foreign financing from
bilateral and multilateral scurces. Although Gabon's debt service ratio
(before rescheduling) rose from 13 percent in 1985 to around 25 percent
between 1986 and 1989, actual debt service payments (after rescheduling)
averaged less than 7.5 percent over the same period.
2.09      To complement its stabilization efforts, the Government adopted
a broad economic reform program in April 1988, supported by adjustment
loans from the World Bank, the African Development Bank, and the French
Government. Its objective was to help restore the competitiveness of the
no--oil sectors and return Gabon to a sustainable growth path by: (a)
improving the performance of the parastatal sector through State
divestiture and PE rehabilitation; (b) reinforcing public sector resource
management; (c) liberalizing the regulatory environment for private sector
activity; and (d) reformulating sectoral policies in the non-oil economy.
In this regard, the Government has emphasized the importance of the
forestry sector as a source of long-term growth. The proposed project has
capitalized on the above measures by initiating a policy dialogue with the
Government and the donor community to develop a rational approach to forest
management and environmental protection, and provide investment funding to
strengthen the sector.
2.10      In general, the first phase of the structural adjustment program
helped to initiate a broad dialogue between the Government and donors on
the fundamental lack of sustainability of past economic policies. The
Governm&nt took difficult initial steps in reorienting its economic
policies and gradually reducing the scope of state interventions in favor
of private sector activities, most notably by agreeing to a comprehensive
restructuring of the parastatal sector. However, the severity of the
recession and Gabon's deep-seated structural constraints have limited rapid
progress towards a more diversified economy.
2.11      The reform of the public enterprise sector represents a
significant accomplishment of the structural adjustment program. From near
total disarray at the time of the oil price collapse in 1986, the



-4-
Government has undertaken decisive steps towards the restructuring of
public enterprises. On the basis of financial audits for 35 PEs, the
Government liquidated five enterprises, opened seven enterprises for
private majority ownership, and announced a restructuring program for
another ten enterprises. A management contract with Air Gabon was signed
in 1989. Similar negotiations with OCTRA (railways) and SEEG (power) are
ongoing. The Government successfully committed most PEs to reduce their
wage bill by an average of 15 percent in 1988/89, involving in some cases
reductions of 30 percent or more for higher level managers. The Government
also began to restructure the finances of the sector by settling 20 percent
of accrued crosa-debts between parastatals and the Government.
2.12      In support of the policy reform efforts envisaged under the
structural adjustment program, the Government strengthened the investment
planning process. It adopted a more comprehensive perspective on public
resource management by establishing a three-year rolling investment plan in
1988. This plan aligns public investments more closely with broad economic
objectives and details their recurrent expenditure in following years.
Recourse to suppliers' credit and extrabudgetary expenditure as methods of
investment financing were eliminated. The Government increased the share
of investment expenditures for road maintenance and smallholder
agriculture, while planning to reduce the emphasis on loss-making
agroindustrial enterprises. In 1987/88, several measures were introduced
aimed at enhancing non-oil revenues, including the transformation of the
compulsory loan on salaries and sales into a solidarity tax and a surcharge
on the income tax. Finally, the Government has started to reduce the
excessive state consumption of public services.
2.13      In the area of incentive reform, the Government has taken
measures to liberalize trade and stimulate private sector activities.
Quantitative import restrictions on all but five commodities have been
replaced by transitional import tariffs. Price controls on locally
produced goods and the trade margins on imported commodities ha-a also been
removed. In order to encourage non-oil exports, the turnover tts on
exports has been lifted except on exports of natural resources.
2.14      The Government has accorded high priority to the restructuring
of the forestry sector on an environmentally sound basis and begun to
implement measures aimed at improving the competitiveness of Gabon's timber
exports. The poor financial and managerial performance of SNBG, the timber
marketing monopoly, severely constrained the viabilLty of private forestry
companies. The Government has decided to finalize the restructuring of
SNGB's marketing activities in 1992 and to reform the sector's fiscal
statutes. In addition, it has entered into negotiations with private
parties interested in taking over Compagnie Forestiere du Gabon (CFG), a
large state-owned wood processing company.
Recent Economic and Political DeveloDments
2.15      Triggered by a growing disenchantment with the traditional one-
party system and dissatisfaction over worsening employment prospects,
Gabon's social and political climate grew increasingly tense at the end of
1989. Led by student protests, strikes spread through the parapublic and
civil service sectors. The strikers demanded higher wages for lower
salaried employees, reimbursement of the solidarity tax, reductions in the
cost of living, and departures of unqualified managers. The Government
gave in to most demands in February 1990.
2.16      In an attempt to calm tne political situation, President Bongo
convened a National Conference in March 1990, which was attended by more
than 150 political groups and professional associations. The Conference
participants demanded and obtained: (a) the immediate adoption of a multi-
party system; (b) new elections for the National Assembly in October 1990;



- 5 -
(c) the formation of a transition Government; (d) wide ranging policy
reforms in the areas of health and education; and (e) measures to ensure
better accountability of public officials. Gabon's first mliltiparty
elections, which were held between September and November 1990, resulted in
a narrow majority for the former Government party in the National Assembly,
with opposition parties gaining 57 of the 120 seats.
2.17      The cost of Government's concessions and, to a lesser extent,
the increase in petroleum prices in the wake of the recent Gulf crisis, had
considerable impact on Gabon's budgetary situation for 1990. The
Government's social concessions, which are estimated at CFAF 38 billion,
seriously undermined its fiscal stabilization efforts. In particular, the
public sector wage bill rose 18 )ercent above targets agreed to under the
IMF program and the Government failed to adopt compensatory measures to
enhance non-oil revenue. Similarly, the reduction of wage costs in the PE
sector and other rehabilitation measures were partly reversed. These
additional expenditures were partially offset by unexpected oil windfalls
in the order of CFAF 20 billion and the sale of the Government's 10 percent
share of oil produced from the Rabi-Kounga field. Thus, the estimated size
of the budget deficit (CFAF 60 billion or 5 percent of GDP) probably
understates the erosion of fiscal discipline that occurred in 1990. One
indicator is the accumulation of payment arrears to external creditors and
domestic suppliers in the order of 6.5 percent of GDP.
Medium-term Outlook and Develonment Strateoy
2.18      The 1991-93 Investment Plan identifies three principal
objectives for the Government's medium-term development strategy: (a)
restoring sustainable growth and reducing the economy's vulnerability to
international oil shocks through the promotion of private non-oil
activities; (b) strengthening the Government's capacity to i )lement
sustainable expenditure policies in priority sectors in the context of
increasing, yet highly volatile, revenues; and (c) improving the social
welfare conditions through appropriate labor, education and health
policies.
2.19      In its attempt to direct the economy out of a protracted five-
year recession and stimulate growth in the non-oil sector, the Government
has to effectively overcome four major constraints: First, further reduce
the size of the public enterprise sector. The Government has to adopt a
comprehensive strategy that entails divestiture and privatization of
parastatals in forestry, construction, and agriculture; introduction of a
new legal framework that allows the creation of financially independent
companies under majority private management in the case of OCTRA (railroad)
and AIR GABON; and financial reform of public utilities. Second, reduction
of Gabon's high wage and cost structure. This requires the implementation
of a more rational compensation system for government employees; further
otaff reductions in the parastatal sector and civil service reform; and
tariff reforms for domestically provided services (electricity,
telecommunications). Third, a strategy to address the serious bottlenecks
and policy-based distortions that inhibit the private sector's supply
response to a shift in relative prices. Chief among them are an inadequate
and poorly maintained road network, the lack of agricultural services and
marketing channels for agricultural goods, and the lack of incentives for
small and medium enterprises. And fourth, implementation of a long-term
strategy for the transparent collection and efficient utilization of oil
revenue in order to contain the destabilizing effects of future oil price
swings. The anticipated rise in oil exports will result in an increase of
oil revenues in 1992, compared with 1989, testing the Government's ability
to withstand pressures to again increase public spending on civil service
wages and unproductive investments.



-6-
2.20      Thus, fiscal stabilization will continue to be at the core of
the authorities's medium term program. The Government has to tighten
budgetary control over current expenditures, restore wage restraint, and
adopt an ecc mically sound investment program. Of particular importance
are the con-._nued rehabilitation of the road network, a comprehensive
review of social sector policies, and increased spending for smallholder
agriculture. On the revenue side, the authorities have to strengthen
customs administration, eliminate ad hoc exemptions and broaden the non-oil
tax base. The restructuring of the public enterprise sector, begun under
the first structural adjustment program, has to remain a Government
priority in order to reduce the sector's continuing drain on public
resources and provide economic opportunities for private entrepreneurs.
2.21      As these fiscai and structural reforms are implemented, the
growth prospects for the non-oil economy should gradually improve,
reversing the substantial decline in per capita income over the last
decade. Untapped growth opportunities exist in the forestry sector,
smallholder agriculture, rubber production, and service related activities
such as eco-tourism. The prospects for non-oil mining activities
(manganese, uranium, other minerals) also remain favorable. However,
unless these structural rigidities are effectively overcome and private
investments take up the slack of reduced government spending, growth in
real non-oil GDP is unlikely to exceed population growth (estimated at 2.8
percent p.a.).
2.22      Notwithstanding the positive impact of a diversification
strategy in the non-oil economy, the oil sector will provide for some time
the main impetus for overall growth in real GDP, estimated at around 5
percent p.a. over the medium term. Oil production from a major new field
(Rabi) started coming on stream in 1989, lifting Gabon's oil production
from 8 million MT in 1988 to 14.1 million MT in 1991. Short-term forecasts
indicate a stabilization of oil production at about 13.5 million MT through
1995. Provided a stabilization of the political situation in the coming
months, Gabon's on- and off-shore territories will continue to attract
substantial foreign investment from oil companies, with new wells possibly
coming on stream by the mid-1990s. The dominant position of the oil sector
and the associated dependence of Gabon's economy to swings in the
international oil market is likely to continue throughout the 1990s.
2.23.     Although the medium term prospects for fiscal recovery are
favorable, they are critically dependent on the return to a rational and
more transparent fiscal management. Accordingly, the combination of
additional oil and non-oil revenue and tighter expenditure control is
expected to result in a moderate fiscal surplus from 1993 onwards. At the
same time, the current account is expected to register a rising surplus.
However, in order to support this economy-wide recovery and alleviate the
Government's serious debt servicing problems in 1992, Gabon will require
additional external assistance over the medium-term. This includes the
rescheduling of commercial and official debt service obligations as well as
limited new financing. Following this period, Gabon should be well
positioned to meet its debt service payments without further rescheduling,
thereby restoring its international creditworthiness. In addition, the
Government should consider using part of the expected oil bonus to retire
part of its external debt obligations ahead of schedule and accumulate net
foreign assets in a financial reserve fund.
B.   The Aaricultural Sector
2.24      The combined value-added of agriculture and forestry has been
stagnant or declining over a considerable period, and contributed only 6
percent to overall GDP from 1975 to 198E. In 1986, the sector's
contribution to GDP rose to nearly 9 percent, although this was mainly



-7-
attributable to the fall in GDP rather than to an increase in agricultural
output. The sector is characterized by low population density, inefficient
institutions and deficient infrastructure. As such, agriculture in Gabon
has not developed into a viable, commercially oriented sector. Food
imports, mainly driven by urban demand, increased by 15.5 percent annually
between 1979 and 1986, outpacing the 12.7 percent annual increase in total
imports.
2.25      Production activities in rural areas are dominated by the
smallholder sector comprising 70,000 households. Smallholders produce most
of the food crops (plantains, maize, taro, yams, and cassava) on 61X,000 ha
and all of the coffee, and cocoa on 15,000 ha. The agro-industrial sector,
which has been the primary focus of government intervention occupies
100,000 ha, of which 7,500 ha is for oil palm, 3,300 ha for rubber, 285 ha
for coffee and cocoa, 6,000 ha for soybeans and maize, 80,000 ha for
livestock ranches, and 3,390 ha for sugar cane plantations.
2.26      The potential for future agricultural growth is limited.
However, some growth may be realized with strong government support for the
smallholder sector through better agricultural services, improved
infrastructure, and proper incentives. Growth in this sector could
generate income levels and sustain an environment which would be
sufficiently attractive to retain a significant portion of the population
in rural areas, and generate. a slightly larger, and growing, share of the
national output.
C.   The Forestry and Environment Sector
1.   Forest Resources
2.27      The country is characterized by coastal evergreen forest in the
North, and a close semi-deciduous forest in most of the rest, with high
density Okoum6 stands. Dense tropical forest dominated by Okoum6 covers 85
percent of the territory, and contains more than 100 species of potential
commercial value. Total dense forest cover is estimated at 22 million ha,
of which 12.5 million ha are considered to be valuable commercial stands.
2.28      Forest resources in Gabon can be broadly divided into two
categories: the Okoum6-Ozigo complex, and other species (Bois Divers).
Okoum6--the-most abundant wood resource--is ideal for peeling and making
high quality plywood.
2.29      Although overall extraction rates of all species are well below
production potential, deforestation is prevalent in the overexploited
coastal zone (map IBRD No. 23575). The low population density (less than 4
inhabitants/ki2) and the resulting lack of agricultural encroachment have
prevented significant ecological and environmental degradation in most
other areas. Deforestation rates are very low (less than 1% per annumb and
of all the African countries, Gabon is expected to lose the smallest
cortion of its forest area durino the next 50 years.
2.   Other Natural Resources
2.30      The country's flora and fauna benefit from a diversity that is
unparalleled in tropical Africa. It is estimated that out of the 120
species of Begonia known in Africa, 50 are present in Gabon and 16 are
endemic. It is also estimated that there are 6,000 species of plants. The
rich forest of Gabon is also an important sanctuary for 19 different
primate species. The gorilla and chimpanzee population is estimated at
35,000 and 64,000 respectively. There are also about 20 indigenous
carnivorous species and more than 600 bird species. A number of waterways
and a long (750 km) coastline contain a somewhat limited but diverse fish



population and other marine life systems. In addition, Gabon possesses
significant petroleum, natural gas, and hydro-electric resources.
2.31      Environmental damage is localized mainly because of Gabon's low
rural population density (fewer than one inhabitant per km2) and therefore
the minimal impact of agricultural practices (shifting cultivation/slash
and burn). Logging activities, still below maximum sustainable
exploitation levels in most of the country, have however caused
environmental concerns in the depleted coastal zone. Extensive logging in
this zone, coupled with an increase in commercial game hunting, has led the
Government to initiate measures to protect the country's rich and diverse
natural resource base.
3.   National Parks and Reserves
2.32      There are currently no officially designated National Parks in
Gabon. However, an area covering 19, 747 kmi, or 10 percent of the country's
total forest cover, has been designated by the Government as reserves and
arboretum because of a strong and diverse wildlife presence. This area
includes:
(a)       the fauna and hunting reserve of Lop6 (5,000 ki2);
(b)       the fauna reserve of Moukalaba (1,000 km2°;
(c)       the fauna and hunting reserve of Sette Cama (7,000 km2);
(d)       the biosphere reserve of Ipassa (100 km2);
(e)       the Presidential reserve of Wonga-Wonga  (4,000 kW2); and
(f)       the Sibang arboretum.
4.   Environmental Legislation
2.33      In theory, the Government has established a sound legal
framework for forest management and wildlife conservation. It was first
established in 1946 by the French Equatorial African administration and
modified by subsequent laws of the Gabonese Government (June 1960, November
1962, April 1971, July 1982, March 1987). Under the law enacted in 1982,
all classified state forest land is subject to a forest use plan. The law
specifies that only zones that have been fully inventoried may be
exploited. Several decrees for the implementation of this Law have been
signed. Among the few texts which still need to be signed, two decrees
defining the areas which may be exploited as well as the specific
conditions for exploitation would be signed as a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed project (para 8.02 (b)). There is also a legal framework
for the conservation of wildlife and other natural resources (Loi Relative
A la Protection et A l'Am6lioration de l'Environnement). The adoption and
promulgation of this legal framework would be a condition of effectiveness
(para 8.02 (a)). Provisions have been made to allocate 6.7 percent of
total land area for sanctuaries and hunting reserves. The hunting and the
collecting of animal and vegetal materials are also restricted by the
Government. However, while both the Ministry of Waters and Forestry (MEF)
and the Ministry of Environment, Tourism, and National Parks (METPN) have
extensive policing powers to combat poaching and supervise logging
practices, they have limited resources with which to pursue their mandate.
Therefore, many of the regulations have not been consistently enforced.
2.34      Gabon ratified in February 1989 the African Convention for the
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources signed in Algiers, the



-9-
Convention of Washington, and the Convention on the International Commerce
of Species of Wild Fauna and Flora threatened with extinction.
5.   Institutions in the Sector
2.35      The proliferation of institutions, coupled with the lack of a
clearly defined strategy on environmental issues, has resulted in an
overlapping of institutional functions and competence, in a duplication of
efforts, and a waste of resources. While the main institutions responsible
for forestry and environment issues are MEF and METPN, several other
institutions are involved in the formulation and implementation of policies
dealing with the environment: the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of
Mining, the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, and the Ministry of
Health.
2.36      The Ministry of Waters and Forestry (MEFI is the main
institution responsible for implementing the Government's strategy for the
Forestry sector. After a 1988 cabinet restructuring, MEF was placed under
the authority of the First Vice Prime Ministry so as to emphasize the
renewed interest the Government was placing on the forestry sector. In
1990, MEF was merged with the Ministry of the Environment under a
provisional Government. However, the consolidation of Environment and
Forestry in one Ministry was reversed after the October 1990 multi-party
elections. MEF has 319 staff of all grades: 104 professionals, 117
technicians, 59 brigadiers, and 39 support staff. About 90 percent of the
professionals are posted in Libreville. MEF organization chart is
presented in Annex 1.
2.37      At MEF, the Directorate General of Waters and Forestry (DGEF)
operates as a coordinating structure, and is currently responsible for 10
other directorates at the central level. Within MEF, the main implementing
institution responsible for environmental issues is the Directorate of Game
and Wildlife (DFC) which supervises two services and two field brigades
(Moukalaba, Lope), with a total staff of 71, of which 9 are professionals.
DFC is responsible for:
(a)       the formulation of a master plan on wildlife conservation;
(b)       the implementation of sound management and conservation
techniques for wildlife resources;
(c)       the coordination and supervision of activities pertaining
to wildlife, in its affiliated field services;
(d)       the collection and establishment of wildlife statistics;
and
(e)       the interface with national and international organizations
involved in wildlife issues.
2.38      MEF is also present in each of the nine regions of the country.
However, only a minimal number of technical staff is actually posted in the
field. Most forestry departments at this level are poorly equipped and are
not operational. In order to execute viable forest management programs,
and decentralize operations, it will be necessary to improve the management
and technical capacity of regional forestry departments. The proposed
project would address this isbue.
2.39      The Ministry's budgetary allocations have consistently decreased
since 1985 when CFAF 5.9 billion (6 percent of the public investment
budget) were allocated to the Ministry. This amount was reduced to CFAF
2.4 billion (2.5 percent of the public investment budget) in 1989 and to
CFAF 0.8 billion in 1991 (less than one percent of the public investment



- 10 -
budget). Noteworthy is the fact that two-thirds of budgetary allocations
for recurrent expenditures and 95 percent of fuel allocations are used at
headquarters, therefore reducing the operating capacity of regional
forestry services. These services lack the funds and the mobility to
either conduct inventories or monitor commercial logging operations. This
has been a primary cause for the depletion of the coastal zone and the poor
valorization of forest resources.
2.40      As part of the new strategy for the sector, the Government has
agreed to establish a restructuring plan for MEF and assign part of its
plethoric headquarters staff to regional forestry services. The
restructuring plan's objectives would be to (a) reduce the overlapping of
institutional functions so as to avoid conflicts, duplication of efforts,
and an inefficient utilization of resources; and (b) increase the
Ninistry's operational capacity in the field. It would consist of
regrouping all central directorates (9) into three directorates, namely the
Directorate of Forestry, the Directorate of Fisheries, and the Directorate
of Wildlife. Coupled with the merging would be the progressive transfer of
staff from headquarters to regional inspection units which, under the new
plan, would be given the status of central directorates. In addition, the
Government is working on a series of incentive measures which, if
implemented properly, would induce a natural attraction for field
assignments. The Ministry of Waters and Forestry (MEF) is discussing with
both the Ministry of Finance (MFB) and the Ministry of Labor (MT) the type
of incentive framework (promotions, better working environment, logistical
support) that would be suited for this purpose.
2.41      Since its establishment in 1985, the Ministry of Environment.
Tourism, and National Parks (METPNI has been responsible for:
(a)       elaborating and implementing government policies pertaining
to the environment and the protection of nature;
(b)       protecting and preserving the natural milieu;
(c)       studying and monitoring the environment and ecosystems; and
(d)       promoting and  facilitating the interface with the donor
community on matters related to the environment.
2.42      METPN's central organization consists primarily of two General
Directorates: the Directorate for the Protection of Nature and the
Environment (DGEPN) that supervises two services with a total staff of 25,
of which 14 are profeasionals, and the Directorate of Tourism (DGT) which
holds the essential and immediate responsibility for the formulation and
implementation of tourism policy. Presently, it comprises 62 employees of
which 40 have civil service status and 22 are contract personnel. METPN
has no representation outside of Libreville and is therefore unable to
undertake any activity in the field. The National Center for Anti-
Pollution, the National Committee on Man and Biosphere, and the National
Council on the Environment also fall under the tutelage of METPN. The
organization chart of METPN is presented in Annex 2.
2.43      Even though the establishment of a Ministry responsible for
environmental issues suggests the Government's commitment to a better
environment, METPN has not been able to operate as a full fledged
environmental policy setting and implementing agency. The major problems
impairing its performance are: (a) the shortage of staff with the proper
profile; (b) inadequate funding for operational expenditures; (c) the lack
of a strategy and action plan on environmental issues; and (d) the lack of
coordination with MEF and other concerned institutions.



- 11 -
2.44      The Socift6 Nationale des Bois du Gabon (SNBGI.  SNBG, a
parapublic enterprise, was established in 1975 to (a) exercise a marketing
monopoly on logs of all species; (b) stimulate the development of the
national timber industry; (c) assist through its own resources in the
expansion of markets for Gabonese timber and timber products; and (d) help
stabilize prices of timber and timber products.
2.45      Contrary to its mandate, SNBG not only has done very little to
stimulate growth in the forestry sector, but, until recently, stood as a
major stumbling block for development in the sector. Its inefficiencies
and high operating costs have increased its marketing margins and
contributed to Gabon's loss of competitiveness on the world market. Faced
with this untenable situation, the Gcvernment initiated a restructuring
plan for SNBG, which together with the envisaged transfer of ownership to
the private sector is the consequence of a 1988 audit of SNBG, measures
called for under the first Structural Adjustment Loan, and discussions with
the Syndicate of Foresters.
2.46      In February 1991, the Government of Gabon started the
implementation of a restructuring plan that should transform SNBG into a
viable and efficient entity. In this regard, the following measures have
been implemented during the transitory period (February 1, 1991 - February
29, 1992): (a) a representative of the Foresters Syndicate was named to
head SNBG's Board of Directors; (b) a new Director General, chosen by all
parties concerned, was named; (c) a private accounting firm was hired to
oversee all financial operations; (d) a new salary structure was adopted on
July 1, 1991; (e) across the board reduction of operating costs was
initiated; (f) transfer of all civil service staff to their departirnt of
origin was finalized on August 31, 1991; and (g) a management committee was
established to oversee the restructuring plan. These actions are essential
for the revival of the sector.
2.47      At the end of the transitory period (February 1992) an
assessment of the restructuring program was undertaken by the Government
and the Bank. This assessment revealed that considerable progress had been
made in the areas of cost reduction, transparency in the budgetary process,
staffing and wage reforms, and marketing performance. In particular, SNBG
has (a) reduced its wage bill from CFAF 2.4 billion to CFAF 1.7 billion;
(b) reduced staff from 357 to 286; (c) shortened delays in payment to
foresters from 130 days to 60 days; (d) reduced general operating
expenditures by more than 40 percent; and (e) fulfilled its fiscal
obligations vis-&-vis the State Treasury. In fact, SNBG is forecasting for
Fiscal Year 1992 close to CFAF 240 million of net profit. It would be the
first profitable year for SNBG since 1975--when the parapublic enterprise
was initially established.
2.48      As the restructuring program proved effective, the Government
has decided against a complete privatization of SNBG. Although it welcomes
majority ownership of SNBG by the private sector, the Government's position
is that under the prevailing conditions where it has weak institutional
capacity at the field level to control commercial logging practices, SNBG
is the only vehicle through which it has an effective way of monitoring
(droit de regard) commercial logging activities. Furthermore, a
restructured and efficient SNBG should enable the forestry sector to
properly fulfill its social, economic and environmental obligations. The
foresters, the Government, and the rural communities are all expected to
benefit from the restructured SNBG.
2.49      Forestry and Environment Trainino.  Forestry and Environment
training in Gabon has had a negligible impact on the sector's development.
It comes under the aegis of MEF but its main implementing institution is
the National School for Waters and Forestry (ENEF), located 30 miles from
Libreville. For the past several years, forestry and environment training



- 12 -
in Gabon has been plagued by a number of problems due to (a) the lack of a
clearly defined training strategy; (b) a training curriculum that has so
far been tailored to only fill the needs of the administration; and (c)
little relevance to activities in the forestry sector and to conservation
practices.
2.50      Forestry and Environment Research.  Due to funding limitations,
the current forestry and environment research program has been limited to a
few experiments dealing mainly with sylviculture on natural Okoume stands
and plantations, genetic improvement of trees, tree pathology, and wood
technology. It is carried out mainly by the Institute for Agronomy and
Forestry Research (IRAF). This institute was created in 1976 to follow-up
on research programs undertaken in the past by the French Office for
Scientific and Technical Research (ORSTOM) and the Technical Center for
Tropical Forestry (CTFT). Unlike most institutions involved in the
forestry sector, IRAF comes under the aegis of the Ministry of Higher and
Scientific Education (MESRS). To a lesser extent, the National Arboretum
(l'Herbier National) and the Research Institute for Tropical Ecology (IRET)
are also involved in forestry and environment research.
6.   Forest Exploitation
2.51      Virtuall:   1 forest lands in Gabon are owned by the Government,
which in turn regul. s forest exploitation by granting a fixed number of
permits to forestry .mpanies for logging operations.  Although logging
permits have been granted for 8.6 million ha, logging operations are being
undertaken only on about 4 million ha. Logging concessions are granted for
two zones:
-    The First Zone consists of 5 million ha extending from the
coastal plain to 150 km inland. The relatively flat terrain
coupled with the proximity to ports and an extensive river
network, have resulted in lower transportation and production
costs compared with other parts of the country. As a result,
timber production was limited to the coastal region until 1962,
when extensive exploitation led the Government to curtail
logging in this zone and enact legislation which forced large
logging companies to relocate to the Second Zone situated more
towards the interior. The First Zone was reserved for
exploitation by national logging companies as the Government
wanted to encourage the participation of the Gabonese population
in forestry. This practice so far has not yielded the
anticipated results as only very few Gabonese have actually
undertaken logging activities. Most have been subleasing their
concessions to foreign concessionaires.
-    The Second Zone encompasses 16.5 aillion ha, much of which has
been made accessible as a result of the Trans-Gabonese railroad.
Concessions have been granted on 6 million ha, with 1 million
allotted to Gabonese companies. The Government has placed a
ceiling of 200,000 ha of concession per company.
2.52      Even though there are rules governing logging activities and
exploitation rights, the Gabonese authorities, namely the Ministry of
Waters and Forestry (MEF) staff, have inadequate resources and capacity to
assure compliance with regulations. The short duration of logging permits,
which encourages overexploitation over the short-term rather than
conservation for future gains, has also been detrimental. The combination
of these inadequacies has been the primary cause for the depletion of the
First Zone, but more importantly has had a negative impact on the
environment and the forestry sector as a whole.



- 13 -
7.   The Timber Industry
2.53      In Gabon, timber processing for exports is dominated by a few
large companies. The Compagnie Forestiere du Gabon (CFG), a parastatal, is
the largest wood processing company in the country and the largest plywood
producer on the African continent, with 80,000 m3 of finished product per
annum. The company's logging operations average 240,000 m3 per annum, of
which 88 percent is of Okoum6. Two major expatriate companies (SHM-Leroy
and ROG-Rougier, France) are involved in the production of peeled veneers
and plywood. The local demand for processed wood is easily met by 28
sawmills scattered throughout the country, averaging an output of 100,000
m3 of sawiawood per annum. SOMIVAB, which is owned by the railroad company
(OCTRA-Transgabonais), produces Azobe railway ties for loc 1 use. The
sawmills are usually small and are the major users of "Bois Divers".
2.54      The wood industry has experienced some difficulties because of
the following structural and logistical constraints: (a) the overstaffing
of processing plants; (b) the increasing distance from logging sites to
mills as depletion of adjacent forest becomes more pronounced; (c) the
ageing of equipment; and (d) the overall downturn of the economy in major
urban centers (Libreville, Port-Gentil). As part of its new strategy for
the sector, the Government has agreed to a restructuring plan and is
currently assessing several proposals for the privatization of the largest
wood processing company (CFG).
8.   The Fiscal System
2.55      The current fiscal system in the wood sector is tripled-tiered:
(a) area based taxes; (b) stumpage fees; and (c) export taxes (Droits et
Taxes de Sortie--DTS) on export logs. Area taxes are applied for all size
concessions and vary between 4 CFAF and 20 CFAF per ha. For larger
industrial concessions, area taxes are negotiated on a case by case basis,
depending on the level of investment. A one time fee of 2 CFAF per ha is
paid at the time of attribution. Stumpage fees are set according to grade
and species and vary from zero to 3,500 CFAF per i3. Lower grades of
timber (Choix Economique, Choix Special) are not taxed. This stumpage tax
is levied at export along with the DTS. Export taxes, including the
stumpage tax, include three fees (six proportional taxes, three fixed
taxes, and a custom stamp). Based on FOB prices set by the timber
marketing parastatal SNBG, and a mix of species and grades, the average
taxation amounts to 2,850 CFAF per i3.
2.56      Efforts have been made to promote local processing through a
very low taxation rate and procedures on concession attribution that
stipulate a certain transformation rate according to the size of the
concession and the level of investment.
2.57      Efficiency of the System.  The current system has proved ill-
suited to achieve the Government's fiscal and development objectives in the
forestry sector for the following reasons:
(a)  the lack of quality and specification control on a given
quantity of logs that some companies are obligated to transform
has led to inefficient sawing techniques and conditioning of the
finished product which, in turn, contribute to the low
competitiveness of Gabon's wood products on the export market;
(b)  the concession attribution system has not been properly applied
and has led to an overexploitation of the readily accessible
First Zone. Furthermore, it does not provide an adequate
incentive system to develop less accessible forest areas,
notably in the eastern part of the country but rather encourages
overexploitation in easy to reach areas;



- 14 -
(c) the very low taxation rate on "Bois Divers" compared to the
comparatively high taxation rate on Okoum6 and Ozigo, introduces
a distortion in the recovery rate of the taxation system. Some
highly valued timber species with FOB prices two or thrse times
higher than Okoum6, are taxed at comparatively low levels; and
(d)  th,e fiscal system is very complex; it includes a multitude of
taxes with rates as low as 0.2 percent of FOB value. This
complexity results in heavy and unwarranted administrative work,
when many of the taxes could be lumped into a single fee.
2.58      The current fiscal system therefore is not optimal.
Furthermore, it is not known whether the combined weight of the various
forest fees and taxes is too heavy, causing undue strain on the logging
firms, or too light, contributing to wasteful logging practices and causing
the Government to lose potential revenue. It is of paramount importance
that fiscal reforms be undertaken. Consequently, the Government and the
Bank agreed on the need for a study of the fiscal system. Recommendations
from the study would pave the way for a reform of the forest fiscal system.
The reform would address: (a) the overall competitiveness of the rector;
(b) the financial viability of timber companies; and (c) the rent capture
for the sector. These reforms should be made an integral part of the
Government's new strategy for the sector and should address conservation
objectives. Terms of reference of the study (Annex 3) have bee.4 approved
by the Government. It was also agreed that the study would be financed
with PPF funds. Upon completion by March 31, 1993, the study will be
communicated to the Bank for ccmments and subsequently, legislative and
regulatory measures which reflect the recommendations of the study as
determined in agreement between the Bank and the Government will be put
into effect. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations
(para 8.01 (a)).
D.   Sector Strateciv
2.59      The Government's long-term objectives for the forestry and
environment sector, stated first in its 1976-1980 Development Plan and
reiterated periodically, consists mainly of: (a) preserving the ecological
balance and maintaining the long-term productive potential of the Gabonese
forest; and (b) increasing the contribution of the forestry sector to the
national economy through the rational management and conservation of
existing forest resources. To date, however, the Government has not
developed a clear strategy to achieve its declared objectives.
Nevertheless, to its credit, it has initiated policies and taken steps to
address some of the prevailing problems in the sector. It has recently
established a task force on forestry to review the incentive structure for
logging operations and oversee the preparation of a Sector Development
Policy (LPGFE - Annex 4) which would set the stage for the establishment
of:
(a) a land use plan to delimitate boundaries between nature
reserves, protected watersheds, commercial logging sites,
and agricultural land;
(b) a forest management action plan to: (i) define the role of
private concessionaires; (ii) develop new procedures and
guidelines to grant concessions and exploitation permits;
(iii) promote forest protection and enforcement policies;
and (iv) promote incentives which encourage the efficient
utilization of forest resources consistent with
conservation objectives;



- 15 -
(c)  a wildlife conservation strategy in order to preserve its
long-term potential; and
(d) an awareness campaign to improve people's understanding of
the need to safeguard the country's natural resource base.
The LPGFE was finalized during negotiations (para 2.68) and a signed copy
was presented to the Bank on June 1, 1992.
2.60      Most of the policies envisaged by the Government have been
confronted with severe implementation problems, mostly due to the weak
planning and operational capacity of institutions in the sector, namely MEF
and METPN, and therefore have not yet had a significant impact on the
sector.
2.61      At the same time, the Government is committed to policy reforms
in the forestry sector introduced under the Bank-supported SAL, notably the
restructuring of SNBG. The prescribed measures are expected to go some way
toward removing the distortions generated by SNBG and improving the
competitiveness of the country's forest resources. In addition, the
Government has agreed to a major restructuring of MEF with a view to
establishing an organizational structure conducJve to increased efficiency
and cost-effectiveness in the management and conservation of the country's
forest and wildlife resources. The restructuring and strengthening of MEF
and the restructuring of SNBG are key elements in the fulfillment of the
proposed strategy and would, therefore, be supported by the proposed
project.
E.   Donor Activities in the Forestry and Environment Sector
2.62      Because of its high per capita income, Gabon has received modest
donor assistance. The small emphasis placed on the environment in Gabon is
reflected in the lack of investment in environmental projects. A study
done by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and
financed by EEC outlines potential areas of action (creation and
maintenance of reserves) that could be susceptible to funding. The
proposed Bank project would draw on the IUCN recommendations and serve as a
catalyst for donor involvement in environmental projects. Still, to date
the forestry and the environment sector has received assistance from:
(a)       The European Community (EEC) which supports a reforestation
project in the Moyen Ogoouo region and conducts experiments
on the im;rovement of agro-forestry techniques. EEC is
also supporting a regional project for the rational
utilization and tl'e conservation of forests in central
Africa.
(b)       The French Ministry of Cooperation and Development which is
financing a forest management project in the Estuaire
region consisting in reforestation activities, the study of
prospects for controlled natural regeneration, and
sylvicultural operations. The French cooperation will also
undertake a major assessment of the forestry sector as part
of the Tropical Forestry Action Plan (TFAP).
(c)       The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) which
is funding a few but potentially important studies on
forest inventories and wood technologies.
(d)       The World Wildlife Fand US (WWF US) has recently approved
funding for a five-year program aimed at (i) improving the



- 16 -
management of existing reserves and establishing a new
protected area in the North-East; and (ii) providing
institutional support for the Wildlife Department (DFC).
Activities envisaged under the WWF US program would be made
an integral part of the proposiad Bank project.
2.63      At the donors meetirg held in Libreville on July 8, 1991, it was
agreed by all the donors (IBRD, FAC, UNDP, WWF US, EEC, Germany) that the
Bank-prepared project would serve as the basis for channeling all
investments in the sector. It was noted that this agreement was already
being put in practice as the EEC, WWF US and the German Cooperation were
financing activities and/or actions identified in the Bank-prepared
project. Furthermore, at that meeting UNDP agreed, in principle, to
finance the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) envisaged in the Bank
project. The NEAP would address all Gn-vironmental issues and would result
in a comprehensive "Schema Directeur" for implementing the Government's
rid- to long-term environmental strategy (ecosystems, urban and rural
environments, local participation efforts, pollution, wastes, etc.).
F.   Bank Involvement in Gabon
2.64      After a ten-year absence, the Bank resumed lending to Gabon with
a SAL in 1988. The Government accepted the challenge of undertaking
significant reforms to: (a) reinforce public sector resource management;
(b) rationalize the performance of public enterprises; (c) introduce
incentive policies to promote private sector activity, especially among
small and medium enterprises; and (d) reformulate sectoral policies to
encourage growth in the non-oil sectors on an environmentally sound basis.
Measures envisaged under the program progressed satisfactorily, and release
of the second tranche was approved in December 1989.
2.65      As part of the overall strategy for Gabon, the Bank is
supporting a road maintenance project designed to strengthen the
institutional and operational performance of the road sector, and introduce
new policies and measures to improve the efficiency of the use of road
maintenance resources. The Bank is also supporting a technical assistance
(TA) project aimed at strengthening key ministries' in critical areas during
the adjustment period. The objective of the TA project is the effective
training of local counterpart staff in economic management and public
investment programming. Suitable Gabonese have been identified and
recruited to be trained by the team of expatriate technical assistants in
the Ministry of Planning and the Iiistitut d'Economie et des Finances with a
view to. (a) transfer more responsibility for the management of the
economy to nationals over the medium- to long-term; and (b) reduce the cost
of resident technical assistance. The project also provides support for
the promotion of small and medium scale enterprises.
2.66      IFC has helped the private sector in Gabon implement projects in
three key sectors of the economy. The objectives of these projects were to
rationalize and diversify forestry production, reduce transportation and
production costs for the manganese sector, and increase production in the
oil sector. IFC's net commitments to Gabon, as of February 1992, stood at
US$136.9 million, making the private sector in Gabon one of the
corporation's largest client in sub-saharan Africa.
2.67      In October 1991, the IMF approved a stand-by credit of SDR 28
million (about US$38 million) in support of Gabon's economic and financial
reform ,rogram for 1991-92. The program aims at (a) generating growth in
the non-oil sector; (b) reducing balance of payments deficit; (c)
encouraging fiscal reform; and (d) reducing budgetary dependence on oil
revenues.



- 17 -
G.   Lessons Learned
2.68      Because the proposed project would be the first to be financed
by the Bank in the Gabonese rural sector, preparation efforts capitalized
on experien-e gained in other countries (Cote d'Ivoire, Central African
Republic, Congo) during the preparation and implementation of similar
operations. In particular, the need to fully involve in the project
design, the participation of not only Government institutions but NGOs and
local communities alike was stressed during the preparation process. In
this regard, an Environmental Impact Assessment of the project was
initiated before appraisal so as to: (a) record experiences of past
development efforts in the sector; (b) provide a platform to get input from
the population concerned by the project; and (c) fully internalize the
project at all levels of society. Subsequently, project design was fine
iuned to include a mitigation plan for actions that could pose potential
risks to the environment. Other lessons incorporated in project design
include significant measures in the area of fiscal reform, institutional
strengthening, and forestry and environmental legislation. The
underpinnings of the above measures are highlighted in the Statement of
Sector Development Policy (Lettre de Politique G6n6rale pour le Secteur
ForAts et Environnement) discussed and finalized during negotiations (para
2.59).
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Proiect Rationale. Obiectives and Description
Rationale
3.01      Forestry has traditionally played a very important role in the
Gabonese economy, particularly before the oil boom, by providing foreign
exchange and revenues to the Government. In 1986, forestry represented 13
percent of export value, second only to oil. However, in recent years,
growth in the forestry sector has been hampered by the lack of a clear
forest resource management strategy which resulted in: (a) the
overexploitation of the First Zone (the closest to the port); and (b)
inefficiencies in forestry institutions and the parastatal in charge of
marketing Okoum6 (the country's main timber resource).
3.02      The decline in oil revenues over the years, coupled with the
depletion of the coastal zone has led the Government to place a central
emphasis on the forestry and environment sector and think of ways by which
the sector can be revitalized while at the same time ensuring that
conservation guals are not neglected. The proposed project would support
the policy and structural measures undertaken by the Government to improve
the competitiveness of the sector while safeguarding forest resources.
3.03      Gabon has a substantial reservoir of plant and animal wildlife
and a number of ecosystems. So far, pressure on the ecosystems by either
agriculture or population has been minimal. However, the potential for
environmental degradation in certain areas is strong. To preserve its rich
and diverse natural resource base, the Government, in 1985, has set up a
Ministry in charge of the environment and has, in theory, drawn up a sound
legal framework for its protection. However, most of this legislation has
not been enforced.
Objectives
3.04      The project would: (a) contribute to a better use of forestry
resources by impleibenting, on a pilot basis, a management plan in the
depleted First Zone; (b) to this end, reinforce the strategic planning and



- 18 -
operational capacity of government institutions in the sector through the
restructuring and strengthening of MEF and METPN; (c) resume forestry and
environment research activities; (d) make forestry and environment training
more practical and tailored to the needs of the private sector and to
conservation needs; (e! prevent environmental degradation; and (f) support
the Government in the creation and maintenance of wildlife reserves.
3.05      Environmental ImDact Assessment (EA).  Although the project was
initially clar'ified under the environmental category D, indicating a
project with positive impact on the environment, the Bank and the Gabonese
Government decided to undertake an Environmental Impact Assessment of the
project. In FY92, the category D classification was abolished. The
project was subsequently reclassified as a category A project. The EA was
initiated to ensure the soundness of the project and confirm that
activities proposed under the project will not impact negatively on the
environment and on local communities in the project area. The EA was
initiated in June 1991 by a working group (Noyau Permanent de Travail)
comprised of staff from key ministries (MEF, METPN, MPE), and two local
consultants (one Environmentalist, and one Sociologist) working closely
with an internationally recruited environmentalist. Local NGOs (Club des
Ecologistes et Naturalistes Africains-CENA, Front des Ecologistes Gabonais-
FEG, Inter Assistance pour le Developpement Rural-IADR) and community
groups were involved from the beginning. The local media (press, radio),
seminars and large expanded meetings where members of the public where
invited (r6unions 6largies) provided a platform through which all
interested parties could comment on the project viability/necessity and
probable impacts as designed prior to appraisal.
3.06      The EA revealed that the project could have two significant
impacts: (a) a possible increase in wildlife poaching (already a serious
problem in Gabon) in the project area; and (b) localized pressure on land
in areas with relatively high population density, notably around plantation
sites envisaged in the project. A mitigation plan was developed for each
of these potential impacts and its measures and costs were incorporated
into the project design. A detailed description of the EA process is
available in the Environmental Impact Assessment Report. A summary of the
EA report was distributed to Executive Directors on April 17, 1992. This
summary is also available in Annex 5.
Proiect Description
3.07      The project would consist of the following components:
(a) Institutional Strenothenina. Assistance would be
provided in restructuring MEF to streamline and better
define the functions of its directorates; and in
supplying other resources (field housing, offices,
vehicles, etc.) to increase MEF and METPN operational,
planning, and monitoring capabilities, and more
importantly increase their presence in the field so as
to enable them to better supervise logging operations.
In addition, the Directorate of Game and Wildlife at
MEF would be provided with the resources needed to:
(i) improve its operational capacity; (ii) enforce
legal issues related to the environment; (iii)
increase its presence in the field; and (iv) prevent
poaching and other actions which could have a negative
impact on the environment.
(b) Forestry and Environment Trainina. Activities under
this component would consist of (i) promoting a
forestry and environment training program tailored to
the needs of the private sector; (ii) providing



- 19 -
professional training and retraining for forestry
graduates; and (iii) implementing a management and
conservation plan for thb Mondah Forest.
(c)  Forestry and Environment Research.   Activities
envisaged under this component would center on: (i)
genetic improvement of Okoum6 trees; (ii)
sylvicultural operations on natural forest and
plantations with the view of bringing about durable
and rational management of forest resources; and (iii)
stabilization of agricultural production systems
around plantation sites through agroforestry technics-
-this need was highlighted during the EA process.
Some equipment and refrigeration facilities would be
provided to the National Arboretum to ensure the
conservation of its collection of plant species.
(d) Forest Inventory and Rehabilitation. Project support
would involve the preparation and implementation of a
management plan subsequent to the rehabilitation and
protection of 40,000 ha of natural Okoum6 stands
identified from an inventory of 275,000 ha in the
coastal zone; and rehabilitation of 5,000 to 6,000 ha
of artificial Okoume stands.
(e) Creation and Maintenance of Reserves. This component
concerns the protection of the Moukabala and Sett6-
Cama reserves and provision of infrastructure for the
creation of additional reserves. In concert with the
World Wildlife Fund (WWF), the reserves would be
strengthened and, in time, be opened for eco-tourism
purposes.
B.   Detailed Features
3.08      The project would be carried out over five years (1993-1997).
It would be the first phase of a long-term program. The components are
described below and more details are given in the project preparation
report and associated working papers.
(a)  Institutional Strenatheni q
3.09      The General Directorate of Waters and Forestry (DGEF) would be
restructured in order to reduce the overlapping of institutional functions,
and to increase its operational and planning capacity and its presence in
the field. The restructuring plan would mainly consist of regrouping all
central directorates (9) into three directorates, namely the Directorate of
Forestry, the Directorate of Fisheries, and the Directorate of Wildlife.
Coupled with the merging would be the progressive transfer of staff from
headquarters to regional inspection which, under the new plan, would be
given the status of central directorates. The submission to the Bank of an
acceptable staffing plan including a timetable for the implementation of
field staff transfer would be a condition of Loan effectiveness (para 8.02
(c)).
3.10      The project would finance the construction and/or rehabilitation
of offices at NEF's headquarters and in the field. It would also finance
the construction and/or rehabilitation of housing in selected regional
services (Estuaire, ogooue Ivindo, Ogoou6 Lolo, and Moyen Ogoou6). A total
of 1730 e2 would be constructed and 830 e2 rehabilitated.



- 20 -
3.11      To increase staff mobility, the project would fund the purchase
of vehicles for the central and regional offices. Furthermore, the project
would induce competent staff to move from central to regional offices, by
installing in regional offices a favorable working environment. Provisions
would be made for operating costs of vehicles and maintenance costs of
buildings and equipment. However, the Government would be expected to
gradually cover these costs, so as to indicate its commitment to sustained
involvement in the development of the forestry and environment sector.
Government would also cover all salary costs.
3.12      Also, the project would support institutions directly
responsible for environmental issues, namely DFC and METPN. Training would
be provided to staff at DFC and METPN, and to forest rangers. The
statistics and documentation service within DFC would be strengthened, and
a monitoring unit comprised of staff from both DFC and METPN would be set
up to oversee day to day execution of project activities. Provisions would
be made to support local environmental assessment efforts and to raise
awareness of local communities on environmental issues. In this rsgard,
the project will provide support to local environmental NGOs (Club des
Ecologistes et Naturalistes Africains-CENA; Front des Ecologistes Gabonais-
FEG; Inter-Assistance pour le D6veloppement Rural-IADR) through the
financing of seminars, workshops, and environmental publications. The
strengthening of these institutions, working together, would improve their
capacity to translate environmental policies into a concrete plan of action
and better coordination with other government institutions and the donor
ccmmunity.
3.13      To complement the institutional strengthening process, several
studies would be undertaken, notably, the project would provide funding for
two feasibi:ity studies; one for the protection of 15 recommended zones
(Working paper No 2, Table 3) and the other for a joint training program
between the School of Wildlife Studies in Garoua (Cameroon) and the
Tropical Ecology Research Institute of Makokou (IRET-Gabon). In addition,
a study on the state of the environment in Gabon would be financed and its
findings would be updated every 5 years. Finally, studies would be also
carried out on: (i) the needs and habits of the forest dwellers; and (ii)
the potential for tourism in identified areas.
3.14      Under this component, the project would finance for five years
the position of an internationally-recruited Forest Management Specialist
(Terms of Reference in Annex 6). In addition to the above resident
position, the project would fund five person-months of short-term
consultancies.
(b) Forestry and Environment Trainina
3.15      The forestry training component would provide support to the
National School of Waters and Forestry (ENEF). The objective of this
component is to improve the quality of training at ENEF so as to increase
the relevance of its programs to employment and productivity in the private
sector, and assist in the process of defining and implementing a forest
conservation strategy. This component would consist of establishing a new
training program that will be supplemented by the formulation and
implementation, by students, of a management plan for the Mondah forest.
3.16      The training program would have the following key features:
(i)       the restructuring and the revising of the training
curricula for the degrees of forestry engineer and forestry
technician;
(ii)      the design and implementation of refresher courses for NEF
staffs



- 21 -
(iii)     the design and implementation of training programs for mid-
level forestry staff and technical agents in the private
sector; and
(iv)      the definition and implementation of training curricula
with several major environmental protection themes
(erosion, soil fertility, water conservation, biodiversity,
interface between forest and environment, etc..)
3.17      The overall training curricula would be redesigned around
specific technical themes. Incoming students would be required to
participate in a short initiation internship in the field before actually
starting the first school year. This "stage d'immersion" is important
because it helps determine whether a prospective student is ready to meet
the challenge of the forest milieu. In addition, periodic practical
training in the field and/or in private forestry enterprises would be made
an integral part of the overall training program.
3.18      The Mondah Forest covers an area of 8,000 ha.  Following a
presidential decree dated June 24, 1969, the Mondah Forest was placed under
the supervision of ENEF to serve as a practical training around for
forestry students. ENEF was also given the responsibility of implementing
a management plan for the forest and undertake a series of research
activities in cooperation with IRAF. The proposed project activities would
consist of:
(i)       astablishing maps of cultivated areas in the Mondah Forest;
(ii)      carrying out an inventory of 8,000 ha; and
(iii)     having students participate in the drawing and
implementation of a management plan for the Mondah Forest.
3.19      Under this component, the project would finance vehicles,
office, field, and camping equipment, tools, training supplies, short-term
and long-term scholarships, and the construction and equipment of a small
pilot sawmill. Finally, the project would provide technical assistance for
overall support to the component. It would finance for three years the
position of an internationally recruited specialist (Terms of reference in
Annex 6). An additional nine person-months of specialized short-term
consultancies would also be provided by the project.
3.20      Project assistance for this component would be complemented by:
(i) German and EEC support for the renovation of school buildings and the
provision of additional infrastructure support (vehicles, equipment), and
some technical assistance; and (ii) French support in the form of trainers.
(c) Forestry and Environment Research
3.21      The project would provide some support to MEF with a view to
strengthen its capacity to implement a limited research program relevant to
Gabon's forestry and environment research needs.
3.22      Project activities under this component would center on: (i)
genetic improvement of Okoum6 trees; (ii) sylvicultural operations on
natural forest and plantations with the view of bringing about durable and
rational management of forest resources; and (iii) stabilization of
agricultural production systems around plantation sites through
agroforestry technics--this need was highlighted during the EA process.
3.23      Actual field operations, notably agro-forestry, and genetic
improvement activities would be carried out in the Mbine research Station.
Research work on sylvicultural operations would be carried out in the Ekouk



- 22 -
research station. A total of 24 ha of experimental plots would be
installed by the project. In addition, the project would assist MEF in the
rehabilitation, maintenance, and scientific monitoring of 1000 ha of
existing experimental plots.
3.24      To execute the component, MEF would employ specialized
consultants or establish contractual arrangements with one or several
research institutions such as the Institute for Agronomic and Forestry
Research (IRAF). Thirty seven person-months of technical assistance would
be provided by the project. Four national researchers (three Foresters and
one Agronomist) would be assigned to the project. A limited number of
vehicles, equipment, supplies, and research material would be provided by
the project.
3.25      The project would also provide funding for the design and
compilation of a forest dendrology manual to help forestry agents in the
identification and the grading of various timber species. The manual would
also be used for tourism and educational purposes. An additional six
person-months of technical assistance would be required for this purpose.
(d) Forest Inventory and Rehabilitation
3.26      The main objective of this component is to help the Gabonese
Government build-up a permanent forest domain that is rationally managed.
This entails: (i) undertaking inventory and other diagnostic activities
with a view to "knowing" the forest and what it contains; (ii) planning of
forest development and conservation activities (plantations, sylvicultural
operations, natural regeneration, etc.); and (iii) controlling and
optimizing logging activities in order to avoid waste, prevent localized
depletion and limit exploitation of suitable areas in a manner compatible
with their natural regeneration capacity. Through a pilot operation
(40,000 ha out of 5 million ha), the project would train, equip, and assist
the forestry service in the initiation of a management plan which could, in
the future, be extended to the entire coastal zone.
3.27      Natural Okoum6 Stands.  The lack of management plans and
extensive logging in the First Zone (5 million ha) have led to the partial
depletion of the natural forest in that region. Operations under the
proposed project would be undertaken and supported by government measures
stopping the granting of concessions and logging permits in Zone I. There
will be no logging in the Droiect area.   Preliminary findings indicate
that a total of about 275,000 ha around the city of Foulenzem would be
suitable for the initiation of such operations.   In addition to these
operations, a faunal and floral inventory would be undertaken in the
275,000 ha area. This area has been chosen for the following reasons: (a)
its proximity to Libreville, allowing easy monitoring and dep'oyment of
staff and other personnel; (b) relatively dense population of Okoume
stands; (c) absence of concessions and logging activities; (d) weak
population density in the proposed area; and (e) existence of a road
network. Activities in the project area would serve as a basis for drawing
up a rational management plan for future exploitation and establish a cost-
effective program for the rehabilitation of the entire coastal zone. The
signing of a Ministerial Arret6 setting aside areas to be rehabilitated
under the project would be made a condition of Loan effectiveness (para
8.02 (d)).
3.28      The project would cover, over a five-year period, a total of
about 40,000 ha identified from the 275,000 ha and would be implemented as
follows:
(i) Identification of pilot area through a review of available
material at a scale of 1/50,000. This material consists in two
sets of aerial photographs (1955 and 1982); a complete mapping



- 23 -
of the 275,000 ha; and a ground inventory of the 275,000 ha at
0.75 percent sample density.
(ii) Ground inventory of 40,000 ha at 6 percent sample density
which would be carried out by an inventory brigade comprised of
one engineer, 5 technicians, and 5 field teams (for opening up
lines and for counting trees). Technical assistance would be
provided for inventory design and monitoring.
(iii) Demarcation of the 40,000 ha required would be done under the
supervision of two forestry assistants and would require two
teams of nine people for the opening up and the maintenance of
artificial limits.
(iv) Sylvicultural operations on 40,000 ha would be carried out by a
team of two forestry assistants, six brigadiers, and 30 workers
(three man-days per hectare).
(v) Construction of four houses and one office at Foulenzem for
local technicians and brigadiers, and the purchase of vehicles
required for the transport of the labor force.
3.29      Artificial Okoum6 Stands.  Since the early 1960s, the Government
has undertaken with financing from the donor community a program of
artificial plantations. Under the program, a total of about 30,000 ha have
been planted mainly in the Bokou6 and Mvoum regions (Coastal Zone/Zone I).
The lack of sylvicultural operations and proper management has hampered
growth, and has kept plantations from reaching their full development
potential.
3.30      The project would undertake sylvicultural operations on 5,400 ha
of salvageable Okoum6 plantations out of the total of 30,000 ha planted
between 1960 and 1989. Weeding and maintenance operations would take place
on 2,000 ha of young plantations, and thinning operations would take place
on 3,400 ha of adult plantations. These operations would be initiated to
gradually save plantations with development potential. The main area of
emphasis would be in the Bokoue, Mvoum, Mbin6, and Haut-Como regions.
3.31      Project activities under this component would be as follow:
(i)       Aerial photography (scale 1/10,000) and photo-
interpretation would be done on approximately 3,500 ha in
order to cover the total planted area. The identified
treatable areas would then be subject to a full ground
inventory.
(ii)      Weeding and cleaning operations would require nine man-days
per ha and would be implemented by a team of three people.
(iii)     Marking and thinning would be implemented under the
authority of a forestry officer assisted by two technicians
and six laborers at a pace of five ha per day for marking
and 1/3 ha per day for thinning.
(iv)      Rehabilitation of existing access roads as well as means of
transportation to increase personnel mobility and work
efficiency.
(e) Creation and Maintenance of Reserves
3.32      To support the creation and maintenance of reserves the project,
in concert with WWF US efforts, would identify and protect 800,000 ha of



- 24 -
forest land. These reserves (Moukalaba, Sette Cama) would be strengthened
and, in time, opened for eco-tourism purposes. In this regard, the project
would finance perimeter tracks, markers, the construction and/or
rehabilitation of buildings (housing and offices), vehicles, equipment, and
some incremental operating costs. The project would also finance mapping
studies and surveys. This component would be carried out through DFC with
the cooperation of the World Wildlife Fund.
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. PROCUREMENT,
DISBURSEMENT. ACCOUNTS. AUDITS. AND REPORTING
A.   Proiect Costs
4.01      The total cost of the proposed project over the 1993-97 period,
including all incremental capital and recurrent expenditures, is estimated
at CFAF 10.6 billion ($38.2 million), of which CFAF 6.1 billion ($22.2
million) or 58.1 percent of total cost in foreign exchange and about CFAF
479 million ($2.1 million) or 5 percent in taxes and duties.
4.02      Base costs have been estimated at December 1991 prices using the
rate of exchange of CPAF 23 prevailing at that date. Physical
contingencies have been allowed on investment and operating cost items,
except for technical assistance and staff salaries. Tlhe average physical
contingency amounts to 6.2 percent of base costs, with individual rates
ranging from 5 percent to 10 percent. Price contingencies have been
applied to base costs over an estimated implementation period of five years
(1993-1997). Price contingencies on foreign exchange costs based on Bank's
projections of international price increases have been included at an
average of 3.7 percent from 1993 to 1997. Price contingencies on local
costs are based on annual price increases of 4.0 percent for 1993, 1994,
and 1995, and 5 percent thereafter to reflect current inflation trends in
Gabon. Total price contingencies amount to 21.3 percent of base costs.
4.03      Projet costs are summarized below and detailed estimations for
each component are given in Annex 8 and Working Paper No. 3.



- 25 -
Prolect Cost Summarv
Local    Foreign    Total      Local   Foreign   Total    XForeign  X Total
------(CFAF million) ------    ....(USS million) ----    Exchange   B. Costs
A.  Institutional Strengthen.
1. Management Support         188.7    427.7       616.2      0.7      1.5      2.2       69.4       7.4
2. DGEF                      1091.0    1613.9     2704.9      3.9      5.8      9.7       59.7      32.5
3. DFC                        476.7     563.0     1039.6      1.7      2.0      3.7       54.2       12.5
4. DGEN                       169.3    243.7       413.0      0.6      _Q. .9L   1.5 L j0 59.0        5.0
Sub-Total                    1925.6   2848.3    47M7.9        6.9     10.2    17.2        59.7      57.4
B. For/Env. Training (ENEF)       181.7    447.2       628.9      0.7      1.6      2.3       71.1        7.6
C.  For/Env. Research             255.9     332.1      588.0      0.9      1.2      2.1       56.5        7.1
0.  Forest Rehabilitation
1. Natural Okoum6 Stands      661.8     340.9     1002.7      2.4      1.2      3.6       34.0      12.0
2. Plantations                569.3      54.4      623.7      2.0    _.2        2.2       _8.7       7.5
Sub-Total                    1231.1    395.3      1626.4      4.4      1.4      5.9       24.3       19.5
E. Reserves
1. Moukalaba                   89.0    320.8        409.8    0.3       1.2      1.5       78.3       4.9
2. Sette Came                 161.0    140.3        301.3    0.6       0.5      1.1       46.6        3.6
Sub-Total                     250.0    461.1        711.1     0.9      1.7      2.6       64.8       8.5
Total Baseline Costs             3844.2   4484.1       8328.3   13.8    16.1    30.0          53.8    100.0
Physical Contingencies        201.8    311.1        512.9     0.7      1.1      1.8       60.7        6.2
Price Contingencies           403.1   1367.5       1770.6     1.5      4.9      6.4       77.2       21.3
Total Projects Costs             4449.2   5162.7    10611.9   16.0    22.2    38.2            58.1      127.5
S.    Proiect Financina
4.04          Project  financing  is presented  in the following table.
Financfna Plan by Catecorv of Goods and Servfces
(USS million)
Local
IBRD    EEC      Govt    HWF    Other        Total    For.   (Exclu.   Duties
Amount      Amount  Amount  hm   Amu Amount           Exch.   Taxes)    and Tax
Civil Works            2.1      0.9      0.0      0.0      0.2      3.2      1.6      1.5        0.0
Materials & Equip.    2.1       1.5      0.0      0.5      0.3      4.4      3.1      1.3        0.0
Vehicles               4.2      0.6      1.7      0.0      0.5      7.0      5.1     0.2         1.7
TA/Service Contracts
- Manag. Asst.         4.9      0.0      0.0      0.6      1.5      7.0      6.7     0.3        0.0
- Forest Inventory     5.0      0.7      0.0      0.0      0.0      5.7      1.4    4.4         0.0
- Studies              0.3      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.3      0.3    0.1         0.0
- FelloNships/Train.   2.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1      2.1      1.4     0.7        0.0
Operating Costs        1.6      0.6      4.4      0.6      0.9      8.2      2.4     5.7         0.0
PPF                    0.3      0.0      0.0    0.0        0.0      0.3L    0.2      0.1         0.0-
financing Req.        22.5      4.3      6.2      1.7      3.4     38.2    22.2    14.3          1.7
Share of Fin. CU)
Uith Taxes        59.0     11.0    16.0       4.0      8.0   100U
Without Taxes     62.0    12.0    17.0        5.0      9.0   100X



- 26 -
4.05      A number of donors including FAC, Japan, AfDB, the Federal
Republic of Germany, and BADEA, have expressed interest in financing
specific activities under the proposed project. These sources are being
explored, and the financing plan will be confirmed prior to implementation.
4.06      The proposed loan of $22.5 million equivalent would finance
about 62 percent of project costs (net of taxes). The Government's
financial contribution to the project would include 100 percent taxes and
duties and recurrent expenditures on an increasing basis starting at 30
percent in PY1 and reaching 90 percent in the last year of the project.
The Government would channel its contribution through a project account.
The opening of this account and evidence of initial deposit of CFAF 150
million would be a condition of Loan effectiveness (para 8.02 (e)).
C.   Procurement
4.07      The proposed procurement arrangements are detailed on page 27.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it
will respect these arrangements and apply procurement procedures in
accordance with Bank guidelines and that progress reports would include
monitoring of the various aggregate amounts and ceiling (para. 4.13). The
Ministry of Waters and Forestry would be the executing agency responsible
for carrying out project activities, including all procurement.
4.08      Civil works for the construction of buildings (housing, offices)
at the central and regional levels are too small and too scattered to
attract international competitive bidding. Contractr for these works, each
not exceeding US$ 200,000 equivalent, would therefore be awarded through
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures. These procedure have been
reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank. There are enough contractors in
the country to provide for adequate competition. Foreign contractors
would, however, be eligible to bid. Total Bank financing under LCB for the
civil works contracts is estimated at the equivalent of US$ 2.1 million.
4.09      Contracts for vehicles and eauiDment would be grouped into lots
to the extent possible and those in excess of US$ 200,000 would be awarded
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB). LCB, using
r,rocedures acceptable to the Bank, would be used for procurement involving
contracts of less than USs 200,000 but greater than US$ 50,000, up to a
total of US$ 0.2 million over the life of the project. Contracts for small
items of equipment under USS 50,000 each, up to a total of US$ 200,000,
that cannot be grouped under the above procedures may be procured by local
shopping (minimum three quotations).
4.10      Service contracts for the provision of Forest Inventory and
rehabilitation would be awarded through Limited International Bidding (LIB)
given their specific nature and the limited number of contractors. The
established list of contractors would be subject to prior review by the
Bank. Consultants and technical assistance personnel financed by the Bank
will be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines. Studies, training,
and audits are included in that category.
4.11      Incremental oDeratina costs, including staff travel allowances,
vehicle operation and maintenance, equipment and office costs, given their
nature, would not be subject to competitive bidding. However, strict
budgetary and expenditure control will be applied.
4.12      Local Competitive Bidding would include local advertising,
eligibility of foreign bidders, public opening of bids and award to the
lowest bidder. A minimum of four bids will be required. Procurement
procedures for Bank-financed works and goods contracts and bidding packages
estimated to cost over US$ 100,000 as well as technical assistance would be



- 27 -
subject to prior review by the Bank as would the award of the contract.
Works, goods, and services for contracts below US$ 100,000 and above USS
30,000 would be subject to post-review in accordance with paragraphs 3 and
4 of the guidelines. Random post review for goods, works, and services
contracts below USS 30,000 would be made by Bank staff on supervision
missions and during annual audits and based on certified statements of
expenditures (SOE).
4.13           Procurement information would be collected and included in the
semi-annual progress report to be prepared by the project management so as
to update cost estimates and timing of procurement actions. In particular,
various aggregate amounts and ceilings would be Lonitored. Prompt
reporting of contract award information would also be realized and a
completion report would be prepared within six months of the Loan's closing
date.
Summarv of Prozosed Procurement Arranoements
(USS million eauivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Element                      ICs         LCB       Other        N.B.F         Total
1. Works
1.1 Buildings                                 2.1         -           1.11/         3.2
(2.1)                                 (2.1)
2. Goods
2.1 Vehicles/Equipment            5.9         0.2        0.2          5.1hW        11.4
(5.9)      (0.2)       (0.2)                      (6.3)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Management Support             -           -         4.9          2.1q/         7.0
(4.9)SV                   (4.9)
3.2 Studies                        -                      0.3                       0.3
(0.3)                     (0.3)
3.3 Training                                              2.0         0.1s/         2.1
(2.0)                     (2.0)
4. Service Contracts
4.1 Forest Inventory               -           -         5.0          0.71/         5.7
-          -         (5.0)gf                     (5.0)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 Incremental Operating Costs  -             -         1.6          6.6b/         8.2
(1.6)                     (1.6)
5.2 Refinancing of PPF             -           -         0.3           -            0.3
(0.3)                     (0.3)
5.9        2.3        14.3         15.7          38.2
Total                        (5.9)      (2.3)      (14.3)                     (22.5)
Note: Figures In parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed
M/ To be financed by EEC and BADEA under their own procurement arrangements
h/ Includes Covernment, EEC, BADEA, and WWF under their own procurement arrangements
Li Includes Government, WUF, BADEA under their own procurement arrangements
Consultancies would be procured in accordance with World Bank guidelines
J To be financed by BADEA
f/ To be financed by EEC
gi To be procured through Limited International Bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines
h/ Includes Goverrment, EEC, WUF, and 8ADEA under their own procurement arrangements



- 28 -
D.   Disbursements
4.14      The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of six and a
half years, which corresponds to the standard regional disbursements
profile (Annex 9).
Allocation and Disbursement Cateaories
% of Expend.
Amount               To Be
Cateaorv                               Allocated            Financed al
(US$ million)
1.   Civil works                          2.0              80%
2.   Vehicles and Equipment               6.0             100% FE; 80% LE
3.   TA/Service Contracts
a) Managemant Assistance             4.0             100%
b) Forest Inventory                  4.5             100%
c) Studies                           0.3             100%
4.   Fellowship and Training              2.0             100%
5.   Operating Costs                      1.1             Declining basis k/
6.   PPF Refinancing                      0.3             Amount due
7.   Unallocated                          2.3
Total                               22.5
_/ of amount net of taxes.
b/ 70% until 12/31/94, 50% until 12/31/96 and 10% thereafter.
4.15      To facilitate project execution, a Special Account equivalent to
US$500,000 representing about 3 months of expenditures would be opened in a
commercial bank. The terms and conditione for operating this account were
agreed during negotiations. This account would be replenished by the Bank
against documented expenditures and upon receipt of withdrawal
applications. Disbursements would be fully documented except for
expenditures under contracts valued at less than USS 30,000 equivalent,
local training, and operating costs in which case statements of expenditure
(SOEs) would be used. The Bank would not honor direct payment requests
below US$ 30,000 equivalent. Documentation would be held for review by
Bank supervision missions and verification by external auditors.
B.   Financial Management. Accounts, Audits. and Regortina
4.16      The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the Minietry of Waters
and Forestry (para 5.02) would be responsible for overall financial control
of the project. It would also maintain accounts, prepare disbursement
applications, and manage project funding for all components.
4.17      Detailed budgets would be submitted to the Bank for approval
prior to the beginning of each implementation year. The project accounts
which would be prepared in simple cash basis, would classify expenditures
by component for budgetary and management control purposes. There would be
tight physical control of vehicles and equipment. Project accounts would
be audited according to international standards acceptable to the Bank.
The auditor would be required to express an opinion on the reliability of



- 29 -
SOE procedures, the legitimacy of expenditures made out of the special
account, the utilization of goods and services financed under the loan, and
the standards for record keeping and internal controls. The audited
accounts and reports would be submitted to the Bank no later than six
months after the endc of the financial year (December 31!) Assurances to
this effect have bes.: obtained during negotiations (para 8.01 (b)).
4.18      DGF, DFC and DGE would each be responsible for monitoring
project implementation, including physical and institutional objectives.
With assistance from the Project Coordination Unit, each directorate would
prepare semi-annual progress reports assessing progress (physical,
institutional, budgetary) against agreed annual programs of operations and
targets. To this effect, all technical directorates would communicate to
the Bank, through the Project Coordination Unit.
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Proiect Management and Implementation
5.01      The Gabonese Government through its Minietry of Waters and
Forestry would be responsible for ensuring that the project would be
carried out in accordance with provisions of the loan agreement. The
project would be implemented through existing institutions/departments, and
the responsibility for executing each component or sub-compouent would rest
with the particular institution concerned. The Directorate General of
Forestry (DGF) would be responsible for implementing the Forest Inventory
and Rehabilitation component and for carrying out the institutional
strengthening of its sub-directorates and regional services. The Forestry
and Environment training component would be implemented by the National
School of Waters and Forestry (ENEF), and the Forestry and Environment
research component by the Directorate General of Forestry. The creation
and maintenance of reserves would be undertaken by the Directorate of
Wildlife (DFC) and WWF US field personnel in concert with the Directorate
of Environment (DGE). Overall responsibility for the various studies and
the UNDP-funded NEAP would rest with DGE. A preliminary implementation
Schedule is presented in Annex 10.
5.02      Overall responsibility for project management and coordination
would rest with a Project Coordinator in the Project Coordination Unit to
be established. Assurances in this regard have been obtained during
negotiations (para 8.01 (c)). The establishment of the PCU and the posting
of the Project Coordinator would be a condition of Loan effectiveness (para
8.02 (f)). The Project Coordinator would be assisted by an internationally
recruited Forest Management Specialist, a forestry engineer, a financial
controller, an accountant, a secretary, and a driver. The Forest
Management Specialist would provide specific support to the institutional
strengthening component and would give priority to on-the-iob training of
national staff. In PY2, this specialist would be also in charge of
assisting in the preparation of the project's Mid-Term Review (para 5.06).
In addition to the above resident technical assistance staff, the project
would finance ten person-months of short-term consultancies to strengthen
the administrative and financial management capacity of project staff. In
particular, these consultancies would help (a) establieh, and subsequently
apply, appropriate financial and accounting procedures; and (b) train
national staff in the use of a computerized accounting and budgetary
system. Also, in view of the complexity of the project, five person-months
of short-term consultancies (one per annum) would be provided to enable
both NEF and METPN to capitalize on supervision tasks undertaken by the
Bank, and to gradually strengthen their own supervision capacity.



- 30 -
5.03      To ensure inter-ministerial coordination and periodically assess
progress, a Project Coordination Committee (CCP) would be set up and
chaired by the Minister of Waters and Forestry. It would include the
Project Coordinator, Directors of DGF, DFC, DGE, IRAF, ENEF, the Director
of Investment Programs at the Ministry of Planninsg, a representative of
SNBG, the President of the Foresters Syndicate and representatives of local
environmental NGOs (CENA, FEG, IADR). The committee would meet at least
twice a year to review project progress and address inter-ministerial and
other policy issues.
B.   Annual Work Proarame
5.04      Annual work Programs (AWP) would be prepared by the Project
Coordination Unit in conjunction with the concerned technical directorates.
The AWP would include: (a) progress to date; (b) the work program for all
project components for the coming year; (c) an estimation of staff and
equipment needed to achieve project objectives; and (d) the preparation of
appropriate budgets. The work programs will be fine-tuned during Bank
supervision missions (Annex 11). Assuranceq were obtained during
negotiations that draft Annual Work Programs would be submitted to the Bank
for comments before September 30 of each year (para 8.01 (d)). After
taking into account Bank comments and approval, the Government would submit
a revised Work Program to the Bank for final review and approval by
September 30 of each year.
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation
5.05      The Project Coordination Uait would have primary responsibility
for the monitoring and evaluation of the project. It would be assisted in
this task by the already established Permanent Working Nucleus (NPT)
comprised of staff from key ministries (MEF, METPN, MPE) and
representatives of local NGOs. Monitoring of forestry and environment
training and research components would be carried out through the review of
quarterly reports from ENEF and IRAF. Monitoring of the NEAP and the
various studies would be carried out through quarterly reports from DFC and
DGE. Within six months of project completion, MEF would prepare a Project
Completion Report acceptable to the Bank.
5.06      Mid-Term Review.  A mid-term review would be undertaken in June
1995 to confirm or improve the orientation of project activities. In this
regard, a number of key performance indicators to be assessed would be
agreed on (Annex 14). In particular, the Review would cover, inter alia:
(a) progress in the implementation of policy actions on fiscal and
environmental legislation under the Forestry and Environmental Sector
Development Strategy; (b) status of studies and the Forest Rehabilitation
program; and (c) progress in the redeployment of MEF field staff; (d)
evaluation of consultants' performance; and (e) overall project performance
against agreed key performance indicators. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations (para 8.01 (e)). As was done during the EA
process, a platform would be provided for all interested parties to comment
on the project's achievements and/or shortcomings.
VI. PRODUCTION. MARKETS AND PRICES. AND FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS
A.   Production
6.01      Natural Okoum6 Stands.  Incremental production has been assessed
on 40,000 ha of existing young Okoum6 stands (15 years). The "without
project" hypothesis assumes that annual production would stagnate at 60 ml



- 31 -
per ha. With the project, output is expected to rise to 160 m3 per ha
starting in year 30.
6.02      Artificial Plantations.  Of a total 30,000 ha of existing
plantations, the project would undertake sylvicultural operations on 5,400
ha. These operations would consist of weeding and maintenance operations
on 2,000 ha of young plantations (7 years) and thinning operations on 3,400
ha of adult plantations (12 years). The "without project" hypothesis
assumes that annual output would stagnate at 90 m3 per ha for adult
plantations and 50 m3 per ha for young plantations. With the project,
output is expected to increase, starting in year 34, from 90 m' per ha to
360 m3 per ha for adult plantations, and starting in year 39, from 50 m3 to
360 m3 per ha for young plantations.
B.   Markets and Prices
6.03      Okoume, the dominant timber resource in Gabon is marketed by
SNBG. Other timber species (Bois Divers) are traded freely. SNBG's
marketing abilities and inefficient management practices on Okoum6 have
greatly hampered the competitiveness of Gabon's timber exports. As stated
earlier (para 2.45), SNBG's lack of effectiveness has reduced its financial
viability and has increased the vulnerability of private foresters.
However, since February 1991, date when SNBG was obligated to implement a
major restructuring program, its marketing position has been greatly
enhanced. Its services have been very aggressive in finding new markets.
In concert with the Ministry of Waters and Forestry, it has led foresters
to rationalize production in function of timber demand. Furthermore, there
has been an noticeable upswing in the demand for Okoum6 as clients who had
turned to close substitute of the Okoum6 specie in the early 1980s are now
demanding more Okoum6 as its quality and durability was found to be
unparalleled. This increased demand is reflected in figvres from 1989
onward. The following table summarizes SNBG's activities from 1984 to
1991.
VOLUMES AND EXPORTS OF OKOUME
1984  1985  1986  128f_  1988   1989   199          *
Sales (billion CFAF)  42.2  38.1  32.5  32.6  34.3   36.5   38.0    42.7
Log Exports ('000 m)  1,012   902   859   901   859    °95   1,000      950
Av. FOB price per a? (CFAF) 38,700 39,300 35,800 34,300 37,835  36,665  38,000  45,000
Net Gains (minus subsidies) (0.41)  (1.26)  (4.20)  (3.20)  (2.30)  (1.80)  ('..70)   (0.6)
(billion CFAF)
* Estimates.
The P0 percent decline in sales from 1984 to 1988 is primarily due to a
reduwtion in export volume and FOB prices.  A questionable grading system,
coupled with high and inappropriate marketing margins on some timber
species, has also contributed to the decline.
6.04      The continuing sluggish market for logs in Western Europe,
coupled with increasing ecological and environmental concerns, will limit
growth prospects for Gabonese timber exports. However, measures envisaged
by the Government would increase the competitiveness of Gabon's forestry
sector by: (a) removing institutional and marketing (SNBG) bottlenecks; (b)
encouraging first processing activities to promote diversification of



- 32 -
timber exploitation; and (c) preventing the commercial loggers to engage in
wasteful cutting practices.
C.   Budgetarv Imolications
6.05      The total Government contribution, as a result of the project
would amount to US$6.2 million (CFAF 1.7 billion). Assurances were
obtained during negotiations on the opening by the Government of a project
account, and deposit of its share of the project funding quarterly and in
advance, based on annual budget and disbursement forecasts for the next
three months (para 8.01 (f)). During project execution and after
completion, the Government would be expected to maintain adequate funding
for the forestry sector. This funding would be primarily used to finance
the replasement of vehicles and equipment, and keep an adequate level of
maintenance and rehabilitation work in the plantations. Following project
completion, MEF and METPN combined recurrent budgets would need to be
increased by CFAF 400 million per year to cover incremental cost arising
from the project. Appropriate level and timely availability of financial
resources for forest management and rehabilitation are requirements for the
long-term success of the forest rehabilitation program to be carried out
under the project.
6.06      Assuming that no cutting license is granted on areas under the
project until natural and artificial Okoum6 stands have reached their full
development potential, the Government would start generating considerable
revenues on 40,000 ha of natural Okoume stands in PY30, and on 3,400 ha of
artificial Okoum6 stands in PY34. The volume and value of annual allowable
cut is indicated in Annex 12.
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01      The proposed project would improve the management and protection
of Gabon's forest resources and its environment. Measures envisaged under
the project would help stop overexploitation in the coastal zone and
initiate a sound forest management plan for the remaining areas. The
project would serve as an important instrument for implementing government
policies dealing with forestry and the environment, and would further
strengthen the scope of these policies. The project would strengthen NEF
and METPN's planning and operational capacity through the implementation of
training programs, studies, and the provision of vehicles ana equipment and
infrastructure. As a result of the National Environmental Action Plan
initiated during project preparation, more appropriate conservation
policies would be developed and implemented. The project would also
encourage private sector involvement in the implementation of activities
which would have significant impact on the conservation of the forestry
sector, and provide significant employment potential for the rural sector.
Through the implementation of a revamped training program at ENEF, the
project would make forestry and environment training more relevant to the
needs of the private sector and to conservation needs.
B. Economic Justification
7.02      Owing to the diversity of the project components, no attempt has
been made to estimate an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project as a
whole. Rather, the ERR has been estimated for those activities whose
benefits are more readily quantifiable. Notably, rates of return have been
calculated for two subcomponents: the Natural Okoume Stands subcomponent



- 33 -
and the Artificial Okoum6 Stands subcomponent. They represent about 20
percent of project costs.
7.03      The assumptions used in the calculation of the ERR and for the
sensitivity analysis of selected subcomponents are given in Annex 12. The
ERR for the Natural Okoume Stands subcomponent is estimated at about 18
percent and its net present value (NPV) discounted at 10 percent (the
estimated opportunity cost of capital in Gabon) is CFAF 2 billion. If
investment costs increase by 10 percent or benefits decrease by 10 percent,
the ERR falls to 16 percent. With both adverse variations, the ERR falls
to 15 percent. The ERR for the Artificial Okoume Stands subcomponent is
estimated at 13 percent and the NPV discounted at 10 percent is CFAF 360
million. If investment costs increase by 10 percent or benefits decrease
by 10 percent, the ERR falls to 12.4 percent. If both adverse variations
are taken into account, the ERR decreases to 11.7 percent.
C.   Risks
7.04      The main risk of the project lies in the fragility of
institutions in the sector. The restructuring of MEF and the reassigning
of some of its staff to field offices, represent sensitive issues, but need
to be undertaken if the competitiveness of the wood sector and the
envisaged conservation objectives are to be attained. To reduce the risk,
MEF would be formally restructured prior to negotiations and an acceptable
field staff transfer plan would be made a condition of loan effectiveness.
Also, the shortage of adequately trained staff will be minimized through
improved training programs and technical assistance.
7.05      With regard to the environment, Government's capacity to follow-
up on environmental issues and the willingness of private foresters to
participate in forest conservation programs pose potential risks. The NEAP
would clearly establish each party's role and help formulate policies to
better protect the environment.
7.06      A final risk concerns the timely availability of counterpart
funding which, in the past, has been consistently delayed and inadequate
for the forestry and environment sectors. This risk is minimized, however,
by the fact that the Government has come to realize the importance of
forestry and the environment and, therefore, is committed to supporting the
sector. Also, counterpart funds are being made available in a timely
fashion in other Bank-financed projects (Technical Assistance, Road
maintenance) in Gabon. In addition, considerable efforts were deplf,yed to
involve the Planning and Finance Ministries since the early stages of
project preparation, to ensure that the Government's contribution is
properly provided for under the investment program.



- 34 -
VIII. ASSURANCES. CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      Assurances obtained during neaotiations
(a) The Government would complete its fiscal study by March 31, 1993
and take measures required to implement the study's
recommendations as agreed with the Bank (para 2.58);
(b)  Audited accounts and the audit reports would be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para
4.17);
(c) Responsibility of daily project management would be entrusted to
the Project Coordination Unit located within the Mi,uistry of
Waters and Forestry (para 5.02):
(d) Detailed programs of operations and budgets would be submitted
annually to the Bank for review and approval (para 5.04);
(e) A Mid-Term Review would be undertaken by June 30, 1995;
(f) The Government would open and maintain a project account in
local currency and deposit into it its share of the project
funding quarterly and in advance, based on annual budgets and
disbursement forecasts for the next three months (para 6.05);
(g)  The Government would complete its National Environmental Action
Plan by June 30, 1993.
8.02      Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(a) Adoption and promulgation of the environmental law (Loi Relative
A la Protection et a l'Am6lioration de l'Environnement) (para
2.33);
(b) Signature of two decrees defining the forest areas which may be
exploited as well as the specific conditions for exploitation
(para 2.33)
(c) Submission to the Bank of an acceptable staffing plan resulting
from MEF restructuring including a reasonable timetable for the
implementation of field staff transfer (para 3.09);
Sd)  Signature of a Ministerial arrBt6 setting aside areas to be
rehabilitated (para 3.27);
(e) Opening of a project account and evidence of initial deposit of
CFAF 150 million (para 4.06);
(f) Establishment of the Project Coordination Unit and posting of
the Project Coordinator (para 5.02).
8.03      Recommendation
With the above agreements, the project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of US$22.5 million equivalent to the Gabonese Republic.



GABON
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT IPFE)
MINISTRY OF WATERS AND FORESTRY IMEFI
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
CABINET                    TRE                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERVBICSE ENT0S ETASTJE
.       '                       | ~~~~~~~~SOCIETES SOUS TUTELLE
IRCONSEIL AERO                                                                                        SERVICE DES                 ECIVSSET
|ET ATTAC TES                                                                           D R  S E LA C ETATION
R   INTERNATIONACE
DIRECTION CU DEVELOPPEMENT                                      -LSERVICE CEPVENTI  AL
|DU PERSON:NEt
| SECRETARIA   EEA
.ES  RE  E C REE ET RECHERCHE A
SERVICE DE LA REGLEMENTATION
Cu  UET DU CONTENT1EthX
SERVICECARTMO  IE    SRIEC   ACRORPI 
GENERALE                       DIRECTION GENERALqE                D G                                       | | DIREC T I O H   D EA DIREC TION S
DES FORET             l                    ES PECHES                      LIA FALNE                                 PR WINCIALE   9 
DIRECTION DES INVENTAIRES           l      IRECTION DES PECHES                 SERVICE DE PROTECTION  |rSRIEDES FORETS |
DES AHENAGEMENTS                  _       IMDUSTRIELLES                       ET D'AENEAGEMENT
ET DE LA REGENERATION                    MARIT114ES                           DE LA FAUNE
DES FORETS_                                                                                                            
DIRECTION BE LA GESTIOH                   DIRECTION DES P          E         CE  SERVICE DE tA                      SERVICE DE;ECEi|oi
DE L'EXPLOITATION                         ARTISANALES ET                  |GESTION DE LCHSSE   |F
FORESTIERE                                DE L'AOUACULTURE                                                                                                    OF
0
DIRECTION IW DEVELOPPENENT                                                     SERVICE DE PREVENTION              |SERVICE DE LA FAUNE|
DES INDUSTRIES ET DU COMMERCE                                                  ET OE *UTTE ANTI-_
DU BOIS                                          BRACOWHAGE                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SERVICE OE LA CARTOGRPI |
|ET DES STATISTIQUES



FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT (PFEI
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT. TOURISM AND NATIONAL PARKS (METPNI
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
CABINIET                                                                                            COSI NA ZIZIS RE
CENTRE NATIONL
AIT I-POL LUT lGN
CON1ITE NAtTIONAL
.                       ~~~~~~DE L'NEM  ET DE LA
BIOSPHERE
IDIRECTIO  GEEL           lKL 
|DE L'ENV IRXENT                                                                       U    I         
DIRECTION DES                          DSERVICE I                            OIRECTION DES ETUDES                           DIRECTION ADMINISTRATIVE
AFFAIRES ADMINISTRATIVES                L'EWIRONNMNI                         DU CONTENTIEUX ET                               ET DE LA FORMATION
ET FINAUCIERES                          ET DE LA PROTECTION                  DU DROIT DE
DE LA NATURE                         L'ENVIRONNENENT
SERVICE DES AFFAIRES                    SERVICE DE                           SERVICE DES ETUDES                               DIRECTION DES ETUDES
ADMINISTRATIVES                         L'ENVIRONNENENT                      DE LA CARTOGRAPHIE                               ET DE LA LEGISLATION
ET DU PERSONNEL                         URBAIN                               ET DE LA DOCUMENTATION
SRIEDES AFFAIRES                    SRVICE DE                            SERVICE DU ODROl  DE                             DELEGATIONS REGIONALES                V 
AINISTRATIVES ET DU                    LSENVIRONC EENT                       I LENVIRONCEMENT DiE                              DU TISE ET DES LOISIRS               9 n
WGET                                   IINDUSTRIEL ET                         CONTENTIEUX ET DE
MARITIME                             LA REGLEMENTATION
0
SERVICE DES ESPECES
PROTEGEES



- 37 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
STUDY OF FOREST FISCALITY
Terms of Reference
Obiectiveg
This study, which has been requested by the Government,
would have three objectives:
1.          To recommend how the present system of forest fiscality can
he rationalized and simplified.
2.          To determine if the current level of forest fees and taxes
in too high, causing undue strain on the logging firms, or too low,
leading to wasteful logging practices and loss of potential Government
revenue, or about right.
3.          To arrange for a concession allocation by international
competitive bidding.
These three objectives will be dealt with in turn.
1.    Rationalization and Simplification of Forest Fiscalitv System
Confirm or modify the recommendations made during December
1991 appraisal mission.
2.    Level of Forest Fees and Taxes
2.1   Direct Evidence
For three logging concessions (hypothetical or -
preferably - real), situated in accessibility Zones I, and II
respectively, estimate the following:
2.1.1 Costs
(a)   Costs in connection with obtaining the concession,
including the costs of prospecting, mapping and
inventory.
(b)   Road construction, felling, crosscutting and transport
to roadside.
(c)   Transport to port. (To simplify matters, it will be
assumed that log export and not log processing is the
production objective, as it generally is in Gabon.)
(d)   Area- and volume-based fees and taxes, including the
log export tax.
(e)   Other relevant costs.
2.1.2 Revenues



- 38 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
2.1.3 Rate of return
Determine the rates of return p.a. in the three zones in
real terms, i.e. excluding inflation, and advise on whether these rates
are likely to remain attractive to the concessionaires in the long run.
2.2   Indirect Evidence
Provide information on entry into and exit from the logging
sector in Gabon. How many of the exits were by bankruptcy? How were the
bankruptcies distributed according to Zone?
3.    Concession Allocation by International Comoetitive BiddinQ
The study would take place during a period of six months.
The report would be written in French.



- 39 -
MINISTERE DES EAUX ET FORETS                               REPUBLI'  3ABONAISE
CABINET DU MINISTRE                                     UNION-TRAVAIL-JUSTICE
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE GENERALE
POUR LA FORET ET L'ENVIRONNEMENT
I.   INTRODUCTION
Los grandes lignes de la politique du GABON dans les domaines de la Foret et de I'Environnement ont
et6 d6finies dans le cadre de diverses reflexions ongag4es par le Gouvemement au niveau des doux
sectours.
En co qui conceme le sectsur des Eaux et Forets, cette politique est fondee sur la Loi 1/82 du 22
Juillet 1982 dite Loi d'Orientation on matiere des Eaux et Forets dont les grandes lignes sont reprises
dans les differents plans de ddveloppement adoptes par le Gouvemement. Los joum0es de Reflexion
sur los Eaux et Forets organisdes a Libreville on mai 1987 ont permis de mieux prdciser les grands axes
de cette politique.
L'objectif gen6ral vis6 par cette lo! est de promouvoir et de developper, dans un cadre global et
coherent d'amenagement du territoire, une gestion rationnelle des ressources forestieres, fauniques
et halieutiques afin d'accroitre la contribution du sectour au developpement economique, social,
culturel et scientifique du pays.
En matiere d'Environnement et sur la bass des recommandations de la Conference des Nations Unies
sur I'Environnement tenue a Stockholm (Su6de) en 1972, le Gouvernement a mis au poin- une politique
nationale de protection de la nature. Cette politique s'est materialiseo par Ia creation et la structuration
progressive du Ministere de I'Environnoment et de Ia Protection de la Nature, chargE des missions de
conception, d'elaboration et de mise en oeuvre de la politique nationale dans ce domaine.
Le premier Colioque National sur l'Environnement tenu A Makokou en 1981 a eu pour tache
d'approfondir la comprehension du concept onvironnomental et de prdciser les grandes orientations de
la politique on matiere d'environnement, lesquelles s'articulent autour des quatre missions essentielles
suivantes:
- connaissance du milieu;
- amenagement et conservation des ressources;
- lutte contre les pollutions et nuisances;
- education et formation on matibre d'onvironnement.
D'une mani6re generale, la politique du GABON dans les domaines de la Forft at de l'Environnement
vise A assurer uns gestion soutenue et durable qui garantisse la conservation des ressources et des
EcosystAmes afin de contribuer a ameliorer le cadre et les conditions de vie des populations gabonaises.
Enfin, cette politique s'inscrit dans le cadre de la politique d'ajustement et de ralance economique
adoptde par le Gouvemement et dont les principes de base sont 1'0conomie de marche, la rEorientation.1
des interventions de l'Etat et la rdorganisation des services publics.



- 40 -
II.   ETAT ACTUEL DE L'ENVIRONNEMENIT E DIAGNOSTIC DU SECTEUR DES EAUX ET FORETS
1 / - Imoortance des ressources
Le Gabon regorge d'importantes ressources naturelles qu'il importe de gdrer rationnellement pour
prevenir les menaces qui p6sent sur leur conservation et assurer un niveau soutenu de revenus.
a) Importance ecoloaiaue
Autant par la fauns quo par la flore, le GABON constitue le sanctuaire d'une diversite biologique
exceptionnelle dont la richesse est l'une des plus importantes de toute la fornt tropicale africaine.
La superficie du GABON est de 267.000 km2 et la foret couvre environ 85% de cette superficie. Avec
uwse population estimee A 1.360.000 habitants, le GABON est ainsi au premier rang des ,.ays d'Afrique
pour la surface de foret par habitant. Si l'on ajoute a ce constat que 37% de cette poputation vit dans
les grandes villes, on peut affirmer quo son territoire figure parmi les rares pays du monde qui offrent
encore d'enormes possibilites pour la conservation.
La flore et la faune sont riches avec un taux d'endemicit6 et une diversite tris elevds. On estime
g6n6ralement quo, sur le plan des especes vegitales, c'est la r6gion la plus riche d'Afrique; ce qui en
fait un refuge pour plusieurs d'entre elles. On a denombr6 jusqu'A ce jour plus de 8.000 especes
vdgetales sans compter les algues, lichens et bryophytes ainsi qu'une faune de plus de 150 especes
de mammiferes parmi lesquels on compte 19 esp6ces de primates. La population des grands primates
est estimde a 35.000 gorilles et 64.000 chimpanzes. De plus, selon les estimations, le GABON abrite
la population d'6l1phants la plus importante et probablement la plus stable d'Afrique avec plus de
80.000 individus.
L'avifaune est 4galement repr6sent6e avec plus de 600 espices d'oiseaux.
Pris de 40% de la superficie des fornts est restie dans un dtat primaire et le taux de dEforestation est
estime A environ 0,1 % par an.
Par ailleurs, le GABON posside uns facade maritime longue de 800 km, un plateau continental de pr6s
do 40.000km2 et des eaux riches en ressources halieutiques. Les stocks sont estimes A 250.000
tonnes de petits p6lagiques (sardinelles, anchois, chinchards), 400.000 A 500.000 tonnes de thonides
durant six A huit mois par an, 65.000 tonnes d'espices ddmersales et 2.000 tonnes de crovettes. On
trouve egalement des quantitis importantes de langoustes, crevettes, crabes et seiches en esaux
profondes. Les ressources halieutiques des estuaires et des lagunes n'ont pas 6te entibrement
inventorides. II en aSt de mime des stocks de poissons dans les eaux continentales qui constituent
un important reseau hydrographique de nombreux cours d'eau et de lacs. Toutefois 10 nouvelles
espices de poissons, dont 4 enddmiques, ont ete decouvertes recemment.
La presence de nombreux reptiles et de la tortue Luth en particu:ier contribue 6galement A la richesse
faunique du GABON.
b) Imoortance 4conomiaue
Sur Is plan economique, la fornt a longtemps constitue la principale richesse du pays avant d'Atr-I
devancee par lo petrole au debut des anndes 1970.



- 41 -
Aujourd'hui, le secteur forestier occupe la deuxi6me place dans les recettes d'exportation (55 A 60
milliards de FCFA) et surtout demeure le premier employour du secteur privd avec prAs de 28% de la
population active et plus de 10 milliards de FCFA de salaires distribu0s par an.
Le secteur de la peche no joue pas encore un role important dans l'economie nationale et les stocks
disponibles sont sous-exploites. De co fait, le GABON est oblig6 d'importer chaque ann6e plus de la
moitin de ses besoins en poisson pour assurer sa securite alimentaire, ce qui represonte uns perte en
devises de pros de 10 milliards de FCFA.
Enfin, la forOt et les eaux maritimes et continentales constituent le support essentiol des activitds des
populations vivant en milieu rural. D'abord, elaes lour apportent l'essentiol de leur nourriture grAce A
l'agriculture, la chasse, Ia pAche et des produits de cueillette; puis elles leur procurent des revenus
substantiels par la commercialisation des surplus de production; enfin elles fournissent les plantes
mddicinales et d'autres produits necessaires A leur sant6.
2/ - Menaces sur l'environnement et les r2ssaurces
Malgre la faible densit6 de la population (4 hab/km2) et le developpement mod6rd de l'agriculture,
cortaines activites humaines menacent l'int6grit6 de 1'environnement. Ces menaces s'expriment sous
trois formes:
- les pollutions diverses des milieux urbains engendrant I'appauvrissement ou la disparition
totale des ecosystemes naturels, ou encore mettant en peril la sante publique;
- I'4puisement progressif de la premiere zone forestiere situde le long du littoral du fait d'une
exploitation trop rdpdtitive et sans r4pit qui menace la r6gen4ration de Is foret et par 1a moms sa
perennite;
- l'intensification du braconnage favorisd par la demande de consommateurs urbains qui risque
de faire disparaftre a moyenne echeance et de maniere definitive certaines espOces animales du GABON
(par example le lamentin, I'hippopotame).
3/ - Obstacles A la aestion du secteur des Eaux et ForAts
La gestion du secteur des Eaux et Forets est confrontee a un certain nombre d'obstacles qui
1'empOchent de jouer pleinement le rOle que I'Etat est en droit d'attendre de lui.
En premier lieu, I'Administration des Eaux et ForOts a une connaissance insuffisanto du patrimoine
qu'olle gOre ainsi que de sa repardtion sur l'ensemble du territoire, faute d'inventaires fiables des
ressources forestieres, fauniques et halieutiques. De cette situation decoule une abscence de
planification de sa gestion et une repartition inadequate des activitEs sur le terrain.
Le volume annuel du bois produit par 1'exploitation forestiOre oscille autour de 1,5 million de m3 dont
environ 80% d'okoume. Ce volume est largement en-deSa de la possibilit6 forestibre du GABON. La
quasi totalitd de cotte production est exportee sous forme de grumes et une faible proportion, soit
15%, est transform6e par les industries locales alors quo le taux de transformation se situe au-dessu
de 50% dans la plupart des pays forestiers africains.                            a     es



- 42 -
Bien que le taux de ddboisement de la foret gabonaise reste encore faible du fait essentiellement d'une
pression limitde de la population agricole et d'une exploitation sdloctive de la foret, I'Administration des
Eaux et ForOts a entrepris depuls 1953 des opdrations de reboisement pour faire face A l'epuisement
progressif des forkts naturelles et notamment de la premi6re zone. Plus de 30.000 ha de plantations
artificielles ont ainsi dtd .rdalis6es de fa;on soutenue jusqu'en 1975. A partir de cette date, les
opdrations ont enregistrd un net ralentissement puis un arrOt dOs essentiellement A la diminution des
moyens financiers allouds et aux coOts de plus en plus dlevds de leur rdalisation.
Enfin, sur le plan des investissements lids au sectour des Eaux et ForOts, on note uno trbs faible
participation des nationaux dans l'exploitation forestiAre, l'industrie du bois et les activites de pOche.
Par ailleurs, les services de terrain chargds de la gestion du domaine forestier, de la faune sauvage et
des ressources halieutiques manquent de structures d'accueil et de moyens d'intervention.
Ill.    LES  GRANDES  LIGNES  DE  LA  POLITIUE  -DU  GABON  DANS  LE  SECTEUR
FORET/ENVIRONNEMENT
1/ - Les orands axes de cette rolitiaue
L'objectif fondamental de la politique du GABON dans le sectour ForOt/Environnement est l'amdlioration
du cadre de vie des populations et l'utilisation raisonnde des ressources naturelles afin quo celles-ci
contribuent A la rdalisation d'un ddveloppement economique durable. Pour atteindre cet objectif, le
Gouvernement Gabonais a mis en oeuvre un stratdgie globale dont les grands axes sont:
- la protection et l'amdlioration de l'environnement;
- la conservation et la gestion rationnelle des ressources;
- la mise en valeur economique de celles-ci.
a) La orotection et l'amdlioration de l'environnement
La politique en matifre de protection at d'amdlioration de 1'environnoment se ddfinit comme une
politique de protection et de lutte contre les pollutions et les ddgradations de toutes sortes. Pour
accroTtre l'efficacitd de la lutte contre ces dernieres, le Gouvemement s'attache a intigrer dans sa
stratdgie le concept de l'impact environnemental. C'est ainsi que l'evaluation de l'impact sur
1'environnoment a Mtd institude comme mesure obligatoire dans la procddure de rdalisation sur le
territoire national de tout projet a caractere industriel..
b) La conservation et la oestion rationnelle des ressoujrU
Les principaux axes d'activitds autour desquels s'articule la politique de conservation et de gestion
rationnelle des ressources sont notamment:
- I'etude et la recherche en vue d'accrottre leas connaissances scientifiques et le5%
capacites biotechnologiques propres A assurer l'amdlioration des ressources;



- 43 -
- la gestion rationnelle des ressources s'appuyant sur lour amdnagement et se traduisant
par une intervention directe des services publics dans leo opdratTons d'inventaire, de reboisement,
d'agroforesterle, d'assistance A la rdg6n0ration naturelle, ainsi que par une redefinition des conditions
d'acces aux ressources et un ronforcement du contrOle des activit0s des secteurs concernes;
- la constitution d'un r6seau d'aires prot6g6es bas6 sur des sites critiques reconnus
comme importants pour la conservation des 6cosystAmes.
c) La mise en valeur economiaue des reLsources natursllas
Du fait quo les ressources naturelles sont la base mat0rielle sur laquelle repose lo developpement d'un
pays, la mise on valeur economique de ces dernieres a toujours constitu0 un aspect essential de la
politique du GABON dans le domaine de l'utilisation et de la gestion du patrimoine naturel national.
Sur cette base et prenant pleinement en compte les contraintes li6es A l'environnement et A l'6cologie,
le Gouvernement entend poursuivre et diversifier l'exploitation de ses ressources naturelles notamment:
- on d0veloppan. la filire bois (bois d'oeuvre et bois d'energie) et on orientant la
production vers une diversification et une transformation locale toujours plus importante et plus
Alaborde bas0o sur une exploitation durable de la forat;
- en organisant les activites de pAche afin de leur assurer un d0veloppement optimal
bas0 sur le potentiel de capture biologiquement tolerable;
- on developpant la filibre touristique par la mise en valour des potentialites naturelles
et exceptionnelles disponibles dans ce secteur.
2/ - Los outils
La r0alisation des objectifs d4finis ci-dessus ndcessite la mise en oeuvre de moyens r6glementaires,
financiers et humains trAs importants. Elle requiert dgalement la participation active A tous les niveaux
de l'ensemble des citoyens et des operateurs economiques tout en pronant appui sur des institutions
nationales efficaces et une cooperation internationale soutenue.
a) L0oislation ot fiscalit4
Un certain nombre de d0crets d'application de la Loi 1/82 fixant la r6glementation forestiere ont deja
6t6 pris et d'autres sont en cours d'adoption.
En ce qui concerne le secteur de l'environnement, le Gouvemement a mis au point avec le concours
du Programme des Natioa3 Unies pour l'Environnement (P.N.U.E.) un projet de loi relatif A la protection
et A I'amelioration de 1'environnement qui vise A cr0er un cadre coh6rent et efficace de gestion de
l'environnement. Le projet est en cours de discussion A l'A3sembl4e Nationale.
Sur le plan de la fiscalite, le systAme de taxation dans Is secteur des Eaux et Forets est relativement
complexe. A cot effet, une 4tude sera realisde dans le cadre du projet Forkts et Environnement en vue
notamment de rationaliser et de simplifier le r6gime fiscal en vigusur. Le nouveau rigime devra int4grsr
notamment des incitations A la protection de la nature par les opdrateurs dconomiques, les
preoccupations de financement de la revalorisation sur place des ressources forestidres et desl 
op6rations d'am6nagement durable.



- 44 -
En matiere de nuisances et de pollution environnomentales, Is Gouvernement se propose d'etudier et
de mettre en place des mdcanismes adequats de prdvention, d'indemnisation et de restauration.
b) Commercialisation
La politique de commercialisation vise les objectifs suivants:
- prot6ger durablement 1'exploitation et la r6gen4ration de la forOt gabonaise;
- d6velopper une industrie compdtitive de transformation du bois;
- maintenir un niveau satisfaisant des prix a I'exportation de l'okoume et l'ozigo;
- renforcer la participation effective des gabonais, notamment des zones rurales A
I'activit6 du secteur forestier.
A cette fin, le maintien A moyen terme du monopole sur le commerce de l'okoum4 et de l'ozigo a ete
confirmn par is Gouvernement. En outre, des mesures complementaires ont et6 prises notamment
concernant la restructuration de la Soci6te Nationale des Bois du Gabon (SNBG) et la mise on place
d'un comite interministeriel charg6 de veiller A l'application stricte des mesures du redressement
financier et commercial de cette societe.
c) Education et information
L'dducation et l'information visent a etablir les meilleurs rapports possibles, d'une part, entre i'homme
et son environnement naturel et, d'autre part, entre les administrations charg4es de la gestion des
ressources naturelles et l'ensemble des citoyens. Pour cola, il conviendra d'introduira et de renforcer
l'snseignsment en matiere d'environnement dans les programmes scolaires. De mOme, des programmqs
specifiques de sensibilisation seront congus pour toucher les populations concermes.
d) Formation
La formation des ressources humaines on quantite et de qualit6 satisfaisantes cons.itue une condition
essentielle pour la reussite de la politique en matiOre de ForOt/Environnement. 11 convient donc
d'assurer la formation ot le recyclage des agents chargds de la gestion des ressources naturelles.
e) Particioation des nationaux
La participation des nationaux consisto d'abord A leur assurer une place dans les activit6s d'exploitation
des ressources naturelles. Elle vise igalement A les associer aux activites de protection et de
conservation des ecosystemes. Los populations rurales cnt notamment un rOle primordial A jouer dans
I'dlaboration et la miss en oeuvre de tout projet lid au secteur.
f) Institutions nationales
11 imports de restructurer et de renforcer le cadre institutionnel de fonctionnement des Administrations
chargeos de la gestion du secteur ForOt/Environnement afin d'assurer une meilloure animation et
coordination de l'Administration centrals. De meme, cette restructuration doit viser une plus grande
responsabilite des services de terrain afin de rapprocher l'Administration des opdrateurs dconomiqueg 1
et des populations.



- 45 -
Par aillours, le caractere multidisciplinaire des problemes relatifs au secteur ForettEnvironnement
requiert l'adhesion et la participation de tous les autres secteurs concernes. A ce titre, une structure
de coordination interministerielle devra assurer en permanence la concertation intersectorielle
indispensable A la mise en oeuvre d'une politique coherente dans le secteur.
g) Cooo4ratioL internationals
La mise en oeuvre des programmes de d4veloppement du sectsur Forat/Environnement n6cossite bien
entendu d'importants moyens financiers A des conditions approprifies.
En dehors des ressources qu'il consacre au sectsur, le GABON a besoin de la cooperation
Internationale, qu'elle soit bilaterale ou multilaterale, pour financer los differents projets de
developpement.
ris mOme, compto tenu de la dimension et de la complexite des problemes lies au secteur, il importe
qu'une coop6ration scientifique soit d6veloppde avoc les pays amis, les organisations internationales
et les ONG pour appuyer les actions initibes par le Gouvernement et l'aider a developper ses propres
capacit6s techniques de gestion.
IV.   LE PROJET FORETS ET ENVIRONNEMENT
11 apparatt donc que le GABON regorge d'importantes ressources naturellEs et quo sa flore et sa faune
figurent parmi les plus riches au monde avec un taux d'endAmicit6 et une diversit6 tres dIeves. De
mOme, ses eaux maritimes et continentales recelent d'immenses ressources biologiques.
Le diagnostic dtabli ci-dessus a mis en evidence les potentialites offortes par les ressources du secteur
ForOt/Environnement ainsi quo les contraintes auxquelles iI faut fairs face pour quo co secteur Joue
pleinement le rOle quo l'Etat est on droit d'en attendre pour assurer le developpemant du pays.
Le projet Forets et Environnement dont l'laboration et la mise en oeuvre ont ete decidees par Is
GABON avec l'appui de la Banque Mondiale vise A appuyer les objectifs A long terms fixes au secteur
Foret/ Environnement par le Gouvernement.
11 s'agit:
- d'assurer une meilleure utilisation des ressources foresti6res par des travaux
d'amdnagement et de recherche dans la premiOre zone qui est surexploitee, travaux qui porteraient sur
les pouplements naturels et les plantations d'okoumd existantes;
- de retablir l'autorite de l'Etat en matiere de controle de 1'exploitation forestiere et de
protection de l'environnement, par la restructuration et Is ronforcoment des moyens du Ministere des
Eaux et ForOts et du Ministere de l'Environnement, du Tourisme et des Parcs Nationaux;
- de renforcer et reorienter les programmes de l'Ecole Nationale des Eaux et Forks
(ENEF) vers une formation plus pratique d'agents de brigades et d'inspectours repondant mieux au
besoins du secteur privd et aux exigences de conservation.



- 46 -
- de realisor et mettre en oeuvre Is Plan National d'Action Environnemental (PNAE); et
- d'appuyer l'action gouvemementale dans Ia protection des rEserves existantes et la
cr0ation des parcs nationaux, Il o ils so justifient.
Libreville, le ler juin 1992
Le Ministre des Eaux t Fets
Eugine CAPI



- 47 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 6
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENT IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Executive Summary
Introduction
1.          Gabon is covered with vast areas of tropical forest, and this,
coupled with its low human population and one of the highest standards of
living in Africa, makes it one of the few countries in the world that still
offer exceptional potential for conservation. Forestry has traditionally
played a very important role in the Gabonese economy, although its
importance diminished under the oil boom. Forest products still represents
12% of export value (1987), second only to oil. Total closed forest cover
is estimated at 20.5 million ha, of which approximately 12 million are
considered to be valuable commercial stands. Gabon also possesses
significant petroleum, natural gas, and hydro-electric resources.
2.          The biodiversity represented by the country's ecosystems is
among the highest in Africa. Gabon is found entirely within the Guinea-
Congolian regional centre of endemism. The rich forests of Gabon is an
important sanctuary for primates (19 species), about 20 carnivorous species
and more than 600 bird species. A number of waterways, lakes and a long
coastline contain relatively rich freshwater and marine life systems.
3.          The most recent botanical studies confirm that Gabon's rich
flora is more varied-than that of West Africa and the Zaire Basin. In a
recent floral study of 17 botanical families represented in central and
West Africa, Gabon had 888 species in 236 genera on 230,000 sq. km.,
compared to 885 species in 225 genera on 600,000 sq. km. in West Africa.
It is estimated that Gabon has about 8000 higher plant species of which
about 20% are endemic to the country.
4.          Gabon has a small rural population of less than one person per
square kilometer causing only minimal impact of slash and burn agricultural
prar'ices. Environmental damage is localized and limited to areas
surrounding urban centers and main roads. Deforestation rates are very low
(about 1I Der annumi and of all the African countries. Gabon is exnected to
lose the smallest 2ortion of its forest area during the next 50 years.
5.          Logging activities are however causing environmental concerns,
particular in the depleted forest area of the First Zone nearest to the
coastline and urban centers. Extensive logging in this zone, coupled with
intensive and illegal commercial game hunting, has led the Government to
initiate measures to protect the rich and diverse forest and wildlife
rasources, although implementation is still weak.
6.          Responsibility for forestry and conservation in Gabon rests
with two ministries, the Ministry of Water and Forestry has primary
responsibility for forestry activities, logging concessions etc., while the
Ministry of Environment, Tourism and National Parke is responsible for
conservation activities and protected areas.



- 48 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
Prolect Descriotion
7.          The Gabon Forestry and Environment Project has as its main
objective to contribute to better and sustainable use of forestry and
wildlife resources in the country; to reinforce the strategic planning and
operational capacity of government institutions; to improve forestry
research and training opportunities; and to support the creation of
wildlife reserves and a national environmental action plan.
8.          To meet the above objectives, the project includes the
following components:
-     Inventory and rehabilitation of Okoume forest plantations.
This will include the rehabilitation and protection of 5-6000 ha of
deteriorated plantations and 40,000 ha of secondary Okoume natural regrowth
forests.
-     Forestry and environmental research, including the
rehabilitation of 1000 ha of existing research plots, and the testing of
various agro-forestry techniques in collaboration with the local
population.
-     Forestry and environmental training and retraining at
professional level, including the promotion of training programs tailored
to the needs of the private sector.
-     Institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Waters and
Forestry and the Ministry of Environment, Tourism and National Parks, with
the specific aim of assisting these ministries to better supervise and
control logging concessions and operations, to prevent poaching and other
negative environmental impacts.
=     Environmental studies that would include the elaboration of a
national environmental action plan, faunal and floristic surveys,
preparation of national enviranmental status reports, and feasibility
studies for the establishment of 15 priority ecological protected areas.
-     Creation, implementation and maintenance of the Gamba protected
area complex with important adjacent areas (Moukalaba, Sette Cama).
9.          The project will be implemented by the Government of Gabon
through the Ministry of Waters and Forestry as loan agreement coordinator,
but with the Directorate General of Forestry responsible tor the forest
inventories and plantation rehabilitation components, the National School
of Waters and Forestry responsible for training, and the Institute of
Forestry and Agronomy Research responsible for forestry, agro-forestry and
environmental research.
10.         The creation and management of reserves and national parks
would be undertaken by the Directorate for Game and Wildlife with the
support of the World Wildlife Fund field personnel in concert with the
Directorate of Environment. This Directorate will also have the main
responsibility for the environmental action plan and biological surveys.
The monitoring of the environmental impact assessment will be done by the
inter-ministerial environmental working group established as a result of
the impact assessment (Noyau Permanent de Travail).



- 49 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
11.         The oroiect comoonents will not include supoort to any forest
operations in primarv tropical forest areas. Any forestry activity
envisaged within the project frame will be in secondary forest areas that
have been subjected to 3 to 5 previous logging operations, mostly for
okoume harvesting.
12.         The oroiect will not lead to any resettlement of people.  Where
people and forest interact, agro-forestry activities under the research
component will seek to enhance the economic and environmental sustainable
production potential of the land for the benefit of the local population.
Proiect Area
13.         Management, plantations and research areas included in the
project are mainly spread out in the Estuaire Province in which the capital
city of Libreville is located. Some plantations and agro-forestry sites
are also located in adjacent areas of the Moyen Ogooue Province. The main
conservation areas (the Gamba complex) is located on and near the coast
south of Port Gentil in the Ogooue Maritime Province (see attached map).
14.         The project region is located in the equatorial zone receiving
2500 - 3500 millimeter of rainfall annually, and with an average annual
temperature of 26 centigrades and more than 85% relative humidity. The
project area locations are all within the rainforest zone.
Probable Proiect ImDacts
15.         Limited attention has been paid to conservation of natural
resources within Gabon, either by the government or international
organizations. However, the low population pressure and the resulting lack
of rapid and uncontrolled rural development has resulted in the country
being relatively untouched by the environmental problems that have affected
other developing countries. The Gabonese government has nevertheless begun
to realize that development must take the country's natural heritage into
account and has begun to make investments in conservation, this project
being a major added effort in this direction.
16.         The Environmental Impact Assessment concentrated its attention
on the secondary forest management component, and the plantation
rehabilitation component. The other components were not considered likely
to have any negative environmental impacts.
17.         Likewise, the Assessment's main conclusion is that neither the
secondazly forest management component, nor the plantation rehabilitation
component are likely to have any major negative environmental impacts.
18.         T.ie study has therefore concentrated its attention on the
possibility of some negative impacts that could occur as secondary effects
because of the different activities that will have to be performed in order
to realize the project.
19.         The forests affected by the project activities are all
deteriorated secondary forests, exploited 4-5 times over for Okoume and
other valuable tree species for export, and the population which used to
live in these areas has migrated to the urban areas. As an example, the
village of Foulenzem on the south side of the estuary across from
Libreville once was home for a thriving population of 1500-2000 inhabitants
dependent on a forest industry that left the area in the early nineteen
seventies. Today there is only a dozen people left in this ghost town and
the forest is returning.



- 50 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 6
20.         The Assessment has divided the likely impacts in two
categories: (a) project induced impacts; and (2) broader impacts.
The first group lists the following:
-     Impacts caused by infrastructure improvements.  This
would include an increased human accident risk due to increased vehicular
use and speed.
-     Health and sanitation impacts caused by the establishment
of workers camps and temporary settlements.
-     Possible damage caused by the use of heavy machinery in
forest operations.
-     Possible secondary impacts caused by an inadequate
community infrastructure in the villages that would have some relationship
with the project (lack of dispensaries, schools, etc.).
The second group lists two long term impacts:
-     Wildlife poaching.  Illegal but widespread hunting for
game meat (bush meat) is a serious threat to wildlife whenever there is
adequate human access. The bush meat hunters supply a high price market in
all the major towns and trading centers. Increased access provided by the
project will increase poaching unless strict control measures are put in
place.
The possibility of localized overuse of soils for
cultivation. Much of the soil in the project region is leached and of poor
nutritional quality. The absence of proper soil conservation techniques
applied in agricultural production in areas of project concentration could
lead to increased soil erosion and sedimentation.
Recommended Mitiaation Measures
21.         Most of the expected impacts can be mitigated with simple
cautionary measures during the detailed project planning and design phase.
Particular recommendations include the following:
-     The wildlife poaching activities should be better
controlled through a regular access road control system of vehicles leaving
the forests. other specific measures will depend partly on the outcome of
the ongoing WWF study on the bushmeat trade and markets in Gabon.
-     As a broader counterweight measure to the negative
impacts that may happen to wildlife and the flora as a result of economic
development activities anticipated in the project, it is essential to
secure the creation and implementation of the Gamba conservation reserves
complex. This would include the implementation of the Petit Loango
National Park and adjacent wildlife reserves including the Moukalaba
reserve. New boundaries responding to present realities and biodiversity
considerations should be agreed upon for the complex, and a comprehensive
master management plan prepared. This work should be done in close
collaboration with WWF.



- 51 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
-     Agroforestry research and experimentation should be
strengthened to make the local population less dependent upon wildlife
poaching. In addition, an agricultural improvement program should be
included for villagers and agriculturists in the project area that would
include farmers not directly engaged in the project's agro-forestry
component.
-     All project induced activities, including improvement of
infrastructure, establishment of workers camps, the use of heavy machinery
etc. have to follow written and acceptable standards as to permissible
environmental impacts, and mitigation measures must be implemented. These
measures may include reseeding and replanting, terracing of cut slopes, use
of wide rubber tires on heavy machinery, proper drainage facilities, human
waste disposals etc. as the situation may warrant.
-     A data-bank should be established for the project,
incorporating forestry, biodiversity and sociological data for the entire
project area. The data assembled would include both background literature,
baseline data as well as long term monitoring data, and include economic as
well as experimental forestry research reot"-s.
-     Surveys of the fauna and floral composition should be
done in the project area, as well as of the local inhabitants and villages
that relates to the project.
=     An environmental education and extension program should
be implemented in the wider project area. This should particularly have
the objective of making the local people better aware of the importance of
sound and sustainable natural resource management for their own long term
benefits.
-     The human population living in villages within the
project area represents mostly migrant worker families from other regions
of Gabon. Their social cohesiveness is very weak, and the communal
facilities and village infrastructures are of low standard. The project
should include actions destined to improve basic village infrastructure
situation.
Monitoring
22.         Regular periodic monitoring should be done as a follow-up to
the recommendations in the Environmental Impact Assessment. This should
take the form of regular field visits to forest operations sites, and an
inventory of changes in faunal, floral, and soil composition at regular
intervals after forest operations has halted. An environmental status
report should be prepared every five years for the project region.
Interaoencv Coordination and Public Particination
23.         The established Noyau Permanent de Travail (NPT) is a permanent
coordinating body for interministerial and NGO coordination and project
implementation monitoring. The NPT consists of personnel from the Ministry
of Water and Forests, and the Ministry of Environment, Tourism and National
Parks. It also includes persons from NGOO (CENA, FEG, IADR) and research
institutions etc. when dealing with relevant topics.
24.         Several interministerial meetings have already been carried out
by the NPT during the EA preparation an appraisal. These meetings will be
organized on a regular basis throughout project implementation.



- 52 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
25.         The local population in the project area was consulted through
several on-site interview sessions organized by the EA team sociologist.
Apart for NGOs participating in several technical meetings, NGOe,
universities and the public were also invited to one special hearing
session during the EA process, and one at the end. Broad participation in
these public meetings was secured through individual invitations, through
announcements in the press, and through the local radio. All of these
meetings are duly recorded.



_ 53 -
Annex S
Page 1 of 2
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
RESIDENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - SUMMARY TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.          Forest Manaaement Specialist, 5 years as of PYl, based in
Libreville in the Ministry of Waters and Forestry (MEF).
Responsibilities:
He/she would assist the project coordinator in the analysis of
policy issues and the planning of activities under the project. He/she
would assist in the management and coordination of the various studies to
be undertaken under the project. He/she would participate in the
organizational assessment of the project components and their development
impact. He/she would also oversee day to day project financial management.
Finally he/she would be assisting in the preparation of the project's Mid-
Term evaluation. He/she would also give specific emphasis to the training
of counterparts.
Oualifications:
Forest Management Specialist or Resource Economist with
knowledge of environmental issues. A minimum of 12 years experience, of
which at least six in Africa would be required for this assignment. French
language is essential.
2.          Forest Inventory Specialist, 3 years as of PY1, based in
Libreville, with frequent trips in the field, at DGF.
Responsibilities;
He/she would assist: (a) in all technical operations relating
to the preparation of inventories, the start-up of sylvicultural operation,
and the forest management activities; and (b) assist in elaborating
monitoring guideline for assessing the environmental impact of field
activities.
Oualifications:
Forest Engineer/Inventory Specialist with at least 10 years
experience of which at least 5 in Africa. French is essential.
3.          Forest Training and Manaaement Soecialist, 3 years as of PYl
based in Cap. Esterias (Libreville) at the National School for Forestry
Training (ENEF).
Responsibilities:
He/she would head the Management Department at ENEF, would
assist in planning and organizing all Forest Management Training activities
at ENEF. He/she would be expected to teach a given number of hours per
week and initiate training program in the context of the management plan
for the Mondah Forest.



54 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
guallfications:
Forest Management Specialist/Trainer with experience in
Tropical Forestry and training in Forest Schools. 10 years experience with
at least 5 years in Africa. French is essential.
4.          Forest Enoineer, 5 years as of PYI based in Libreville at DGF.
ResRonsibilities:
He/she would be responsible for assisting the Directorate of
Forestry in the design and implementation of work programs. He/she would
work in close liaison with the Forest Inventory Specialist on the
implementation of Inventory and Forest management activities.
Oualifications:
Forest Engineer with experience in management and sylvicultural
operations. A minimum of 12 years experience of which at least 6 in Africa
would be required for this assignment. French language is essential.
5.          Environmental Specialist, 5 years as of PY1 based in Libreville
in support of DFC and DGE.
Resoonsibilities:
He/she would be responsible for coordinating actions for the
creation of reserves and would assist in the implementation of the various
environmental studies and surveys. He/she would establish close liaison
with WWF field staff.
oualifications:
Environmental specialist with sound knowledge of reserves and
national parks. At least 12 years experience of which at least 5 in
Africa. French language is essential.



- 55 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
PROJET FORETZENVIRONNEMENT
MODULES DE FORMATION ENVIRONNEMENTALE PROPOSES A L'ENEF
1.    EROSION
Eolienne, pluviale. Cause, occurrence au Gabon. Intensit6 en
fonction du type de sol, de la v6g6tation, de la topographie, de la
pluviom6trie. Comment cette intensit6 peut Otre accrue par de mauvaises
pratiques en matiere de g6nie civil, en particulier dans le domaine
routier. Pr6paration des terres agricolee, exploitation forestiare. Comment
minimiser l'6rosion, en particulier par des methodes v6g6tatives.
2.    FERTILITE DES SOLS
Lee arbree en tant que pompes a nutriments, par exemple dans
lee jach6res foresti6re. La d6forestation entratne une volatilisation de
l'azote et le lessivage dautres 416ments. L'agroforesterie comme moyen
d'entretenir la fertilit6 des solo.
3.    CONSERVATION DE L'EAU
Lea forAts consomment plus d'eau que la v6g6tation contenant
moins de biomasse, par exemple les pAturages. Cependant les arbres
r6duisent lea crues, en particulier en am6liorant la r6tention de l'eau (la
for&t comme chateau d'eau). La d6forestation a large 6chelle (en Afrique en
particulier et en Amazonie), peuvent avoih un effet global sur le climat,
en particulier en r6duisant la pluviom6trie.
4.    EFFET SUR LES EMISSIONS DE C02
Les forets stockent le C02. La d6forestation, suivie d'une
combustion ou d'une decomposition du bois, relfche le C02 dans
l'atmosphere. Effet de serre.
S.    GESTION DE LA BIODIVERSITE
Richesse de la faune et de la flore au Gabon. Int6rat
international pour cette biodiversit6. Eco-tourisme. Legislation
environnementale gabonaise et internationale. D6eimitation des aires
prot6goes. Gestion dea parcs et r6serves.
6.    MANGROVES
Repartition dans le pays. Importance pour la p&che, la
pr6vention de l'6rosion c8t1&re.
7.    PRODUITS SECONDAIRES DE LA FORET
Miel, plantes m6dicinalee, fruits comestibles, fourrage, petit
bois. Utilisations possibles, valorisation 6conomique.
8.    ENVIRONNEMENT COMME SYSTEMES
Les 6l4ments constitutife d'un ecosystemes biotope et bioc6nose
(anatomie). Les flux (matiAre, 6nergie) dane un 6cooyst&me (physiologie).
Tole de i'activit6 humaine. Maximisation de la valorisation de 1'4nergie
primaire (solaire) renouvelable. Applications pratiques.



- 56 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
9.    LES INTERFACES FORET-AUTRES UTILISATIONS DES SOLS
R81e 6cologique des lisiares (en particulier habitat pour la
fauna). Transfert des matiAres (fertilisation foreatiera par les animaux de
pSturage, utilisation des branches et feuillos comme source de matiare
organique). La protection locale des for6ts contre 16rosion et
l'ensablement des terres basses.



vinsu Anss vmmum muany
amrIt  Acmaxt   projet Cqianmn
ADUI A  SIhECllQ DlfECTI10       11 fdSE"                    11"A                                                                In      Canto e. I
LA      I                  EVIU I        I                   1 SMfE ftARTM7ATI NA.                                 ..
CESTUO   S faETS  9 CUUSE    EM          (1EKIE)  RESEA      STADS         S        A       CANA           T otl       I     lanat       X 
....................5.auuuuama3uu *u aa m                                                                                                    uu ssai...nii
A. EWPIUNTI 5.3                                411.4     224.4       9.5     167.9       S9.0      10.6       0.6      37.0      16.8       11.7          5.6      So.7   14.9      150.9
B. GEIE CtIVL                          6.0      5a  1       0.0       0.0      43.S        0.0      47.2      10.0      12.0      43.0        742.4        6.6      50.1    11.6      U6.
C. wEuIaaS                            7a.0       ZC.0     231.       94.0      49.0       n7.0     111.0      39.6      4.3       69.0       1397.7        6.7    121.5    31.6    442.3
O; Epwths LI                        225.0      225.0       0.0       0.0    135.0        0.0        0.0       0.0     225.0       0.0       8O0.0        7.2      56.S   38.5       311.6
2. Ceathn do l.n-alasr                 0.0     1U.4        0.0       0.0       42.6       0.0    647.6    553.1         0.0       0.0       1427.9        0.3       4.3    11.2     uo.S
3. gEpwrtlam  CT                     127.7      22.S     117.2      67.S       70.5    216.0        0.0       0.0       3.S      42.0        676.9        S.6      39.2   30.7      201.6
~~~~~~~~~W.                             .............................. ......................................................................................................  ..................
Srtetel                  IS2.;    4}1.9~~~~ ~ l1t.         r.s    a.3       216.0     Ur.6      SSM.       23O.S      42-0       M4.8         3.S     102.0    25.3    079.S             i
C. 101A86to                           IS.0       62.5      n5.0     140.0       S9.9      37.0       0.0       0.0      16.0        0.0       407.4       9.6       39.1    20.9    317.9
1. of                                 UA 3         .0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0         63.4       0.0        o.e     0.0       0.0
.................................................................. ..................................................................................................................................,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,.
Total SI      M  DSS                 434.4   2155.5       UO.1      321.0     5.1       339.0      6O.S       .7       151.6     1.6         6559.5       S.7     31.s   22.5   1476.9 '
it.   -   UPS 
A. FUilLe. EMIETIEnS                  1.0       16S.0      35.0      35.0      S.S        36.3      21.5       0.0       3.0       7.S        404.7      10.0      U.S    2t.0       U.9
D. fmc. wmaUaES                       35.0      21.6       50.2      39.0       0.0      42.5    164.0        20.0      20.0      71.S        72.6        7.6      5S.2    17.5     127.2
C  SALAIMS                             0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      87.3        0.0       0.0      15.0      51.5        153.6      10.0      1S.4    11.3       17.3
0c  fUlS OE 6I155                     21.0    U10.7        1S.1      1.0        4.7      33.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        200.S       2.M       S.4    10.4       20.9
E. OhEUS                               0.0        0.0     233.2       q.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        23.2        8.0      2S.0   15.3       43.4
.........                          ................................................ ..............................................
Totalt *ECUu  C01                     #2.0      549.3     391.5      92.0      40.1     199.0    186.3        20.0    S.0    130.5          170.6        0.0     141.5   16.6      23.7
Total 6ASLIE  MS                     616.4    2104.9    1039.6    413.0    626.9        561.0   1002.7 S       3.7    409.6    301.3         32.3         6.2     512.9    21.3    171.6
fphyscal cmuhaiuicle                16.0      137.3      93.9      32.7      60.6      56.6      35.S        7.1      41.0      30.1        512.9
fri  eCust1q.IaI                   162.4     431.5      21.0      117.4     16.9    15S.S    191.9          12.s     137.2       4S        177.6        7.4    3I0.S
....;Y............................................................................................................................................
total ""ECT  cts 05.7                         3273.6    144.S       S63.2    85.        116.1    1230.1      703.2   S5.0        39S.9     10611.9        6.1   "43S    16.        IM .6
_.niia.m.mf....__..........    .. . .......... _... .  _ .............a..u.m ...e.n ....a.. _..s.f.....a....s..a...w... ... 5 
1AM                                 29.1     182.1      106.S      33.2       3.S      3.6       33.9       I3.6      10.2      10.1       410.0       9.1      43.5                         P 
oewsl Ita q                        579.3    204.0       019.0    3SS.2      6S.6    485.7    477.8         76.6    419.1    203.4         6162.7       6.0     416.8                        0Q 
Valua S.Ualed-y- 1000000.0 312711M.9   14a00 ..                                                                                                                                                    x
0



GAO
FORESTRY AND EWIRONMENT PROJECT
Projects Coaponhnts by Year
Totats Including Contirgencies                                       Totals Including ContingencJes
CFAF                                                                  Ust
1992      1993       1994      1995       1996    Total            1992      1993       1994      1995       1996    Total
--    -- --- - ----   -=_=#__ C
A. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHEN.
1. APPUI A LA GESTION                 255.8      115.5      117.3     182.0    126.1    796.7               0.9        0.4       0.4        0.7       0.5        2.9
2. DIRECTION EAU11 & fORETS          1373.4    865.7        283.7    U49.5       281.3   3273.6             4.9        3.2       1.0        1.6        1.0      11.8
3. DiRECTION fAINIE & CHASSE          527.8      191.2      179.7     336.1      169.6   1404.5             1.9        0.7       0.6        1.2       0.6        5.1
4. DIRECTION ENVIRONNENIT              159.0       76.7      86.3      155.7      85.S    S63.2             0.6        0.3       0.3        0.6       0.3        2.0
. .  ...........  ...   ......................  W .............................. . . .............................................................................._ _
SbTotal                                  2316.1    1269.0    667.0    1123.3    62.6   6038.0                   8.3       4.6        2.4       4.0        2.4      21.7
0. FOREST    TRAINING E11   EF)           433.5      195.0     137.6       57.6       34.9     858.6            1.6       0.7        0.5       0.2        0.1       3.1
C. FORESTRY RESEARCH                      275.2      169.9     102.3      153.3       97.4     M.1              1.a       0.6        0.4       0.6        0.4       2.9
D. fOREST REUA8ILITATION
1. NATURAL OKOU    STANDS             m.6        261.4      304.0     202.4      169.7   1230.1             1.1        0.9       1.1        0.7       0.6        4.4
2. PLNTATIONS                          126.2    223.0       134.3      118.8     101.0    703.2             0.5        0.8       0.5        0.4       0.4        2.5
_........................ ,.... ............._..,.. _.....    ....,,...............................
6ub-Total                                 418.8    484.4    438.3         321.2    270.7   1933.3               I.S        1.7       1.6       1.2        1.0       7.0
E. RESERVES
1. NMIALABA                           181.6       91.4       90.4     135.S       89.0    588.0             0.7        0.3       0.3        0.5       0.3        2.1
2. SETTE CAM                          202.9       48.4       39.8       S0.5      54.3    395.9             0.7        0.2       0.1        0.2       0.2        1.4
Sub-Total                                 384.S      139.8    130.2       186.1    143.3       983.9            1.4       0.5        O.S       0.7        0.5       3.5
Total PROJECTS COSTS                     32.1   2258.2   1475.4   1841.4   1208.9  10611.9                     13.8       8.1        5.3       6.6        4.3      38.2                          1
.... .......  ................................................................................................... ....................................................  ---------------------......... ------------------------
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 3f2611992  18:56
00
tD X
0
bibo
w



GABON
FORESTRY AND EUVIROUNEWT PROJECT
Sumry Accounts by Year
lotats Includino Cantingm  les                         Totals Including Contingencles
CFAF                                                    US$
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   Total         1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   Total
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
....................
A. E0IPENT                       595.1   463.6    47.5    64.6    32.6  1223.4          2.1      1.7     0.2      0.3     0.1      4.4
S. GENIE CIVIL                   629.2   227.9    12.1      9.2      0.0   878.5        2.3      0.6     0.0      0.0     0.0      3.2
C. VENICUIES                     999.0   107.8   139.1   630.3    85.5  1961.5          3.6      0.4     0.5      2.3     0.3      7.1
D. ASSISTIACE IECUNWE
1. EXPswtfses LT              245.8   254.9   264.3   203.8   211.3  1180.1           0.9     0.9     1.0      0.7     0.8      4.2
2. Sestlon des Invtentires    393.0   417.5   337.8   242.0   202.4  1592.7           1.4     1.5      1.2     0.9     0.r  . 5.7
3. Expurties CT               328.5   210.4   134.8   122.8   127.3   923.8           1.2     0.8     0.5      0,4     0.5      3.3
;i............................................... .... ................................................................................................ 
SUb-Total                        967.2   882.8   73t.9   568.6   541.1  3696.6          3.5      3.2     2.7      2.0     1.9    13.3
E. FONATION                      101.9   124.6   129.2   112.3    96.4   564.4          0.4      0.4     0.5      0.4     0.3      2.0
F. PPF                            83.4     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    83.4        0.3      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.3
Total INVESTNENT COSTS          331.9  1806.7  1064.7  1405.0   755.6  8407.9           12.1     6.5     3.8      5.1     2.7    30.2
It. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. FOEC. ENTRETIENS               92.2   105.5   106.8   110.7   114.8   530.1          0.3      0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4      1.9                   t
S. FOC. VERICULES                230.7   201.0   146.0   162.6   168.6   908.9          0.8      0.7     0.5      0.6     0.6     3.3                   '0
C. SALARIES                       28.5    32.0    39.4    41.9    4.1   186.5           0.1      0.1     0.1      0.2     0.2     0.7
D. PRAIS DE NISSI1                32.6    44.6    48.1    49.8    51.7   226.8          0.1      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.8
E. DIVERS                         68.3    67.6    70.4    7.3    74.1   351.6           0.2      0.2     0.3      0.3     0.3     1.3
Ttol RECURRENT COSTS             452.2   451.4   410.7   436.4   453.3  2204.0          1.6      1.6     1.5      1.6     1.6     7.9
Total PROJECT COSTS             3828.1  2258.2  1475.4  1841.4  1208.9 10611.9         13.8      8.1     5.3     6.6      4.3    38.2
: _ _ ......... ..... .....................................  .............
Ve^luss Scgled by 1000000.0 3 2611992 18:56
'OD 
0
olih
LA)I



- 60 -
Annex
Page 1 of 1
THE GABONESE REPVBLIC
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE AND PROFILE
A.     Eatimated Disbursement Schedule
ISRD's  IBRD's                 Project Estimated Profile                            Standard Profile
LFt    Semesters      Per Sgm,        Cumuatfiv       X of Loan      Per Sem.Q        umsattva       X of Loan
1993        1            0.4              0.4             2             0.0              0.0             0
11           1.3              1.8             8             0.6              0.6              3
1994        1            1.8              3.6            16             1.3              2.0             J
11           2.0              5.6             25            2.0              4.0             18
1995        1            2.4              8.1            36             2.7              6.7            30
11           2.7             10.8            48             2.9              9.6             43
1996        1            2.9             13.7            61             2.7             12.3            55
it           2.4             16.2             72            2.2             14.6             65
1997        1            2.2             18.4            82             2.0             16.6            74
it           2.0             20.4             91            1.8             18.4             82
1998        1            1.1             21.6            96             1.5             20.0            89
11           0.6             22.2            99             1.3             21.3             95
1999        1            0.2             22.5           100             1.1             22.5           100
B.     Disbursement Profile
24 -
is 
14
a 
4 -
2
19M     I    lo"    I    ISO    I    130        I    l3ow    I    130      I    1933
a    igi,,~~~~~       *   Fhu.



- 61 -
Annex I10
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF GABON
FORESrRY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Task                              Comlvetion Date                           Agencv Resronsible
Approval of LPGFE                           Before Board Presentation                 MEF/METPN
Signing of Arr6te                           Before Loan Effectiveness                 NEF
Laurching of ICB                            Before Loan Effectiveness                 MEF/PCU
for Vehicles and Equipment
Establishment of short                      Before Loan Effectiveness                 NEF/PCU
lists for consultant
services
Budget forecasts and work                   September 1992                            PCU
plan for CY93 to NPE
Signing of contract with                    December 1992                             PW
Research Institute and/or
Consultants
Arrival of Forest                           January 1993                              PCU
Management Specialtst
Arrival of Forest Inventory                 January 1993                              PCU/ENEF
Specialist. Training
Specialist, Forest Engineer
Arrival of Enviromiental                    January 1993                              PCU/DGE
Specialist
First Audit of Accounts                     Decesber 193                              PCU
First bi-annual supervision                 Narch 1993                                PCU/Executing
mission of each component                                                             agencfes
Budget Forecast and work                    June 193                                  PCU
plan for CY94
Second bi-annual supervision                September 1993                            PCU/Executing
mission for each component                                                            agenrcies
Review of Envirormiental                    December 193                              NPT/NPS
Inpact
Project Mid-Term Review                     June 195                                  P0J/Executfng
agencies
Legend:      PCU         ProJect Coordination Unit
NEF    -   Ministry of Waters an Forestry
NETPM  -   Ninistry of Environment, Tourism and
National Parks
NPE    -   Ministry of PlannIng and Economy
NPT    -   Noyau Permanent de Travail
NPS    -   Noyau Permnent de Suivi



SUPERVISION SCHEDlE
IBRO's Supervision irout Into Key Act'itiles
year              Nissions                             Activitv                                   Exwected Skill ReuireoentsS
first Year                 1              Project start-up                                    Task Manager                                            6
Procurement Review                                  Forestry Specialist
Finamcial Naement                                  Environment Specialist
Procurement Specialtat
financial Antyst
2             Orgenization/lanagement                             Task Naaer                                               6
Launching of Fletd Activities                       Forestry Specialist
Enviroauntsl Workshop                               Envireamntat Specialist
-________________________________________            Agronomist/Research  Speciallst
Secord Year                I              liplemetation Fieid Activities                      Task Mwager                                             8
of Enviravastal iqmct                              Envirorental Specialist
Review Studies                                      Forestry Specialist
2              Review of Field Activities                          Task  Nager                                             6
Finarcial Performance                               Financial Analyst
| ________________    _______________     __________________________________________           Trainin g_Specialist                                 __in g S e a s
Third Year                 I             Nid-Term Revieu                                      Task Manager                                           15
Confiration/Reorienting of                          Forestry Spec., E,wironmentalist
Project Design                                      Sociologist. Agronomist
Financils Analyst                                                           N
2              Ilptementation of Field Acti.                      Task Manager                                             8
Review of Studies                                   Financial Anatyst
Procurement end Financial Review                    Forestry Specialist
Fourth Year                I              Implementation of Field Activit.                   Task Manager                                             6
Environmental                                      Envirormental ist
Monitoring                                          Forestry Specialist
2              Fnancial Management                                Task Manager                                             6
Implementation of Field                            Forestry Specialist
_ Activities                                          Financial Analyst
Fifth Tear                 I              loplementation of Field Activit.                   Task Manager                                             8
Envirornental Monitoring                            Forestry Specialist
initiation of Phase 11                             Erviroruental Specialist
Preparation Study                                  Agrnmist
2              lIplementation of Field Activit.                   Task Manager                                             8               oo P
Fotlow-Up Preparation of Phase                     Forestry Specialist                                                      00
it Study                                           Envirosrentallst
PCR                                                Training Specialist
Agronomist                                                               o



- 63 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 5
Adi GABONESE REPUBLIC
RROJET FORET/ENVIRONNEMENT
ANALYSE ECONONIOUE
I. CONPOSANTE AMENAGEMhNT
A.   Analyse Economiaue
Hvpothises de base
1.          La composante porte sur 40.000 hectares de peuplbments naturels
d'Okoum6 d'un Age moyen de 15 ans sur lesquels l'lintervention du projet
consisterait en un inventaire, la d6limitation des blocs, et,
l'am6lioration des peuplements par 6claircies. L'encadrement n6cessaire
existe d6j&, mais il est n6cessaire de construire des logements en brousse
et d'acheter les v6hicules et motos pour le fonctionnement de cet
encadrement.
2.          L'6chelonnement des actions est resumee dans le tableau ci-
dessous
1     2      3        4         5
Constructions     x     -       -        -         -
Achat vehicules & x      -      -        -         -
Materiel divers   x      -      -        -         -
Inventaire (ha)   x     5.000  5.000   15.000    15.000
D6limitation (ha) x      5.000  5.000   15.000    15.000
Eclaircies (ha)   x      5.000  5.000   15.000    15.000
3.          L'ann6e 1 est r6serv6e aux constructions et a la mise en place
du personnel et de ses moyens de fonctionnement. A l'exception des
operations de delimitation qui n6cessiteraient la location de gros
mat6riel, les autres actions entrainent seulement des d6penses de main
d'oeuvre.
Les Coats
4.          On appliquera aux coOt. financiers les facteura de conversion
suivants afin d'6liminer les taxes.
Constructions et entretien    0.5
ouverture des limites          0.7
Achat v6hicules, motos 0.5
Fonctionnement v6hicules       0.6
5.          Le coOt 6conomique de la main d'oeuvre a 6te estim6 a 50 % du
coOt d'une main d'oeuvre permanente (6.000 FCFA par jour) en raison de la
faible possibilite d'emploi dans la zone du projet.
6.          On a ajout4 10 % d'Lmpr6vus physiques sur les coOts
d'investLesement.
Lee Beneficee
7.          Quelle que soit la denait4 d'arbres A l'hectare, la surface
terriLre maximale atteinte par un peuplement d'Okoum6 est de l'ordre de 55



- 64 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 5
m2 par hectare. Si Vlon considere qu'avec ou sans 6claircie, ce maximum
serait atteint il eat connu qu'un peuplement naturel sur lequel on
n'intervient pas, a une croissance qui tend vers zero lorsque le diamatre
moyen atteint 55 cm alors quo les 6claircies permettent d'atteindre le
diamAtre d'exploitabilit5 (60 et plus) vets l'age de 50 ans.
8.          En consequence, on estimera que sans projet, l'exploitation de
3/4 du volume sur pied serait repouss6e tres loin dans le temps, et en tous
cas au dela d'une p6riode oa les b6n6fices peuvent etre comptabilises par
actualisation. Les b6nefices sans projet se limitent donc a un maximum de
60 m3 par hectare. Avec projet, les b6n6fices correspondent a
l'exploitation d'un volume de l'ordre de 160 m3 par hectare (moins de la
moitie d'une plantation artificielle) a l'fAge de 50 ans soit, avec un
echelonnement de l'exploitation, entre les annees 30 et 33 du projet. (Age
suppos4 lors du d6but du projet : 20 ans).
9.          La valeur economique du bois our pied apres application des
projections de prix de la Banque mondiale a et6 estimee A : 11.400 FCFA par
m3
Les RMsultats
10.         Le flux 6conomique des coats et benefices apparait dans le
tableau 1.
11.         La taux de rentabilitf economique atteint 18 %. Si l'on diminue
les b6n6fices de 10 % le taux descend a 16.3 %. En augmentant les coats de
10 % le taux atteint 16.4 %. En diminuant lee b6n6fices de 10 %, et en
augmentant les coats de 10 %, le taux s'6tablit a 15 S.
Conclusiono
12.         L'am6nagement des peuploments naturels d'Okoum6 en zone 1 ost
une operation acceptable du point de vue purement 6conomique, malgr6 des
hypothises conservatrices sur les b6nefices : il est tree probablo en
effet, que dans la situation sans projet, le volume exploitable a l'ann6e
40 serait beaucoup plus faible que celui estim6 dans cette analyse.
13.         Cotte op6ration apparait essentielle si l'on veut sauvegarder
le potentiel de volume exploitable dans une zone r6servee aux exploitants
nationaux. I1 n'est pas possible dans le cadre du present projet, de
couvrir des surfaces plus importantes, car la composante absorberait une
part trop elev6e des coats du projet.
II. TRAVAUX SUR PLANTATIONS DIOP-UM
HypothAses de Base
14.         Sur un total d'environ 30.000 ha de plantations existantes, le
projet interviendrait our la surfane totale on ce qui concerne la
couverture a6rienne et la d6limitation, sur 3.400 ha pour les 6claircies
(pouplements de 12 ans d'age moyen) et our 2.000 ha pour l'entretien
'peuploments de 7 ans d'Age pond6r6).
15.         L'infrastructure logements fait partie du renforcement g6neraI
du service foreatier, tandis quo loe d6penses de couverture a6rienne
peuvent etre assimil6es & des 6tudes qui ne sont pas prises en compte dans
l'analyse 6conomique.



- 65 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 5
16.         I1 est d'ailleurs impossible de meaurer les b6n6fices
qu'entraineraient une meilleure connaissance, la d6limitation et une
surveillance accrue sur les plantations trop ag6es pour qu'on y intervienne
par entretiens et 6claircies.
17.         On se limitera donc aux b6n6fices quantifiables (6claircies,
entretien) sur un total de 5.400 ha.
18.         Los d6penses (coats de d6limitation, d'achat do v6hicules et
leurs frais de fonctionnement) ont et6 divis6s par 5 pour tenir compte du
ratio 5.400/30.000.
19.         Les coats financiers ont ete convertis en coats 6conomiques par
lVapplication des principaux facteurs de conversions suivants s
Achat V6hicules :              0.5
Entretien et Fonctionnement : 0.6
Ouverture Limit6s :            0.7
Main d'Oeuvre :                0.5
20.         Pour les 2.000 ha dlentretien, on ajoutera en anne, 7 les
dpeonses d'6claircie qui seraient a r6aliser sur des peuplements alors ag6s
de 12 ans.
Benefices
21.         Eclaircies (3.400 ha) : L'exploitation aurait lieu en ann6e 34
du projet et porterait sur 360 m3 par hectare. Sans projet, le volume
exploitable n'atteindrait que 90 m3 soit le quart du potentiel normal.
22.         Entretien (2.000 ha) s apres l'intervention en eclaircie a
l'ann6e 7 lVexploitation aurait lieu en ann6e 39. Sans projet, le volume
exploitable atteindrait un maximum de 50 m3, a la mAime annee 39.
23.         La valeur 6conomique du bois sur pied a 6te estim6e a 11.400
FCFA par mbtre cube.
R6sultats
24.         Le taux de rentabilite atteint 13.3 % si l'on diminue les
b6n6fices ou augmente les d6penses de 10 % ce taux tombe respectivement a
12.4 % et 12.6 %. L'augmentation des coats de 10 % et la diminution
simultanee des ben6fices de 10 % donnent un taux de 11 t. Meme si l'on peut
toujours contester les hypothAses de b6n6fices sans projet, l'op6ration
apparait rentable.
III. VALEUR ECONOMIOUE DU BOIS SUR PIED
Okoum6
Valour Economiatue du Bois sur Pied
25.         Bases de Calcul : Le prix FOB moyen a et6 calcul6 & partir du
mix de qualit6s livr6as en 1990 a la SNBG. Meme s'il est probable que les
pourcentages par qualit6 augmenteront pour les QS et CI, au d6triment des
basses qualit6s (CE et CS) par suite d'une meilleure commercialisation
(minimum de d6classements), il faut tenir compte d'une 6volution des
march6s vers la banalLsation de essences utilis6es pour le contreplaqu6.



- 66 -
Annex 12
Page 4 of 5
Prix FOB
Pourcentage   au N3        Pond6r6
Qualit6        %         IFCFA)       FCFA
LM         0.3         58.400        1.752
QS         8.4         53.800        4.519
CI        45.7         42.300       19.331
CB        35.2         35.700       12.566
Cs        10.4         25.200        2.621
Total        100.0                    40.789
26.         On a donc adopt6 le chiffre moyen de 40.000 FCFA par mAtre cube
au niveau FOB.
27.         La d6composition des coats a partir du niveau FOB a 6t6
effectuee hors taxes et droits de sortie. Une etude sur la fiscalite montre
que les taxes sur lsexploitation forestiAre s'4leveraient (hors DTS) a
5.400 FCFA par matre cube. On a en consequence d6duit ce montant du prix de
revient d'exploitation evalu6 a 29.000 FCFA.
28.         Lee marges foresti6res et de commercialisation ont 6t6 estim6es
A 6 % du prix FOB.
29.         La *aleur 6co.:omique du mAtre cube dOkoum6 our pied apparait
ci-dessous (FCFA)
Prix FOB                       40.000
Frais de Mise a FOB             1.200
Marge Forestiere                2.400
Frais d'Exploitation           23.600
Total Coats                    29.600
Valeur Economique sur Pied    11,400
30.         Les projections de prix de la Banque mondiale pour les grumes
sont donn6es pour 2 essences (Meranti et Sapelli) en prix constants 1985.
Apres application d'un facteur de conversion (1.495), qui mesure
l'linflation entre 1985 et 1990 le. projections de prix apparaissent comme
suit :
Annee       Annee       Augment.
(US Dollars)              990        2000          l
Meranti     246.7        276.6        12
Sapelli     290.0        310.9         7
31          La moyenne entre ces deux projections, soit 9.5 %
d'augmentation, a 6te adopt6e pour l'Okoume, et en l'absence de projections
au delA de l'an 2000, Aucun changement de prix nla 6te pris en compte. En
cons6quence, la valeur economique de l1Okoum6 sur pied a 1'ann6e 40 du
projet a 6te estimge A 10.400 + 9.5 % soit 11.400 FCFA (arrondi).



- 67 -
Annex 12
Page 5 of 5
Tableau 1
Flux Nconomiaue des CoOts et Benefices
Amrnagement Peuplements Naturels                              Plantation d'Okoum6
(40.000 ha)                                           (5.200 ha)
B6ndf ice Economique                                       Bdn6fice Economique
Volume (W3)              ('000 FCFA)                   Vo(ume   ') (1000 FCFA)
An       Sans Prolet  Aveirolet   Sons Pro]           Avec Proi          SP          At           SP
(60W3/ha)    C16003/ha)                                   (5003/ha)  (360r3/ha)
I           -                                          (45.000)         -            -           -            (45.100)
2           -               -                          (55.400)         -            -           -            (68,600)
3                           -                          (85.000)                -                 -            (35.470)
4                   -                       -          (85.000)                      -           -            (55.470)
5                   -                      -           (97.500)         -            -           -            (29.650)
6           -               -               -          (20.000)         -            -           -               0
7           -               -               -               -           -            -           -            (38.040)
8
9           .               .              .                .           .            .           .
10-29        -              -                               -            -            -           -
30       300.000        800.000       3.420.000       5.700.000                                   -
31       300.000        800.000       3.420.000       5.700.000          -            -
32       900.000      2.400.000      10.260.000      17.100.000
33       900.000      2.400.000      10.260.000      17.100.000          -
34           -               -                               -        20.000    144.000         228.000      1.413.600
35           -               -               -               -        30.000    216.000         342.000      2.120.400
36           -               -               -               -        40.000    288.000         456.000      2.827.200
37                           -               -               -        80.000    576.000         912.000      5.654.400
38                           -               .                                                      -
39           -               -               -                       100.000    720.000    1.140.000         7.068.000
40
Pa wlements Naturels
Taux de Rentabilit5:    18 i
Valeur Actualis6es                   FCFA 2 milliards.
Plantations
Taux de Rentabilit6:    13.3 %
Valeur Actualis6e:                   FCFA 360 millions.



- 68 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 2
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
1.    MEF:        The Ministry of Waters and Forenitry is the main
Institution responsible for implementing the
government's strategy for the forestry sector. It
would coordinate and oversee vaL.ous studies to be
undertaken under the project, undertake planning
activities, participate in the assessment of the
project components and their developmental impact.
2.    DFC :       The Directorate of Wildlife under the aegis of MEF, is
primarily responsible for the enforcement of legal
issues related to the environment, the prevention
of poaching and other actions which could have a
negative impact on the environment, the formulation of
the master plan for wildlife conservation, the
implementation of sound management and conservation
techniques for wildlife resources. DFC would be
responsible for coordinating actions for the creation
of reserves envisaged under the project, and would
assist in the implementation of the various
environmental studies and surveys.
3.    DGF :       The Directorate General of Forestry. Under the
tutelage of MEF, this Entity is primarily responsible
for the implementation of forest inventory and
rehabilitation programs. DGF would be responsible for
the design and implementation of work programs defined
under the project. It would carry out all technical
operations related to the preparation of the
inventories, the start-up of sylvicultural operations,
and the forest management activities. Finally It would
assist other directorates (DFC, DGE) in elaborating
monitoring guidelines for assessing the environmental
impact of field activities.
4.    METPN :    The Ministry of Environment, Tourism and National
Parks. It is mainly responsible for the strategic
planning of environmental issues. This Ministry would,
in concert with DFC oversee day-to-day execution of
project activities in the reserves areas and through
DGE, have the primary responsibility in the
undertaking of environmental studies.
5.    PCU :       Project Coordination Unit of the Ministry of Waters
and Forestry. This Unit would have primary
responsibility for the monitoring and evaluation of
the project. It would be assisted in that task by a
Permanent Working Nucleus (NPT) comprised of staff
from (MEF,METPN,MPE).  The PCU would provide
assistance to DGF,DFC and DGE in preparing the semi-
annual progress report and assess progress against
agreed programs of operations and targets. Finally,
the PCU would be responsible for financial management,
p2rocurement, and audits.



- 69 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 2
6.    DGE s       The Directorate General of Environment.  Under the
tutelage of NETPN, this Directorate is responsible for
the elaboration and implementation of Government
policies pertaining to the environment and the
protection of the nature. It would have overall
responsibility for undertaking various environmental
studies envisaged under the project. DGE would in
con3crt with DFC be responsible for coordinating
actions for the creation of reserves.
7.    ENEF:       The National School of Waters and Forestry.  ENEF is
the main implementing Institution under the tutelage
of MEF responsible for promoting and carrying out
a Forestry and Environment Training Program. ENEF
would implement a management Elan for the
conservation for the Mondah Forest.
S.    NGOB.       Environmental NGOs (CENA, FEG, IADR). The primary
responsibility of the NGOs is to raise the awareness
of local communities on environmental issues. They
would comment on the project viability/soundness and
probable impacts during its implementation, review
project progress, and address other policy issues
related to the forestry and Environment Sector.



- 70 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 1
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Key Indicators
ActivitvICbiectjye             Indicatonr            Target /I   Aehiee       Achievement Rate X
Praoram Inuts
Construction of Fietd Office    No.
Fielding of NEF fietd Staff    No.
Procuretent of Vehicles
arm  Equipnt                   No., value, timing
Recurrent costs by Category    plarwed budgets
Investment costs by coponents  plamed budgets/value
Proarme Deliverv
Project Coordination Committee  dates, miuites
Seminars, Workshops            dates, conclusions,
No. of participants
Induction training for staff    dates, No. of
participants
Forest Inventory               area covered, phasing
Studies                        dates, conclusions
Reserch                        No. trials, results
Training                       No. students
placement In private sector
Reserves                       No., level of protection
Progrm I,act
lqpat of Institutiavml
strengthening in field areas    trend analysis, redcktion
in poaching, better statistics
an logging practices
Status of studies              nu*ber of new projects, actions
in the sector
Forest N_nagent                knwwledge of forest
ability to devise piEot
rngeMt plans
Progrm Review and Reportino
Arnnal program an budget                        date  by Septemer 30
Quarterly report                                date
Barik sapervision                               date
Aital closing of accounts                       date
Coeliance with Covenants      Sect!
Submission of external audit to
the Baw                        4.01 Cb)         date
Establtfheent of Project
Coordination Comittee          5.01 (a)         date
Deposit of 150 million CFAF    5.01 (b)         date
Adopt Environwental law        5.01 (c)         date
Staffing Plan to the Bank      5.01 Cd)         date, timetable
Kid-term review                3.04             Jure 19°5
/ As specified in  R adlor Amual Work Programs an Budgets.



C  A  M  E  R 0 0  N
E Q  U A T O  R I A L   r° 8t 3         olengo -    Mc
2'                                        G    U I    N(T   E  Al
top                 (R10 -UI iK (IrO(ROAMN_
°'p Soil       o  -   -07 k  °  '   tgfin                                                                                     
¶                                                                                                     7~~~~ 
E'> ½ s-
LIBRE                 4                                                             FRESTRY AN
*t~4~g~j  v                         ENVIRONMENTPROJET                                 GO
o  12 v  F..g. ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ o  c
Uf t Z .0   f    CC                                X U    N  M         U,a_SO
s   ~ ~     Mond ji      \   t         /'       t                                         7ZM
i * ;        >-  MooyJJtind ,./                   ___ \ OSn tOtC  eoou
M-6 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~RO
Ss -@e   #'g       '1s \6                                       ~GABON  t>
AFOCA\  /   5R                              \                            FORESTRY AND
t--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soal Inunate ArAeas O
ENVI PotME     PROMr
f                           _____________f                         a lblETrnnioI                     toteACs
EPriNlw^4 f _7_   s050             20    00                                    Aeopr h0 asoioo                   SCropitle ?Jndhee!e
GAEO      O/ CG.Go        ho                                             Au.pp.nb ton wosa..fonPtb    __Regio  Bottdoreriers E oc  bou
r'~~~~~~~~nmo.m Jn ~  dhf fo fi trn rio i4 TerEno MO                                                     Ereooegion CptofesO
Bokdoo  h& ,Ancicoyon, ,aodAebnne&e sntasoe Rm  s                                                                         i'
2___        o,dorotto soo.no!tt.oWdOnrkOa nmnasoqj                                                                             .



