Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24900
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-26389; CPL-35060; SCL-3506A; SCPD-3506S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 22.5 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GABON
FOR A FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
December II, 2002
'ti:_l^t>t8 \7
Environment and Social Development Unitt AFC07
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 23, 1993 - March 20, 200 1)
Currency Urdt = CFA Francs BEAC (XAF)
XAF 1.00 =   USS 0.00343 (before devaluation, Jan. 12, 1994)
USS   0.00171 (afterdevaluation,Jan. 12,1994)
USS 1.00 = XAF 291.206 (before devaluation, Jan. 12,1994)
XAF 584.655 (after devaluation, Jan. 12. 1994)
FISCAL YEAR
January I -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS'
ADIE:          Association pour le Developpement de l'Infommation Environnementale (Association for
the Development of Environmental Information)
AFD:           Agence Frangaise de D6veloppement (French Development Bank)
CCP:           Cellule de Coordination du Projet
CENAREST:      Centre National de Recherchc Scientifique et Technologique (National Center for
Scientific and Technological Research)
CFAD:          Concession Forestibre snus Amenagement Durable (Forest Concession under
Sustainable Management)
CPSE:          Cellule de Planification, Suivi et Evaluabon du Ministere (Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit)
DAO:           Dossier d'Appel d'Offres (Procurement document)
DFC:           Direction de la Faune et de la Chasse (Department of Fauna and Hunting)
DGE:           Direction G6n6rale de l'Environnement (Department of Environment)
DGEF:          Direction G6n6rale des Eaux et Forets (Department of Forests and Water)
DGENEF:        Direction G6nerale de l'&ole Natonale des Eaux et Forets (National School for Forests
and Water Department)
DGPA:          Direction Generale de la Peche et de I'Aquaculture (Department of Fishing and
Aquaculture)
DIARF:         Direction des Inventaires, des Amenagements et de la Regen6ration des Forets
(Department of Forest Inventories, Management Plans and Regeneration)
EA:            Evaluation environnementale (Environmental Assessment)
EEC:           European Economic Commission
EIE:           Etude d'irnpact environnemental (Environmental Impact Assessment)
ENEF:          Ecole Nationale des Eaux et Forets (National School for Forests and Water)
GOG:           Govemment of Gabon
GTZ:           Gemman Technical Cooperation
INC:           Institut National de Cartographic (National Institute of Cartography)
1RAF:          Institut de Recherche Agronomique et Forestibre (Research Institute in Forestry and
Agronomy)
IRET:          Institut de Recherche en Ecologie Tropicale (Research Institute in Tropical Ecology)
ITTO:          Intemational Tropical Timber Organization
OIBT:          Organisation Intemationale du Bois Tropical (Intemational Organization for Tropical
Wood)
ONG:           Organisation non gouvemementale (Non Goveimnental Organization)
PAFN:          Plan d'action forestier national (National Forestry Action Plan)
PFA:           Permis Forestier Associe (Associated Forest Permit)
PFE:           Projet Forets et Environnement (Forestry and Enviromment Project)
NEAP:          National Environmental Action Plan (Plan National d'Action Environnementale (PNAE)
QER:           Quality Enhancement Review
QSR:           Quality Supervision of Risky Projects
REIMP:         Regional Environmental Inforrnation Management Project (Projet Regional de Gestion
de l'information Environnementale (REIMP)
SEPBG:         Soci6tt d'Exploitation des Pares a Bois du Gabon (Company for the Management of
Timber Depots)
SIGEF:         Systeme d'lnformation et de Gestion Forestier (Forestry Information and Management
System)
SNBG:          Societe Nationale des Bois du Gabon (National Company for Gabonese Timber)
SNPA_BD:       Strat6gie Nationale et Plan d'Action pour la Conservation de la Diversit6 Biologique
(National Strategy and Action Plan for Biological Biodiversity)
SPSE:          Systeme de, Planification et de Suivi-Evaluation (Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
System)
SYNFOGA:      - Syndicat des Forestiers du Gabon (Union of the forestry sector's private operators)
UNDP:          United Nations Development Program
WWF:           World Wildlife Fund
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director   Ali Khadr
Sector Manager/Director:  Richard Scobey
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   FranVois Rantrua



GABON
Projet Foret et Envlronnement
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            I1
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
MAP NO. IBRD 23575



I



Project ID: P000786                                      Project Name: Projet Foret et Environnement
Team Leader: Francois Rantrua                            TL Unit: AFTES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 11, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Projet Foret et Environnement                 LIC/TFNumber: TF-26389;
CPL-35060;
SCL-3506A;
SCPD-3506S
Country/Department: GABON                                               Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Central govermnent adminristration (63%); Forestry
(30%); Agricultural extension and research (7%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/30/1988                             Effective: 09/23/1993        09/23/1993
Appraisal:  11/18/1991                               MTR: 07/26/1996            03/01/1997
Approval:  07/02/1992                             Closing: 06/30/1998          06/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/ MINISTRY OF FOREST AND ENVIRONMENT;
GOVERNMENT/PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT AND INVOLVED
DEPARTMENTS OF THE MINISTRY
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                          Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Ali Khadr                                 Michael J. Gillette
Sector Manager:      Richard G. Scobey                         Theodore Nkodo
Team Leader at ICR:  Francois Rantrua                          Madani M. Tall
ICR Primary Author:  Jean-Christophe Carret
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S-Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highy Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context: The Forestry and Environment Project (PFE in French for "Projet Foret
Environnement") was prepared in 1989 as part of the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) by
the Government of Gabon (GOG) with assistance from the World Bank. Concerned with the
decline in the oil sector revenue and its impact on national economy, GOG proposed to strengthen
its Forestry sector to enable it to play its preeminent role in promoting national economic
development.
The Staff Appraisal Report (Report # 10503-GA of June 10th, 1992, paragraph 3.04)
proposed that the PFE should pursue the main objective of strengthening, the institutional
capacities of the Ministry of Waters and Forestry to enable it to implement its forest policy,
particularly the sustainable management of forest resources. More specifically, the project was to:
*   contribute to a better exploitation of forestry resources by implementing, on a pilot basis, a
forestry management plan in the exploited first logging zone;
* build monitoring and operating capacities of forestry sector governmental institutions by
strengthening the Ministries of Waters and Forestry (MEF) and of Environment, Tourism and
National Parks (METPN);
*   support research in the forestry and environment sectors;
*   ensure training matching the needs of private sector and conservation objectives;
*   prevent further degradation of the environment; and
* assist the Government in creating protected areas and maintaining their fauna and flora.
These objectives reflected essential priorities for forestry development in Gabon at that
time, as identified both by the Government and by the Structural Adjustment Program supported
by the World Bank.They were consistent with the Government strategy for diversifying the
declining oil rent economy, through furthering renewable natural resources sector development.
They also reflected the priorities identified in the Structural Adjustment Program, which called for
"a redirecting of sector policies toward non oil sectors while protecting environment".
To achieve this goal, the GOG launched a USD 38.5 millions Forestry and Environment
Project, in partnership with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD),
French Cooperation, United Nations Development Program (UNDP), Worldwide fund for Nature
(WWF), European Economic Community (EEC) and German Technical Cooperation (GTZ). The
UNDP supported the preparation of the National Environment Action Plan (NEAP) in 1991. The
PFE was to implement this action plan. Participating agencies (IBRD, French Cooperation, AFD,
UNDP, WWF, EEC and GTZ) agreed to support the project and to promote future environment
and forest sector investments concordant with Gabon's NEAP (Table 1).
-2 -



Table 1: Contribution of the participating agencies to the project investment
Agencies contributing to the Project              Amount In USD Mitlon
IBRD                                                       22.5
Govemment of Gabon                                         6.2
European Economic Community                                4.3
French Cooperation                                         3.5
WWF                                                         1.7
AFD and GTZ                                                0.3
Total                                                      38.5
The implementation of the PFE lasted nine years from 1993 to 2002. Its original closing
date was extended to June 30, 2002 (the first two extensions added 18 months to the project,
whilst the third added a further 12 months). The project has gone through three phases, phase I
(1988-93): preparation; phase 11 (1994-98): initial implementation; and phase III (1999-2002):
after 1998 review implementation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were considered appropriate. Consequently there was no revision
of objectives. However, modifications to some activities of project objectives components (cf. §
3.3 and 3.4) were considered during the 1998 review, which was required considering the
contextual evolution.
3.3 Orginal Components:
As per the Staff Appraisal Report (June 10th, 1992) and loan agreement between the
Government of Gabon and the IBRD (January 15th, 1993), the project comprised five
components. The design of the five components was clearly linked to the objectives described
above.
A. Institutional Support (cost: $17,20 Million)
1. Restructuring of the Ministry of Water and Forestry by rationalizing and redefining the
functions of units; promoting improvements in planning, organization, and operational
capacities. This restructuring includes the construction and renovation of central offices of
the Ministry and its field offices; acquisition of vehicles; office supplies; and consultant
services;
2. Strengthening of the General Direction of Environment, Ministry of Environment, Tourism
and National Parks through improvements in planning and monitoring capacities; consultant
services; vehicle and office supplies acquisition;
3. Training of the agents of the Ministries of Waters and Forestry; Ministry of Environment,
Tourism and Natural Parks;
4. Support to local efforts for promoting environmental awareness; organizing seminars and
workshops; and publishing information on local environmental concerns;
- 3-



5. Implementation of feasibility studies pertaining to the protection of ecological areas and to the
state of Gabon's environment.
B. Forestry and Environment Training (cost: $2,30 Million)
1. Revision of the training program of National School of Water and Forests (ENEF), in order to
match it more closely to the needs of the private sector;
2. Capacity development through consulting services; fellowships and trainings grants;
3. Implementation of the Mondah forest management plan; acquisition of vehicles and supplies;
and construction of a saw milling workshop.
C. Forestry and Environment Research (cost: $2,10 Million)
1. Genetic improvement of the Okoume species;
2. Silvicultural operations on natural forest and plantations to promote sustainable management
of forest resources;
3. Adoption of improved agronomic practices and agro-forestry techniques in plantation areas;
4. Preparation of a dendrology manual and of measures to support plant species conservation at
the National Arboretum.
D. Natural Forests and Plantations rebabilitation (cost: $5,80 Million)
1. Implementation of a management plan for 40,000 hectares of natural Okoume in the 275,000
ha of forest massif in the vicinity of Foulenzem village. The management plan includes a faunal
and floral inventory of 6% of the forest area; the execution of silvicultural operations;
consultant services; the construction of offices and housing for agents and trainees at
Foulenzem village; and acquisition of vehicles and supplies.
2. Silvicultural operations to rehabilitate 5,000 hectares of Okoume plantations in the
neighborhood of Bokou6, Mvoum, Mbin6 and Haut-Como villages; improvements of access
roads; consultant services; and acquisition of vehicles and supplies.
E. Protected Areas (cost: $2,60 Million)
Creation and maintenance of Moukalaba and Sette-Cama reserves in 800,000 hectares of
forest area, including mapping; provision of infrastructure; roads and delimitation patterns;
construction/rehabilitation of offices and houses for agents; consultant services; and acquisition of
vehicles and supplies.
3.4 Revised Components:
The original project objectives were found to be realistic and attainable. Nevertheless, two
modifications were proposed to project components in the 3506 loan request submitted by the
Ministry of Planning, Environment and Tourism, Government of Gabon to the World Bank in
1998 in order to reach these objectives: the first concerned the Natural forest and plantations
management component (component name was also modified), the second related to the
Environmental Protected areas component (Component name was also modified).
-4 -



Additions to Natural Forest and Plantation Management component (new title)
* Implementation of the management plan for the Second Forest Zone in a 80,000 to 100,000
hectares concession involving an economic operator.
* Maps and databases production for the environmental management and stratification of the
Second Forest Zone, including the provision of aerial/satellite photographs, forestry inventory
at the sampling rate of 0.1% and cartography.
* Implementation of activities relating to community forest management on four pilot sites.
Modifications to the Environment and Protected Area component (new title)
Creation and maintenance of (i) seven reserves (Moukalaba, Sett6-Cama, Igu6la, Monts
Doudou, Ngove, Ndogo, Petit Loango) constituting the Gamba complex in a 1,060,000 hectares
area, and (ii) the 500,000 hectares Minkebe reserve. The activities proposed included floral and
faunal inventories, map preparation, infrastructure development (roads and delimitation patterns),
construction/rehabilitation of offices and houses for agents, consultant services; and acquisition of
supplies.
The additional activities in the natural forest and plantation management component were a
practical response to changes in the project environment, in particular discussions about a new
forest law, and the implementation of the REIMP. The PFE built very closed linkages with a multi
donor project also funded by the Bank through a GEF Grant, the Regional Environmental
Information Management Project (REIMP). First, the REIMP provided the PFE with technical
support on Information Management Systems. In particular, the PFE commissioned the following
studies which were conducted by the ADIE (the REIMP executing agency): (i) design of the
Monitoring and Evaluation System of the PFE, (ii) design of the Monitoring and Evaluation
System of the Ministry and, (iii) design of the Forestry Information Management System aimed at
monitoring the Gabonese forest sector. Secondly, the PFE supported the implementation of a
sub-regional training program on Environmental Information Management Techniques set up by
the REIMP in collaboration with ENEF, Omar Bongo University of Libreville and two French
universities.
By funding originally unplanned activities which aimed to provide the administration with
tools to monitor and control the sustainable management plans introduced by the new forestry
code, produced and implemented by the logging operators (geographic information system of the
Waters and Forestry Ministry, topographic map and statification of half of the second forest
zone), these activities were consistent with the contextual evolution.
The meaning of the additional activities in the protected area component is surprising because
almost nothing was done in that component during the initial phase of implementation
(1994-1998). The consistence of the revision for that component is by the way more arguable
than the revision for the Natural Forest and Plantation Management component.
-5 -



Table 2: Initial and revised component contents (revised contents are in italic)
Project objectives                     Component contents (revised content in italic)
* Build monitoring and   I. Restructuring of the Ministry of Water and Forestry by rationalizing and redefining
operating capacities of   the fimctions of units; promoting imnprovements in planning, organization, and
forestry sector           operational capacities. This restructuring includes the construction and renovation
governmental              of central offices of the Ministry and its field offices; acquisition of vehicles; office
institutions by           supplies; and consultant services;
strengthening the     2. Strengthening of the General Direction of Environment, Ministry of Environment,
Ministries of Waters      Tourism and National Parks through imnprovements in planning and monitoring
and Forestry (MEF) and    capacities; consultant services; vehicle and office supplies acquisition;
of Environment,       3. Training of the agents of the Ministries of Waters and Forestry; Ministry of
Tourism and National      Environment, Tourism and Natural Parks;
Parks (METPN)         4. Support to local efforts for promoting environmental awareness; organizing seminars
and workshops; and publishing information on local environmental concerns;
5. Implementation of feasibility studies pertaining to the protection of ecological areas
and to the state of Gabon's environment.
* Ensure training        1. Revision of the training program of National School of Water and Forests (ENEF),
matching the needs of     in order to match it more closely to the needs of the private sector,
private sector and    2. Capacity development through consulting services; fellowships and trainings grants;
conservation objectives  3. Implementation of the Mondah forest management plan; acquisition of vehicles and
supplies; and construction of a saw milling workshop.
* Support research in the  I. Genetic improvement of the Okoume species;
forestry and          2. Silvicultural operations on natural forest and plantations to promote sustainable
environment sectors       management of forest resources;
3. Adoption of improved agronomic practices and agro-forestry techniques in plantation
areas;
4. Preparation of a dendrology manual and of measures to support plant species
conservation at the National Arboretum.
* Contribute to a better  I . Implementation of a management plan for 40,000 hectares of natural Okoume in the
exploitation of forestry  275,000 ha of forest massif in the vicinity of Foulenzem village. The management
resources by              plan includes a faunal and floral inventory of 6% of the forest area; the execution of
implementing, on a        silvicultural operations; consultant services; the construction of offices and housing
pilot basis, a forestry   for agents and trainees at Foulenzemn village; and acquisition of vehicles and
management plan in the    supplies.
exploited first logging  2. Silvicultural operations to rehabilitate 5,000 hectares of Okoume plantations in the
zone                      neighborhood of Bokoue, Mvoum, Mbin6 and Haut-Como villages; improvemnents of
access roads; consultant services; and acquisition of vehicles and supplies.
3. Implementation of the management plan for the Second Forest Zone in a 80, 000 to
100,000 hectares concession involving an economic operator.
4. Maps and databases productionfor the environmental management and
stratification of the Second Forest Zone, including the provision of aerial/satellite
photographs, forestry inventory at the sampling rate of 0.14% and cartography.
5. Implementation of activities relating to communityforest management onfour pilot
sites.
* Assist the Govemment   I. Creation and maintenance of (i) seven reserves (Moukalaba, Setti-Cama. Iguela,
in creating protected     Monts Doudou, Ngove, Ndogo. Petit Loango) constituting the Gamba complex in a
areas and maintaining     1,060.000 hectares area, and fii) the 500,000 hectares Mfnkebe reserve. The
their fauna and flora     activities proposed includedfloral andfaunal inventories, map preparation,
Infrastructure development (roads and delimitation patterns),
construction/rehabilitation of offices and housesfor agents, consultant services;
and acquisition of supplies.
-6-



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group did not exist at the time of the project preparation, and no
evaluation of the "quality at entry" was performed for the project. The Project design was rather
appropriate to what was needed at the time. However, the design lacked targets that could be
monitored, and there was no logical framework prepared to guide project execution (both were
introduced in 1999, during the third implementation phase). As a result, the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) provided little detail on how the project objectives would be reached. In retrospect,
the appraisal team may have been overoptimistic about the time required for planning and
implementing the project coQmponents, since the activities were only completed four years later,
after three closing date extensions (see also QSR). It is also appropriate to highlight the fact that
the 1994 devaluation increased the available FCFA funding for the project, and also that the 1998
review included new components objectives.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives and outputs was satisfactory. One can globally consider the
project to have reached its original objectives, although the situation at the outset (first
IBRD-supported project in the rural sector undertaken at the end of five year recession, country
and institutions not ready to implement project actions) did not necessarily allow such an
optimistic outcome to be forecasted (see QSRP summary assessment sheet and guidance
questionnaire) .
The main project objective was indeed to strengthen the institutional capacities of the
Ministry of Waters and Forestry to enable it to implement its forest policy, particularly the
sustainable management of forest resources. In general terms, one may consider that this objective
has been reached, most specially with regards to the external services (provincial inspections
offices), the National School of Waters and Forests (ENEF), the Head Office of Inventories,
Management and Reforestation (DIARF). In these three cases, the project has indeed led to a
significant strengthening of the existing structures, or to the creation of new ones (i.e. external
services), and more arguably to the improvement of the human resources of these institutions.
One of the secondary project objectives was to carry out a sustainable management pilot
project in the first forest area and to rehabilitate Okoume plantations in order to assist the
Ministry in promoting forest resources sustainable management. The management plan in the first
logging zone was produced (but not in the second one as forecasted during the 1998 review) and
the plantations were restored. However, the project was slow in starting up these two activities,
and meanwhile some logging operators began implementing some sustainable management plans
without the benefit of the experience gained through the PFE-funded pilot sustainable
management project. In addition, the administration was not able to effectively protect the
restored plantations against shifting agriculture. Consequently, the impact of these two pilot
projects in promoting forest resources sustainable management in Gabon has been slightly less
important than expected at the outset of project assessment, albeit for different reasons in each
-7 -



case. Nevertheless, the management plan produced by the PFE in the first zone was sold to a
forest operator in 2000 by the forest administration, and therefore has not been produced in vain.
On the other hand, two secondary objectives: support research in the forestry and
environment sectors and assist the Government in creating protected areas and maintaining their
fauna and flora have not been reached. In the first case, the extent of resources available for the
strengthening of research structures proved quite inadequate to sufficiently strengthen structures
which had been growing considerably weaker over the years. In the second case, the project did
not meet its secondary objective either, due to the defection of its two financial partners, the
European Union and the WWF. Both initially meant to become involved in this part of the project,
but finally decided to work independently from the project. However, progress achieved in the
field of protected area management over the past ten years has been quite significant, even if it
cannot entirely be credited to the PFE's achievements.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Annex 1 provides a detailed presentation of the activities planned at the time of appraisal
versus the activities implemented.
A. Institutional capacity ($17,20 Million SAR, $23,27 Million actual)
This component is rated satisfactory. The achievements of the 'institutional capacity'
component-of the PFE have been in line with the activities selected at the time of project
appraisal. The intensified presence of the Ministry staff in the field is the main commitment
concretely manifested: 60% of the 320-strong Ministry staff have been redeployed in the 9
provinces, equipped with buildings (120 renovated or new buildings), computer materials and
vehicles (a hundred). The relatively fragmentary and unplanned training of some staff members
(50 people attended short or medium-duration training sessions) has produced some rather good
results: most of the people trained, especially those under medium-duration training sessions in
foreign countries such as France and Canada play now or can be expected to play a key role in the
Ministry and its institutions like ENEF. However, several studies have been carried out to
reorganize the ministry, but none has yet been implemented: a review of institutional capacities is
currently in progress to prepare for a probable future operation. In addition, the PFE has drafted a
planning, monitoring and evaluation system, but this has not yet been implemented.
B. Forestry and Environment training ($2,3 Million SAR, $0,18 Million actual)
This component is rated satisfactory. The PFE funding has enabled additional buildings to
be constructed and equipped with computer materials, significantly increasing the school's
capacity (the ENEF is now able to welcome 150 students instead of 100 previously). It has also
allowed the introduction of an environmental component into the curriculum, the training of
professors abroad, and the creation a regional DESS (M.Sc.) of Environmental Information
Management Techniques and Methods (TMGIE). Finally, it has enabled the design and
implementation of the management plan of the forest of Mondah, half of which was finally given
over to the town of Libreville. In addition to these activities that match the original objectives
more or less closely (it is indeed unclear whether the training is now more geared to the private
- 8-



sector than in the past) the PFE funded a strategic study" on training at the ENEF (after the 1998
review). The main value of this study is to offer a genuine institutional reform assisting the ENEF
in adapting to the new challenges of natural resources utilization and conservation and of
environmental enhancement. This reform aims to redefine the tasks of the ENEF, to improve its
accessibility, to entirely review its administrative system, to renovate and enhance its
infrastructures and equipment, to modernize its training programs by adapting them to the
employment market, and finally to improve teacher status and qualification. The strategic study
estimated the cost of this reform to 6,8 Billion FCFAs over 5" years. This budget is greatly
superior to the PFE's funding levels over the past ten years.
C. Forestry and Environment research ($2,1 Mifiion SAR, $0,90 Million actual)
This component is rated unsatisfactory. Although initially planned, the genetic
improvement of the Okoume, the agro-forestry research and the production of a dendrology
manual were eventually abandoned. Instead, the PFE funded the scientific monitoring of the
Ekouk Okoume plantations, and the purchase of conservation cabinets for the national herbarium.
Consequently, the project falls quite short of achieving its original goals of supporting research.
The PFE nonetheless funded a study on research results and strategy in 1997 to provide a
framework for future funding.
D. Natural forest and plantation management ($5,8 Million SAR, $4,06 Million actual)
This component is rated satisfactory. The achievements of the PFE's 'forest management'
component were quite different from the activities selected at the time of the project appraisal,
hence the change from the original name of 'Forest inventory and restoration'.
Indeed, 250,000 hectares of forest management plan in the south estuary were developed
in 1999 (the management plan produced by the PFE was sold to a private company. However, its
selling price is not officially known) and 30,000 hectares of plantations were rehabilitated in the
communes of Bokou6, Mvoum, Mbine and Haut Como villages. The PFE also funded the
production of the cartographic base-map of Gabon, the stratification of 50% of the second forest
zone, and a study of the costs and benefits of Gabon's Okoume plantations. Indeed, ten years
after the start of the PFE, 6 Million hectares of forest permits are currently being managed in
Gabon 21, mostly in the second forest zone, under the initiative of the major logging operators.
Indeed these operators have anticipated the obligation to produce and implement a sustainable
management plan according to the December 31, 2001 law 16/01 of the Gabon's forestry code.
Therefore the PFE adapted to the new situation by funding originally unplanned activities, and
which aimed to provide tools to monitor and control the sustainable management plans produced
and implemented by the logging operators (geographic information system of the Waters and
Forestry Ministry, topographic map and stratification of half of the second forest zone).
1Etude strat6gique sur la formation a 1'ENEF. TECSULT, 2001. 152 pages.
Idem.
k Etude pour l'int6gration des petites et moyennes entreprises forestieres dans le processus damenagement forestier. Ets et frm,
novembre 2001. 74 pages hors annexes.
-9-



E. Protected areas ($2,6 Million SAR, $0,41 Million actual)
This component is rated unsatisfactory. Nine years after the start of the PFE, the DFC
manages three protected areas covering approximately 2,2 million hectares. It is however
impossible to ascertain a causal relation effect between the project and this result. Indeed, the
Lop6 Reserve has been funded by the European Union since 1992 through the ECOFAC project;
the Gamba complex and the Minkeb6 reserve have been funded by the WWF since 1992 and 1997
respectively, for an unknown overall amount. The PFE merely funded the establishment of two
anti-poaching units at Iguela and Sette-Gamba (Gamba complex), and one in Mink6be. On the
other hand, the PFE adapted in a way to this new situation by funding in 2001 an initially
unplanned activity: the DFC strategic study -. This study suggests a reform of this office and its
possible transformation into an Office Gabonais de Conservation de la Nature (OGCN; Gabonese
Office for the Conservation of Nature), in order to be in a position to manage a 4 Million hectares
protected area network (currently under evaluation) in accordance with the government's
objective. This means to ensure the long-term protection of Gabon's biodiversity.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Due to the diversity of the project's components, the economic rate of return (ERR) and
the Net Present Value (NPV) of the whole project were not calculated at appraisal because such
an economic valuation was not appropriate for the type of investments envisaged.
The NPV and the ERR were only calculated for the activities where advantages were most
easily quantified, in particular for two sub-components: the natural Okoume populations, and the
contrived Okoume plantations. They represent approximately 20% of the project's costs.
For the plantations, restoration works were expected to bring in profits in year 34 of the
project, during the harvest of the plantations. These benefits would stem from the productivity
increase brought in by the restoration works (from 50 to 360 m3/ha). An economic rate of return
was calculated at the time of appraisal and deemed satisfactory whatever the scenario selected by
the so-called sensitivity analysis (10% increase of costs and/or 10% decrease of profits). That
said, without state funding, the plantations and buildings were no longer guarded (for the past
three years), and it seems that the plantations are under heavy pressure from the surrounding
populations. It is therefore not definite that profits will indeed come about in year 34. Moreover, a
PFE-commissioned study of Okoum6 plantations costs and benefits came out in July 2000. Its
conclusions are unequivocal: "The classic biometric and economic analysis show that the
plantations [...J are not profitable, whatever the exploitation scenarios considered".
Consequently, the economic analysis made at the time of the PFE appraisal encouraged
the State to pursue an activity that, in fine, is not profitable, and which certainly won't show the
profits expected at the time of that assessment. In other words, this economic analysis was not
robust.
s Etude independante des aires protegees au Gabon. Rapport prelirninaire. Puente Fernandez, Tutin, 2002. 56 pages.
-10-



4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return calculation was calculated at appraisal.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was modest. The PFE made a substantial
contribution to the improvement of the institutional framework of Gabon's forest and
environmental sector. Indeed, the creation of the Ministry's external services (the provincial
inspection offices) and the modernization of the ENEF and the DIARF are major improvements to
the initial situation. They are also consistent with the contextual changes stemming from the
elaboration and enactment of a new forestry code. Furthermore, a significant short and
medium-duration training program for the administration's officers accompanied this
improvement of the institutional framework. In addition to these institutional improvements, the
PFE commissioned several strategic studies and the development of information, monitoring and
evaluation systems after its 1998 review. These studies may potentially contribute to a significant
improvement of the institutional framework, should they be implemented. Nonetheless these
studies represent a reflection and a know how base essential to the implementation of a new
project. Overall, the PFE represented a small but important first step towards the improvement of
the forestry institutional framework and during its third and final phase, it proposed new avenues
to build upon and pursue these improvements, possibly with a new World Bank operation
The PFE did make a small contribution to the regulatory framework, but it is rather more
subject to discussion. Two reforms were included in the 1993 loan agreement: the enactment of a
law on the environment, and a reform of forestry taxation. The law was indeed, enacted in 1993,
but its first application decree only came in 2002 (see 5.2 factors generally subject to government
control). The forest taxation reform was not implemented before the end of the project, even
though it was included with the help of IMF in the corrected 2002 finance law, and is also to be
included (as an improved version) in the 2003 finance law. Indeed, a QER meeting May 6, 2002,
produced a Bank/IMF consensus on the approach to taxation of the forestry sectors in Gabon.
The basis of the consensus was the last forestry sector taxation study financed by the project.
Three principles were adopted: (i) simplification of taxation with only two taxes, (ii) introduction
of a taxe de superficie at an initial rate between CFAF 500/ha (yield - equivalent to the sum of
non "export" taxes) and CFAF 1000/ha), (iii) introduction of valeur mercuriales for bois divers.
These three principles of immediate operational significance were introduced in the corrected
2002 finance law.
On the other hand, the PFE actively contributed to the elaboration of the forestry code.
This was in fact the driving force behind the 1998 project review.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Three factors outside the control of the government or the executing agency affected the
implementation and the results of the project: the defection of three financial partners (EU, WWF



and UNDP), the devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994, and the frequent changes in World Bank
project managers.
At the time of appraisal, it was planned that the WWF and the EU would be responsible
for funding the 'reserves set-up and upkeep' component, renamed 'environment and protected
area management' in 1999, as well as for part of the 'institutional support' component. The
UNDP was to fund the production of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). Overall,
the contribution of these three donors was expected to reach 5,5 Million US$, or approximately
25% of the project's initial budget. These donors financed these activities, but they did so outside
the project, that is by dealing directly with the relevant administrations, and according to their
own procedures. Consequently, the results of the project were below expectations, particularly in
terms of protected areas management, even though for the country as a whole the result was more
or less equivalent to what it would have been had these activities really been included in the
project.
The devaluation of the CFA franc occurred in February 1994, a year or so after the 22,5
Million US$ loan agreement was signed with the World Bank (Loan n°3506 GAB of January
15th, 1993). The devaluation increased the available financial FCFA budget (20 Billions FCFA
were disbursed, including a 15 Billion loan, whilst the project was initially planned for 10,6 Billion
FCFA with a 6 Billion loan). Two main consequences followed for the implementation of the
project and its results. First, the devaluation certainly contributed to add four years to the
project's life, in conjunction with disbursement problems in the first years. Secondly, it
contributed to widen the external services strengthening activities to 9 provinces instead of the 4
originally planned in the project assessment report.
The frequent changes in World Bank project managers (5 managers in 8 years, some of
whom only stayed 6 months in project) probably added to difficulties with the project
implementation, and possibly also affected the quality of some results, particularly for the
institutional and regulatory reforms which are long-term endeavors requiring a continuous
dialogue based on mutual confidence with the administration concerned with the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
It is conceivable that two factors subject to government control have slowed or affected
project implementation and its results: the management of relationships with project coordination
and its components, and delays in paying counterpart funds.
The head of the Project Coordination body (CCP), appointed by the administration with
the implicit approval of the World Bank, has not always possessed the necessary administrative
authority to work smoothly with the various components' task managers (some held Director
General positions in the administration). This ambiguity occasionally slowed the execution of
some activities, particularly those dealing with institutional and regulatory framework reforms.
Systematic delays from the government in paying counterpart funds may have slowed the
execution of some activities, and may particularly have affected the performance of CCP staff,
some of whom, under contract with the project, suffered delays in their monthly remuneration.
- 12-



A third factor subject to government control led to the 1998 project review, and to some
difficulties in post-review project execution: the process of forest code reform initiated by the
government in 1996 ended in 2001 with the enactment of a new forestry code. This process
indeed stems from the decision to review and adjust the project in order to support the thinking
on the forestry code reform through the production of new studies such as the DFC or ENEF
strategies, or also on the feasibility of community forestry and on forest taxation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Two factors subject to the implementing agency's control may have slowed project
execution and result quality: a lack of know-how concerning the World Bank's procedures, and
difficulties in applying some of its recommendations.
The first factor is one of the causes of delays in disbursements observed in the first years.
It is due to a lack of training in World Bank procurement procedures. This deficiency was never
truly redressed despite earnest efforts from the implementing agency's staff, especially after 1998,
with help from the World Bank that played its counseling role: at the end of the project, the
annual volume of disbursement had reached twice the level of disbursement during the initial
years.
The second factor is possibly one of the causes behind the low quality of some results,
particularly the extreme slowness in modifying certain aspects of the regulatory framework
included in the loan agreement, or also the average quality of the project's financial management.
These difficulties in applying the World Bank's recommendations to improve the financial
management of the project or to speed up some of the reforms necessary to the improved quality
of the project obviously stem from a lack of training which was never truly redressed, but also
from certain dysfunctions, as mentioned above, in the relations between the CCP and its
components, or possibly also between the CCP and its parent Ministry.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost as compared to the SAR cost estimate is currently estimated at US$
28,82. This is about US$ 10 (-24%) Million less than the US$38,2 Million estimated in the SAR.
Taking into consideration the physical and price contingencies of US$ 8,20 Million, the final US$
costs are very close to the SAR projected figures. But, at the time of appraisal, the estimated cost
of the project in local currency was 10,6 Billions FCFA and at the end, 20 Billion FCFA were
disbursed, an amount equivalent to a 89% local currency increase of the project costs for the
GOG. Furthermore, the final duration of project implementation was 9 years whereas the planned
duration at the time of appraisal was initially of 5 years. The increase in project costs and
implementation time are essentially due to the devaluation of the FCFA, which occurred in
February 1994, little less than a year or so after the actual start of the project. Amongst other
factors, note should be made of the disbursement difficulties at the time of project start. These
were due to the lack of training of the project coordinating office (CCP) management in World
Bank procedures.It is also appropriate to point out the changes made to cost allocation per
component (see annex 2). These changes are essentially due to the defection of the financial
-13 -



partners who were primarily expected to fund the 'Environment and Protected Areas
Management' component.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated unlikely, if a new project is not implemented. The most
financially significant investments made by the PFE were physical ones (see annex 2). Their
sustainability will not exceed the economic lifespan of the materials in question. On the other
hand, some of the post-1998 review investments, particularly those concerning the strategic
studies or the development of information management tools for the Ministry of Waters and
Forests, have a much greater sustainability provided, however, that their effective implementation
is allowed by a new investment project. The PFE ought therefore to be viewed as the first phase
of an in-depth reform of the forestry administration, aimed at strengthening its institutional
capacity, and at modifying the regulatory framework of its intervention in order to improve the
sustainable management of its forest, halieutic and environmental resources. Indeed, during the
PFE appraisal, it was considered that this project (PFE), initially planned for 5 years, was only the
first phase of a wider and longer program. In this context, the sustainability of the investments
made by the PFE is deemed likely if a new investment project is implemented. Therefore,
sustainability of activities funded by the PFE is examined for each component, by considering
what would happen if a new GOG investment in the sector, which has been in preparation for one
year was finally not implemented.
Institutional Capacities Strengthening
The investments made in strengthening institutional capacities were essentially structural
ones, and their sustainability is unlikely to exceed their economic life. It is therefore almost certain
that the PFE-funded material strengthening of the administration (particularly that of the external
services) will not continue without a new project. Moreover, it is likely that the former project
review's improvement in activities coordination and recommendations on institutional capacities
will not be implemented.
Forest Management
The investments in sustainable forest management are sustainable for natural forests, since
a company is implementing the project-produced management plan. On the other hand, the
investments are not sustainable for forest plantations, since these have not been monitored and
guarded for the past three years. However, the objective of this component has changed since the
1998 project review. It may now be considered as supporting the elaboration and enforcement of
the new forestry code. Since the code was enacted (11/16/2001), it now remains to see to its
proper enforcement. Without any new project, and particularly without the application of the
forest taxation reform which could allow the return of unmanaged logging concessions to State
forest status, there should be no further extension of production forests management (from the
permanent forest domain) beyond the 6 Million hectares already committed by the logging
operators. Furthermore, the administration does not possess at present all the tools required to
- 14 -



norm, monitor and control the implementation of the management plans by the logging operators.
Without these, the sustainable management plans underway could lack the desired quality and/or
may not subsequently be correctly applied. Furthermore, according to the new forestry code, the
community forests, which are part of the non-permanent or rural forest estate, should be
sustainably managed through a simple management plan. The returns from the management of
these community forests should be entirely paid back to the community. However, a PFE-funded
study IL has shown "the initial lack of a local management model matching the community forest
concept. This leads one to assert the exogenous character of the community forest concept and to
subject its application to a series ofpreliminary tests before attempting a widespread utilization
in Gabon". It is therefore unlikely that, community forests should be set up accordingly with the
forestry code's sub-section 5 of chapter 2 without a new project.
Protected Areas
Following the defection of the partners approached at the time of project appraisal the
PFE did not create any new reserves in the end, but merely equipped the anti-poaching units. The
sustainability of these investments will therefore not exceed their economic lifespan. It is likely
that the three existing protected areas will remain funded by their current donors without any new
project. Furthermore, it is quite probable, after the Johannesburg Summit, that Gabon will find the
additional funding to reach its goal of creating and managing the additional protected areas
required to create a 4 Million hectares network. It is also likely to create the Gabonese Bureau of
Nature Conservation (OGCN in French). That said, it is worth pointing out that the situation
without any new project as presented here is contrived, since the funds necessary to pursue the
development management, and enhancement of the three existing protected areas for eco-tourism
and for additional protected areas are included in the new project preparation.
Environmental and Forestry Training and Research
The sustainability of PFE-investments in the environmental and forestry training at the
ENEF is correct as these investments were not'only material ones, but also included investments
in professors and the introduction of an environmental module into the curriculum. Moreover,
students have already benefited from a training program improved by the PFE's investments.On
the other hand, the ENEF will be unable to fund the reform proposed in the PFE-commissioned
strategic study without a new project. In other words, this last investment is only sustainable if
another project implements the proposed reform. The PFE made few investments in the fields of
forestry and environmental research. The insufficient and fragmentary nature of the investments
made obviously limits the effectiveness of the efforts made to energize the forestry and
environmental research sector. Furthermore, an improvement in forestry and environmental
research in Gabon is highly unlikely without funding from a new project. In all probability, these
current investments are therefore unsustainable. One should nonetheless note that this situation is
contrived, since the funding planned to reform the ENEF and to energize environmental and
forestry research are included in the new project preparation.
Etude de faisabilite des forets communautaires au Gabon, luto, cirad, 2000. 75 pages.
-15 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations.
Most of the project activities were already integrated into the regular operation of
respective institutions (e.g. SIGEF by DGEF, SPSE by CPSE), which has minimized the need for
special transition arrangement. However, the project was envisaged as the first phase of a
longer-term investment program, and the relatively abrupt and unexpected reduction in financing
has affected momentum (the preparation of a new operation is still in discussion). Additional
financing would be required to realize the full potential of the new frameworks and skills which
the project has created and to fund strategic studies recommendations.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Bank performance during project identification and preparation was satisfactory. The PFE
was the first project funded by the IBRD in Gabon following a relatively long interruption of
relationships between Gabon and the World Bank (resulting from a disagreement over the
Trans-Gabonese Project). Although the preparation team lacked a specific Country Assistance
Strategy for Gabon, they succeeded in highlighting the importance of the forestry sector for the
country's economic and ecological future, given the uncertainties linked to the oil revenues. The
project concept was identified as priority investment in the context of a strategy elaborated during
the 1988 World Bank and Gabonese Government's assessment of the Gabonese
agriculture/forestry sectcrs. The project, prepared by the FAO in 1989, reflected the concern to
protect and manage rationally the utilization of a rich natural resource base, and to fight the over
exploitation of local forests and the degradation of the Gabonese environment. The PFE thus
perfectly matched the government's priorities and the then known answers to address such
objectives. This vision of the forestry and environmental sector remains current and, as mentioned
earlier, the PFE played a central role in endowing the country with human and technical
capacities.
Adding the fact that the preparation team succeeded in creating a multi-donor platform,
the role of the Bank during the project's preparation phase was satisfactory and must indeed be
positively highlighted. However, it must be noted that funding from the other donors failed to
materialize, and that, in the end, the project was solely funded by the Bank and the Government.
The Bank's performance at appraisal was satisfactory, and the appraisal team had a skill
mix that was adequate for the task at end, including a forestry economist, two forestry specialists,
two environmental specialists, an institutional and legal specialist, a specialist in environmental
education, in addition to the mission leader who was an economist. There was adequate coverage
of most of the key appraisal areas. With hindsight, it seems that much more attention should have
been paid to the training of the team responsible for managing the project's implementing agency,
as well as to the best way of measuring implementation progress and project impact. Finally, the
appraisal team was overoptimistic about the time needed to implement the project. The PFE
lasted 4 years longer than expected, even though part of that delay was undoubtedly due to the
devaluation of the FCFA, which significantly increased the project's available FCFA budget.
-16-



7.2 Supervision:
The supervision of the project has been globally satisfactory. More specifically, project
supervision had three phases (93-94; 95-98 and 99-2002) and Bank performance was satisfactory
during the first and last phases but there were some shortcomings during the second supervision
phase. The World Bank carried out the totality of its supervision missions. It did consistently
endeavor to identify those problems affecting the proper project implementation, and to offer
solutions to address the issues, or indeed to suggest a review when it seemed appropriate or
necessary to do so. This can be verified in the memoranda spanning the 8 years of project
implementation. In addition to visits from the Bank headquarters, a senior Bank staff member in
the Country Office followed the project.'The level of technical input was substantial and
appreciated by the implementing agency.
Unfortunately, the teams changed once the loan agreements were signed. This rapid staff
turnover (five task managers in nine years) broke continuity at a crucial point in the project'
implementation, and therefore degraded both service performance and the original project vision,
especially during the second implementation phase (95-98), where the number of tasks managers
(three) was found inadequate by the implementing agency and the borrower. On the Gabonese
side, the project was perceived more as an important funding source than as an opportunity to
enable necessary changes in an administration rather reluctant to evolve. In practice, the PFE
generated more rivalries than synergies, and somewhat allowed'the project executive agency to be
marginalized within the Ministry. The World Bank failed to sustain the original project vision, and
failed also to assist the establishment of an effective fund management system. The level of
disbursements remained quite inferior to previsions, and the project attracted numerous criticisms
from the Government, partners and the Bank's Management through several communication
errors.
The mid-term review and the two subsequent missions were an opportunity to proceed to
an in-depth re-evaluation of the project. The wisdom of extending the duration of a
low-performance project was then called into question (since the PFE would obviously be unable
to disburse the totality of the loan at the planned deadline). But the cost of dropping the project
was high: without any further support (financial and technical) from the World Bank, critical
instruments (i.e. national strategies, consistent legal and institutional frameworks, information
tools) essential for the sustainable and sound development of the sector - which at that time were
still lacking - would probably not have been implemented. In addition, the substantial progress
had been made following the midterm review (eg. launch of the NEAP, drafting of the new
forestry law, adoption of Gamba complex master plan and decision to create a new reserve at
Minkeb6, publication of the proceeds of the 1994 workshop on poaching) and it was risky to cut
support to this dynamic. Thus, the project was extended with the objective of using the project as
a tool for defining a new forestry code, a new forestry taxation, reorganizing the whole Ministry,
monitoring all its activities, implementing a forestry information system and increase dialogue with
private sector. The decision was also based on the assessment that these objectives were
achievable. The risk taken by the GOG and the Bank to extend the project's duration was justified
a posteriori by the satisfactory results of the project's final three year-extension.The project
supervision team also reacted adequately and promptly to the request of the Borrower to modify
-17 -



activities in 1998. It supported the technical guidelines for the preparation of the new framework,
and reallocated the project funds to meet the need for these new activities.
By 1998-1999, the World Bank team was stabilized and able to communicate energy and
to assist the implementation of the tools necessary for the management of a project of this scale.
The project succeeded in taking the required direction and speed by reworking both the vision and
strategies of each of its components and the operational management tools such as monitoring,
evaluation and accounting. It is clear that the prospect of the PFE's continuity played a unifying
role for technicians. They no longer simply disbursed funds, but felt in fact that they were
contributing to the future of their country, and of their economic sector. The climate of trust
developed during the preparation stage was restored with a much-improved communication with
the partners, who were all involved in the preparation of the following program. This confidence
also enabled the Bank to play a counseling role on several key cases such as the elaboration of the
forestry code. The World Bank also promoted teamwork and greater transparency - which is
often lacking in the forestry sector-, by supporting the development of information systems
(SIGEF, SPSE).
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Based on this, the overall bank performance is considered satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance during the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The
quality of the government's performance in project preparation is partly due to an excellent
strategic vision and a good economic understanding of the challenges of the forestry sector by the
Planning Ministry, and to a strong political will of the Waters and Forestry Ministry to commit
such a project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The overall performance of the government was satisfactory, although there were some
problems with substantial delays in enacting legislation (environment law decree and forest fiscal
reform). However, one should also mention the recurrent delays in disbursing the Gabonese
counterpart funding throughout the project, and the difficulties in assimilating many technical and
strategic studies funded by the project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of the implementing agency is satisfactory. The dedication and
enthusiasm of the CCP staff is impressive and certainly contributed to the implementation results.
On the other hand, the performance of the implementing agency has been impeded throughout by
two recurring problems: (i) the lack of training of the task team in project management,
particularly in World Bank funded projects, and (ii) the lack of tools to guide pilot activities
implementation, particularly during the first two phases of implementation (92-98).
-18-



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the reasons given above, the Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Four major lessons stem from the implementation of the PFE in the context of preparing a
new investment project. These four lessons concern project management, the effectiveness of
institutional capacity strengthening, the economic and fiscal impact of the project and the way to
turn from a problem project to a successful project.
8.1 Project Management:
A satisfactory project management is an intrinsic element of its success. It requires human
resources and management procedures adapted to the sort of exercise to which an administration,
whatever its skills, cannot be prepared for. Yet, from the start, the PFE has suffered deficiencies
in both of these areas. Indeed, despite goodwill and personal involvement of the managers,
supported at first by an international technical assistance, the project management was
painstaking, as much for activities implementation as for relationships with components or also
with the World Bank. These difficulties are firstly due to a lack of training of the managers in
World Bank funded projects management, and secondly to the initial lack of a logical framework
and of tools such as an activities monitoring matrix, or also of performance and impact indicators
for the implementation of activities funded by the project. These management tools were
introduced after the 1998 review, on behalf of the last supervision team (1999-2002).
Consequently, it is appropriate in the context of the preparation of a new investment project, to
plan training for the future managers of the project's implementing agency to the management of
projects funded by the World Bank, and to elaborate tools which will allow them to effectively
implement the project.
8.2 Effectiveness of Institutional support:
The objective of the PFE was to strengthen the institutional capacities of the Ministry of
Waters and Forestry. This objective was and remains valid, for it is an essential condition for
improving sustainable forest and environmental resources utilization in Gabon or, in other words,
for implementing the government's forest policy. That said, if the PFE has succeeded in creating
structures (external services of the Ministry) or in strengthening existing structures in
collaboration with other projects (EU, GTZ, ITTO), it has often omitted to improve the basic
training of the agents working in these structures. Admittedly, some professors from the ENEF
have benefited from short training sessions. Some engineers from the DIARF have also been able
to complete their initial training by a geographical information system training session. However,
the staff redeployed in the field of Gabon's nine provinces have been given offices,
accommodation and cars without any training aimed at improving a monitoring and control action
on forest exploitation made possible by these very equipments. Yet, such training is necessary to
translate this institutional support into a better application of the forestry law, which is the
ultimate aim of institutional support. In other words, physical or material strengthening is a
-19 -



necessary but insufficient condition for the improvement of forest resources and environmental
management. Consequently, it is appropriate, in the context of preparing a new investment
operation, to supplement the institutional support activities with basic training aimed at the
administrative agents equipped with material acquired by the project, so as to improve in fine the
application of the forestry law.
8.3 Economic and Tax Impact of the Project:
At the time of project appraisal, a positive economic and tax impact was expected from
these institutional capacities strengthening investment. In other words, the PFE aimed to increase
the contribution of the forestry sector to the GDP and to the State's tax revenues through
institutional strengthening. The means utilized to reach an increase in GDP were not explicitly
stated. An administration institutional support project is indeed a problem for 'classic' economic
analysis. Technically speaking, a dual uncertainty expresses these difficulties: an uncertainty on
the scenarios without the project, and an uncertainty on the project's direct consequences.In this
case, many assessments conclude to the impossibility of producing a classic economic analysis. In
the case of the PFE project where the chosen activities did not include the direct intervention of
the administration onto the natural resources - except for the management/development of a
natural forests and of a few plantations, the assessment report concluded that an overall economic
analysis of the project was impossible.The assessment report did however suggest means to
increase the tax revenues: they consisted of reforming the forest taxation. This reform, with the
passing of the law on the environment, was actually included in the clauses of the 1993 PFE loan
agreement (No. 3506 GAB), without nonetheless mentioning explicitly the goal of increasing tax
revenues. Ten years later, four successive PFE funded studies have examined this reform, which
still is not implemented, even though the latest study has provided a reasonable negotiating basis,
and even though it is highly likely that a forest taxation reform will be included with IMF help in
the 2003 finance law. The Gabonese government does not wish to engage into a new project
without a prior understanding of its overall tax and economic benefits. This objective is indeed of
the foremost importance to the Planning and Finance Ministries, which does not wish to bring the
country further into debt with a new forest administration institutional support project that would
have no impact on the GDP of the relevant economic sectors and on the tax revenues taken by the
State. This is due to the current situation - a predicted decrease in oil tax returns. Consequently,
the new investment operation must be subjected to an economic and fiscal impact study that
quantifies the overall expected economic and tax benefits.
8.4 From a problem project to a successful project:
The PFE is a good example of a problem project turned into a successful project The PFE
suffered numerous weaknesses up until 1997-98. Firstly, the project was widely considered as a
source of funding to equip the Ministry, in the absence of a shared strategic vision. Secondly, even
at the practical level, many operational shortcomings impeded effective management. Low
disbursement levels materialized these shortcomings. These weaknesses also reflected negatively
on the project's image, and on the morale of the project's managers who were criticized by many
partners. The Gabonese officers and the Bank both decided upon effectively managing change. As
lessons learned, here are stages, that were followed, in this particular case to make this happen:
-20 -



*   First, a feeling of urgency had to be instilled: if things didn't change, the project would have to
be closed in a context where oil revenue decrease drew nearer.
*   Second, a team had to be created which was aware of the necessity for change and capable of
carrying the rest of the partners along. Motivated and competent young professionals joined
the management team and contributed to bring in a new impulse. Confidence between the
Bank and the team was rebuilt, with for example the long- term consultancy of a young
Gabonese executive to Washington for several months.
*   Third, the project had to be given a vision underlain by the economic, ecological and social
significance of the forest and environment sector. This vision, materialized in a general policy
letter, was been woven into each component and sub-sector connected with the PFE. The
reform of the ENEF is an appropriate example of the PFE's strategic contribution.
*   Fourth, the PFE effectively communicated this vision beyond the Ministry, into the entire
country and sub-region, by establishing and implementing a communication plan, and by
utilizing available media such as the REIMP.
*   In parallel and in order to materialize this evolution, the project implemented tangible
activities (for example the Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation System-SPSE, forest
stratification and mapping). This increased team confidence and further improved its
credibility with decision-makers.
*   In addition, to allow change to occur, it was necessary to equip the project with financial and
technical management tools to steer and measure progress. These tools included project
impact and performance indicators. The PFE was able to lead other developments beyond its
own domain of intervention, by weaving close links between its own activities and other
initiatives, particularly with a possible new Bank operation in Gabon, currently in preparation.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The borrower was satisfied with the project, which has been a significant element in
raising awareness in the country of the importance of the forest and environment sector. The
main regret of the borrower concerns the autonomy of the project implementation unit with
regards to the forest administration. A posteriori, this latter considers that it did not have enough
influence on the choice of activities funded by the PFE, particularly since the project restructuring
in 1998. This choice was strongly influenced by the World Bank. It is nonetheless worth pointing
out that during the project appraisal, a project coordination committee - chaired by the Minister
of Waters and Forests, had been suggested to direct inter-ministerial coordination and the periodic
assessment of activities. This committee was never convened. Consequently, the forest
administration had at its disposal a tool to control the choice of activities, which it could not or
would not utilize. This point deserves serious discussion during the initial preparatory phase of a
new investment operation.
Another regret of the borrower concerns the quality of financial management achieved by
the executing agency. This management was not rigorous enough for the World Bank, and this
despite recurring remarks made during the supervision missions it carried out. The PFE audit of
procurement procedures carried out from January to May 2002 confirms the opinion of the
borrower: it points out that none of the analyzed contracts entirely respects the World Bank's
-21 -



procurement procedures. On the other hand, concluding to a significant risk of misappropriation
of project funds seems hasty and could possibly hide a lack of rigor in the audit.
The executing agency, in other words the project coordination unit, also considers that the
implementation of the project was satisfactory. It does however consider that some of the World
Bank's management procedures, particularly the obligation to obtain a non-objection for each
disbursement, are partly responsible for slowing project implementation.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Following the early defection of the European Union, the UNDP and the WWF, no
co-financiers were involved in the PFE.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The private sector (represented by the SYNFOGA, the Gabonese loggers Union) has
highlighted two main grounds for satisfaction with regards to the PFE:
* The private sector appreciated the quality of the officers working in the PFE and of those
trained by the PFE and working within the Ministry of Waters and Forestry. The quality of the
staff does improve the dialogue between the administration and the private sector, and does
enable work in partnership, whether on the forest management theme, on industrialization, or
on forest taxation.
* The private sector was satisfied with the participatory manner in which the forest taxation
reform was discussed during the third study funded by the PFE. The private sector does
indeed consider that the reform proposals have taken into account the funding efforts made by
the private companies to engage with the administration into sustainable management and
increasing industrialization of a logging sector traditionally oriented towards Okoume
selective cuts and whole log exportation without transformation.
10. Additional Information
No additional information is available.
-22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:                                                      .-
IndlcatorM/ardlx          |        Preosd in as PSR                     AcduaMLabd Estimate
Number of back-t-field agents (A-1)  150                                   150
Number of components having an e-mall  616                                 6/6
connection (A-2)
Possession of an Environmental       Yes                                   No
Management Board (A-6)
Adopton of a new Forestry Code (A-7)  Yes                                  Yes
Part of the Forestry sector In the GDP of  100 billion CFA francs (2001)   100 bNlion CFA francs (2001)
Gabon (A-9)
Number of applicatons decrees adopted  10                                  1
conrnming the Environment law 16193 (A-1)
Number of candidates applrng for a    1500                                 1500
scholarship at ENEF (B-1)
Number of specilzatIons In the training  10                                8
provided by ENEF (B-2)
Number of graduates of ENEF hired by the  8                                8
private sector (B-3)
Number of Foreign students (B-7)     6                                     6
Number of private partners hI research  10                                 8
actMhities (C-3)
Number of researchers and technidans  6
animating the research activities (C-4)
Output Indlcators:
Inicaartlwatrix                    Prejetd In lat PSR                   AetuallLatest Esmale
Components parUdpaton rate to the     100 %                                100%
projecUs meetings (A-3)
Number of offices and accommodatlons bullt 85                              137
or restored (A-4)
Staffs of the Ministry of Water and Forestry  325                          325
Number of executive staff trained (A-8)  15                                29
Rate of inspection missions In the fields  once a month                    3 a month
(A-l0)
Number of students at ENEF (1-4)     130                                   130
Total amnount of students accommodation at                                 130
ENEF (8-5)1310
Number of regular teachers at ENEF (8-6)  15                               12
Number of thesis and research publications  15                             12
written about Forestry hI Gabon (C-1)
Surface of plantations folowed-up by  1116 ha                              1116ha
research actvities (C-2)              3 500 ha                             3 500 ha
Surface of Inventoried plantations (D-1)  350 000 ha                       268 000 ha
Surface of Inventorled natural forest (D-2)  13 600 ha                     13 600 ha
Surface of plantations covered by a forest
management plan (D-3)
Surface of natural forest covered by a  268 00 ha                          268 000 ha
forestry management plan (D-4)
Surface of the territory covered by the  17 000 000 Km2                    17 000 000 Km2
topographical database (D-5)
Surface of monitored protected areas (E-1)  500 000 ha                     500 000 ha
Expanse of protected areas (0-2)      34 020 Km2                           34 02Q1 Km2
End of project
-23 -



Component 1: Reinforcement of the capacities of the Ministry
Objective and             Output expected         Output chieved          Impac  expeted          Impacts achreved
Description
*Constitution of Ministry  oCentral depatments  *Improved managerment   *The PFE aclion has been
* Build monitoring and   of water, forest, fisheries  have been mred     of netural resoure      achieved
operating capacities  and environment         *lncreased number of    interventions
of forestry sector    *Move top level         agents dispatched on the  *Over half of Ministry  9129 (2000) agents deplyed
govemmental           executives in           field from 80 (1993) to 129  agents redeployed in the  in the field (from 80 in 1993)
institutions by       decentralized units     (2000)                  field
strengening the                                Administrative offices  *More agents dispatched  eAgents dispatched to the
Minisbes of Waters    *ConstructTon of        and residences were bult  to the field          field
and Fomrstry (MEF),   adminraon offices and   in the entire country
and  oresry (EF), houses
and the Environment,  *Acquisition of computers  *The ministry is     *Improve work quarity
Tounism and National  and worktools           computerized                                     eMinistry departments
Parks (METPN)         *Acquisition of vehicles  *Vehicles and boats have  *Restore managerment  computerized & connected
nd boats                been acquired for the field  cpacity and control of the  to Internet
units                   administration          *More present and effective
*Promotion of the       *Enironmentel law and   *Restore the rights and  field units
adoption of environment  forest law have been   duties of the           eMore financial resources
low and set up new      adopted. New forestry   administration in natural
forestry low and taxation  taxation has been set up  resources management
Component 2: Environmental and forestry formation
Objecive and              Output expected         Outpput achieved        Impacts expected        Impacts achieved
Description                                                                                       _
*More executives for    *Almost 30 top executives  *lIprove the quaeity of  *The quality of Ministry
* Ensure training        natural resources       have been trained       Ministry agents         agents has been ceqty
matching the needs    management                                                              improved
of private sector and  *Development of        *ENEF trainees received  *ENEF trainees to       *ENEF trainees improved
conservation          environmental curricuhlm  training in environmental  improve their technical  their technical skills
.objectives                           1       subjects                capacity
'o v  mproved management  .Development of FCM                            *FCM Management plan
of FCM                  management plan         *Sustainable             developed & irplemented
management of FCM
*ENEF Strategy at       .ENEF strategic study                            *ENEF strategy
regional and sub regional  has been produced    *ENEF development at     completed
levels                                          regional and sub regional
levels
-24 -



Component 3: Environmental and forestry research
Objective and             Output expected        Output achieved         Impacts expected        Impacb achieved
Descripton               _
Proposu a national      A national pgram has   *Mobization of natonal  *Not accomplished
* Support research in    program on Okouwm      been proposed           and intemational funds for
the forestry and      'nprvament                                     program Implementaton
environment sectors                                                  *Publication of results
*Set up a database on the  *A database on the  *Preservation of the local  *The results of the
grwth of plantation    growth rates has been   culture                 Inventory were published
aPreserve the itinerant  developed             *improved productivity of  *Not eccormplihed
culture                 *The plan was not      Andok
Implemented
*Propagation of Andok                          *Appropriation of       *The initidal results of
through artiicial        Cerlain arffRcal      techniques by farmers  aetificial regeneration
regeneration           regeneraton techniques                          techniques ae promising
*Promote perticiation of  were successful
the local communities in
forest management
*Colltion of the
information on Gabon's                         *Promotion of the plant
timber species          eNot echieved          colection
*Development of the
collection and display of
plants                                                                 *The plant collction has
*Publication to help    *40 shelves of plant                           expended
researchers implant     coglections were
species identilication  developed
*Development of the     *Not achieved
review of the research
management
*Research strategic study
Ihas been produced
Component 4: Sustainable management of forest
Objective and             Output expected        Output achieved         Impacts expected        Impacts achieved
Description
*Development of a       *Management plan has   *Pilot management       *improved management
* Contribute to a better  management plan for a  been developed         plan to be implemented  of natual fbrest
exploitation of       200 000 ha natural                             by fbrestry farmer
foresty resources by  forest
implementing, on a    *Implementation of                             *Directives to
pilot basis, a forestry  forest management                           implement forestry
management plan in    directives                                     farmer's management
the exploited first   ePromotion of the      *Silvicultural          plan
logging zone          development of forest  operations implemented
plantations             to improve forest
*To prepare a           *A plantation's cost and  *Improve plantation
management plan for     benefit study has been  growth and
forest plantations      produced                development
-25 -



Component 5: Environment and protected areas
Objective and             Output expected         Output achieved         Impacts expected        Impacts achieved
Description
*Equipment of field unit  See component 1
* Assistthe
Govemment in          eCreate the Ganba        * The Garba conmIexe
creatng protected     coniplex and Minkebe     and the Minjkbe resere
areas and             reseve                   has been created .... but
maintaining ter                                not by the proect
fauna and flora.       Organkaton of           * Produced posters cri
carpatn aganst           out infondon, educatin
poaching                 and communvnion in 9
.              ~~~~provrince
* Statgy was wriUen in
*Define a DFC strategy   October 2000
-26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraial-   AotuaULatest   Per.entage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appaisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ miHlion  US$ million
A. Institutional reinforcement of the Ministry     17.20          23.27           135
B. Forestry and enviromnent training                2.30.          0.18           7.8
C. Forestry and environment research  .             2.10          .0.90           4.3
D. Forests sustainable management                   5.80           4.06            70
E. Management of protected areas                    2.60           0.41          15.7
Total Baseline Cost                                30.00          28.82
Physical Contingencies                             1.80
Price Contingencies                                6.40                         97.6
Total Project Costs            38.20          28.82
Interest during construction
Total Financing Required            38.20          28.82
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category     lCB       Procurement Method           N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         2.10         0.00         1.10        3.20
(0.00)       (2.10)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (2.10)
2. Goods                     5.90         0.20         0.20         5.10        11.40
(5.90)       (0.20)       (0.20)       (0.00)       (6.30)
3. Services                               0.00         10.20        2.80        13.00
0          (0.00)       (10.20)      (0.00)       (10.20)
4. Fellowships and           0.00         0.00         2.00         0.10         2.10
Training
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.00)       (0.00)       (2.00)
5. Operating Costs           0.00         0.00         1.60         6.60         8.20
______________________  (0.00)      (0.00)        (1.60)       (0.00)      (1.60)
6. Reimbursement of PPF      0.00         0.00         0.30         0.00         0.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.30)       (0.00)       (0.30)
Total                     5.90         2.30         14.30        15.70        38.20
(5.90)       (2.30)      (14.30)       (0.00)      (22.50)
-27 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category          ICB             NCB           Other          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                          0.22            7.20                          0.00           7.42
(0.20)          (6.48)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (6.68)
2. Goods                          0.28            3.33           0.07           0.00           3.68
(0.25)          (3.00)         (0.06)         (0.00)         (3.31)
3. Services                       3.57            0.49           1.02           0.00           5.08
(3.21)          (0.44)         (0.89)         (0.00)         (4.54)
4. Fellowships and                0.00            0.00           0.09           0.00           0.09
Tralning
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.09)         (0.00)         (0.09)
5. Operating Costs                0.00            0.00           4.64           0.00           4.64
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.46)         (0.00)         (0.46)
6. Reimbursement of PPF           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          4.07            11.02          5.82           0.00          20.91
(3.66)          (9.92)         (1.50)         (0.00)        (15.08)
Total based on a partial evaluation.
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in USS million equivalent)
........ . : > ;. - .: : ................ :::; .; :: : - :: ;: :: . :::::: . : ef ^~~~~~~~~~~. ...... .....
..mpon                                                 .. - ... .  , .:. . r   .. at  : sia; . . ...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                  ,  ......;;...... . -  -........  ............ ,-,,......
:B _.  nk ::-       :    -ov-   Ban- (                 oP.    Bink .:.       CoF.
A. Institutional           10.20      7.00                17.50       4.73               171.6   67.6
reinforcement of the
Ministry
B. Forestry and            1.60      0.70                  0.13       0.05                8.1    7.1
environment training
C. Forestry and            1.20      0.90                  0.68      0.22                56.7    24.4
environment research
D. Forests sustainable     1.40      4.40                  3.05       1.01              217.9    23.0
management
E. Management of           1.70      0.90                  0.31       0.10               18.2    11.1
protected areas
Physical contingencies   1.10      0.07                                                0.0     0.0
Price contingencies      4.90       1.50                                               0.0     0.0
-28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable (There is no mention of a global Net Present Value/Economic Rate of
Return, or economic costs and benefits projections, in the SAR of the project).
-29 -



Annex 4. Bank InpuIts
a) Missions:
Stngeof P*qject Cycle             No. of Persons anid Specialty .   Performiance Ratin g
(e.g 2 Economists, IjFMS, etc.)  .lplementation Development:::
. :Mont/Year  Count.      SpecialtProgs :O-tive
Identificatlon/Preparation
12/1991                 8   TASK MANAGER (I);             S           S
FORESTRY ECONOMIST (1);
(FORESTRY SPECIALIST (I);
ENVIRONMENT LAW
SPECIALIST (I);
ENVIRONMENTAL
SPECIALIST (I); FORESTRY
SPECIALIST;
ENVIRONMENTAL
EDUCATION SPECIALIST (I);
ENVIRONMENTAL
SPECIALIST (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/1991                 7   TASK MANAGER (1);             S           S
FORESTRY ECONOMIST
(2) ENVIRON.
SPECIALIST (3);
FORESTRY SPECIALIST
(1);
Supervlsion
11/23/1992               4  ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC.          HS          HS
(1); AGR. ECONOMIST (1);
SR FORESTRY SPEC. (1);
FORESTRY SPECIALIST
(1)
04/09/1993               1  AGR ECONOMIST (I)             HS          HS
01/26/1994               3  FORESTRY SPEC. (1); AGRIC.    HS          HS
ECONOMIST (1);
ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
(I)
07/30/1994               3  AGRI. ECONOMIST (2);          S           S
ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
(1)
03/10/1995               4  ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST        S           U
(1); PROJECT OFFICER (I);
ECONOMY (1); FORESTRY
SPECIALIST (1)
10/13/1995               4  PROJECT OFFICER (1);          U           U
FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1);
AGRICULTURIST (1);
PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST(I)
-30-



Mid-Tern Review          4  TASK MANAGER (1);             S           S
July 1996                 FORESTRY SPEClALIST (1);
ECONOMIST (1); MAPPING
SPECIALIST (1)
10/25/1997              2   FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1);      S           S
TASK MANAGER (I)
03/1411998               2  PROJECT MANAGER (1);          S           S
INFORMATION MGT
SPECIALIST (1)
09/29/1998               2  PROJECT MANAGER (1);          S           S
INFO MGMT SPECIALIST (I)
04/06/1999               3  ENV. INFO SPECIALIST (1);     S           S
FORESTRY LEAD
SPEClALIST (1); COUNTRY
ECONOMIST
S           S
12/08/1999               3  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
INFORMATION SPECIALIST
(1); FORESTRY SPEClALIST
(1)
05/25/2000               3  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S           S
INFORMATION SYSTEM SP.
(1); PROJECT ASSISTANT (1)
)
11/13/2000              2   MISSION LEADER (1);           S           S
INFORMATION SPEClALIST
(1)
05/27/2001               3  MISSION LEADER (1);           S            S
PROJECT ASSISTANT (1);
FORESTER (1)
12/13/2001               1  MISSION LEADER (1)            S           S
05/20/2002               3  TASK TEAM LEADER (I);         S            S
PROJECT ASSISTANT (2)
ICR
September 2002          1    NATURAL RESOURCES            S           S
ECONOMIST
-31 -



(b) Staff.
. S.$tatof Project  cle     .   : .: . AituaVLatest Estifnate.:
No. Staft weeks::           US ('000)
Identification/Preparation            136.2                       292
Appraisal/Negotiation                 186.5                      146.6
Supervision                            73.8                     693.30
ICR                                                               20.0
Total                                 396.5                     1151.9
-32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H   OSUOM     ON    * NA
O] Sector Policies                    O H   OSU*M     O N   O NA
I Physical                            0H    * SUOM    ON    O NA
Ol Financial                          O H   O SU O M  O N   * NA
Ol Institutional Development          0 H   O SUO M   0 N   0 NA
Ol Environmental                      O.H   O SU * M  O N   O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O.H   OSUOM     ON    * NA
Ol Gender                       O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
O Other (Please specify)        O H   OSUOM     ON    * NA
O Private sector development          0 H   O SU O M  0 N   * NA
El Public sector management          OH    OSU*M     O N   O NA
M Other (Please specify)              O H   OSUOM     O N   *NA
-33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=i3ighly Satisfictory, S-Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
O Lending                                         O HSOS       OU    OiHU
O Supervision                                     OHS OS       OU    OHU
ID Overall                                        OHS OS       OU    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
L Preparation                                     OHS OS       OU    OHU
G Government implementation performance           O HS * S     0 U   0 HU
I lmplementation agency performance               OIHS OS      0 U   0 HU
Li Overall                                        OHS OS       OU   0 HU
-34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* "Gabon, Forestry and Environment Project" - Staff Appraisal report, June 10, 1992, WB
report No 10503-GAB
0 "Projet Forets et Environnement - Revue a mi-parcours" - Evaluation report, Julyl996,
Comit6 de Supervision et de Suivi du PFE
*  "Etude des acquis du PFE et de leur p6rennisation" - Final report of the study,
TECSULT, February 2002.
*  "Audit des proc6dures de passations de march6 du PFE" - Final report of the study,
Pricewaterhouse/Coopers, April 2002.
* Supervision and monitoring reports, procurement documents and missions aide-memoires
in project files
* "Rapport de fin de projet". PFE, June 2002.
* "Accord de pret (Projet Foret Environnement) entre la R6publique Gabonaise et la
BIRD". January 1993.
Quality of Supervision of Risky Projects (FYOO-01), summary assesment sheet and guidance
questionnaire.
-35 -



I



MAP SECTION






50'                                                                    I C l  l4
C     A  M   E   R     0  0   N
/ ~ 0 rO   Ebw.ke   JOO  To Songsoo
Ebeyi  Eb
t    -   7' ( , '~~~Bison  - Ebmo.ns
2-                                                        01 Ej/                                                 2 f  
E Q U A T O     R   I A L      ssokNgo                  1
, G U I  -N E A                 T    5
Coboac(IO MUNI) )                  an
Co.p kserios,,:/ /M t'                                         Mdioo  7    0           -
CpS_ran               Ataah_                                               D   0         2    To Atko-
LIBREVILLE                            L.og- A  T o   .
r~~~~~~~~~~~ Mean Kg)amkyang                                  /                                           -
Cq      x     e.,r? *et  ci     G   0   0  u,f i  \- &aN
Pou~~~~~~~~~~P
, ,0. f/kO,~~ O  UYfadrebiV        N   /  f '   \        /           >        ;          r   (O
bi  Ete'k'0~~~~~Rots ricpoe
2-   bW  R / 3k/ M 7etg  S  W    (   epou \.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~no        nceWunb         Ok.,
ila     Mbigo. thr  oas                  anans
setr6 Camor;NjuSo.R tOr,&       8    \            L9t              GABRoutes
Gom J  E \  / \g- \          rFORESTRY AND
cn hibrun~~Inaa g.                        ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
C.en   Per, ieu.   ru           nd Gas
ATZA                                                                              S /w I'/ C  amsUonium
SesnallyI nudtd  ra
>_Zzoon  .i  \  t                      V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zijnc
15  A  /L^/        <   /       <'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2 ~~Primory Roads  3 "rO'
t t  \ Sb        ~~~~~~Route, Principoles
Other Rords              Mengonnde
Autres Routes t           F
<} y CENT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ra -. Rilrords, Completed "Brt
J sCENTRAL/                                           Ch Anirsf                   Reserves DorenierdAE P s Na
R P   I                                            C .  Oil Terminoly        Region Capitals
\rQ      rio^^ter e  z  Jp.  C3  8  100 }4o i*3 Iit  t-  Terminal Petraoher  ia pNoonles to
01t0o555655  up -. up  ny  iqo  ija  49  60               Natitioal A~pot  onal  apto
/ A rS        AnLE~~Msot o      Lb   80b' s   ideb                               Copitole Notinobe
T_ _ _ his ap hos b.n prepard by Tha worlfdaoks eiefaoloei riA pr,r,al  SRegias   Boundories   A _ -
uOCf.41Vnce of roleaef drs and s osti Lneh'.tyord.  ures us.atte WeOd  Air pronierens  Regionales E o
CONP                                                    tFo                       tR e estan tsd TNathe dionlsPo n 3 nrd and ike i,dorka sers ad  - .
\  n rop doriol iviP ply  rh ~porl oftah WorldSankGr vtop, er.ir dpemeei -  _ lesereaioval Boundaries E - i
\ V - rm tILrn     seba a f any  oier7 or any  erednmev or Tucpino of           CFraptoie   Ntieonles
L-k G  .: drtr vrh  b-dd. nd-d*4                                                       'S_









CATALOGUERSIFILE    T- -e 1-
Rennrt N.n   24900
Tr-. .,, R
I Type:  ICR



