CONFORMED COPY
S
LOAN NUMBER 1128 TA
Loan Agreement
(Mwanza Textile Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 19, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1128 TA
Loan Agreement
(Mwanza Textile Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 19, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1975, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund) to assist in the financing of
the foreign exchange cost of Part A of the Project;
(C)   The Project will be carried out by Mwanza Textiles Limited (hereinafter
called MWATEX) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to MWATEX the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
(D) The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and MWATEX;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "TEXCO" means the National Textile Corporation established under
the National Textile Corporation (Establishment) Order, 1973, of the Borrower;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank,
MWATEX and TEXCO of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and MWATEX pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan made to MWATEX by the Borrower
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e)   "completion" or "completed", when used with respect to the facilities
included in Part A of the Project, means that such facilities shall have produced
at least 2,900,000 meters of finished textile fabrics over a continuous period of
60 days; and
(f)   "TSh" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE H
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to tiye, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b)  On or before each of the semi-annual interest payment dates specified
in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay,
on such date, interest and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on
or before the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time.


﻿.5
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be July 1, 1979 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May I and November I in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be carried out Part C of the
Project and, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause MWATEX and TEXCO to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable MWATEX and TEXCO
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan (except the portion
thereof disbursed by, the Bank for Part C of the Project) to MWATEX under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into betw.en the Borrower and MWATEX,


﻿6
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include the
following:
(i)        the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by
MWATEX shall be the equivalent (determined as of the date,
or the respective dates, of repayment) of the value of the
currency or currencies from the Loan Account expressed in
terms of United States dollars at the time of withdrawal;
(ii)       the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid in 18 installments over 13
years (including 4-1/2 years of grace); and
(iii)      MWATEX shall pay interest on the outstanding balance of the
Subsidiary Loan at the rate of ten per cent (10%) per annum.
Interest due up to and including April 30, 1978 shall be
capitalized and repaid pro rata with the installments of the
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan.
(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)  Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower (i) shall make available to TEXCO by way of increasing the Borrower's
paid-in equity participation in TEXCO by an amount of not less than one hundred
million Tanzanian shillings (TShlO0,000,000), and (ii) shall cause TEXCO to make
such amount as shall be paid in by the Borrower in accordance with the above
sub-paragraph (d)(i) available to MWATEX by way of increasing TEXCO's equity
participation in MWATEX for the purpose of assisting MWATEX in financing the
carrying out of the Project, such amounts, which shall be provided for in the
Borrower's annual budget, to be paid into TEXCO by the Borrower and into
MWATEX by TEXCO in accordance with such schedule as shall be required by
MWATEX to carry out the Project and comply at all times with the obligations
of MWATEX set forth or referred to in the Project Agreement.
(e)  To the extent that shareholders of MWATEX other than TEXCO
increase their paid-in equity participations before completion of Part A of the
Project, the obligations of the Borrower set forth in paragraph (d) of this Section
shall be reduced pro tanto.


﻿7
(f)   In the event that funds are needed to complete the Project in addition
to the proceeds of the Loan, the funds made available for the Project by the
Kuwait Fund and the funds made available to MWATEX pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph (d) hereof, the Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, such
funds to MWATEX pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) hereof, in such
proportion of debt and equity as shall be consistent with the provisions of Section
4.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary or appropriate
to ensure that, after completion of Part A of the Project, MWATEX, operating
efficiently, obtains revenues sufficient to cover all of its costs, to service all of
its debt and to earn a reasonable return on its invested capital.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date; and (iii) any charges on the General Fund of the East African Community
(hereinafter called the Community) securing a debt of the Community where the
amount of the debt service on such debt in any financing year together with other
debt service on other debt of the Community payable from such General Fund
in such financial year does not exceed 2% of the average of customs duties and
excise duties collected by the East African Customs and Excise Department in
the three financial years preceding such incurrence. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "debt service" shall include payments of the principal of, and interest


﻿8
and other charges on, debt; and any reference to incurring of debt shall include
the assumption and guarantee of debt and any renewal, extension or modification
of the terms of the debt or of the assumption or guarantee thereof.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including assets held by any institution performing the
functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall carry out the study included in Part C
of the Project. The conclusions of the study will be applied to any major expansion
of the textile manufacturing industry.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause Tanzania Electric Supply Company
Limited to make available, as required, a supply of electric power sufficient to
ensure the efficient operation of the MWATEX integrated textile plant.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)   MWATEX     or TEXCO shall have failed to perform    any of their
respective covenants, agreements or obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that MWATEX or TEXCO will be able to perform its respective
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of MWATEX or for the
suspension of its operations.
(d)   (i)        Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the loan made to the Borrower by the Kuwait
Fund for the financing of the Project shall have been


﻿9
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or
(B)   such loan shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)       Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower,
of MWATEX or of TEXCO to perform any of their
respective obligations under such agreement, and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower and to MWATEX from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement and of MWATEX under
the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and MWATEX; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or (d)(i)B of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
MWATEX and TEXCO have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;


﻿10
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and MWATEX, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)(i) The execution and delivery of a loan agreement on behalf of the Kuwait
Fund and the Borrower for the provision to the Borrower of an amount of four
million five hundred thousand Kuwaiti dinars (KD4,500,000) for the purpose of
assisting in financing the foreign exchange cost of Part A of the Project have been
duly authorized by all necessary corporate and governmental action, and all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of said loan agreement or the right to
make withdrawals thereunder or to receive goods and services thereunder, except
only the effectiveness of said loan agreement, shall have been fulfilled, and (ii)
the Borrower shall have entered into a loan agreement with MWATEX providing
for the on-lending of the proceeds of the Kuwait Fund loan to MWATEX for
such purpose; and
(d)  MWATEX shall have increased its authorized capital to one hundred
and twenty million Tanzanian Shillings (Tsh120,000,000).
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, MWATEX and TEXCO, and is legally
binding upon MWATEX and TEXCO in accordance with its terms;
(b)  That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and MWATEX,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and MWATEX in accordance
with its terms; and
(c)  That the authorized capital of MWATEX has been duly increased to
the amount set forth in paragraph (d) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. The date September 29, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿11
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s / Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation of amounts of the Loan to
each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                       Dollar Equivalent)
(1)  Equipment and materials                              9,000,000
for Part A of the Proj-
ect (other than for spin-
ning plant)
(2)   Engineering services                                 1,100,000
and technical advisors
under Part A of the Project
and staff training under
Part B of the Project
(3)   Study under Part C                                    200,000
of the Project
(4)   Interest and other                                   1,500,000
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
April 30, 1978
(5)   Unallocated                                         3,200,000
TOTAL         15,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)  expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;


﻿14
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category 2 on account of expenditures
incurred after April 1, 1975, in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$150,000; and
(c)   payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet such
estimated shortfall, proceed) of the Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
4.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to expand MWATEX's textile production facilities
near the city of Mwanza. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:    Integrated Textile Plant
The construction and equipping of an integrated textile plant near the
city of Mwanza to produce about 20 million linear meters of finished
cotton fabrics per year, such plant to include about 28,000 spindles,
about 600 looms as well as the necessary bleaching, mercerizing, dyeing
and printing equipment.
Part B:    Staff Training
The carrying out of a training program acceptable to the Borrower,
the Bank, TEXCO and MWATEX, designed to train a sufficient number
of qualified staff members of MWATEX in textile technology and
operations for the purpose of enabling them to operate the facilities
included in Part A of the Project upon their completion.
Part C.    Study
The carrying out of a study of the possibilities of marketing textiles
manufactured in Tanzania in other countries including the study of
the feasibility of constructing in Tanzania a textile plant for the
production of polyester-cotton blended materials.
The facilities included in Part A of the Project are expected to start
commercial operation in early 1978.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars)*
November 1, 1980                                       205,000
May 1, 1981                                            215,000
November 1, 1981                                       220,000
May 1, 1982                                            230,000
November 1, 1982                                       240,000
May 1, 1983                                            250,000
November 1, 1983                                       265,000
May 1, 1984                                            275,000
November 1, 1984                                       285,000
May 1, 1985                                            295,000
November 1, 1985                                       310,000
May 1, 1986                                            325,000
November 1, 1986                                       335,000
May 1, 1987                                            350,000
November 1, 1987                                       365,000
May 1, 1988                                            380,000
November 1, 1988                                       400,000
May 1, 1989                                            415,000
November 1, 1989                                       435,000
May 1, 1990                                            450,000
November 1, 1990                                       470,000
May 1, 1991                                            490,000
November 1, 1 991                                      510,000
May 1, 1992                                            535,000
November 1, 1992                                       555,000
May 1, 1993                                            580,000
November 1, 1993                                       605,000
May 1, 1994                                            630,000
November 1, 1994                                       655,000
May 1, 1995                                            685,000
November 1, 1995                                       715,000
May 1, 1996                                            745,000
November 1, 1996                                       775,000
May 1, 1997                                            805,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years                            1-1/4%
before maturity
More than three years but                            2-1/2%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                          4-1/2%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                           6-3/4%
not more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                      7-1/2%
more than twenty years
before maturity
More than twenty years                               8-1/2%
before maturity


