FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1555-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND-FOOD INDUSTRY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR THE
SADOVA-CORABIA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
January 15, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1.   Official Rate
lei 4.97    =    US$1.00
lei 1       =    US$0.20
2.   Tourist Rate
lei 12.00   =    US$1.00
lei 1       =    us$o.o8
Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
lei 20      =    US$1.00
lei 1       =    US$0.05
..Fiscal Year -- January 1 - December 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVF LO)PMFNT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
INDUSTRY, ROMANIA, WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA FOR THE
SADOVA-CORABIA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) of Romania, with the
guarantee of the Socialist Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of US$30
million to help finance an agricultural credit project. The loan would have
a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8 1/2 percent
per annum. BAFI would relend the proceeds of the loan to cooperatives, and
to State farms and enterprises, at 3 and 4 percent per annum for terms up to
20 years including up to five years grace.
PART I - TIE ECONOMY'
2.        Romania joined the Bank on December 15, 1972.    The second economic
mission visited the country in May 1974, and its report, entitled "Economic
Position and Prospects of Romania" (492a-RO), was circulated to the Execu-
tive Directors on November 4, 1974. Social and economic country data are
given in Annex I.
3.        Since the founding in 1947 of the People's Republic of Romania,
which in 1965 was reconstituted as the Socialist Republic of Romania, eco-
nomic management has been organized along socialist principles which have in-
clided state and cooperative ownership of almost all productive resources, and
the absence of private enterprise. Economic activity is directed by means of
obligatory development planning, coordinated by the central authorities. Pro-
ductive enterprises operate within the framework of the development plan which
defines the scope of their activity, the outlines of their production and
investment goals and their targets for operating efficiency. The Plan is
elaborated within a five-year titie frame, each year having a separate Anniual
Plan. The country is presently in the fiftlh year of its Five-Year Plan for
the period 1971-1975, and is currently preparing the next Five-Year Plan for
1976-80.
4.        The technical and functional ministries are the State's chief agents
for the administration of economic activity. They are assisted by subordinate
units known as Centrals, which coordinate and supervise activities within a
common branch or industry without being directly engaged in production. Sub-
ordinate to the Centrals are the enterprises whose principal task is meeting



- 2 -
production targets. Production enterprises generally are not authorized to
engage directly in foreign trade. For this purpose they use special foreign
trade enterprises.
5.        Economic development is of paramount concern to the Romanian Gov-
ernment. Rapid industrialization is a major objective with priority being
given to heavy industry including steel, machine tools and chemicals. To
achieve their growth objectives, the Romanian authorities have made consider-
able efforts to mobilize domestic resources for development and to maintain
a high rate of capital formation. In the present Five-Year Plan, planned and
actual investment rates of around 30 percent of GNP have been the norm. As
a consequence, consumption has been restrained, and the development of the
consumer goods industry has been less strongly emphazised than that of heavy
industry. In 1972, heavy industry (led by machine tools, chemicals and fer-
rous metallurgy) accounted for about 70 percent of industrial production.
6.        As a result of this strategy, a marked change has been achieved in
the structure of Romania's economy. Rapid industrial growth, which over the
last decade has averaged more than 13 percent per annum, has expanded the
share of the labor force employed in industry (including power and construc-
tion) from about 14 percent in 1950 to 35 percent in 1971. During the same
period, the share of labor force engaged in agriculture declined from 74 per-
cent to around 42 percent; and while agricultural output almost tripled, its
share in GNP amounted to only 16 percent in 1973.
7.        Notwithstanding the emphasis on industrialization, more than half
of the population (about 58% in 1973) still lives in rural areas and agricul-
ture remains a key sector of the economy. Apart from supplying food, indus-
trial inputs and the residual labor increment for industrial growth (which
requires an expansion in agricultural productivity), the sector also supplies
upwards of 40% of the nation's convertible foreign exchange earnings. These
earnings, which are largely used to buy imported inputs for industry, have
often been jeopardized as a result of unstable production growth in agricul-
ture.  The maintenance of the industrial development program, therefore, is
dependent on the performance of the agricultural sector.
8.        Romania's population growth is around 1.0 percent per annum.      Thus,
the impact of rapid economic growth on per capita incomes has been only mar-
ginally diluted by the population increase. In the last decade, GNP growth
has averaged 9.0 percent per annum, implying a growth of about 8.0 percent per
annumL of per capita GNP.  The fortlhcoming World Bank Atlas estimates GNIP per
capit.l for 1972 at $810.
9.        The organization of production in both the urban sector and in
agriculture is such that all labor is employed and there is no open un-
employment. There is, however, some labor surplus. Income distribution is
also relatively equal.   In 1973, average monthly wages were 1,563 lei (over



-3-
$75 equivalent) per month, up 4.3 percent over the previous year. Almost
80 percent of all monthly wages in 1972 were within the range of 900-2,000 lei
and less than 6 percent were under 900 lei. Minimum wages are guaranteed by
the State; they were raised to 1,000 lei per month for full-time workers in
September 1971. Prices for essential consumer goods and services such as
basic foodstuffs, rents and urban transport are relatively low and most social
services, notably education and health care, are provided without charge.
Continuous efforts are made to increase the standard of living. Romania also
pursues a positive regional policy which has sought to bring a balanced
development of both human and natural resources to all parts of the country.
10.       The official exchange rate of lei 4.97 per US$1 is used only for
accounting purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per
US$1, having been revalued from a rate of lei 14.38 per US$1 in October 1974.
Under a new system introduced in January 1974, the prices of all traded goods
are converted at a uniform rate of lei 20 per US$1, a rate which is considered
by the Romanians as being representative of the cost of convertible foreign
exchange. For imported goods, the domestic lei price is found by adding
to the foreign price converted at the new rate a tariff rate which varies
for different types of goods. The rate of lei 20 per US$1 has also been
used to convert national income statistics from lei to dollars. Consequently,
this rate has been used as the base rate for calculations in the appraisal.
Recent Developments
11.       Since the National Party Conference of 1967, which set the stage
for major qualitative advances in Romania's economic and social development,
there have been important new emphases in Romania's economic management.
Measures were taken to improve the institutional basis of planning (e.g. by
creating the Centrals to assist in plan administration), to increase the ef-
ficiency of economic management and to improve upon the quality of production
in industry. In agriculture efforts were made to raise productivity and
stabilize growth through irrigation, mechanization and the expanded use of
chemical fertilizers. To expand upon the growth of foreign trade and tech-
nical-economic cooperation the Romanian Government has concluded trade and
cooperation agreements with a wide range of countries. In this context also,
Pomania has made positive efforts to expand its multilateral external rela-
tions and to pursue full cooperation with the international agencies, includ-
ing UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, FAO, UNIDO and GATT.
12.       Recent measures aimed at continued improvement of the management
system include a reorganization (involving a reduction from 217 to 89) in the
number of industrial Centrals and a concentration of their planning, control
and research functions. The pursuit of purely physical goals in production
and trade, while still an important element in the system, is being supplement-
ed by much greater emphasis on productive and investment efficiency, product
quality, pricing and foreign competitiveness. To eliminate wasteful investment
and production expenditures, a Superior Court of Financial Control has been
instituted, among other things, to oversee a new system of financial control.



- 4 -
13.       One result of these efforts is that foreign trade has expanded quite
rapidly in recent years both in volume and in regional diversity. There has
also been a tendency to move away from trade on a bilateral barter basis to-
ward trade involving multilateral payments. During the period 1965-72, total
foreign trade grew at about 12 percent per annum in current prices. As a
result of both rapid world price increases and expanded volume of trade, the
total value of trade grew by 38 percent in 1973, with exports growing by 44
percent to US$3.7 billion, and imports increasing by 34 percent to US$3.5 bil-
lion. About 50 percent of 1973 trade was with non-socialist countries. Over-
all trade deficits have generally remained small, and in 1973 there was a trade
surplus of $233 rmillion, while the deficit with the convertible area was re-
duced. During 1968-72, the total annual trade deficit averaged about $75 mil-
lion (i.e. less than 8 percent of average exports). However, the results
varied as between different trade regions. Imports from East European Socialist
countries were slightly lower than Romania's exports to that region. In
Romania's trade withi Western industrialized countries, on the other hand, ex-
ports typically have been much less than imports.   These deficits have some-
times been increased by deficits on the invisibles account with Western
countries.
14.       The structure of Romania's trade with the developed market economies
remains essentially unfavorable, despite the decline in deficit in 1973 and
expectations of a surplus on the convertible account for the first time in
1974. Raw materials and agricultural commodities, both of which are subject
to unstable price and production conditions, comprise about 60 percent of
total exports to these countries. At the same time, imports from these coun-
tries are largely of machines and equipment and other manufactures. Thus,
the present rather strong position in the convertible trade balance could well
just be cyclical and should not be interpreted as an indication that Romania's
chronic shortages of convertible currencies is at an end. Because of the pre-
sent low level of reserves, any instability in export performance, as frequently
arises from shortfalls in agriculture (paragraph 7 above), will place the
import program in immediate jeopardy, and shortages of convertible currencies
would persist even if Romania were to have recurring overall trade surpluses.
15.       Romania is relatively well endowed with energy resources and for
this reason has been less affected than some countries by recent developments
in this sector. Romania is a marginal (but growing) importer of crude oil
but is not dependent on this for fuel, using the imports as chemical feedstock
to make products for re-export.   Romania h-ias substantial deposits of natural
gas, crude oil and solid fuels (mainly lignite) as well as some limited hydro-
power, uranium and geothermal energy.   There has been a long-standing policy
to reduce the use of gas and oil as fuels, conserving these for higher value
uses while expanding the use of lignite as a combustible. This policy was
devised before the events of late 1973, though priorities were thereafter
intensified in the form of a decree on energy use and development issued in
November 1973. Among other things, the decree imposed rationing of gasoline,
though this was suspended in March 1974, following an increase in the domestic
selling price of gasoline. One of the implications of the strategies set forth
in the decree is that investment needs in the sector will be greater than
before, mainly because technical options favored by the decree for electrical



-5-
power development, such as lignite based, hydro electric and nuclear stations,
are all relatively more capital intensive than the alternatives of gas and oil
fired stations. The plan for 1976-80, now being drafted, will contain provi-
sion for an increased share of investments for energy development.
External Assistance
16.       The expansion of Romania's trade with the non-socialist industrial
countries has led to an increased need to obtain convertible currencies to pay
for imports from those countries. Romania has met this need both by borrowing
abroad and by mounting a major effort to expand exports and tourism. Gross
inflows of convertible currency through medium- and long-term loans were
US$542 million in 1973, having grown from US$276 million in 1967. Romania's
access to convertible finance, however, has been almost exclusively confined
to financial and suppliers' credits with relatively short repayment periods.
The net inflow of convertible capital in 1973, therefore, was only US$238
million.
17.       As part of its effort to expand its foreign trade and cooperation
relationships, Romania has also takeni active steps to attract long-term pri-
vate capital. A regulation passed in 1972 defines the conditions under which
foreign firms can establish joint ventures with domestic enterprises, prefer-
ably in foreign exchange earning/saving industries. By mid-1974, four joint
venture agreements had been signed, involving direct foreign investment of
about US$20 million.   Romania also receives medium-term trade credits from
U.S. Eximbank and trades under ECGD, COFACE, and HERMES credit guarantees with
the United Kingdom, France and the Federal Republic of Germany, respectively.
In addition, Romania has access to non-convertible currency investment credits
from the International Investment Bank, Moscow, from which it has borrowed
$30 million so far.
18.       As it stands, therefore, Romania's access to long-term finance in
convertible currencies is still very restricted. The IBRD is the only major
source of long-term finance providing funds at terms beyond ten years, though
Romania is making efforts to improve its access to the major financial markets.
The Bank's presence on a significant scale would have a positive influence in
this regard, and the Bank might serve as a catalyst for involving other lenders
in Romania. This could serve both to increase the total amount of Bank-
sponsored funds available to Romania and to build outside confidence in the
country, thereby enhancing in the long-term its independent access to the
world's financial inarket.
Prospects
19.       The current Five-Year Plan (1971-75), for which original targets
in most sectors appear likely to be exceeded, reflects Romania's continued
strategy of rapid growth. The targets contained in the Annual Plan for 1974,
for example, include a 16.7 percent growth in industrial production, 14.6
percent growth in national income, an investment rate equal to 35 percent of
national income and a 41 percent expansion of foreign trade. In convertible
trade, the plan stipulates a 76 percent increase in export earnings and a 51
percent growth in imports. Figures comparable to these have probably been



achieved which will imply a balance of trade surplus with the convertible
areas this year. The Plan also lays stress on a range of qualitative aspects
of development including technical improvements and diversification in industry
and foreign trade, improvements in capacity utilization, development of the
nation's human resource potential and a continued emphiasis on regional devel-
opment.
20.       Romania has good potential for furtlher economic growth. Endowed
with important natural resources (fuels, some minerals, timber, rich soils
and a favorable climate both for agriculture and tourism) and located con-
veniently with respect to its major international markets in the East and
West, the country has built a broad industrial infrastructure (power, metal-
lurgy, chemicals) which will serve as a base for the expansion of secondary
manufacturing sectors such as machine building and consumer durables. Above
all, Romania has a hard-working and increasingly skilled population devoted
to the achievement of the country's development objectives.
21.       Economic growth and structural change call for the introduction of
new technologies, improvements in the quality of products, more economic use
of materials and factor inputs, and reductions in production costs. The in-
creasing diversity and complexity of Romania's economic structure require
continuing improvements in the efficiency of economic planning and coordina-
tion and further refinements in economic management. To keep up withi these
changes and requirements, large programs of education and manpower training
have been mounted, and efforts are being made to strengthen technical coop-
eration with industrialized countries and international organizations.
Creditworthiness
22.       At the end of 1973, Romania's total medium- and long-term external
debt amounted to $1,519 million. Most of these debts ($1,404 million) were
denominated in convertible currencies, the major creditor countries being
Germany, France, UK and Italy. While the total debt does not appear excessive
in relation to the volume and growth of external trade, average maturities
are relatively short and convertible debt service payments are estimated to
be in the order of $340 million a year during 1974-75. The convertible debt
service ratio was approximately 19 percent in 1973, reflecting the unfavorable
terms of foreign credits available to the country. The ratio for 1974 is
thought to have declined (to around 10 percent), following a very rapid growth
in exports.
23.       The organization of economic activity in Romania and the pursuit
of a development strategy involving high investment/saving rates and rapid in-
come growth ensure Romania's capacity to service external debt if domestic
resources can be converted into foreign exchange for that purpose. Moreover,
the country's major efforts to expand eA;)orts (particularly to convertible
currency areas), to attract private joint venture capital and to seek other
forms of bilateral convertible currency financing are increasing the foreign
exchange available for debt service. Convertible earnings rose from $585 mil-
lion in 1967 to $1,902 million in 1973. The preferential trade status accorded
to Romania by the European Communities in June 1973 should facilitate the further
expansion of such exports as could the granting of most favored nation status



by the U.S. In 1973, the Government also restLicted the use of short-term
credit facilities from western suppliers in an effort to improve the structure
of the country's external debt. Assuming a continuation of preseut export and
debt management policies it can be expected that the debt service ratio will
gradually decline during the second half of the 1970's. The country's present
outward-looking posture, tha success of both its domestic growth and foreign
trade policies, and its potential for continued development, all support the
judgment that Romania is creditworthy for substantial Bank lending.
24.       When Romania joined the Bank, most pre-war foreign debts of the
country had been settled. The only settlements which were still under discus-
sion at that time concerned claims in the United Kingdom and in the United States.
The Romanian authorities have rzpeatedly assured the Bank of their intention
to settle these old claims, and have from time to time advised the Bank staff
of progress towards settlement. In September, 1974, agreement was reached on
procedures for settling the US claims, and Romania has deaposited $300,000 with
a fiscal agent (Manufactures Hanover Trust) for advertisemient and registration
of bonds held by US nationals. The UK claims are larger and more complicated,
and meetings to discuss settlement were held in London and Bucharest in No-
vember 1973 and June 1974, without any decision being reached. More recent
contacts between the two countries have narrowed somewhat the difference in
their positions, and the discussions are continuing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
25.       The proposed loan would be the Bank's fifth operation in Romania.
Together with the $70 million loan for the Giurgin-Razmiresti Irrigation Proj-
ect being proposed concurrently, it would bring total bank commitments to
Romania to $290 million. Bank lending to Romania began in June 1974 with the
$60 million loan for the Tecuci Fertilizer Project. This operation was fol-
lowed in July by a $70 million loan for the Otelinox Special Steel Project and
a $60 million loan for the Turceni Thermal Power Project. Anr.ex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects as of December 31, 1974.
26.       Our knowledge of the Romanian economy is improving, but it will take
some time to build up the detailed knowledge of the economy which would allow
a sharper focus on the outstanding development problems.    At present, foreign
exchange, especially in convertible currencies, appears to be a major con-
straint. During the early phase in the Bank's relations with Romania, there-
fore, one of the major objectives of Bank lending is to help alleviate the
country's shortage of foreign exchange by providing long-term external capital
and by financing projects which will expand foreign exchange earnings or sav-
ings. Bank lending will also aim at supporting the Government's efforts to
introduce new industrial technologies to improve the quality of products, to
make more economic use of materials and factor inputs and to reduce production
costs. Market aspects and marketing, especially for export goods, will also
be emphasized. Special attention is also being given to agriculture where
productivity levels are still low relative to industry and there is heavy
dependence upon favorable weather. The Government is aware of these problems



and has stepped up efforts to develop the agricultural sector as evidenced by
rapid expansion of irrigation, the increasing use of fertilizer and the con-
tinuing pursuit of institutional improvements in this sector.
27.       The proposed project, and the Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project,
would support these objectives by assisting in improvement of agricultural
infrastructure and productivity. The possibilities of financing a pulp and
paper project, and second projects for power and irrigation, are also being
considered, and the Bank is currently reviewing a list of project proposals
submitted by the Government during the 1974 Annual Meeting.
28.       Romania is expected to rely upon the IBRD primarily for funds
required to finance needed convertible-currency imports, and all of the loans
hitherto proposed for Romania have been based solely upon the Bank's financing
of foreign exchange needs. At the same time, Romania has developed a relatively
advanced industrial structure and is in a position to supply a large propor-
tion of the equipment and supplies required for the execution of many high
priority development projects. Hence, in a few cases, such as the present
one, it may be necessary and appropriate, if the Bank's lending is to provide
adequate support to Romania in high priority fields, to incorporate limited
amounts of local currency financing in particular Bank loans.
29.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting a project appraisal training course for Romanian officials in
Belgrade in October 1973. A similar course is being given in Bucharest in
January and February 1975.
30.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for ex-
ternal financing and of its total disbursed convertible debt. However, they
provide a substantial net addition to the present inflow of convertible cur-
rency finance, and may set a pattern for obtaining longer term convertible
finance from other sources. The disbursed IBRD debt outstanding to the Bank
is expected to constitute about 25 percent of Roniania's total projected con-
vertible currency debt in 1979; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service
payments in 1979 would be about 6 percent.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN ROMANIA
Agriculture
31.       Romaniia continues to be a hiighly agrarian country in which progress
in other sectors (especially in industry) depends upon stable growth in agri-
cultural production to provide botlh convertible foreign exchange earnings and
industrial raw materials. Agriculture accounted for 16 percent of 1973 GNP.
In 1973, 58 percent of the population lived in rural areas, and 42 percent of
the labor force was employed in agriculture compared with 74 percent in 1950.
About 14.9 million hectares, or almost two-thirds of the land area, are used
for agriculture; and of this, 8.5 inillion hectares are in Wallachia, the region
composed of the southern plains of the Danube Valley. Approximately 65 percent



- 9 -
of all agricultural land is used for grain production (mainly maize and wheat),
while industrial crops (mainly sunflowers) are the next most important. Vege-
tables are also produced, often in large-scale commercial green houses, for
domestic consumption and export. Livestock accounts for 39 percent of agri-
cultural production, and the national livestock population consisted of 5.8
million cattle, 14.4 million sheep, 8.8 million pigs and 64.5 million poultry
in 1973.
32.       Investment in agriculture has lagged behind that in other sectors
with 12.7 percent of actual investments in the 1966-70 Plan period, and 14.2
percent planned in 1971-75. The investments so far achieved in the first three
years of the current Plan are 12.4 percent of total for that period. In
response to this investment shortfall, the Government has relied on other
measures, including institutional reforms, price incentives, and production
targets and delivery schedules to stimulate agricultural production. Agri-
cultural production is estimated not to have increased at all from 1966 to
1970, though it was characterized by sharp year-to-year variations. The major
problems of Romanian agriculture are the instability of its output and low
productivity. The proposed project would support improvements in both of
these areas.
The Need for Irrigation Infrastructure
33.       Instability in agricultural production results from vulnerability
to erratic weather conditions and the lack of infrastructure to mitigate the
impact of weather changes. Excessive precipitation and flooding during plant-
ing and harvest seasons, and inadequate rainfall during summer growing seasons,
have resulted in the considerable fluctuations in net output noted above. Only
production of vegetables has increased steadily, reflecting the relatively more
controlled conditions under which they are produced. The Government is well
aware of this problem and has placed high priority within the agricultural sec-
tor on solving it. Forty-five percent of agricultural investment in the cur-
rent Five-Year Plan is for land reclamation, irrigaticn and drainage. Since
1965, total irrigated land has been increased from about 250,000 hectares to
1.25 million hectares, and during the next Five-Year Plan (1976-80) another
750,000 to one million hectares are expected to be brought under irrigation.
This reflects the high priority which is being given to reducing vulnerability
to weather and stabilizing production in agriculture.
Agricultural Productivity
34.      W4hile some productivity gains have been made in recent years, agri-
cultural productivity per worker remains at only about one-third that of in-
dustry. In addition to improving its irrigation infrastructure, Romania is
also taking measures to improve productivity through upgrading the quality
of farm mechanization, increases in the supply and utilization of fertilizers,
and the promotion of agro-industrial enterprises to provide processing and
marketing outlets for increased farm production. Steps are also being taken
to reduce inequality between State farms and cooperatives in access to farm
inputs. State farms, which cultivate 30 percent of agricultural land in the
socialist sector, have been receiving about 42 percent of on-farm investment
in the current Plan period. Cooperatives, on the other hand, which have



- 10 -
60 percent of such land, have been receiving only about 58 percent of agri-
cultural investments.  Productivity on State farms is correspondingly higher
than that on cooperatives, but the Government is now moving toward elimination
of the disparities between the two types of farm organization in order to
stimulate general improvement in agricultural productivity.
Sector Organization
35.       State enterprises and cooperatives account for the major portion of
agricultural production; individual farmers play a much less significant role,
except in production of a few selected commodities. State enterprises are
generally large scale, capital intensive farms which have been favored in
terms of land allocation, fertilizer distribution and investments in irriga-
tion and mechanization. There are about 360 such farms employing about 300,000
people and cultivating 4.5 million hectares of agricultural land. Workers on
the farms are employed on salaries which are fixed by law. The State farms
are generally well managed by a director (usually an agricultural engineer)
who is appointed by the Director General of State farms of the Ministry of
Agriculture and is responsible to a workers' council. The Ministry of Agricul-
ture determines the production plans for individual State farms; it also has
a role in determaining the use of their profits, a portion of which are remitted
to the State treasury.
36.       There are about 4,500 agricultural production cooperatives with about
3,500,000 member families and cultivating about 9.0 million hectares. Workers
in cooperatives are guaranteed a minimum income, which is generally lower
than the incomes of their counterparts on State farms, but they are entitled
to a share in profits after allowances for reserves and reinvestment. More
than one member of a cooperative family frequently works (on a full- or part-
time basis) in the cooperative, and some members are employed outside of the
cooperatives. Cooperators are also allowed to farm about 0.3 hectares per
family in and around their villages for their personal use, and they are
allowed to own livestock. Production on personal plots is always intensive,
and produce is either self-consumed or sold to consumption cooperatives. A
cooperative is managed by a General Assembly of cooperators and its elected
President; it reports to the District Director General for Agriculture, the
local representative of the Ministry of Agriculture. About half of the on-
farm investment in the project would be made in cooperatives.
37.       Individual farmers number only about 150,000 families and own about
10 percent of total agricultural land. Their land is often located in moun-
tainous regions. The individual farming subsector has not received strong
Government support but is significant in production of potatoes (15 percent
of production), meat (14 percent of production), milk (19 percent of produc-
tion), eggs (18 percent of production) and wool (12 percent of production).
The Government is aware of the continuing importance of individual farmers in
these areas, and more technical assistance is likely to be provided to them
in the future.
38.       At the national level, the State institution in the agricultural
sector is the Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry and Waters. It plays a



- 11 -
major role in preparing the Five-Year Plan for the sector and is the super-
visory institution for plan fulfillment.   In each district, the Ministry is
represented by a General Directorate, which is responsible for all agricultural
activity in the district including both cooperatives and State farms. Mar-
keting is organized nationally under ten Centrals accountable to the Ministry
and responsible for processing and marketing specified commodities.   Each
Central obtains produce at the district level and allocates it among domestic
retail, processing, storage and export channels. A specialized agency is
responsible for the exports of each Central.
The Borrower
39.       The Borrower for the proposed loan would be the Bank for Agriculture
and Food Industry (BAFI), which is the Government's specialized agency for in-
vestment projects in agriculture, irrigation and food processing. BAFI was
established in 1968 as a channel for, and administrator of, all investment
funds provided under the State plan for the agricultural sector. Financing
in agriculture had previously been done by a department of the National Bank
of Romania. BAFI is involved in all phases of project appraisal, execution
and supervision, and it has a large technical and economic staff located in
Bucharest, in 39 county (Judet) branch offices and 100 sub-branches throughout
the country. One of BAFI's more important functions is that of fiscal agent
administering, for the account of the national budget, all Government invest-
ments in State farms and enterprises. BAFI also receives interest-free funds
from the State budget for investment lending to cooperatives and repays the
Government as it receives repayments of sub-loans from the cooperatives. BAFI
has thorough review and approval procedures for all investment projects. In
addition to BAFI's review, all subprojects for more than Lei 10,000,000
(US$500,000) are reviewed and approved by the Ministry of Agriculture and
those greater than Lei 70,000,000 (US$3.5 million) must be approved by the
Council of Ministers. In addition to its investment project work, BAFI pro-
vides short term credit to, maintains settlement accounts for, all coopera-
tive and State agricultural enterprises; it also acts as fiscal agent for the
Government for collection of State revenues from these enterprises. As the
Government's channel for investment financing in agriculture, BAFI's primary
source of funds is the State Budget. The Guarantee Agreement, therefore, in-
cludes a provision (Section 2.02) that the Guarantor shall provide all neces-
sary funds for the implementation and operation of the project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
40.       In 1970 Romania began construction of the 74,600 hectare Sadova-
Corabia Irrigation Project which was completed in south-western Romania along
the Danube in May 1974. In anticipation of the completion of irrigation
works, Romania requested in January 1973 that the Bank finance a portion of
the on-farm development in the region. Bank missions reviewed this proposal



- 12 -
in June and November/December 1973 and January 1974, and the project was ap-
praised in May 1974. Negotiations were held in Washington in December 1974.
The Romanian delegation was led by Mr. Ion Rusinaru, President of BAFI, and
included representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of
Finance.
Project Description
41.       The project is based upon the ten-year investment program for on-farm
development and agro-industries required to bring the Sadova-Corabia irrigation
scheme into full production. This investment program was started in 1971 in
order to increase production and incomes in what has been, because of its
sandy dunes and insufficient water supply, one of the poorest regions of Romania.
The basic strategy of the program has been (i) to intensify cultivation of crops
benefitting most from irrigation and also in demand domestically and interna-
tionally, (ii) to develop the important livestock sector, and (iii) to provide
the necessary agro-industrial processing capacity to handle the production of
the region. The project consists of about 40 percent of the ten-year investment
program and covers subprojects to be started between 1975 and 1978. It also
includes dairy farming in the region surrounding the irrigation scheme.
42.       Credits under the project would be used to establish about 2,050
hectares of modern orchards (peaches, apricots and cherries) and about 2,000
hectares of grapes. A fruit handling and storage complex would be constructed
to handle the increased production, and 15 refrigerated trucks would be pur-
chased to transport fruit and vegetables to domestic and export markets. A
leaf analysis laboratory would also be established to determine the types and
amounts of fertilizers which should be used in orchards and vineyards. The
project also includes a substantial dairy farming component with eight complete
dairy farms and imported heifers for four additional farms which are already
being constructed. Integrated with dairy farming would be two beef-fattening
farms which would purchase and fatten male calves from the dairy farms. In
support of these livestock components, the project would finance a feed mill
and silo, and a premix feed plant would be constructed to supply protein con-
centrates to this and other feed mills. The project would also include machinery
and equipment for farm mechanization services to cooperatives. Training would
be provided under the project for technicians in dairy farming, beef fattening,
livestock research, fruit handling and storage and leaf analysis, as well as
economists in agricultural appraisal, financing, production and marketing
techniques. Annex III contains a loan and project summary; the Appraisal
Report (No. 582a-RO, dated January 14, 1975) is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors.
Project Execution
43.       The project would be administered by BAFI and its branches in the
Dolj and Olt districts. BAFI's branch offices would be responsible for direct
supervision of the financial and administrative execution of the subprojects
which would be executed by cooperatives, State farms and State agro-industrial



- 13 -
enterprises. Subprojects costing $500,000 or more would also be reviewed by
the Bank, and a number of stch subprojects have al_:eady been reviewed and
approved. Technical assistance to the cooperatives, State farms and State
enterprises carrying out subprojects would be provided by units of the Ministry
of Agriculture under a well developed program of assistance to such entities.
The Ministry would also malke all necessary arrangements for international
procurement which would be coordinated by its Directorate for the Land Re-
sources, Organization, Standardization and Remuneration.
Project Cost and Financing
44.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$59.5 million, with an
estimated foreign exchange component of US$22.6 million or 38 percent of total
costs.  A price contingency of 11 percent in 1975 and 7.5 percent annually
thereafter has been used for imported materials and equipment.   Local costs
are based upon fixed Romanian prices.    A relatively low physical contingency
of 7 percent has been included as final plans and specifications have already
been completed for most subprojects.
45.       The proposed Bank loan of US$30 million would finance 50 percent of
total project costs representing an estimated US$22.6 milllon in foreign ex-
change costs and US$7.4 million in local costs. An explanation is provided
in paragraph 28 above of why it may be appropriate to provide some local cur-
rency financing for projects in Romania which have high economic priority but
relatively small foreign exchange components. The remaining project costs
would be financed by yearly allocations from the Government budget (TJS$24.3
million), couperatives (US$1.3 million), and State farms and enterprises (US$3.9
mill ioIl) .
Lending and Relending Terms
46.       The proposed loan to the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
(BAFI) would be guaranteed by the Government and would be for a term of 20
years, including five years grace, at an interest rate of 8 1/2 percent per
annum. BAFI would relend the proceeds of the loan, together with funds received
from the Government, for anortization and grace periods no longer than those on
the Bank loan aud consistent with the expected implementation periods and yields
of subprojects and with the repayment capacities of subborrowers (Section 3.02(b)
of the Loan Agreement). Current Romanian practice is to lend to cooperatives
at tlhree percent, and to State farms and enterprises at four percent, for up to
20 years, including up to five years grace. Although this will be the first
time that State farms have undertaken major investments with non-budget financing
(i.e. with long term, interest bearing loans), it is proposed to maintain these
interest rates in lending operations under the present loan.
47.       These interest rates appears low in comparison with other member
countries, but there is virtually no inflation in Romania. The State sets and
controls almost all prices, and it exerts direct control over incomes and
money. The central principle of pricing in Romania has been that prices for
given goods remain fixed for long periods. Production enterprises, which are



- i4 -
confronted with fixed prices for both inputs and outputs, are expected to pur-
sue profit increases through cost minimization. Wage increases are controlled
to be always less than productivity growth and the economy has been insulated
from foreign inflation by a system which automatically offsets foreign price
movements through internal equalization payments. Producer (wholesale) prices
were last reset in 1963. The retail price index of 100 in 1963 was 101.4 in
1973.
48.       The new price law introduced in 1971 provides for a more frequent
adjustment of producer prices, the first round of which is now being imple-
mented. The law, in conjunction with a regime of foreign trade pricing in-
troduced in January 1974, increases the scope for price changes of imports
to be reflected in the cost structure of domestic industry.    In principle
this increases the possibility that Romania's domestic prices will be influ-
enced by world inflation. However, indications are that such effects will be
kept to a minimum, for at least three reasons: (a) under the new foreign
trade regime the tariff component of the price of an import is to be used as
a cushion against foreign inflation, the tariff being reduced when foreign
prices rise; 1/ (b) increases in the price of imports will result initially
in reduced profit margins rather than domestic price increases; (c) while
some price increases may be inevitable, these will continue to be offset by
price reductions in those industries where costs have declined. A measure
of the influence of these factors is thiat, in the resetting of producer
prices presently being implemented (to be completed by the end of 1975), it
is expected that the final movement in the index of these prices will be a
3.3 percent increase over the level in 1963 (i.e. an annual average increase
of 0.3 percent over a period of twelve years).
49.       Interest rates in Romania are paid on investment credits, working
capital loans and loans to individuals. These rates are institutionally deter-
mined by the central authority and are not influenced by the forces of demand
and supply of capital, since there is no money market in Romania.    Conceptually,
therefore, they are more akin to a tax on capital than to a "price" of capital.
By the same token, they do not necessarily reflect the social opportunity cost
of capital because the return of resources to capital investments is made not
only througlh interest payments but tlhrough taxes and the net surplus after
operations which is retunied by the state enterprises to the state budget.
Interest rates, tlherefore, are relatively low. However, from the absence of
significant inflation in the economy, it follows that the relatively low nominal
interest rates result in real rates whicii are quite high in comparison witi
real rates of interest prevailing in many countries today.
1/   The Romanians are applying the new regime with considerable caution which
illustrates their determination to prevent internal inflation. Since
recent price increases for raw materials lhave been more marked than the
tariff cushion could allow for, ttue operation of the new pricing regime
has been temporarily suspendecl on this category of goods, which are now
priced under the previous system which provides a cushion against foreign
inflation through automatic payments from the equalization fund.



- 15 -
Audit
50.       BAFITs transactions are subject to continuous control by internal
auditors appointed by the Ministry of Finance and to once-a-year audit by
inspectors from the Court of Superior Control whose reports may go to the Coun-
cil of Ministers and the President himself, if necessary. BAFI's accounting
system and the audit of its transactions are satisfactory and BAFI's audited
operating and financial results would be reported to the Bank not later than
five months after the end of BAFI's fiscal year (Sections 6.01 (c) and (e) of
the Loan Agreement).
Procurement
51.       US$37.1 million of materials, equipment and livestock to be used for
the project would be procured either through international competitive bidding,
or on the basis of international price quotations, in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines. Contracts for US$21.6 million of materials and equipment which
can be bulked for tendering in amounts of US$100,000 or more will be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding; included among these con-
tracts would be specialized equipment needed for the feed mills and the fruit
storage unit which would be procured on the basis of equipment orders whose
composition will be determined in agreement with the Bank to guarantee the
technical integrity of these facilities. For purposes of bid comparison
under international competitive bidding, local suppliers would be accorded a
preference of 15 percent or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower.
In the spring of 1974, a law was passed to allow bidding between local and
foreign suppliers; and it is expected that at least one-third of the amount
of i.c.b. contracts would be won by foreign suppliers. Cost estimates are
based upon a conversion rate of US$1 = 20 lei. Since Romanian currency is not
freely convertible, international tender documents would state the conversion
rate to be used for bid evaluation. About US$2.9 million of small contract
items not available in Romania and female dairy cattle expected to cost $12.6
million would be procured on the basis of price quotations from suppliers in
at least three countries (Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
52.       The Bank loan would be disbursed for (i) 58 percent 1/ of the amounts
disbursed by BAFI for approved subprojects and (ii) 100 percent of the foreign
cost of the leaf analysis laboratory and training financed under the project.
Benefits
53.       The project would increase the gross value of annual agricultural
production in the project area by an estimated US$13 million annually at full
development. The principal output of the project would be peaches, grapes,
milk and beef. The project would help to meet growing domestic demand, im-
prove incomes of about 1,700 families working on cooperative farms and yield
1/   Percentage computed to disburse 50 percent of estimated total costs
(including contributions of cooperatives and State entities) in five
years.



- 16 -
direct revenues to the State from general taxes and State farm earrings.   The
economic rate of return for the project is estimated at 16.5 percent.
54.       Full-time employment would be provided by the project to some 2,600
skilled and unskilled workers. In addition, it is estimated that temporary
work for about three months a year would be available to some 3,300 persons.
The most striking improvement would occur in the incomes of permanent coop-
erative workers and the seasonal workers (who also come from cooperatives).
Their incomes are expected to rise by at least 50 percent, and incomes of
permanent cooperative workers would approacih those of State farm employees.
In addition, indirect employment would result from the provision of input sup-
plies and from handling and processing of project output. The project would
also increase labor productivity. The project would have no adverse effect
on the environment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Bank for Agricul-
ture and Food Industry of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Socialist Republic of Romania and the Bank, the report of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the
draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The special features of the loan documents
are described above.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 15, 1975
Washington, D.C.



Page of- 2 page3
COUNRYT DATA - ROMANIA1
AREA                                                 POPULATIONw                                  DENIm7
237,500   2sa                                        20.70    slie(mid-1972)
Per keSsf aruble land
SOCIAL ThOSCATORI
Reference Countries
Romania                    Cuosaia     Italy  W4. Oersany
IW    1970                           IWO170  97   197
GNP PER CAPITA 112$ (AT.AflBASIS)                                   330 /u        6104I            810/b      1,9~60 /b     3,3flO/l
DEMOORAF9IIC
C_3.bthrate (Per tAhoosad)                                  19          19.6 /uf         1d.2 ab       lb.,I         11.6 Il
Crude denth rate (per thousand)                                     9           9.5 /uf         5.6 ab        9.6 /i1      11.0 IL"
Wnant eurtality rate (per thousand ljbs births)                    75         6.2.1 TK5        0.7 2         7,.; 'of      23.3 7-0f
Life especta..ry at birth (years)                                  66            70              67          71.1          69.4
Oruse repruductio   rat                                           0.6 /c        1.3              1.3          0.9           1.2
Population grauti rut                                       1.1          1.0 /d           1.0 Id        0.7 /d        0.9 Id
Population growth rain - urban                                      4 Is         3 75              3 7?       0.7  5h
Ago st-utors (par cent)
10-16                                                           28 /c         20               28          26.3         23.0/s
15-6L                                                           65 75         65               64          66.y         63.6 ref
65 and os-r                                                       77           9                8          10.8          13.4 Taf
De,a.sdecy ratio 1%0.5 72C                                                     0.7              0.8A/         1.0 /1        0.6 
Uriac perclatioc as prerost uf tutal3                                  0        4A                5I            5
Fanily planning:   R- of acceptors ccltvs(thuos.)                  32Is         6                                  jjIh~ /,  38 t..k
No. of users (8 Of macrind   cso
EMhLOYMNTS
Tata1 labor force (thoo=sad)                                   9,600 /1      9,900 11         9,600        1 9,n00 /s    26,800 /n,uf
Peroategs ssploysd in agricultore                                66 75        49 751           52            17           8.2 7r7r7-
Perc..ctags oos,epioyed                                           0            0-               8                         o.8 7C7C-f
INIOME DISTRIBUTION
Porcot of catisnal booms      rciv-d by highost 5%               I.s-                             5I/,
Percet of satic...l ico.o received by highest 20%                 ..           ..4
P.erot of outiocal i       -u-rcived by lowest 20%..s                                            77
P.rcent Of outio..al iscm   roceis-d by loanni 60%                .             .19 
lISThRC710iO OP LARD OWNISHIHP
% osod by top 10% of ownrs
% onood by seallest 10% of aoners                                 ..
HEALTH AND NUTRI TION
FPp.alatioo Per physician                                         760 /a       860 /          1,010           550           680
PPeplatio  Pe r cursing per-o                                    300           200 -370 /r                     70 /s        350
.Peplation Pe r hospital bed                                     160           120              180 -          90)           90
Per capita caoiespply as 5 Of rqieet                             1)0           110              125 ic        I2l It        120 /t
Per capita protein ripply, total (grmas per day)    6             82            82               927           68 75         83 75
Of which, animal and poles                                      26            28               29 75         ul 75t        56 75
Death rate 1-6 years /7                                            5 Ic          3 /l           2.c 7         5.0           0.9 La0
EDUICATION
Adjusted /Q primary sohool orol1leect ratio                       92           109               9.           107           132
Adjosetd     secondary ecthl unrolset ratio                       L2            62               65            59            62
Tears cf sach.olin.g provided, first and s.eond level             12         12-li               12            13         12-151
Vocetio-l sosoll..ot as 5 Of    e.-  schuol s4oroll,7ss2t         c
Adult litoracy rate S                                                                                          9/1589/o   7   26   6
ROUSIN
Average No. Of pere..n per eons (urban)                           .1.3I /c                       .1/aa1       1. /v         0 7   c
Percent Of occuPied units   ithont piped auter                   ..             si 7b           3?            38 i  7,ib     .1 _
A~coss tn elsoiricity (as 5 of total peplation)                  ..49 ~E                          a 7iid       96 lead       99 /a-d
Percast of Aural pepoatian   -oo..cted to electricity            ..27 /r'.ao_
CONUSIrGTION
LETro -roioers per 1000 pepdlatioc                                109           151La/           171/         2 33u 3Zb/
Pas..e ger c.ar per 1000 peplatioc..3-9                                                                                     3220
Electric peser o-o-aptlon (bus p.c.)                             635,651,8                                  2,26            2207
Newsprint coosoorptio  p.c. ig per ysar                          0.            2cL            1,288         2.2/c        41675
Notes,  Pigur-  refer sitter to lbs blen.t perIods or to              accuat of nn-iro,annta1 tesperatrar, body weights,an
the latest yearn.   Latent periods refer to principle to              dietrihation by age and as Of national poPulatione.
tie years 1956-60 or 1966-70; ito latrot yearn in pri.i-          /6  Protein etandarde (reqairesenta) for all countries an estab-
ciple on 1960 and 1970.                                               lished by SODA Enunoolo Researh Service provide for a mi.i.ue
a1  Tie for Copoca GNP mnti-e is at nakit price       for             allowu-    of 60 gram  Of total protein Per day, an   20 gram  of
yours dis- than i960, calcoluted bY the cans coveelo               nia an    Pulse protein, Of shioh 10 grana sbould b. animal
techoique an tin 1972 World bunt itlun.                           protein.  These stdadr-d.    a    -esoehat lowe  than thoas of 75
/2 Aeeruge unibr Of daughters pe, r ca      of reproductive           grama Of total protein and 23 gramss af animal proteie aa an
age.                                                               -aerage for tha acrid, proposd by FAO in the Third World Plod
aI   Pnpulctioo goctb rnt-o or   fur tie decud-o roding lo         /  S_.cY.
1960 and 1970.                                                /7  Som  etodies have  agg-etd that crde death rates of children
R Stlo .Of under 15 and 65 and ove   age iraciest to     ~          urn 1 thruagh 4 say be used as a first approtsation inde      of
tih.e i labor forc iracket of ogon 15 tirough 66.                 malntrition.
Fj AO "efe"reoc  stadurdo repreosut piysi.olgical ro-           /A   Peronotgs carolled of cor-epenling population of school age
qui,rento fo rocre1 crtioity cod health, tokiog                  as deftoed fcr each cuatr.y.
/a  Is 1972 1155 cuonerted at tie rate of DO Lin per USO;      2h  1977;   /c   19062;  Id  196'0-72;   /     ue     tosic en   183
utter lonaliti.a ihslng urban u0cio-ecanumio obarateri;tice;        /f -For the defflition of ur1ba    see Demographic Tearbuok
1972, p. 157;     g  1971 .ssaoa;    /h  Popolatios over 2,000;     75  etie of POPol-ti-s under 15 aed 65 aed user. to ittel
inoor force;   ~1 1969;      /6  Definition Of urban sot avaIlable;,    /1   Estimate;   Is   Dyer 10 years old;    /o  Estimate
ocsnd on tie raulto .Of a la-bor frca sample surry;       /o   1968;   SF  House.holds;   -7   Inclu1des dentists;  7r   I-ciodes
midwIve;     Ia  Hsnpital pernoanel;    It   1969-70;   /a   Pill-time edouction only!    72~ 196l'    Ic  Pnpuiatinirover 15
ye.ar;    /n  Isefioitioc 00t aclahe        Z   1966;   77    rhan and roral;    an   Data refer to; d.ailiogs;    lab  Percetage
of doallingo  iltisot piped outer molids;     /ac  libna  units only;   /ad  Percentags Of dualinge vwith electriTai
lighting;    /a-  Percentage of -rura  dwelli-ngs witi electrical lighting-;    /af  1971.
2960          1970
fnrcsct of salaried ...rkrn earning oor. tca    2,500 Lisi.
Percent of salaried ...rters marcio,g lass tiac 1,100 Lei                   .           24.3
o  Oreay h"bau   - selected nacobjoctice coactry becaus        itiIs an industrialiaed EurcPea    country with maJor trade
to i- ictanna
iS J-nory 13, 1975
A.M4.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1973                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTI (%. constant prices)
US$ Mln.      % of G?P         1961-65       1966-70           1973
GNP at Market Prices                  18,585       100                9.0 L.         7.7 /1          10.7 /1
Cross Fixed Domestic Investment        5,283        28               11.3           11.2              9.1
Exports of Goods                       3,738        20                9.0 /2        10.9 /2          3.9 /2
Imports of Goods                       3,505        19               10.7 /2        12.7 /2         33.9 X2
LABOR FORCE IN 1973                                                  GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Mln.     %                                                                        General Goverrment
(lei Bill.)      /. of NNI L
Agriculture     4.2    42                                                                    1973         1973      ___-0_
Industry       2.8     28
Services       3.0     30                                            Current Receipts       176.0        60.9        59.8
Cturrent Expenditure    168.1       58.2        50.1;
Total     10.0     100                                           Current Surplus          7.9         2.7         9.4
Capital Expenditures     42.2       14.6        14.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                                 -
(Mln. US $)
RETAIL PRICES             1969       1970     1971     1972
1967    1971     1972    1973     (1966 = 100)             100.6      101.0    101.6   101.6
Exports of goods                  1,396   2,102   2,592    3,667     MERCHANDISE'EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1970-72)
Imports of goods                  1,546   2,102   2,615   3,424
US $Mln.        %
Trade balance                      -150       0     -23     +243     Capital goods              517           24
Net services                         -6     -23     -31     -107     Consumer goods             404           18
Foodstuffs                 283           13
Balance on goods and services      -156     -23     -54    +136      Intermediate goods         232           11
Raw materials              748           34
Net MLT capital                     152       5       22      83       Industrial              (426)         (19)
Disbursements                     317     350     464      589       Agricultural            (322)          m
Amortization                     -165    -345    -442     -506
Total              2,184          100
Residual balance                     -4     -18      -32    -219
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1973
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                           US $ MIn.
Total                                   1,519
Official rate:                     Tourist rate:                    of which convertible currencies         1,404
US$1.00  =  lei 14.97              US$1.00  = lei 12.00
Lei 1.00 = US$0.20                 lei 1.00 = Us$0.08             DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1973
National income conversion rate:                                    Convertible currencies only               19
US$1.00 = lei 20
lei 1.00 =  US$0.05                                               IBRD/IDA LENDING, 11ecsember 1974. (illion US $)
IBRD     IDA
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed           190      -
L     Net National Income                                                           January 10, 1975
/2  Current prices.                                                                 8IeNA Region



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (As of December 31, 1974)
Amount in $millions
Loan                                                     Less Cancellations
Number       Year      Borrower     Purpose     Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 1020-RO        1974    Investment    Fertilizer  60.0      -         60.0
Bank
1/
Ln 1027-RO-       1975    Investment    Special     70.0      -         70.0
Bank        Steel
Ln 1028-Ro        1975    Investment    Thermal      60.0     -6o.
Bank        Power
190.0               190.0
Of which repaid
Total now outstanding                              190.0      -        190.0
Amount sold                            -                                 -
of which repaid                                      -
Total now held by Banj'                            190.0
Total undisbursed                                   190.0              190.0
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS   (As of December 31, 1974)
None
/ Not yet effective
i/ Excluding exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln. No. 1020-RO     Tecuci Fertilizer Project; US$60 million Loan of
June 28, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978:
This loan was approved by the Executive Directors on June 27, 1974.
It was signed on June 28, 1974 and became effective on December 31. The Gov-
ernment has informed us of its desire to change the project site from Tecuci
to Bacau which may be more advantageous from the point of view of controlling
effluents, and has submitted to the Bank additional information on the tech-
nical and economic merits of the proposed new site of Bacau. Meanwhile, pro-
curement arrangements are proceeding on schedule and no significant problems
have been encountered in project implementation.
Ln. No. 1027-RO     Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
This loan was approved by the Executive Directors on July 5, 1974,
and signed on July 10, 1974. Suppliers on short lists of firms for bar mill
and rolling mill contracts have been invited to express their interest in the
project, and detailed tender documents are expected to be sent to them in
February. The deadline for loan effectiveness is February 28, 1975.
Ln. No. 1028-RO     Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This loan was approved by the Executive Directors on July 5, 1974.
It was signed on July 10, 1974 and became effective on November 6. Procurement
arrangements for the project are proceeding on schedule and no significant
problems have been encountered in project implementation.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
ROMANIA
SADOVA-CORABIA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI)
Guarantor:     Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiaries: Cooperatives and State-owned enterprises.
Loan Anmount:  US$30.0 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayable in 20 years, including a 5-year grace period,
through semi-annual installments beginning February 1,
1980, and ending August 1, 1994. Interest at 8 1/2 per-
cent per annum.
Relending
Terms:         Relending at 4 percent per annum to state farms and enter-
prises, and at 3 percent per annum for cooperatives. Ainortiza-
tion up to 20 years, including up to 5 years grace.
Project
Description:  The project consists of about 40 percent of the ten-year
investment program for on-farm development and agro-industries
required to bring the 74,600 ha. Sadova-Corabia irrigation
scheme (in southwestern Romania along the Danube) into full
production; it also includes some investment in dairy
farming in the region around the Sadova-Corabia area.
The project would include development of about 2,050 ha
of orchards, 2,000 ha of vineyards, eight complete dairy
farms and heifers for four existing farms, two beef fattening
farms, a fruit handling and storage complex, 15 refrigerated
trucks, a feed mill and silo, a pre-mix feed mill, machinery
and equipment for farm mechanization services to cooperatives,
a leaf analysis laboratory, and training for technicians.
The Project would be administered by BAFI. Loans would be
made to cooperative and State-owned enterprises on the basis
of detailed plans, most of which have been completed.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
Cost Estimates:
Lei Million            In US$ Million    % of  % of
For-                   For-          For-
Local   eign  Totals  Local    eign Totals   eign  Total
Orchard Establishment ....    69.5   11.2   82.6     3.5     0.6  4.0      14       7
Vineyard Establishment ...    90.8   13.2  103.9     4.5     0.7   5.2     13       9
Pasture Establishment ....    16.8    -.-   16.8    0.8       -   0.8       -       1
Buildings and
Constructions ............ 343.8      .   343.8    17.2      -   17.2      -     29
Machinery and Equipment .. 107.3     69.9  177.2     5.3     3.5  8.9      39     15
Laboratory Equipment    .....  -.-    2.0    2.0      -      0.1  0.1     100      N
Refrigerated Trucks     ......  6.6  13.2   19.8     0.3     0.7   1.0     67       2
Breeding Animals ....   .....  -.- 219.1   219.1      -     11.0 11.0     100     19
Technical Services ....... 33.5      -.-    33.5     1.7      -    1.7      -       3
Technical Training.-.-                2.0    2.0      -      0.1  0.1     100      -
Capitalized Costs during
Construction .....   .......  18.1    .    18.1    0.9       -   0.9       -      2
Total Base Investment
Costs ...               686.4 330.6 1,016.9   34.3     16.5 50.8      33     86
Physical Contingency ..... 52.9      15.8    68.7    2.6     0.8   3.4     23       6
Price Contingency.-.- 105.1                 105.1     -      5.3  5.3     100       9
Total Investment Cost .. .. 739.3 451.4 1,190.7     36.9    22.6 59.5      38     100



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Financing:
BAFI Loan
State           BAFI
Cooperatives Enterprises     Resources /1 IBRD     Loan  Total
US$M      %    US$M     %    US$M   %       US$M     %   US$M
Orchards ...........      0.1      1     0.2     3     3.3   46       3.6     50    7.1
Vineyards .0.2                     2     0.1     2     4.5   46       4.9     50    9.8
Dairy Farming .0.8                 5     3.2    19     4.3   26       8.3     50   16.6
Dairy Animals     .      .                .     -      2.3   50       2.3     50   4.6
Beef Fattening .0.3               14     0.3    14     0.5   22       1.1     50    2.2
Fruit Handling
and Storage
Complex .-.        -         -.-               -      0.6   50       0.6     50    1.2
Refrigerated
Trucks ...        -      -   .-                -      0.5   50       0.5     50    1.0
Feed Mill
and Silo .-.-.-.-                              -      2.2   50       2.2     50   4.4
Pre-Mix Feed Mill      -.         -              -.     5.9  50       6.0     50   11.9
Machinery Pool       -   .               .       -     0.3   50       0.3     50    0.6
Sub-Totals .1.3                   2    3.9      7    24.3   41      29.8     50  59.3
Leaf Analysis Lab ....    -.- .    -    -.-      -       . -          0.1    100    0.1
Technical Training         .-      -     .       -       .    -       0.1    100    0.1
Totals .........     1.3      2   3.9      7     24.3  41      30.0     50   59.5
/1    From Government Budget.
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year             Amount (US$ million)
1975                           2.7
1976                          5.8
1977                          6.6
1978                          6.9
1979                          8.0
Procurement
Arrangements:    US$37.1 million of materials, equipment and livestock to be used
for the project would be procured either on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, or on the basis of international
price quotations, in accordance with the Bank Guidelines.
Contracts for US$21.6 million of materials and equipment which



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
can be bulked for tendering in amounts of US$100,000 or more
will be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding; included among these contracts would be the spe-
cialized equipment needed for the feed mills and the fruit
storage unit which would be procured on the basis of equipment
orders whose composition will be determined in agreement with
Bank to guarantee the technical integrity of the facilities.
For purposes of bid comparison under international competitive
bidding, local suppliers would be accorded a preference of
15 percent or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower.
In the spring of 1974, a law was passed to allow bidding
between local and foreign suppliers; and it is expected that
at least one-third of the amount of i.c.b. contracts would be
won by foreign suppliers. Cost estimates are based upon a
conversion rate of US$1 = 20 lei. Since Romanian currency is
not freely convertible, international tender documents would
state the rate to be used for bid evaluation. About $2.9
million of small contract items not available in Romanlia ad(i
female dairy cattle expected to cost $12.6 million would be
procured on the basis of price quotations from suppliers
in at least three countries.
Technical
Assistance:    Specialized and on-the-job training outside of Romania under
programs to be agreed with the Bank for technicians in the
fields of dairy farming, beef fattening, livestock research,
fruit handling and storage, and leaf analysis, and for economists
in agricultural appraisal, financing, production and marketing
techniques.
Economic Rate
of Return:     16.5 percent
Appraisal
Report:       Number 582a-RO of January 14, 1975
EMENA Projects Department



r                                                    _-\v         -____  r c  ~A^5Ars0 -s0 240 
44'~~ ~                 __--.''+D                   ~';~~'S               ~   -  ~,C
7 J  <,7    -HAIab.Ap- -                            ,Li'Z-SM5nN ,   SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
(I  _X/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S   't  X   '\\rv <\ \t              1       't' 0 T) Vo   o ED~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MNI P IT1 
'4..,' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1..T-
5>r~~~ ~~~~~~                     ~   ~~~~~~                           .. :~                  CO24 0 '454- 40.0Eh A
_~~~~~~~~ '
IV -     /    *     1    /     *    /    r   (  RO'                  -    V
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,                                    0 .40LA  24 54 40 \4 00 _\f'''rv.> 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
.1~~~~~4
HELGR
K >  ---4    )      <a                        ..............   -  ..  .Z/.  -  -                   1         7.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,f,,,,,t,,,,l,,,,,  rp
| ^ < ~~~~~~~~~~-'      f,.)i- -A RI ';;;;''";;''"'"" 



