CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1083 RO
Loan Agreement
(Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
DATED FEBRUARY 6, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1083 RO
Loan Agreement
(Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
DATED FEBRUARY 6, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 6, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Romania" and "Guarantor" both mean The Socialist Republic of
Romania;
(b)   "Foreign Trade Bank" means the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade,
established by Law No. 16/1968 of Romania;
(c)   "DOPFF" means the Directorate for Land Resources, Organization,
Standardization and Remuneration in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry
and Waters of Romania;
(d)   "Lei" means the national currency of Romania;
(e)   "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower approved by Decree
No. 55 of 1970 of the Council of State of Romania, approved by Law No. 15
of 1970 of Romania, as amended from time to time;
(f)   "BAFI-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made
by the Borrower to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;


﻿4
(g)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the Borrower
proposes to make or has made a BAFI-loan; and
(h)   "Investment Project" means a project for any of the investments
included in Part A of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
which is to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of
a BAFI-loan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower, on account of disbursements made by the Borrower under
BAFI-loans for technically feasible and financially viable Investment Projects
included in Part A of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and on account of expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part B or
Part C of the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Foreign Trade Bank is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and Article V of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
contracts for materials, machinery, equipment, spare parts, supplies and livestock
required for the Proje.-t shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight per cent
(8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
February 1 and August I in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out with
due diligence and efficiency and in -conformity with appropriate engineering,
financial and administrative practices as follows:
(a)   the Borrower shall supervise the execution of the Project, including
the procurement of the goods and services required therefor;
(b)   DOPFF shall:
(i)         make suitable arrangements for the procurement of the
goods and services referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement; and
(ii)        have overall responsibility for the coordination of the
implementation of the Project and for the Project-related
activities of the other departments and agencies of
Romania.
Section 3.02. (a) For each of the Investment Projects included in Part A
of the Project the Borrower shall make a BAFI-loan to the Investment Enterprise
that is to carry out such Investment Project, for all or part of the cost of such
Investment Project net of interest and other charges on the BAFI-loan.
(b)   Each BAFI-loan shall bear interest at a rate which shall be equal to
the interest rate then charged by the Borrower in respect of loans for the same
type of investments, provided, however, that the first mentioned rate shall not


﻿6
be less than three percent (3%) per annum; BAFI-loans shall be repaid over such
period, after such grace period, as shall be consistent with the expected
implementation period and yields of such Investment Project and the repayment
capacity of the Investment Enterprise.
(c)   The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
each BAFI-loan will be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall have under
Romanian legislation, or shall obtain by written contract with the Investment
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right of the Borrower to:
(i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
agricultural, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(ii) require that (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the BAFI-loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them and (2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) obtain all such information
as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise; and (v) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise
to the use of the proceeds of the BAFI-loan upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.03. Part C of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with
a training program agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause adequate provision to be made for
the insurance of the imported goods referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of importation into the territory of Romania, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair
such goods.


﻿7
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan or any BAFI-loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Achievement of the Purposes of the Project
Section 4.01. The Bank and the Borrower agree that, in order to realize
the purposes of the Project, it shall be necessary that the Investment Enterprises
will be supplied with agricultural technical and advisory services, seeds, fertilizers,
pesticides, irrigation water, agricultural financing and marketing facilities, all as
required to make optimal productive use of the investments made under the Project.
The Borrower shall, to the extent that it is authorized under the laws of
Romania, ensure that the requirements set forth in this Section will be met.
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its operations and
affairs in accordance with appropriate administrative and financial standards and
practices and in accordance with the Charter.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower to create liens as
security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b)   For the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a lien shall be
created on any of the Borrower's assets as security for any debt, the Borrower
undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall
create the lien, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the Bank, and (ii)
if the lien shall be created by law, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the


﻿8
Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan.
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in carrying out the
provisions of this Agreement the Borrower shall take such measures as shall be
necessary according to the State Plan of Romania and the applicable laws in order
to achieve the purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information
Financial Data
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end:
(a)   the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time at the request
of either party exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
progress of the Project, the benefits derived from the Project, the performance
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the fulfillment of the
requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan, and the Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to exchange views with representatives of the Investment Enterprises,
DOPFF and the other agencies concerned of Romania with regard to the Project,
the benefits derived from the Project, and the fulfillment of the requirements set
fc-th in Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower shall obtain from the Investment Enterprises and the
other agencies concerned of Romania, and furnish to the Bank, upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and the material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree;
(c)   the Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the p7oceeds of the Loan or
any BAFI-loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; and (ii) shall furnish
to the Bank within forty-five calendar days after each calendar quarter a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree, on
the progress of the Project during such quarter;
(d)   the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit and
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or any BAFI-loan,


﻿9
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and the records and
documents relating to the Project of the Investment Enterprises, DOPFF and the
other departments or agencies of Romania responsible for the Project or any part
thereof;
(e)   the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later than five months
after the end of each of its fiscal years, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements, as agreed between the Bank and the Borrower), and until the completion
of the Project certified copies of its records referred to in paragraph (c) of this
Section recording the cost of the Project, for such fiscal year submitted to an
independent audit conducted, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by the Ministry of Finance of Romania, and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditor, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and
the Guarantor shall agree; and (ii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the before-mentioned financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request; and
(f)   the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time furnish to each
other such additional information as the cther party shall reasonably request with
regard to the progress of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the BAFI-loans, the goods and services financed out of such proceeds, the
operations, resources and expenditures of the Investment Enterprises and DOPFF,
the benefits derived from the Project and the general status of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance
of the service thereof or the performance by either party of its obligations under
the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date May 7, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿10
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Banca pentru Agricultura si
Industrie Alimentara
Strada Smirdan No. 3
Bucharest, Romania
Telex No.:
11622
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA
SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
By /s / Corneliu Bogdan
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds (f the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of disbursements under BAFI-loans and other
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the        % of Disbursements
Loan Allocated           and other
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Disbursements                26,780,000          58% of amounts
under BAFI-loans                                  disbursed
(2)   Equipment,                      120,000           100% of foreign
spare parts,                                      expenditures
materials, sup-
plies for Part
B of the Project
(3)   Training                        100,000          100% of foreign
under Part C of                                   expenditures
the Project
(4)   Unallocated                   3,000,000
TOTAL        30,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from the territory and in the currency
of any country other than Romania.
3.   The disbursement percentages applicable to Categories (2) and (3) have been
calculated in compliance with the polic'y of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, Romania on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect


﻿12
the amount of any such taxes included in the cost of any item included in Category
(2) or (3) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may,
by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, rio withdrawal shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   disbursements under BAFI-loans made or expenditures incurred prior
to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   any BAFI-loan until the Bank will have been furnished with a certified
copy of the document evidencing the approval required under the laws of Romania
for the implementation of the Investment Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of such BAFI-loan; and
(c)   any BAFI-loan for an Investment Project whose estimated aggregate
cost shall exceed the equivalent of LeilO,000,000, unless the Bank shall have agreed
to such BAFI-loan; when submitting such BAFI-loan to the Bank for its agreement,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, together with a description
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, in such
form and containing such information as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree,
and the proposed terms and conditions of the BAFI-loan, and such other
infonrmation as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.    Each request for withdrawal from   the Loan Account in respect of a
BAFI-loan shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the Borrower by which
the Borrower certifies that the disbursement on account of which the withdrawal
is requested has been made under a BAFI-loan for an Investment Project included
in the Project; the certificate shall be in a form agreed upon between the Bank
and the Borrower.
6.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower reallocate to such Category to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed
to meet other expenditures.
7.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement is inconsistent with the


﻿13
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank
under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable opinion represents the amount which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project covers part of the program for agricultural development in the
Sadova-Corabia region of Romania and the establishment of some dairy farms
outside said region. The Project consists of the following:
Part A.     Investment Projects for:
1.   Establishment of orchards on about 2,050 ha. and vineyards on
about 2,000 ha., together with a fruit-handling and storage
complex adequate to serve said orchards and vineyards;
2.    (a)  Establishment of two dairy farms for about 830 dairy
cows each, including the provision of heifers therefor, to
be situated in the Sadova-Corabia region;
(b)   provision of heifers for four additional dairy farms with
the same capacity situated in the Sadova-Corabia region;
and
(c)   establishment of six dairy farms for about 830 dairy cows
each, including the provision of heifers therefor, to be
situated in South-Western Romania.
3.    Establishment of two beef-fattening farms each designed to
produce about 1,000 metric tons of live-weight meat per year;
4.    Establishment of a feed mill with an annual capacity of about
140,000 metric tons including a 47,000 metric ton silo;
5.    Establishment of a pre-mix feed mill with an annual capacity
of about 100,000 metric tons; and
6.    Provision of 15 refrigerated trucks and about 81 tractors to serve
the orchards, vineyards and farms established under the Project.
Part B.     Establishment of a leaf analysis laboratory in Bucharest.


﻿15
Part C.     Training of Romanian technicians in dairy farming, beef fattening,
livestock research, fruit handling and storage, and leaf analysis; and
training of Romanian economists in agricultural appraisal, financing,
production and marketing techniques.
The Project is to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Amorthation Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
February 1, 1980                                         535,000
August 1, 1980                                           560,000
February 1, 1981                                         580,000
August 1, 1981                                           605,000
February 1, 1982                                         625,000
August 1, 1982                                           650,000
February 1, 1983                                        675,000
August 1, 1983                                           705,000
February 1, 1984                                         730,000
August 1, 1984                                          760,000
February 1, 1985                                         790,000
August 1, 1985                                           825,000
February 1, 1986                                        855,000
August 1, 1986                                          890,000
February 1, 1987                                        925,000
August 1, 1987                                          965,000
February 1, 1988                                       1,000,000
August 1, 1988                                         1,040,000
February 1, 1989                                       1,085,000
August 1, 1989                                         1,125,000
February 1, 1990                                       1,170,000
August 1, 1990                                         1,220,000
February 1, 1991                                       1,270,000
August 1, 1991                                         1,320,000
February 1, 1992                                       1,370,000
August 1, 1992                                         1,425,000
February 1, 1993                                       1,485,000
August 1, 1993                                         1,540,000
February 1, 1994                                       1,605,000
August 1, 1994                                         1,670,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayraent in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years                            1-1/4%
before maturity
More than three years but                            2-1/2%
not more than six
years before maturity
More than six years but not                          4-1/4%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                           6-1/2%
not more than thrteen
years before maturity
More than thirteen years                                 8%
before maturity


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Grouping of bids. Bid invitations for equipment, materials and supplies shall,
whenever feasible, be grouped together so that each order shall consist of all such
items to be procured during a twelve-months period. Without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, the equipment required for the fruit-handiling and storage complex
included in Part A(l) of the Project and the feed mills included in Parts A(4)
and A(5) of the Project shall be procured on the basis of equipment orders whose
composition shall be determined by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower
as required to guarantee the technical integrity of such facilities.
2.    Large contracts. Contracts estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more
(regardless of whether the goods to be supplied under such contracts are
manufactured in Romania) shall be awarded under procedures consistent with those
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.    Small contracts. Contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
shall be awarded under the following procedures:
(a)   contracts for items which    at the   time of bid invitation are
manufactured in Romania shall be awarded under Romanian procedures; and
(b)   contracts for items which at the time of bid invitation are not
manufactured in Romania shall, after solicitation of bids from suppliers from at
least three countries other than Romania on the basis of bid invitations consistent
with the provisions of the Guidelines, be awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 4.3 through 4.10 of the Guidelines.
4.    Cattle. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Schedule, contracts
for the supply of heifers shall be awarded in accordance with the procedures set
forth or referred to in the preceding paragraph 3(b).
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods;
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)


﻿19
price for imported goods or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other expenditures incidental
to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Romania may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Romania if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Romania equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Romania.
(3)   Group C: bids offering goods manufactured outside of Romania.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 1 5% of such price. If the group


﻿20
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, DOPFF acting as representative of the
competent Romanian foreign trade enterprises shall furnish to the Bank, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, DOPFF shall inform the
Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been evaluated, DOPFF shall, before a final decision
on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall
furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendation
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not without the Bank's
concurrence materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification was invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, DOPFF shall furnish to the


﻿21
Bank, promptly after its execution, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


