CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 426 MAI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 7, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 426 MAI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 7, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 7, 1973, between the REPUBLIC OF
MALAWI      (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by !flectricity Supply Commission of
Malawi (hereinafter called ESCOM) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ESCOM the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C)   The Borrower has requested     the Commonwealth     Development
Corporation (hereinafter called CDC) to assist in financing part of the Project by
granting a loan to ESCOM in an aggregate principal amount (including interest
during construction) of £2,500,000; and
(D)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and ESCOM;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   The following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term "Project Agreement" has the meaning set forth in
paragraph (c) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."


﻿I
4
(b)   Section 5.01 is deleted.
(c)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h).
(d)   In Section 6.06 the words "the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement."
(e)   In Section 8.02 the words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Act" means the Electricity Act (Cap. 73:01) of the Borrower
providing for the establishment of an Electricity Supply Commission, as such Act
may be amended from time to time;
(b)   "ESCOM" means the Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi
established under the provisions of Section 3 of the Act, and any successor or
successors thereto;
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and ESCOM of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower, ESCOM and the Association, and such
term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ESCOM, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e)   "CDC" means the Commonwealth Development Corporation;
(f)   "CDC Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement between ESCOM
and CDC providing for a loan by CDC to ESCOM in an aggregate principal amount
(including interest during construction) of £2,500,000, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(g)   "CDC Loan" means the loan provided for in the CDC Loan Agreement;


﻿5
(h)   "First Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit Agreement
(Malawi Power Project) Credit No. 178 MAI of February 11, 1970 between the
Borrower and the Association;
(i)   "Tedzani I hydroelectric power station" means the first stage (16MW)
of a hydroelectric power station at Tedzani Falls on the Shire River in the territory
of the Borrower;
(j)   "cusecs" means cubic feet per second; and
(k)   "f " means the currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand
dollars ($7,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for Parts A, B and D of the Project and to be
financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿6
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 1983 and ending June 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
ESCOM to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ESCOM to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Crerit to ESCOM under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Boriower and ESCOM
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that a specific authorization is issued to ESCOM to enable ESCOM


﻿7
to divert water from the Shire River, for a period of fifty years commencing from
January 1, 1977, in such amounts as may be necessary (but in any case, not less
than 4,400 cusecs) for the purpose of power generation at Nkula and Tedzani
Falls.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall exercise its powers under the Act or any
other legislation relating to the operations of ESCOM only to the extent necessary
to ensure the continued operation and development of ESCOM pursuant to (i)
appropriate commercial practices and (ii) the provisions of this Agreement, the
Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the CDC Loan Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take whatever action may be necessary
to ensure that ESCOM carries out its obligations under the provisions of Section
4.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
w          Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by ESCOM of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the CDC Loan Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of ESCOM and, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of ESCOM and,


﻿8
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by ESCOM of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the CDC Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and. payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such


﻿9
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   ESCOM   shall have failed to perform  any covenant, agreement or
obligation of ESCOM under the Project Agreement;
(b)   The Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of ESCOM
to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement;
(c)   The right of ESCOM to withdraw the proceeds of the CDC Loan shall
not have become effective or shall have been suspended in whole or in part, and
ESCOM and the Borrower shall have failed to obtain funds from other sources
in substitution therefor;
(d)   The outstanding principal amount of the CDC Loan shall have been
declared, or become, due and payable in advance of the agreed maturity thereof
pursuant to the terms of the CDC Loan Agreement; and
(e)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that ESCOM will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b), (d) and (e) of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Amendment of First Credit Agreement
Section 7.01. Sections 4.06 and 4.09 of the First Credit Agreement are hereby
amended by deleting said Sections and substituting therefor Sections 3.02 and 3.04
of this Agreement, respectively.


﻿I
10
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
ESCOM have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and ESCOM, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(c)   The execution and delivery of the CDC Loan Agreement on behalf
of ESCOM and CDC have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and
governmental action, and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of said
Agreement or the right to make withdrawals thereu-- er or to receive goods and
services thereunder, except only the effectiveness of said Agreement, shall have
been fulfilled.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ESCOM, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of ESCOM in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and e.ecuted and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ESCOM,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ESCOM in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date December 7, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of 'ection 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III of this
Agreement and the provisions of Sections 6.02 and 6.03 of this Agreement shall


﻿'Rw
11
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 53
Zomba, Malawi
Cable address:
FINANCE
Zomba, Malawi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ R. B. Mbaya
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of foreign expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the
Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                        Dollar Equivalent)
I.    Civil Works                                           2,900,000
II.   Mechanical, Elec-                                     2,800,000
trical and Trans-
mission System
Equipment
III.  Consultants'                                             50,000
services for
Part D of the
Project
IV.   Unallocated                                           1,750,000
TOTAL          7,500,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.


﻿14
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request of
the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)  if the Association   shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of ESCOM's power generation development program for
the period January 1973 to December 1977. It consists of the following Parts:
Part A:    Construction of a 20MW    hydroelectric power station as an
extension to the Tedzani I hydroelectric power station, including
related transmission equipment.
Part B:    Construction of a barrage over the existing submerged weir at
Tedzani Falls in order to increase the output of the Tedzani
I hydroelectric power station and to achieve the projected output
for the hydroelectric power station to be constructed under Part
A of the Project.
Part C:    Installation of a 12MW gas turbine at ESCOM's power station
in Blantyre. This. Part of the Project shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the CDC Loan.
Part D:    Study of ESCOM's tariff structure.


