Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 9133
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2235-IND)
NOVEMBER 16, 1990
aId Human Resources Division
rtment V
1 Office
restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency:      Rupiah
Rate of Exchange:  Appraisal (May 1982)        US$1.00 = Rp. 660
January 31, 1983 - September 11, 1986         US$1.00 = Rp. 970-1100
September 12, 1986 - present                  US$1.00 = Rp. 1640-1795
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPENAS  =      National Development Planning Agency
BOR       =      Bed Occupancy Rate
DIP       =      Dafter Isian Proyek
GOI       =      Government of Indonesia
INPRES    =      National Suibsidy for Local Governments
MCH        =     Maternal and Child Health
MOHA       =     Ministry of Home Affairs
MOH       =      Ministry of Health
O&M       =      Operations and Maintenance
PCR       =      Project Completion Report
PHA              Provincial Health Administration
PTC       =      Provincial Training Center
REPELITA  =      Five-Year Development Plan
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Indonesia: April 1 - March 31



OMICAL w ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washngtlon D C 20433
USA
Otc. d~ Otw.C.EwfaI
0pwali lvatt" 
November 16, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completioa% Report - Indonesia
Provincial Health Proiect (Ln. 2235-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report - Indonesia Provincial Health Project (Ln. 2235-IND)",
prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their omfcial dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclesd without World lank authoriation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2235-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface....................................................
Evaluation Summary ............................                                                               iii
PART  I          PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity..                                                                             1
Background .........   ...........................................  1
Project Objectives and Description .1
Project Design and Organization.                                                               2
Project Implementation.                                                                        3
Project Results.                                                                               5
Project Sustainability.                                                                        6
Bank Performance.                                                                              7
Borrower Performance.                                                                          8
Project Relationship.                                                                          8
Consulting  Services ...........................................  8
Project documentation and data ......                                                          9
PART  II         PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE
General ...................................................... .. 11
Bank's Performance .11
Borrower's  Performance ......................................... 12
Relationship Between the Bank and the Borrower .14
PART  III        STATISTICAL  INFORMATION
Table  1.        Related  Bank  Loans  and Credits .................................. 15
Table  2.        Project Timetable .......................,,,,,,,,,,,,.,.,,,                                 . 16
Table  3.        Loan  Disbursements ... . ........................................ 17
Table  4.        Project  Implementation .......................... 18
Table 5.  Project Costs and Financing ........ 20
Table 6.    Project Results ............................                                                       21
Table  7.        Status  of Covenants ............................                                         ,. 23
Table  8.        Use  of  Staff Resources ............................                                         23
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 .25
MAP IBRD 22611
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in 'he performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan 2235-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Provincial Health
Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2235-IND in the amount of $27.0 miillion
was approved on February 15, 1983. During the course of implementati.n $2.6
million was cancelled. The loan was closed on September 30, 1989, fifteen
months behind schedule. The last disbursement took place on February 12,
1990.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Division of Country Department V, Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III and the Annex), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report; the Loan Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



- ±1± -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
Loan 2235' -IND
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
Indonesia had achieved considerable success in improving the health and
nutrition status of its population and in the implementation of its national
family planning program in the 1970's. At the time of the appraisal of the
Provincial Health Project in 1982, GOI had also established the infra-
structure for delivering basic health services nationwide. This progress
notwithstanding, life expectancy was still low and morbidity and mortality
rates high in comparison with countries with similar income levels. The
health system's effectiveness remained limited due to the poor quality of care
and the failure to develop an effective referral system. The Provincial
Health Project was designed to help GOI address these issues in selected Outer
Island provinces.
Obiectives
The project objectives were to: (a) improve the quality and increase the
utilization of health services through improvements in the health center,
referral and outreach system, health manpower development and strengthening of
district level management; and (b) extend and intensify malaria control.  It
also aimed to strengthen the in-titutional capacity of the provincial and
district health administrations in order to support GOI's policy of
decentralizing health care planning and administration. The project area
comprised the provinces of Central, South and South-East Sulawesi (para. 3.1).
Implementation
Since the bulk of the loan (55%) was allocated for civil works, the major
variance between planned and actual project implementation related to delays
in completing the physical works (10 district hospitals, 15 health centers,
and 3 provincial training centers (PTC's)). The factors responsible for the
delays were a combination of GOI regulations and procedures which were generic
across all sectors and management problems peculiar to the project. Examples
of the Thrmer included GOI's cumbersome and centralized budgetary and approval
processes and central authority (Sekneg) approval requirements for all civil
.!ork contracts, and examples of the latter included delays in land acquisition
and the preparation and review of architectural designs and drawings. The
delay, however, was not excessive relative to the implementation experience of
other projects in the population and nutrition sub-sectors (paras. 5.1-5.2).
Inadequate counterpart funding was particularly deleterious to the malaria
control program where the successful momentum of house spraying was seriously
curtailed, and vitally necessary vehicles were never provided by GOI.
District infrastructure was also not completed due to lack of funds.
Systematic attempts to provide the recurrent financing necessary for the



- iv -
health facilities, particularly district hospitals, were successfully
undertaken only during the latter stages of project implementation.
The level of institutional strengthening achieved was more than envisaged
at appraisal due to a reallocation of funds from consultancies to fellowiships.
The project was, however, not fully implemented by the provincial
administrations as expected, as all major decisions were made in central HOH.
There was no major follow-up to the original studies on health financing,
information system and service utilization financed under the project. Other
studies, subsequently introduced, for example on government expenditure
accounts were used as an input for Repelita V and Bank sector work.
Results
The project has been largely successful in achieving its major objectives
as the quality of services and the utilization of the district hospitals as a
referral system will continue to increase as they are fully commissioned, the
incidence of the major endemic disease malaria has declined to a level lower
than the project goal, and significant institutional strengthening at the
local level has been accomplished. It- also established the precedent for
future provincial level projects to support GOI's decentralization policies.
The project has been less sucrossful in providing the benefits envisaged from
the health centers constructr a nd not all district level improvements in
infrastructure and financing %Ize achieved (para. 6.2).
Sustainability
All efforts have been made to ensure the sustainability of the major
project investments, the district hospitals. Recurrent budgets, based on
staffing and other operation and maintenance norms (O&M) have been
established, and commitments have been obtained from the local governments
that all hospital revenues wi]l be returned to the hospitals. With respect to
the PTC's, they have been institutionalized ensuring their O&M requirements.
All the necessary infrastructure and staff are in place for the malaria
program, and GOI has provided assurances that the Sulawesi provinces would be
given priority in future budgetary allocations for the Communicable Disease
Control Programs (para. 7.1).
Findings and Lessons
The major lessons learnt for future Bank projects are: (a) the need for
adequate project preparation, including greater involvement of end users, in
major construction works and adequate supervision; (b) establishment, at
appraisal, of all funding requirements to ensure sustainability of project
investments; (c) more decision making and management authority to be given tc
the provinces if implementation is to be decentralized; and (d) establishment
of realistic indicators for project monitoring and evaluation, and studies
should be agreed with the Government and recommendations followed-up. The
major lessons for the Borrower are: (a) to fulfill commitments for counterpart
financing; and (b) the need to establish full-time proiect management for
successful implementation and adequate recording, reporting, financial and
monitoring systems. All the above lessons were incorporated into the Third
Health Project (Loan 3042-IND) which was the next provincial project.



INDONESIA
pROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2235-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part 1.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BLNK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.     Proiect Identity
Project Name:      Provincial Health Project
Loan No:           2235-IND
RVP Unit:          Asia
Country:           Indonesia
Sector:            Population Health Nutrition
Sub-Sector:        Health
2.     Background
2.1    Indonesia had achieved considerable success in improving the health and
nutrition status of its people and in the implementation of its family planning
program in the 1970's. At the time of appraisal of the Provincial Health
Project in 1982, life expectancy had risen from 47 years to 53 years, and the
infant mortality rate decreased from about 140/1000 live births to about 93/1000
between 1969 and 1980. This progress notwithstanding, life expectancy was still
low and morbidity and mortality rates high in comparison with countries with
similar income level.s. Furthermore, while the GOI had established the
infrastructure for delivering basic health services nationwide, the system's
effectiveness remained limited due to the poor quality of health care at the
primary level and a failure to develop an effective referral system.
2.2    To redress this situation, the GOI had shifted the focus of its health
policies and programs from further expansion of the health network to improving
service utilization and effectiveness. Responsibility for planning and
implementing health progranms was also being progressively shifted to the
provinces with GOI building up planning and technical capacity at the provincial
and district levels. The Bank project was conceived to help GOI meet its policy
objectives in selected Outer Island provinces in four main areas; (i)
development of an effective referral system to support outreach activities; (ii)
health manpower development; (iii) malaria control; and (iv) strengthening the
institutional capacity of the provincial and district health administrations.
3.     Project Objectives and Description
3.1    The project area comprised the provinces of Central, South and South-East
Sulawesi and were chosen because they consisted of three less developed
provinces which were also the primary receiving transmigration areas in Eastern
Indonesia. Malaria was also a major endemic disease in these areas.
3.2    The specific project objectives were to: (a) improve the quality and
increase the utilization of health services through improvements in the health
center, referral and outreach system, health manpower development and
strengthening of district level management; and (b) extend and intensify malaria



control. The project also aimed to strengthen the institutional capacity of the
provincial and district health administrations in order to support GOI's policy
of decentralizing health care planning and administration.
3.3    The oroiect components were:  (a) Strengthening the referral system: (i)
improvement of services in 10 district hospitals through replacement of existing
physical facilities, the provision of equipment and vehicles, technical
assistance and fellowshlips for hospital administration and maintenance; and (ii)
expansion and improvement in the quality of services in 15 health centers
through the provision of in-patient facilities and additional medical equipment;
(b) Staff training: (i) the establishment of 3 Provincial Training Centers
(PTC's) with equipment, materials, vehicles and training expenses; (c)
Mara&ement and Administration: (i) strengthening district health administration
by constructing, equipping and furnishing 19 district health offices, each with
drug storage facilities and vehicles; the setting up of a drug management
system; organization and management of training courses for district medical
officers; and consulting services for strengthening the existing health
information system (HIS) and for the study of health care financing; and (ii)
the provision of vehicles, equipment, fellowshic and support for incremental
operating costs for project implementation, including consultant s¢.rvices for
monJ iring and evaluation, and preparation of a second Bank assisted health
projL.t; (d) Malaria control: (i) extension and strengthening of malaria control
in the project area by providing equipment, vehicles, insecticides and drugs,
technical assistance and support for incremental operating costs; and (e)
Technical assistance and studies: (i) provision of about 228 man-months cf
consultant services to carry out studies and individual project components.
4.     Proiect Design and Organization
4.1    The project was the first Bank assisted project to be fully implemented
by the Ministry of Health (MOH). The project was identified and prepared by the
Provincial Health Administration (PHA), with technical guidance and
administrative support from the central MOH. Project options discussed at
preparation were a program approach supporting one or two nation-wide programs
or an area-oriented approach supporting the comprehensive development of health
services in a well defined geographical area. The area approach was
subsequently adopted to ensure a project of modest size and limited complexity.
4.2    Project design was constrained, partly due to the lack of finance for
detailed preparation, insufficient experience of those responsible fot
preparation in GOI, and inadequate attention to details, for example, the lack
of coordination between hospital building designers and equipment speci.alists.
The key end users of the hospital investments, the hospital directors, were also
not involved in the planning and preparation of the hospitals or choice of
equipment. Further, although the hardware aspects of the project design, the
construction and provision of equipment for facilities and support for the
malaria component were well understood some of the policy aspects, such as
support for GOI's emerging decentralization policy for health services, were
possibly less clearly defined and understood at appraisal. There was also no
major involvement of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MONA), which is responsible
for the provincial governments and, thus, for the implementation of
decentralization policies. Key studies, such as health financing and
information systems, were not discussed and agreed at the preparation stages
with GOI but were introduced after appraisal.



-3-
4.3    Changes in the project design during implementation included thie
substitution of fellowships for consultancies, and the provision of Bank funds
for proposed GOI investments such as vehicles and operational costs.
4.4    Project implementationi, in line with COI policies for decentralized
health care administration (para. 2.2), was to be done at the provincial level
and coordination of components only at the national level. The Secretary
General, MOH, was the Project Director and a central level project coordinator
with full time staff, and provincial level project officers with full time
support staff were to be appointed. However, most of the project management and
support staff were only part-time leading to problems discussed in para. 9.1.
5.     Project Implementation
5.1.   Civil Works.  Since the bulk of the original loan (about 55%) was
allocated for civil works, the major variance between planned and actual project
implementation related to delays in completing the physical works. ThE district
hospitals, health centers with beds, PTC's and part of the district warehouses
with drug storage were completed, on average, about two years behind schedule.
FurthAr, only 8 of the 19 district health offices with drug storage and
associated housing to be built under the project were completed due to
inadequate budgetary funds (para. 5.3 below). The delays in the physical works
were, however, not excessive relative to the experience of other projects in the
population and nutrition sub-sectors.
5.2    The factors responsible for the delays in t.ie civil works were partly GOI
regulations and procedures which were generic across all sectors, and partly
management probleals. The major issues were: (a) GOI's cumbersome and
centralized budgetary and approval processes, particularly the allocation of
funds in several DIP's (central budgets) and delays in the *. ision of Dl''s,
(b) the use of single year rather than multi-year contracts, and the separation
of building contracts from those for utilities and site works which led to the
fragmentation of contracts; (c) Sekneg or central authority approval
requirements for all civil work contracts; (d) delays in land acquisition1 and
changes in hospital sites and for the PTC in Ujung Pandang; (e) delays in the
preparation and review of architectural designs and drawings; and (f) major
devaluations (1984 and 1986) when all contractors halted work until contracts
were re-negotiated for price escalation. The Bank tried to resolve some of the
above issues.  The Bank pointed out that construction contracts for externally
funded projects could be done through multi-year DIP's, but this recommendation
was not adopted. The Bank had asked for the appointment of additional staff at
the provinces, architectural consultants to monitor and coordinate the
construction program to minimize the risk of delays, and a Deputy at the center
for better coordination with the provinces, but the appointments were not made.
5.3    Budgets.  Inadequate counterpart funding from GOI also seriously
constrained project implementation. This was particularly deleterious to the
malaria component. After significant budget increases which enabled SAR house
1 Audit reports for this project have expressed a qualified opinion on the account due to Improper
land acquis.tion expenditures from GOI budgets for sites for two of the hospitals (Pare Pare and
Bulukumba). The original sites were changed, and Land Certificates confirming MOH's rights to the
new sites were subsequently provided to the Bank by MOH.



-4-
spraying targets to be largely met, inadequate and delayed fund releases
seriously affected program activities after 1986 (Part III, Table 4).
Additionally, vchicles vitally necessary for the success of the program, were
never provided by GOI. As indicated above, the full complement of district
health offices with drug storage facilities were not completed and inadequate
funds were provided for the supervision of project locations which was also
responsible for the delays in the civil works.
5.4    Operations and Maintenance.   Given the complexity of GOI's budgetary
system, the issue of the provision of recurrent costs for the health facilities
when fully functional was discussed, but not resolved during appraisal. In the
course of the project, largely due to the devaluations, considerable loan
savings became available (originally estimated at $3.8 million). Given emerging
problems in initiallv commissioning and operating the hospitals (and other
facilities) due to the inadequate recurrent funds, GOI requested the use of part
of the savings ($1.7 million) for both operational costs of the hospitals, drugs
and operational costs and vehicles for the malaria program. The Bank agreed to
the use of the savings on tl,e basis of actions agreed by GOI as follo.ts: (a)
submission of budgets showing the estimated requirements for the hospital non-
salary operational costs and the sources of funds; (b) local government
commitments that all necessary funds would be provided for the recurrent
expenditures, including the returnt of all hospital revenues to the hospitals;
(c) all incremental staffing being provided; and (d) ICB procedures agreed for
the procurement of drugs and vehicles. The latter, in particular, was a major
policy breakthrough, since Bank financing for vehicles and drugs was not
previously possible as they were subject -o reserved procurement.
5.5    Institutional Strengthening.  An important feature of the project was its
support for d& entralized health care administration. Institutional
strengthening at the district level was, thus, an important component through
improved in-service training, upgrading managerial skills of district medical
officers and training of hospital directors. Significantly more staff were
trained than estimated at appraisal. The project had provided for 228 man-
months of consultancy services (local and foreign) for studies and project
components but only about 141 were used (Part 111, Table 6, B). The funds saved
from the consultancies, together with additional rupiahs available as a result
of the devaluations, were used with positive effects for additional training
through the provision of local and overseas fellowships.  The total. number of
staff that were provided fellowships was 164 as against an appraisal estimate of
10. Further, at appraisal only hospital administrators were expected to be
provided with fellowships, blt staff from the districts (118) and center (46)
were p-ovided with training on health related issues.
5.6    Studies.  Although most of the original studies (Part III, Table 6, B)
under the project (health financing, informations systems and service
utilization) were completed ahead of schedule, there was no major follow-up of
the recommendations. The project also financed additional studies nct envisaged
at appraisal. First, it financed major sttudies on health center and hospital
unit costs and government expenditures accounts.  These studies provided useful
information for the planning of Repelita V but were also used in the preparation
of Bank sector work2. Secondly, the project financed a report on an Automation
2 'Indonesia - Issues in Health Planning and Budgeting" - Report No. 7291-IND, dated February 28.
1989.



Strategy for an Integrated Health Information System (HIS), which is to be used
as the basis for major reforms to the national HIS. mwpact, coverage and health
status indicators were developed for monitoring and sva.luation of the project,
but the system is not yet fully operational due to delays in the commissioning
of the facilities, and inconsistent reporting from the field.
5.7    Project costs.  These changed substantially during implementation due to
the devaluations (the exchange rate at appraisal was $1/Rp. 660 and at Loan
closing $1/Rp. 1795). The total project cost, as currently estimated, is
US$43.2 million against an appraisal estimate of US$54.4 million. 'Tne revised
total Bank loan is US$24.4 million (after cancellation of US$2.2 million in
December 1987 and $0.4 million in February 1990), 'OI's estimated contribution
ofUS$18.8 million is significantly less than agreed at appraisal of US$27.8
million. The Closing Date was extended twice, initially from June 30, 1988 to
June 30, 1989 and then to September 30, 1989.
6.     Prolect Re'ults
6.1    The total impact of the project cannot be currently assessed but,
overall, the project has been largely successful in achieving its major
objactives as the quality and utilization of health services (particularly the
district hospitals) will continue to increase as they are fully commissioned,
the incidence of the major endemic disease malaria has been reduced below
oroject goals and significant institutional strengthening a. the local level has
been accomplished. The under-utilization of the health centers cons.ructed
under the project, possibly due to a lick of public confidence in the services,
remains an issue, and district level improv7ements in infrastructure and
financing were not fully achieved.
6.2    Specific results are as follows:
(a) The project has helped im?rove the effectiveness of health services being
provided through the provision of well staffed and equipped district
hospitals as a credible referral to the primary health care network.
Although, the performance of the hospitals is varied (outpatients visits
vary from 24/day to 133/day and BOR's vary from 16.1% to 48.7%), it
should be noted that some of the hospitals have just commenced
operations, some need resolution of transportation problems and for
others the addition of specialists (surgeons) is expected to increase
utilization.
(b) The staff in-service training provided through the establishment of the
PTC's, the provision of overseas and local fellowships, additional
specializcd training provided including for the operation and maintenance
of new hospital equipment and computer training, have proved beneficial
in improving the technical and institutional capabilities of health
personnel both at the local and central levels. A limited and brief
assessment of the fellowship training provie&d3 indicates that the
training was relevant to work assignments, the skills a-quired had been
used to improve performance and the majotity of the trainees felt that
their training was essential or very effective in carrying out their job.
3 Follow up of Staff Trai.ing under the first Provincial Health ProJect-Pack-to-Office Report from
M3. C. Bayulken dated November 29, 1989.



Most project staff have also developed management and operational skills.
The use of the PTC's for the provision of training programs for other
Ministries is an additional project benefit.
(c)  The strengthening of district health management and administration to
support GOI's policy nf decentralization has been partially successful.
As indicated above, the training provided to provincial and district
staff which was above appraisal estimates, has significantly improved the
institutional capacity. But the project was not fully implemented by the
provincial administrations as envisaged as all major decisions were made
in central MOH. All complementary measures were also not fully
implemented. The proposed infrastructure program was only partially
completed and measures to improve the linkage between managerial and
financial responsibilities, and improve district level recording and
reporting systems were not fully undertaken;
(d)  The malaria component initially had tremendous success and the malaria
incidence in many of the protected areas had declined below 50 cases per
1000, the project goal. It was unfortunate that the momentum was not
maintained from 1986 due to funding problems.  However, all necessary
infrastructure is in place, DDT is available in storage, the provinces
have developed expertise in planning and budgeting, spraying, source
reduction, biological control and other technical aspects with only
limited support now required from the center. Thus, the operational
management system has been decentralized. Further, the previous
scattered and spotty anti-malaria activities have been geared to
organized malaria control efforts;
(e)  An indirect benefit has been the stimulation of the domestic construction
industry with over 50 contractors involved in the infrastructure
construction.
6.3    The project was conceived at a time when GOI had started to shift the
responsibility for planning and implementing health programs to the provincial
and district lcvels. Consequently, some of the difficulties encountered was due
to the pioneering nature of the project in supporting GOI's nascent
decentralization policies. GOI policies for decentralization are better
formulated now, and Bank support for the policies would be through a series of
provincial health projects, the precedent for which was established by this
project.
7.     Project Sustainabilitv
7.1    During the latter stages of project implementation, significant efforts
were undertaken to ensure project sustainability. As indicated in para. 5.4
recurrent budgets, based on staffing and O&M norms, and indicating all sources
of funds have been prepared for the district hospitals. This is expected to be
continued on an annual basis and form the basis of future budgetary requests of
the hospitals. The commitments from the Local Governments that 100% of hospital
revenues will be returned to the hospitals, would ensure part of the O&M
funding. All medical staffing is in place, although non-medical staff still
remains an issue. All PTC's have been institutionalized, which would ensure
their O&M requirements. The utilization and sustainability of the health
centers with beds is a national problem which will shortly be reviewed by GOI.
The sustainabiiity of the malaria program has two elements. The first is to



-7-
maintain the gains in protected areas and the second is to meet program needs in
the hard core malarial areas which have been identified, particularly the
transmigration areas. GOI has agreed that priority will be given to the malaria
component in Sulawesi in future budgetary allocations for the Communicable
Disease Control programs.
8.     Bank Performance
8.1    Project preparation was subject to constraints (para. 6.3), and resulted
in the problems identified in para. 4.2. Supervision deteriorated significantly
in 1985 (Part 111, Table 8) at a critical phase in project implementation.
During this time Bank staff were involved in multi-purpose missions, thus,
supervision issues were not adequately dealt with or followed up, for example,
the lack of adequate staff to deal with the project at the provincial level and
proposed modifications to hospital designs, recommended by Bank consultants, but
not adopted. The latter has led to current problems in functional relationships
of various departments in the hospitals. Bank missions paid insufficient visits
to the project provinces, and there has been lack of continuity in staff working
on the project partly due to the Bank's reorganization in 1987.
8.2    The lessons learned for future Bank projects are:
(a)  Project Preparation.   Adequate project preparation and design,
particularly for major construction works, should be ensured. Creater
involvement of the end users (eg. hospital and PTC directors) during the
planning and preparation stage is essential. Better coordination between
building designers and the equipment specialists and intensive and
qualified supervision during the construction process would help minimize
subsequent problems.
(b)   Operations and Maintenance.  The O&M requirements following completion of
project investments should be identified at project appraisal on the
basis of realistic norms. PTC's need to be institutionalized immediately
after their construction is completed. If funding problems seriously
constrain the impact of a successful program, every effort should be made
to give priority to this component in funding allocations.
(c)   Decentralization.  The provinces need to be provided with more decision
making and management authority if responsibility is to be truly
decentrali.zed. Although designated a Provincial Health Project, the term
was appropriate in the geographical sense only. In future provincial
respects, major decisions and contract approvals, and most administrative
work including financial control should not be centralized as in this
project.
(d)   Key project Indicators/Studies.  Project indicators should be realistic
and take into account time legs between the completion of the project and
final outcomes, f-or example, the assumption that the BOR of the hospitals
would rise immediately to 80% once all construction was complete (from
58% at appraisal) was highly unlikely given the many difficulties
involved in fully commissioning hospitals. Indicators should also be
systematically monitored during implementation. Studies should be fully
agreed with the Gc- rnment and recommendations followed up.



-8-
8.3    All the above lessons (and those in para. 9.2 below) have been fully
taken into consideration in designing the Third Health Project (Loan 3042-IND)
which also deals with provincial and district governments and decentralization
issues.
9.     Borrower Performance
9.1    Inadequate counterpart funding has been a major problem on the Borrower's
side. Although continuity in project management at the central level has been
good, the lack of full-time project management staff, both at the central and
provincial levels, has also significantly constrained project implementation.
The project management team have done a very good job under difficult
circumstances in terms of completing the project, following up on major issues
raised, time spent on supervision despite inadequate funds and widely dispersed
project sites, and adapting the project design. No incentives, other than some
training, were provided to them. The lack of full time staff has resulted in
reporting, recording and monitoring and evaluation systems established that are
less than adequate. The financial reporting system has been particularly poor.
Many of the problems and difficulties encountered during the project may have
been minimized if the project management team had been full-time or provided
with the full-time staff as envisaged at appraisal.
9.2    The lessons learned for the Borrower are: (a) to fulfil commitments for
counterpart financing since the malaria program, in particular, would have
succeeded beyond all expectations if the necessary funding had been available;
and (b) full time project management is required for effective project
implementation and successful completion. Additionally, qualified and full-time
staff should be provided to the project coordinators in order to ensure adequate
supervision, monitoring and reporting of project progress. The considerable
knowledge gained by the project management team, e.g. poor performance of
contractors and equipment suppliers, good fellowship programs, and studies
completed should be institutionalized. Supervision of all constructed
facilities should be continued for at least 3-5 years after completion of
facilities.
10.    Project Relationship
10.1   The Bank Borrower relationship on this project has been good despite the
lack of continuity in Bank staff working on the project. The working
relationships have been supportive with a high degree of professionalism on both
sides.
11.    Consulting Services
11.1   Over 50 contractors were used in the project and contractor performance
has been very mixed, illustrating the variability of expertise at the provincial
level. The output of the consultants used were also varied. Some consultants
provided valuable assistance to the project such as the malariologist, the
hospital equipment specialist and the hospital training and administration
consultants. The work of other consultants, such as the one used for the health
financing study, were nevev- used and the study recommendations largely shelved.



-9-
12.    Project Documentation and Data
12.1   The SAR and the Loan Agreement was the main reference for the Bank and
Borrower during implementation. They were generally found adequate. However,
the compilation of project documentation and data during implementation was
unsatisfactory, particularly cost and budgetary data which lacked accuracy and
consistency (para. 9.1).



-11-
Part II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
General
1.1    To obtain data, information and opinions needed for the preparation of
the PCR, a four day workshop was held with officials from the district,
provincial and central levels who were significantly involved in project
implementation. The compiled data from this workshop were then used selectively
for preparing this document by the ex project coordinator who took part in most
of the project preparation, project negotiation and acted as project coordinator
during the project implemenw.ation.
a.    Comments on Part III:  Statistical Information
Statistical tables to the extent feasible, have been updated. Additional
information was provided on the government's funding contribution to the
malaria control program, which has increased the local contribution to
the project.
b.    Comments on the Analysis Contained in Part I of the PCR.
The analysis provided in this part is correct and adequate. The
following paragraphs contain additional information complementary to the
analysis.
2.     Bank's Performance.
2.1    Project Identification and Preparation.  The selection of the (3)
Sulawesi Provinces, namely Central -, South- and South-East Sulawesi is regarded
as very relevant for three main reasons. First, Indonesia government policy is
giving priority to the development of the eastern part of Indonesia. Second,
there is potential for economic growth in these three provinces and third,
because of basic data are available from Canadian International Development
agency studies.
2.2    The Project Health Development Model is appropriate because it uses an
area approach, an integrated health programme approach along with
decentralization of project preparation and implementation. The SAR is clear
and provides a good reference for project implementation.
2.3    As well, the project financing method was most helpful.  Financing each
category by almost 100 percent out of the loan or 100 percent by GOI was very
beneficial for the GOI in 1985/86 when GOI counterpart funds were limited.
Compared to similar Bank projects, the Loan absorption in this project was not
hampered.
2.4    The participation consistent knowledgeable mission members during project
identification and preparation helped to speed up the start of the project.
2.5    Lessons Learned For Future Project Preparati a.  Detailed project
planning is necessary to avoid site changes and minimize delays. Adequate funds
should be made available for project preparation. A clear mechanism for
decentralization should be introduced along with improvement of the capability
of district and provincial health officials.



-12-
2.6    An in-depth review of existing standard design(s) for hospitals should be
made. Then an updated and better standard design which takes into consideration
the need for low operation and maintenance cost should be developed.
2.7    More time should be provided for equipment consultants to complete the
detailed equipment list which was finalized by project staff with limited time
and limited knowledge of hospital equipment. Local consultant(s) should be
recruited along with foreign consultant(s) and together continue to work with
project staff to complete the equipment procurement process.
2.8    A study should be undertaken on the utilization of Health Centers (HC)
with beds before planning of in-patient facilities for other health centers.
2.9    Instead of Annual Parasitic Incidence (API), Slide Positive Rates (SPR),
is used as an indicator for malaria control outside Jawa-Bali. A BOR of 58
percent is likely an average for all hospitals in the region while for the
project hospitals the BOR might be lower. As a consequence, target BOR at
project completion is too high. The Bank should encourage and ensure that
related studies be used for project preparation.
2.10   Project Implementation.  Although there was a neriod when project
supervision was rather neglected, the mission members provided guidance,
correction and support to the project directors and project staff in many
aspects of project implementation. The Indonesian counterpart gained therefore
a lot of understanding, knowledge and invaluable experiences in project
administration, project and hospital financing, hospital design and equipment
provision, preparation of tender documents, ICB and handling equipment
procurement. To allow GOI to spend the savings for commissioning of the
facilities constructed by the project was very helpful as limited fund
available was encountered by the GOI.
2.11. Lessons Learned For Future Project Implementation
-  Using secondary data not supported by detailed studies for project
planning may speed up project preparation that could create
difficulties in project implementation.
-  A strong and consistent supervision mission emphasizing follow up
actions is more favorable for project success.
-  A team of consultants responsible for hospital design, construction,
procurement of equipment and commissioning of hospital(s) would be
better than recruiting individual consultants.
-  Giving more authority to World Bank RSI for approving proposals would
accelerate project implementation.
3.     Borrower Performance.
3.1    The inadequate counterpart funding, the complexity of the budgeting, the
late release of the funds, the non full time project management staff, and the
inexperience of the project team are the main causes of short comings and delay
in project implementation and not achieving some target objectives.



-13-
3.2    The credibility of the construction contractors and equipment suppliers
play an important role in the quality of the services and goods.
3.3    The commitment of the local government to provide sufficient funds for
operation and maintenance of hospitals is difficult to fulfill but all efforts
were made to provide the needed funding from the local government.
3.4    The Lessons Learned For Future Bank Projects
Project Management
-   If not all at least part of the project management staff and project
technical team should have sufficient knowledge and experience in
implementation of similar projects.
-  Recruitment of consultant(s) mastering both World Bank and GOI
procedures, would help ensure speedy and correct project
implementation.
-  Keeping good admiristration and financial records will facilitate
project monitoring and evaluation.
-  Using a simple monitoring system is usually more effective than
requiring large amounts of data.
-  To obtain good quality of goods and services, only qualified bidders
should participate in the tender. The tender committee should have
the courage to reject unqualified bidders and have sufficient
k-owledge regarding market prices to ensure that paying a high cost
for goods and services is avoided.
-  The international bidder for equipment should be supported by the
local sole agent, to make sure the equipment functions satisfactory
and after sales service is assured.
Hospital
-  The approval of using higher unit costs for construction has improved
the quality of the constructed district hospitals which would
facilitate maintenance of the facilities.
-  Reviewing the first completed hospital and modifying the next design,
if necessary, would help avoid further shortcomings.
-  The allocation of a certain amount of "flexible funds" to the
hospital directors could solve the problems caused by non-end users
planning.
-  The availability of technical user hospital personnel should be well
planned in advance and they should be available when the equipment
arrive...
-  The training conducted in relation to the new equipment was highly
appreciated and very helpful in handling minor defects.



-14-
';alaria Control
-  Cross-checking of microscopic findings of field and Kabupaten
laboratories needs strengthening both at the kabupaten and provincial
levels.
-  Efforts were made to identify hard-core areas in each kabutpaten that
would need concerted efforts to maintain the gains achieved so far.
These areas would need to be surveyed by central laboratory teams to
realistically and accurately demarcate the hardcore areas where
efforts should be directed hereafter. The earlier this activity is
undertaken, the better would it be for planning and programming field
activities in the province. Given that some of the transmigration
areas would fall under hardcore areas, special care would be needed
in such areas.
4.     Relationship Between The Bank And The Borrower
The Bank/Borrower relationship on this project has always been good
during project preparation as well as project implementation.



-15-
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit titl                Purpose                approval       Status            Comments
1.  Fiest Population        Increase greatly the scale of   FY72    Cloosd 12/1/S1   Tho project contributed
the Government's foolly                                       greatly to strengthening
planning program and broaden                                  the delivery system as
the range of ectivitieo.                                      well as the national
family plonning program
In Indon-ein. The
impact of the Institu-
tional strengthening,
however, was not folt
until subsequent
proj cts.
2.  First Nutrition         To expand nutrition endeavours  FY77    Closed 08/25/63   All throe major objec-
Development            by strongthening Institutions                                  tives--institution
responsible for nutrition                                     bullding, teoting of
research and training person-                                 fiold l Ivol Interven-
nol ft- Implementation of                                     tions and policy formu-
national nutrition programs.                                   lation were largely mt
and the lossons loorned
were incorporated into
the national family
nutrition improvemnt
program (UPGK).
S.  Second Population       Designed to support the           FY77    Closed 04/J0/84   Project targets wero
national family planning                                      achieved and the objec-
program in Java, Bali and 10                                  tives of enhancing the
provinceo  in the Outer Isionds                               mobility of field staff
to meet medium term objectives                                and extending decentra-
in Repelits III.                                               lizd program activities
in 10 Outer Island
provinces were met.
Population education
activities wore slowor
than anticipated at
appraisal.
4.  Third Population        Encourage and complete docen-   FY61    Clooed OS/Si/89   Objective to decentra-
tralization efforts in the                                     lize the managemnt of
Outer Islands I and II, In                                    family planning
addition to expanding IEC                                     notionally, expand IEC
activities and strengthening                                  and help improve MCH
maternal and child health                                     services were largoly
services                                                      achiev*d.
S.  Second Hoelth           Strengthening of pro-service    FY86    Expected to           Ongoing
(Manpower D-v.)        and in-service training                    cloos 09/30/90
6.  Fourth Population       To assist GOI in strengthening  FY86    Expected to           Ongoing
Its family planning services              close 03/31/91
and carry out its population
policy
7.  Second Nutrition        Strengthening, coordination       FY86    Expected to         Ongoing
and Comunity Health  and managoent of 5 community                  close 12/31/91
health programs in 11
provinces, developing nutri-
tion surveillance capability
and improving nutrition
manpower
S.  Third Health            Support sector expenditures in  FY69    Expected to           Ongoing
two provinces including policy             close 06/30/96
oeures for decentralization
and resource mobilization



-16-
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date                Date               Date
Item                                planned              revised           actual
Identification                     09/30/80 /a          01/15/81 /a         02/09/81
(Project Brief)
Preparation (Preappraisal)          1980-82                   --             02/19/82
Appraisal mission                     01/82 /b             02/82 /c          05/14/82
Loan negotiations                     10/82 /c             10/82 /d          12/01/82
Board approval                        12/82 /c             01/83 /d          02/15/83
Loan signature                           --                   --             02/18!83
Loan effectiveness                 05/18/83                   --             05/18/83
Loan completion                    10/31/87                   --             06/30/89
Loan closing                       06/30/88             06/30/89             09/30/89
/a Back-to-Office report on proposed health project reconnaissance mission,
July 31, 1980 and Back-to-Office report December 5, 1980.
/b Back-to-Office report on preparation of health project April 24, 1981.
/c Project Brief, February 9, 1982.
/d Back-to-Office report on Health Preappraisal Mission May 4, 1982 and
Indonesia Health Project Issues Paper, June 3, 1982.
Note: The dates were revised a number of times and the dates above are those
closest to the actuals.
Comment:   The major delays in the project timetable were on the Completion
and Closing Dates. These largely resulted from the delays in the
original construction schedules for the district hospitals (Part 1,
para. 5.1) and the subsequent addition of minor supplementary
facilities such as VIP rooms.



-17-
Table 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
A. Cumulative Estimated ard Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank FY       Appraisal estimate          Actual          Actual as a Z of estimate
1983                   0.4                   0.40                    100.0
1984                   2.5                   0.49                     20.0
1985                   5.4                   1.03                     19.1
1986                  13.5                   3.75                     27.8
1987                  20.2                   9.86                     48.8
1988                  27.0                  16.61                     62.9
1989                                        20.21                     74.9/a
1990                                        24.40                     90.4/a
Date of final disbursement: February 12, 1990
/a Actual as a Z of original loan amount.
Comment: The Bank cancelled US$2.2 million at the Government's request on
December 4, 1987 and another US$0.4 million was cancelled on
February 12, 1990 after payment of final withdrawal applications
under the loan.



-18-
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Appraisal                 Actual as
indicators                                     estimate      Actual          Z of
No.   Year   No.   Year  estimate
A. Referral System Development
No. of hospitals constructed, fully /a
staffed, equipped and in operation    10    1987    10   1989   100.0
No. of health centers with inpatient
facilities staffed, equipped and in
operation                               15    1987    15  1989    100.0
B. Staff Development and Training
No. of Provincial Training Centers
constructed, staffed and in
operation                                3    1985      3  1987    100.0
No. of staff provided inservice
training                                 -        - 2,542   1988    --
C.  Management and Administration
No. of district health offices and
drug stores constructed                 19    1986      8  1987      42.1
No. of District Health Officers
trained                                 60    1986  164 /b   --   173.0
D. Malaria Control Program
No. of spraymen trained                8,000/c  1986  n.a.       --    --
No. of malaria supervisors trained         65    1983   116 1989/d   178.0
No. of houses sprayed                       -    See separate table below
No. of cases found and treated              -    See separate table below
/a  All the hospitals appear to have adequate medical staff, but existing
staffing norms do not adequately reflect the need for non-medical staff,
such as cleaners, cooks, gardeners, etc.
/b  Not all the staff trained were from the District Health offices.  About 4f:
of the total of 164 were staff from the Central Ministry of Health
including from Pusat Data, Yanmed and the Bureau of Planning.
/c  Two thousand annually for four years.
/d  The numbers of field supervisors trained were 69 in South Sulawesi, 23 in
Central Sulawesi and 24 in Southeast Sulawesi. The training has varied
from 10 days to 3 weeks. About 902 of the training in Central and
Southeast Sulawesi was undertaken in 1989. The report on the final
assessment of the malaria control program by Dr. P.G. Kesavalu (submitted
in August 1989) states that the total number of personnel trained/
retrained over the years exceeded the staff allocations. This was mainly
due to the frequent shifts of staff which meant that a disproportionately
large number of staff of certain categories had to be trained and
retrained.



-19 -
Malaria Control Program  (cont'd)
1983        1984         1986       1988       1987      1988
No. of houses sproyed
Targtt        280,000      380,000      480,000      696,000   569,000           --
Actual        816,901      828,250      432,464      878,967    95,940    147,805
No. of cases found and
trested     Target         167,000      262,000     385,000       460,000   400,000          --
Actual        144,193      128,624      137,764      122,580   121,200    135,710
PCD /a           3,876eL     2,668/c      3,0960        3,043     4,745      4,472
L   Thls refers to Possivo Case Detection only In both the Puskesmas and hospital.
lb South S Iswesi cnl--
Lc South and Southoset Sulawesi.
Soureo: Ministry of Hoalth, June 1990 and 'Provincial Health Projoct Indoneo a, Malaria Control
Program South/Contral, Southeast Sulawosei. Roport of Annual Assessment, Dr. P.C.
Kesavalu.



-20-
Tabl' 6:  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Prolect Costs
CUS$ million)
Aebraisal  estimate        Revigod estimate            Actual
Category/componont                IBRO   G00         Totsl  ISRO   00C   Total   IBRO  00!       Total
Civil Works                       14.79   1.80 La  83.09  13.40  12.05  25.45  12.48 12.05    24.58
Hospital Eaulpment/DDT             3.62    0.10       8 72   7 .6    0 90   I 60     7 90  0 90    90.0
Vehicles                           0.00    1.40       1.40   0.86  0.15   0.51   0.46  0.15       0.68
9E2rational Cost                   0.00    83.0       3830   0.67   2.20   2.87   0.68  3.77 Lb  4.40
(including drugs)
Consultants and Fellowships        2.19    0.30       2.49   2.19   1.90   4.09   2.48  1.90      4.38
Consul tnts
Fee                                0.40    0.00       0.40   0.40   0.00   0.40   0.40  0.00      0.40
Continsency/Unallocated            1.00    4.40       6.40   0.16   0.00   0.16   0.00  0.00      0.00
Total                        27.00   27.60      64.80  24.80  17.20  42.00  24.37 16.77    43.14
,L  GOI contribution includes investment costs for land.
tb  During the review of the PCR, CO1 contibution was increased to incorporate funds for tho
Malaria program from individual program budgets additional to the central budgot allocations
(APBN)
Comment:  Figures may not add up due to rounding.
B.  Proiect Financing
Planned                     Revisod                       Final
Source              (US3 millions)     (N)      (USE milliono)      (N)     (US3 millions)       (N)
IBRD                     27.0         49.3           24.8         69,0           24.4          56.6
GOI                      27.9         60.7           17.2         41.0           186.          4386
Total                 64.8        100.0          42.0         100.0           43.2         100.0
Comment: At appraisal it was estimated that the Bank would finance approximately S0X of the total
project cost except 11.1 million ropresenting the foreign exchange coat of vehicles.
Howevor, subsequently the Bank financed the vehicles and other operational c,sts since
GOI counterpart funds were not provided for these expenditures. The additional funds
were available due to the devaluations of the ruplah. The Bank also reviewed the total
project costs for this loan and revised the appraisal estimate from 364.6 million to
342.0 million (a 23.3X reduction) following the devaluation In 1986. Additionally, a
cancellation of 32.2 million was undertaken in Docember 1987. A further 30.4 million
was cancelled at the loan closing on February 12, 1990.



-21-
Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal      Estimated at
Performance Indicators                    Actual         target        closing date
(1982)         (1987)       (1989 data)/a
No. of outpatient consultations
per month per hospital                     1,100           2,400        1,889
Average length of stay                      7 days               --          5.5
Bed occupancy rate                             582              802         36.62/b
No. of deliveries/hospit&l/month             10-40               --           21
No. of maternal deaths/hospital                 22               2X           --
Mothers and children seeking care
at health center/subcenter           1.5 riuillion    3.0 million           --
No. of consultations/day/health
center                                     15-40               60          --
Annual parasitic incidence                     142               52         n.a./c
la  All estimates are averages, for example, the number of outpatient
consultations is the average for the 10 hrc;pitals.
/b  The evaluation data presented as of the 8.ssing Date is unreliable as it
is under-reported and possibly inconsis -.t.  Although data was collected
for the Monitor_ng and Evaluation Ind4cOtitrs established for the project,
they have not been systematically collectc' or analyzed, given the delays
in commissioning the facilities and, con e-.ently, delays in acquiring
data. Further some of the indicators ¢stp) ished during the appraisal are
also unrealistic. For example, in genera' given initial problems in
commissioning hospitals, an 80% BOR immedi :.Ily hospital construction is
completed is over-optimistic. Data for tbh: -hree hospitals that iust
started operations in 1989 are excluded.
/c  Annual parasitic incidence cannot be obtainid 'rom Passive Case Detection
data only and requires special surveys. Ava:,lble information from the
MOH indicates that the pirasitic rate decreased from 4.5% (1983) to 1.2Z
(1987) in Southeast Sulawesi and from 10.0X ;1183) to 4.8% (1986) in
Central Sulawesi. No estimates have been prolided for South Sulawesi.
Source: Ministry of Health, June 1990.



-22-_
B. Project Studies and Technical Assistance
Status and
Purposend  enxnma onthe (am)            manmonthe (mm)                        Impact
A.  Studies
Health Finance            To review ways to elmplify health finance  Coapleted              Limited since recommendations not implemented as
system at the district level and examine   (9 as)                 some measures propoxsd, e.g.. retention of fees
pocsibilities for additional resource                             in health facilities wmre againmt existing
mobilization through appropriate cost                             reguletions.  Used *e ,n input for the Health
recovery mechanism.  Also to study                               Financing Study in thf follos-up project, the
appropriate uwer fees for district                               Third Health Project.
hospitals and ways to retain these funds
to supplement operating coats.  (6 m-)
Health Information        To roview the exi&ting system for report-  Coakpleted             Used as an input for the development of a pilot
System (HIS)               ing and recording activities of health          (10.5 6m)        projset for a HIS *ith the Suls-i Provinces
centers *nd the district offices and                             bing part of the pilot.  The pilot project is
thereafter mke recommendations for                               *till bein  a*s" d    Two other HIS studio
strengthening the systIm to effectively                          mre also financed under the project (i) Orcle
support planning activitieso.  (6 _)                             Robbin: Study, and  Hii) Automated Strategy Study
for an Integrated HIS.  The latter mil l form the
basis of a proposed HIS component in the next
project.
Utilization of Health   To review present trends of tutilization    Coobined with   --
S-rvices                  of health centers and to maes  recomeenda-  study below
tion for improving them.  (None include*d
ao a covenant).
Outreach Activities       To study the performnne of .PKMD, parti-   Completed             No follow-up.
cularly its impact on utilization of
health services in order to establish
optimal conditions for proora-m sainte-
nonce and to plan for its expansion or
alternative prograsm  for improving
outreach. (None, included am a
covenant).
Administration            To review present procedures for district  Comnpleted             Used successfully in the provinces but not
hospital adainistration, design and             (22 w)            repli cated notionally
conduct training course for hospital
administrators, and evaluate the course
for national replication. (46 me)
Hospital Equipment        To determine (i) maintenane needs of             Consultancy      Prototypes of workshops to be built mere
Maintenance                district hospitals based on an inventory   unused                developed with the architectural designs for the
of medical equipment, and (ii) the appro-                        hospitals.
priate number, location ond staffing for
mann.enance workshops. and prepare preli-
minery architectural drawingo for these
workshops.  (6 mm)
Hospital Equipment        To asist MOH to prepare specifications    Completed               All hospital equipment purchased based on the
of hospital equipment.  (2 me)                  (coebinlad with  consultant studies.
hosp i ts
admin.)
Management Training of  To design and carry out a management               Consultancy      Although no specific course was demigned,
District Medical           training course for district medical            unused           district medical officers mere provided with
Officers                  officers.  (36 me)                                                overseas and local training courses.
Drug Management System  To establish a drug ;nvsntory system at    Consultancy              --
the district level.  (6 m)                     unusd because
of a study
done by WHO
consul tents
Fntosologist and          To assist in malaria surveillance and           Completed         Excellent assessments mere provided on the
Malariologist              elpidemiological assessment.  (106 mex)        The original    progress of the program, recommendations for
intention was   improvements and measures for susteinability.
to provide for
long-term
consultants,
but due to the
difficulties
in obtaining
them, short-
term consul-
tancies were
used.  (44 mm)
Honitoring and            To assist MOH in evaluating project             Completed and   Due to the delays in commissioning facilities
Evaluation                 impact.  (6 m)                                  monitoring end  the data collection and analysis has been
evaluating        incomplete and poor   The syst    needs to be
indicators       institut iona ized as the real impact of the
established      project can only be assessed in the future.
(consul tents
not used)
Project Preparation       To assist MOH in preparing a s?cord             Completed         Consultancies were used not for the second
health project for Bank financing.             Used for          project but the Third Health Project.  Technical
(6 -al)                                        project prepa-  a" istance was also provided for health sector
ration as well  work, for studies on health center unit costs,
as health        hospital unit costs and government expenditure
lector work      accounts.
(42 mm)
ntp  Additional consultancis u-el but not provided for in the SAR were for:  (1) training in planning for health development
(3 my, (2) comwuter training (about S _m); and (3) Audit reports (6 m).



-23-
Table 7: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan
Agreement                 ubject                       Deadlino            Status
Section 3.02(b)   Employ full comploemnt of staff and   03/31/84  Completed but not on schodulo
consultants for malaria control
Section 3.02(c)   Appointment of technical staff for          -- Not fully compliod with
planning and construction of civil works
Section 8.05     Acquire land in accordanco with a            --  Completed although the land
timotable satisfactory to the Bank              was not acquirod according to
schedulo.
Section 3.06(a)   Study on trends In hoalth conter      12/31/84  Completed
utilization and rocommndations for
Improving outreach services
Section 3.06(b)   Study In ten districts to review      12/31/84  Completed
ways of improving health finance
system at district level and
possibilities of cost rocovery
Section 3.06(c)   Study of recording and reporting of   04/30/86  Completed
health centers and methods of
improving collection of information
Section 3.07     Monitor and evaluate project                 --  Completed and collection and
activities according to satisfactory            analysis of data ongoing
indicators
Table 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
Staff Inputs
A. Staff Weeks by Stage
FY               1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Preappraisal            34.8  55.0
Appraisal                       25.5  15.2
Negotiations                            5.1
Supervision                            11.1  14.1    4.0  26.3   16.1  17.4  12.2    8.2
Other                                                                                       7.7
Total Project           34.8  80.5  31.4  14.1    4.0  26.3  16.1  17.4  12.2  15.9
Comment:  The supervision of the project was badly neglected in FY85.   This
occurred during an 18 months period when three new projects -- Fourth
Population (FY85), Second Health (Manpower Development) (FY85) and
Second Nutrition and Community Health (FY86) -- were negotiated and
approved. Consequently, much less attention was paid to supervision
issues. The project may have also benefited from more visits to the
provinces by supervision missions.



-24-
B. Mission Data
Days                   Perf.   Rating Type
No.    in    Specialties    status  trend  prob.
Mo./Yr.   Pers.  Field  represented/a    /b           /c   /d
Identification I        07/80    2    12    p, f/e
Preparation I           11/80    3    18    p, f/d, f/e
Preparation II  03/81; 08/81    4    25/e  p, 1, m
Preparation III      11-12/81    3    20    p, f/d, a
Pre-appraisal          3-4/82    2    26    p, a
Appraisal                05/82    2    14    p, f/d
Supv. I                 03/83    2    19    p. f/d               1        1   -
Supv. II                09/83    2      5    p, f/d              1        2   -
Supv. III               04/84    2      6    a. f/d              1        1   -
Supv. IV                12/84    1      6    fld                 2        1   M
Supv. V                 07/85    2  n.a./f  o, r                 2        -   M,F
Supv. VI                12/85    1  n.a./f  0                    3        -   M,DI
Supv. VII               10/86 L& 3  n.a./f  o, p, r              2        -   F,M,DI
Supv. VIII              09/87    2      6    e                   2        -   F,M,DI
Supv. IX                04/88    1      5    e                   2        -   F,M,DI
Supv. X                2-3/89    2    13    e, p                 2        -   F,M,DI
Supv. XI                08/89    3    16    e, pi a              2        -   F,M,DI
la   Specialty Codes:  a: Architect; e: economist; f/e: finance/economist;
f/d: finance/demography; 1: loan officer; m: manpower specialist;
o: organization and management specialist; p: public health specialist;
r: operations assistant.
/b   1: Problem Free or Minor Problems; 2: Moderate Problems; 3: Major
Problems.
/c   1: Improving; 2: Stationary; 3: Deteriorating (only applicable until
12/84 Spn.).
/d   M: Managerial; F: Financial; DI: Development Impact.
/e   This includes a brief 5-day visit by a public health specialist.
/f   Supervision and preparation missions for a number of projects were
combined making it difficult to disaggregate the staffdays in the field
on individual projects. Consultants used for the subsequent Health
Manpower Development Project have, to the extent feasible, also been
excluded.
/g   Although reference is made to a supervision mission in April 1986, there
is no record of this mission in the files.



ANNEX 1
-2r .
INDONESIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Provincial Health Project (IBRD-Ln. 2235-IND)
Hospital Investment Costs
(Rp million/S million equivalent)
Year Gf                  Investment Costs
Name of Hospital   Operation   Construction                  Equipment           Total
(Cost /a)                (Cost /)
Rp        S /b          Rp       $ /d      Rp     $
Class C
1  Luwu                 1987       1,407       0.97        1,075      0.63   2,482  1.60
2  Pare-Pare            1986       2,251       1.55        1,051      0.61   3,302  2.16
3  Bone                 1987       2,150       1.34        1,053      0.61   3,203  1.95
4  Masamba              1989       2,207       1.30        1,090      0.63   3,297  1.93
"lass D
5  Toli-Toli            1989       1,751       1.03        1,098      0.64   2,849  1.67
6  Ampana               1988       2,091       1.31        1,048      0.61   3,138  1.92
7  Majene               1986       1,480       1.02        1,017      0.59   2,497  1.61
8  Bulukumba            1987       1,497       0.94        1,008      0.59   2,505  1:53
9  Tana-Toraja          1989       1,717       1.01          986      0.57   2,703  1.58
10  Unaaha               1989       1,657       0.98          988      0.58   2,645  1.56
Total                      18,208      11.45       10,413       6.06  28,621 17.51
/a  Including:  Land and Master Plans.
/b Construction costs - Exchange rates
- Luwuk Pare-Pare and Majene Hospitals $1 - Rp 1,450
- Bone, Bulukumba and Ampana Hospitals $1 - Rp 1,600
- Toli-Toli, Masamba, Tana-Toraja, Unaaha $ - Rp 1,696
/c Including: medical, non medical, and other supporting equipment.
/d Equipment costs - Exchange rate $1 - Rp 1,718.
Source: Planning Bureau, MOH, January 1990.



> B RD  2261 1
i2,0-                                        122'                                         liv-
2-
S  ts Orl  t  190t                 0                           t~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r   a"n19 t Drr:io  :   ,}                    'SU  AWto;b !11gr
J ~~ X ^_~~(itor~Onc.  --
Powooen                                                                     $\,_.         , 
2-~                                 I                                     -p g
~~~~~0- ~ ~    ~      SUA        F Tobi  IJ                                                                                                                     
-or-    A        Pclo \
PQn-o'oon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,.__'                                                      A                R7 S    
Donggolc  z                                                                 {       'p
Donggcoc  + % ,       D       o     n      >      _      =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,t1  Poluw  s   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~    ';uwukr$                4~~~~~~~
,,   ;  \   \;     / tnDO!8O                 tz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
l 2.   ;t ., A w t > --S Tt rv (, 1 '   ' F   ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     4 
B.           1_,                                la \g
-2' Scm~~~~~Pakogc 1s'7   .'O
MO,er:i    o ,>                    .........   ' t
SULAWt :,I ¢  \    <  >  _c o    ',  .                                      I N   D   O ~~~~~~~~~~~~ O~N E" S R
SEI&-igr>+    ^-=_t   e"9k.bBUns                                              PROVINCIAL HEALTH~~~~8L TO I
) /  vgipod.o.q                                                                                                     QP-,c1<)    r"Ns T .., obCC'C5Q    ''_ 1S'R
9 /   >   Mcxcli \    k           * ~''                                                           ' s; u - k'qO,1    .,-
4-  Pc  e     ;   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                 e    n      d     o    r                  t     t 2POR s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12-                     
,~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ HA L As NnD                                                            PHok'  IC Io PPI NE
vvo-onsos~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ln Aw;;  FY S 'A. Jr:.O                ~            S             ^  
Borru  \  0 :'   ,!  Tlnanggea    0 ' *-                 -    22(:v Nti ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "\' A'S  ~          P
Morosl  /    \                               I  Y     / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ .  ter  8NsiN~~~~~a-1,   G0,,        jE
C~ ~ ~~~~k 5c                           15         -oKbon   oc                                £                             S   '
t_i;                  mb                           KAZAEN    E0boo
Jeeo    +8120'n                                     122'                                                                   T ' ^



