Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4131-IN,
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
January 12, 1983
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        =   Rupiahs (Rp) 660
Rp 100             US$0.151
Rp 1 million  =   US$1,515
WEIGHTS AND 'MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)               =         0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                     =         39.37 inches
1 ki].ometer (kn)               =         0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)    =           0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                  =         2.47 acres
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ASKES             =    Health Insurance Scheme For Government Employees
BAPPENAS          =    National Development Planning Board
CIDA              =    Canadian International Development Agency
GOI               =    Government of Indonesia
INPRES            =    National Subsidy for Local Governments
MCH               =    Maternal and Child Health
MHA               =    Ministry of Home Affairs
MOH               =    Ministry of Health
NFPCB             =    National Famnily Planning Coordinating Board
PKMD              =    Village Comnunity Health Development Program
PTC               =    Provincial Training Center
PUSDIKLAT              MOH Center for Education and Training
REPELITA               Five-Year Development Plan
UNICEF            =    United Nations Children's Fund
USAID             =    United States Agency for International Development



INDONESIA               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Basic Data ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .  .      i
Definitions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              ii
I.    INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                1
II.   THE HEALTH SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                3
A.  Health Status. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                3
B.  The Health Service System. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                5
C.  Health Expenditure and its Financing . . . . . . . .               8
III.  HEALTH SECTOR POLICIES AND PERFORMANCE . . . . . . . . .               10
A.  Health Policies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              10
B.  Sector Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              11
C. Health Sector Issues .. .12
D.  The Bank Role. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              15
IV.   THE PROJECT AREA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               16
V.    THE PROJECT. . . . . . . .  .                                          19
A.  Project Objectives .............. ..                              19
B.  Project Composition. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              20
C.  Detailed Features. . . . . . . . . .                     ..... ..  21
VI.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               27
A. Cost Estimates .. .27
B.  Project Financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              29
C.  Procurement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              29
D.  Disbursements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              29
E.  Accounts and Audit ...  .       .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .    .  30
VII.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION. . . .               30
A.  Project Management ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  30
B.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              31
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation. . . . . . . . . . . . . .              32
VIII. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  33
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . .               34
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia
in May 1982. Mission members included Bernhard Liese (Mission Leader),
Lina Domingo (Bank), and David Mills (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents
(continued)
ANNEXES
Annex 1     Tables                                                 Page No.
T-1         Population by Province:  Size, Density
and Growth.             . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .   36
T-2         Socio-economic Indicators in Selected
Countries, 1979 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
T-3         Principal Causes of Death in Indonesia,
1972 and 1980  ..38
T-4         Infant Mortality and Life Expectancy, by
Region, 1969 and 1978 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
T-5         Disease Patterns, 1972 and 1980 . . . . . . . . . . .   40
T-6         Central Ministry of Health Budgets, 1979/80-1981/82,
by Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .    41
T-7         Development, INPRES and Routine Budgets for MOH,
1974/75-1981/82   ..42
T-8         Analysis of Household Surveys 1972 and 1980 . .43
T-9    Malariometric Indices    ..44
T-10        Location of Project Facilities. . . . . . . . . . . .   45
T-11        Standard Hospital Staffing Patterns . . . . . . . . .   46
T-12        Expected Training Loads at Provincial In-Service
Training Centers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   47
T-13        List of Studies and Technical Assistance. . . . . . .   48
T-14        Detailed Cost Estimates by Component. . . . . . . . .   49
T-15        Annual Expenditures by Component. . . . . . . . . . .   56
T-16        Estimated Schedule of Disbursements . . . . . . . . .   57
T-17        Responsibilities for Project Implementation
Activities . . . . .            .58
T-18        Implementation Schedule..                                 61
T-19        Key Project Indicators. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   64
Annex 2     Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   65
Charts
C-1         Structure of the Ministry of Health . . . . . . . . .   66
C-2         Organization of the Provincial Health Offices . . . .   67
C-3         Organization of the Diistrict Health Offices . . . . .   68
C-4         Health and Family Planning Systems. . . . . . . . . .   69
MAP
M-1         Sulawesi:  Location of Project Facilities and Activities



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
Definitions
Crude Birth Rate:        Number of live births per year per 1,000 people.
Crude Death Rate:        Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Rate of Natural          Difference between crude birth and crude death
Increase:                rate; usually expressed as a percentage.
Rate of Population       Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net)
Growth:                  migration expressed as a percentage of the total
population in a given year.
Infant Mortality         Annual number of deaths of infants under 1 year per
Rate:                    1,000 live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy:         Average number of years children born in the same
year can expect to live if mortality rates-for each
age/sex group remain the same in the future.
Annual Malaria           Number of people with positive blood slides
Incidence:               collected over a one-year period per 1,000
population.
Slide Positivity         Number of positive blood slides per 100 slides
Rate:                    collected.
Active Case              Surveillance activities in which malaria services
Detection:               actively search for new malaria cases through the
collection of blood slides and epidemiological
investigations.
Passive Case             The surveillance activities in which the public
Detection:               health and medical services, other than the
regularly constituted malaria service, assist the
latter by searching for malaria cases by the
collection of blood slides and epidemiological
investigations.
Falciparum Malaria:      A severe type of malaria caused by Plasmodium
falciparum, a species of malaria parasite.



I



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Indonesian economy has performed remarkably well during the
past decade. Gross national product (GNP) grew at 8% per year on average
and GNP per capita reached US$520 in 1981, placing Indonesia in the ranks of
middle-income countries for the first time. The benefits of economic growth
have been widely spread reaching all segments of the population, including
the lowest income groups. The achievements in raising the well-being of
Indonesians can be attributed in part to concerted Government efforts in
several related and inter-dependent areas: basic education, population
control, nutrition and health.
1.02      Access to primary education has increased dramatically and uni-
versal enrollment has now virtually been realized. The adult literacy rate
rose from 39% in 1960 to 62% in 1976. The national family planning program
was vigorously pursued and has contributed to a rapid decline in fertility.
The birth rate fell at an average annual rate of 1.4% during the 1970s, a
rate more rapid than the average for developing countries. Agriculture and
nutrition programs and policies have been successful in increasing the
levels of food output and consumption and in facilitating access to a broad
range of nutrition services. Significant progress has also been made in
improving the health status of the population. Between 1969 and 1980 life
expectancy rose from 47 years to 53 years, and the infant mortality rate
declined from about 140/1000 live births to about 93/1000, an improvement
that is 50% greater than the average for all low-income countries.
1.03      This progress notwithstanding, life expectancy is still low and
mortality rates are still high in comparison with those in countries with
similar income levels. Some diseases have been eradicated or reduced, yet
many others of an infectious or parasitic nature remain. Morbidity patterns
in the rural areas have not changed significantly over the past decade.
Protein-calorie malnutrition is still widespread, affecting an estimated 30%
of children under 5 years of age. Furthermore, while the GOI has now
largely succeeded in its objective of establishing the infrastructure of a
system capable of delivering basic health services nationwide, the system's
effectiveness remains limited by a low level of public confidence in the
services provided. This lack of confidence is attributed to a poor quality
of health care at the primary level and a failure to develop an effective
referral system that permits the rural hospitals to support and lend
professional credibility to the primary network.



1.04      To redress this situation, the GOI has embarked upon a massive
expansion in its social development programs. Its commitment to reducing
the present high rate of population growth (2.3% in 1980) and to improving
the health and nutritional status of the population is strong. An ambitious
target has been set to reduce the 1971 fertility level by 50% by 1990.
Achievement of this target will be supported by health and nutrition pro-
grams focussed on maternal and child care. The GOI objectives for the year
2000 also include raising life expectancy to at least 60 years and to
reducing the infant mortality rate to 45/1000, and reducing the protein-
calorie malnutrition in the under-five age group to 10%. To achieve these
targets, the GOI has shifted the focus of its health policies and programs
from further expansion of the health network to improving service utiliza-
tion and effectiveness. To facilitate implementation of such policies,
responsibility for planning and implementing health programs is progressive-
ly being shifted to the provinces. To this end, GOI is building up planning
and technical capacity at the provincial and district levels.
1.05      The international donor community has responded favorably to these
policies. The USAID, for instance, is assisting the GOI with the develop-
ment of a comprehensive health improvement program in three provinces: Aceh,
Nusa Tenggara and West Sumatra. The proposed Bank project will cover three
other provinces: Central, Southeast and South Sulawesi which, as primary
receiving areas for transmigration and because of their potential for agri-
culture, are being given high priority for development. The proposed
project will focus on four main areas: (i) development of an effective
referral system to support outreach activities; (ii) health manpower
development; (iii) malaria control; and (iv) strengthening the institutional
capacity of the provincial and district health administrations. The project
was identified, prepared and will be implemented by the respective
Provincial Health Administrations, with policy guidance from the central
Ministry of Health (MOH).



- 3 -
II. THE HEALTH SECTOR a/
A. Health Status
2.01      Demographic Profile.  Indonesia is the fifth most populous country
in the world, after China, India, the USSR and the USA. Preliminary analysis
of the 1980 census put the total population at 147 million, up by about 28
million since 1971. The rate of population growth for the whole country
between 1971 and 1980 was 2.3%. The rates of population growth, however,
vary among regions (Annex 1, T-1). For example, Java has a lower growth rate
(2.0%) than Sulawesi and Kalimantan (2.2% and 3.0%, respectively), while
Sumatra has the highest rate (3.3%). If the present growth differentials are
maintained, the population of the Other Islands will surpass that of Java-
Bali within a few decades.
2.02      There is conclusive evidence that there has been a decline in the
overall fertility rates in Indonesia, primarily in Java-Bali and in the
urban areas. Recent estimates show a change in the birth rate from 43/1000
population in 1970 to 35/1000 in 1980. This decline is the combined result
of a highly successful family planning program and socio-economic
development.
2.03      Despite these encouraging developments, the present national crude
birth rate of 35/1000 population is still high. The death rate is likely to
decline sharply in the near future, with the possible consequence of a
further increase in the present high rate of population growth if fertility
reduction is not accelerated. This will have important implications for
economic and social development programs. Recognizing these, the GOI has
intensified efforts to accelerate the decline of fertility already achieved,
particularly in the Other Islands where the fertility level is higher and
where the prevalence of contraceptive use is lower than in Java-Bali.
Family planning program targets aim at reducing the fertility rate by 50%
from the 1971 level by 1990.
2.04      Although Indonesia as a whole is not densely populated, its popu-
lation is very unevenly distributed among the different islands. In 1980,
nearly two-thirds of the population was concentrated in Java-Bali (which has
only 7% of the total land area), 19% in Sumatra, 8% in Sulawesi, 5% in
Kalimantan, and 6% on the Other Islands of Eastern indonesia. According to
the 1980 census, about 18% live in urban areas.
a/  Basic information on health conditions, programs and policies in
Indonesia is provided by the Indonesia Health Sector Overview
(2379-IND). The 1982 Country Economic Memorandum (3795-IND) also focusses
on the health sector and stresses the importance of human resources
development in the country. A draft report on the health manpower
situation on Indonesia reviews the training and deployment of health
personnel and identifies issues important for future planning. These
documents are available in the Project File.



- 4 -
2.05      Mortality and Morbidity.  Available data, although incomplete,
indicate that over the last decade, life expectancy has increased signifi-
cantly and infant mortality has declined rapidly throughout Indonesia.
Nevertheless, Indonesia still lags behind comparable countries. In 1980,
life expectancy was 53 years compared to an average of 57 and 61 years in
low and middle income countries, respectively.
2.06      The crude death rate (1980) is 12/1000 population, of which 39% is
accounted for by children under five years. Maternal mortality, due
principally to post partum hemorrhage, infection and toxemia, is also high
at 3/1000 deliveries. (Since this figure is derived from data confined to
mothers who deliver in hospitals, the actual rate may be higher.) Only 10%
of pregnant mothers receive pre-natal care, and only 15% of deliveries are
attended to by medical or paramedical personnel, or trained traditional
birth attendants. Children are at a high risk of mortality from acute
respiratory infections and gastroenteritis. Tetanus, pertussis, diphtheria,
measles and polio, although preventable diseases, are also important causes
of deaths of infants and small children. The four chief causes of death for
all ages are acute lower respiratory infections, diarrheal diseases,
cardiovascular diseases, and tuberculosis. Injuries and traffic accidents,
are becoming major causes of death at all ages (Annex 1, T-3).
2.07       Significant rural, urban and inter-regional differentials exist in
the levels of mortality. Nationwide, the expected life span at birth for
urban residents is more than 10% greater than those for rural dwellers.
Inter-regional variations in infant mortality rates are also great. For
example, the infant mortality rate in the Eastern Islands in 1978 was
133/1000 live births compared to Jogjakarta (63/1000) and Jakarta (80/1000),
where access to health services is better and where disease control programs
such as malaria and other endemic diseases have been successful (Annex 1,
T-4).
2.08      The disease pattern in the country has not changed significantly
over the past decade (Annex 1, T-5). The most common diseases are infec-
tions of the respiratory system, including tuberculosis. They are followed
by skin infections, diarrhea and. childhood diseases against which immuniza-
tion is available. In the Other Islands malaria remains the most serious
disease. Dengue haemorrhagic fever is increasing.
2.09      Over the coming decade it will be necessary for the health sector
to adapt to changing disease patterns associated with economic growth and
improved social conditions. While childhood diseases of the infectious type
will continue to prevail, there is clearly a tendency for diseases of aging,
trauma and other non-communicable diseases to increase, with the changing
age structure of the population.,  For example, the percentage of the popu-
lation in the 0-4 years age group fell from 16% in 1971 to 14% in 1980. The
number in the 5-9 age group exceeded the 0-4 group for the first time and
the proportion in the 55 years and older age group increased to 8.2% from
6.2% during the same period.    New health problems associated with urban
living are beginning to appear; the emergence of cardiovascular and cerebro-
vascular diseases has recently 'been noted.  Its importance should not be
underestimated, since the costs of treating chronic diseases and acute
trauma are high and usually require hospital care.



- 5 -
B. The Health Service System
2.10      In Indonesia, rural health services are provided through a network
of health sub-centers, health centers and district hospitals.  In addition,
attempts have been made by the GOI to develop community-based services which
use village health volunteers to provide elementary health care and nutrition
services.  Patients requiring more specialized care such as major operations,
long-term care and rehabilitation, are referred to provincial and specialized
hospitals, which are usually located in larger cities. The health services
provided by these facilities are technically supported by a number of
separately-financed national programs, such as the national programs for
expanded immunization, control of diarrhea, malaria, leprosy and tuberculo-
sis, and for nutrition education and most importantly, for family planning.
All these programs are functionally integrated at the health center level.
However, the administration of family planning activities is completely
separated from the health service system.  The functional relationship of the
two systems is shown in Chart C-4 which indicates that while the health
network extends to the sub-district level, the family planning system reaches
the village level in Java and Bali and in pilot areas in the Other Islands.
In addition, it has better logistic support, has an extensive network of
field workers, and is well-organized and effective.l/
2.11      As of 1982 more than 10,000 primary health facilities are function-
ing as health sub-centers including MCH clinics and polyclinics. A health
sub-center is generally staffed by a full-time nurse auxiliary, and provides
simple medical care, basic maternal-child health (MCH) care, routine
vaccinations, nutrition and community health education. The GOI is providing
for an additional 4,000 health sub-centers or about 4-5 health sub-centers
per health center to be completed by 1984 under the INPRES Program (National
Subsidy for Local Governments).
2.12      The principal source of comprehensive health services in rural
areas are the health centers. Health centers provide basic medical care,
maternal and child health services, family planning services, communicable
disease control, hygiene and sanitation, nutrition, community health educa-
tion and dental treatment, and are also responsible for disease reporting and
surveillance. Health centers generally are not equipped for in-patient
care. The MOH has initiated the provision of 10-bed wards for selected
health centers located in isolated areas where there are no hospital
facilities nearby. A full complement of staff for a health center consists
of one physician, one nurse, one midwife, three auxiliary nurse/midwives, one
sanitary inspector, one dental nurse (shared by three health centers), and
one clerk. This level of staffing has not yet been attained in all the
health centers. At least one health center has been established in each
sub-district.  They serve an average of 40,000 persons in Java, Madura and
Bali, and 15,000-25,000 in the Other Islands, where population is more widely
dispersed. The GOI target is one center per 30,000 population.
1/ A detailed description of the family planning program structure is
discussed in the Staff Appraisal Reports for the three population
projects (Reports Nos. PP8a-IND, 2323-IND, 2912-IND).



- 6 -
2.13      Government and private hospitals function at the central, provin-
cial and district levels. The district hospital serves as the main referral
point for health centers and sub-centers. In addition, it is the primary
source of care for those who live in the immediate vicinity, providing both
in-patient and out-patient care. These front-line hospitals fall into two
main categories: facilities with 30-50 beds (Class D), and facilities with
50-100 beds (Class C). Class D hospitals are staffed by one or two
physicians. Class C hospitals are staffed by three to four physicians and
generally serve large catchment areas.
2.14      District hospitals play an important role in supporting the primary
health care system since they shape the public and professional image of the
health system and largely determine the credibility of the primary care
providers. They provide continuing care to patients whom health centers and
sub-centers are not equipped or not capable of treating, including compli-
cated deliveries, accidents, pediatric emergencies, and general surgery.
2.15      In response to a growing awareness that clinic-based services need
to be supplemented by outreach programs in order to meet basic health needs,
particularly in rural areas, the GOI is presently focussing attention on more
community-based programs. This emphasis has resulted in the formulation of
the Village Community Health Development Program (PKMD), in which volunteer
village primary health care workers are trained to respond to the basic
health needs of the villages under the technical supervision of a primary
health care nurse based at the health center. Primary emphasis of PKMD
activities is placed on motivation and education on health of the community
and of the local community leaders.
2.16      After completion of some limited training, the village health
volunteer is expected to perform, on a part-time basis, simple preventive and
curative tasks to improve standards of health at the village level and
organize a most basic village health insurance scheme. The health volunteers
are involved in this scheme through collection and management of contribu-
tions (in cash or kind) from families for the purchase of drugs. The health
volunteers provide early therapy for diarrhea, cough, fever, ear and skin
infections, family planning and nutrition education and referral of the more
severely sick to the health centers for proper diagnosis and care.
2.17      During Repelita III (1979-1984), MOH aims to train approximately
100,000 village health volunteers from 5,000 villages covering all
provinces. It was estimated that this program would reach a total of about 6%
of the population by 1984. By the end of 1982, about 30,600 volunteers are
reported by MOH to have been trained. However, the drop-out rate of
volunteers is high (about 60 - 80%).
2.18      Health Manpower.  Public sector health workers are classified as
follows: (a) physicians, dentists and pharmacists; (b) paramedical staff,
including community health nurses, specialized nurses, assistant pharmacists,
X-ray, laboratory and other technical personnel; and (c) auxiliary person-
nel. Estimates of the number of public sector health workers range from
92,000 to 116,000. In addition, there are an estimated 30,000 auxiliary
workers paid on an honorarium basis and about 20,000 health workers in the
private sector. In 1977, 24 categories of nursing training were consolidated
into two categories: community health nurse and graduate nurse. About
47,000 of the 79,000 registered traditional birth attendants were trained by



- 7 -
the end of Repelita II, and approximately 5,000 of them are currently being
trained each year. In addition, medical graduates were compulsorily assigned
to rural areas.
2.19      Although the GOI almost doubled its health personnel during
Repelita II (1974-79), the ratio of health manpower tQ population is low.
For example, recent estimates put the number of Indonesian doctors at one per
13,670 population. By contrast, Philippines has one doctor per 2,800; India,
one per 3,630; and Thailand, one per 8,220. Medical personnel are also
unevenLy distributed, being excessively concentrated in large urban centers.
There is an acute shortage of technical personnel, particularly laboratory
and X-ray technicians and specialized nurses. There are still too few
community health nurses beirg trained. With the increasing awareness of the
need for health care, there will be an increased demand for more and improved
health service. These foreseeable requirements make it imperative to
intensify the training or retraining of health staff.l/
2.20      Because of its previous emphasis on increasing the number of health
workers to staff an increasing number of health centers and sub-centers, and
because of financial constraints, it was only recently that the MOH focussed
on the upgrading of staff skills through in-service training. To date, the
MOH has established three in-service training centers for the whole country.
Since these centers were insufficient to meet in-service training require-
ments, various MOH directorates have introduced brief, ad hoc courses given
without the benefit of appropriate training facilities or staff.
2.21      In order to address these manpower problems, at the end of Repelita
II, MOH embarked upon a number of operational activities including: (i) the
preparation of short and long-term plans for recruiting and training primary
care nurses and technical staff; (ii) the establishment of provincial centers
for in-service training; and (iii) the improvement of the management of
health manpower. At the same time, it intensified ongoing training
activities for physicians and nurses in specialized fields such as obstetrics
and gynecology, surgery, pediatrics and internal medicine.
2.22      Health Administration.  At the central level is MOH which sets
national policies, priorities and programs in the health sector. It is
headed by a Minister responsible to the President. As can be seen from Chart
C-1,the heads of division of the MOH and the chief health officer in each
province are directly responsible to the Minister. The chief offices of MOH
are: (a) the Secretary General, who is responsible for planning, personnel,
finance, supply, health legislation, public relations and general affairs;
(b) the Director General for Community Health, who is responsible for health
education, MCH, family planning, nutrition and health centers; (c) the
Director General for Medical Care, who is responsible for hospitals, health
laboratories, dental and mental health; and (d) the Director General for
Communicable Disease Control, who is responsible for epidemiological
surveillance and quarantine, the control of communicable and vector borne
diseases and hygiene and sanitation, including rural water supply. In
1/ The Bank is presently considering a GOI request for assistance in
developing a health manpower project focussing on formal training of
selected health personnel.



- 8 -
addition, there is a Director General for Food and Drug Control, and two
associated institutes: the Center for Education and Training, which is
responsible for all non-degree health training, and the Institute of Health
Research and Development.
2.23      At the provincial level, the MOH shares responsibility with the
provincial government (which is answerable to the Ministry of Home Affairs
(MHA)) for administering public health services. Coordination is secured by
the appointment of a Provincial Health Officer with dual functions. He
reports to the Minister of Health on technical matters and issues relating to
national health policies, and to the Governor on the administration of the
health services. The provincial health administration is responsible for the
technical supervision of provincial and district hospitals, health centers
and sub-centers, the in-service training of health personnel, and the execu-
tion of endemic/epidemic disease control and sanitation programs.
2.24      The health administration in each district is headed by a district
medical officer who also has dual functions. He reports to the Provincial
Health Officer on technical matters and to the head of the district on admin-
istrative matters. The district health administration plays an important
role in primary health care, since it supervises the district health network
and organizes distribution of drug supplies. It is also responsible for the
execution of malaria and other disease control programs, sanitation, and
community health education.
C. Health Expenditure and Its Financing
2.25      Health Expenditures.  Total expenditures for the health sector in
1981 were estimated at about Rp. 1,306 billion (US$1.98 billion), of which
about 60% was in the private sector and 40% in the public sector. There has
been a shift in recent years in health expenditure patterns, with the private
sector accounting for an increasing proportion of total expenditures. (In
1976, they accounted for only 45% of total expenditures.) This shift is
partly due to the fact that the quality of care in the public health sector
is considered inadequate, leading patients to have increasing recourse to the
private sector. It is also partly, due to the rising cost of private sector
health care. For instance, the average estimated cost of a private hospital
bed rose from Rp. 1,000 per day in 1976 to Rp. 10,000 in 1980. The continua-
tion of this trend will place the cost of private health care beyond the
reach of an increasing number of Indonesians.
2.26      The 1981 MOH budget shows the following breakdown by category of
expenditure: construction, 25% of the total; materials and drugs, 25%;
personnel, 20%; equipment, 17%; a,nd others, including maintenance and super-
vision, 13%. By type of program, about 66% of the total budget was allocated
for health services, mostly to rural areas; 10% for communicable disease
control; 6% for health manpower development; and the remainder for other pro-
gram activities such as control of foods and drugs, research, water supply,
and environmental sanitation (Annex 1, T-6). This allocation reflects GOT
policies and priorities within the sector.



-9-
2.27      In 1976, public expenditures on health were equivalent to about
0.7% of gross domestic product (GDP).  Since that time, the percentage has
risen to almost 1%. Despite this increase, the budgetary priority given to
health remains inadequate; the sector receives approximately 3% of total
Government expenditure, which is low. On a per capita basis, this amounts to
$4.0, well below the requirements.
2.28      Sources of Financing.  Public health sector financing is provided
by three major sources: (i) public funds; (ii) health insurance; and (iii)
patient fees. Public funds provide about 90% of total financing. Of these,
93% are channelled through the central government budgets of various minis-
tries and INPRES while the remainder comes from the provincial and district
governments.  Out of the central government budgets, the central MOH budget
accounted for 37%; the remainder comes from the budgets of the Ministries of
Education, Home Affairs, Defense and the National Family Planning
Coordinating Board (NFPCB). Since Repelita II, INPRES funds have increasing-
ly become a major source of funding, accounting, on an average, for 54% of
investment resources in health. The combined total allocation of the central
MOH budget and INPRES has increased ten-fold in current price terms (from
Rp. 25 billion in 1974/75 to Rp. 249 billion in 1981/82) representing a real
increase of over 200%, or an average annual real growth rate of about 16%.
This substantial increase reflects the low allocation to health at the begin-
ning of Repelita II (Annex 1, T-7).  Foreign assistance in 1980 amounted to
about 20% of the central MOH development budget.
2.29      The government employees health insurance scheme (ASKES) is the
second largest source of financing. Its budget for 1980/81 was Rp. 26
billion; the bulk of its funds were allocated for health services. ASKES is
financed by an automatic 5% deduction from civil service salaries and a
matching payment by the GOI. Current membership is about 2 million, and the
population covered is about 12 million. ASKES pays for the costs of all
out-patient and in-patient health care service provided by the private and
public systems.
2.30      The government receives fees for most services provided by health
facilities. The exceptions are free treatment of certain communicable
diseases and free vaccination against childhood diseases. Otherwise,
patients pay according to a scale of charges, which is, in principle, stand-
ardized for all medical units (with variation by classes of accommodation for
in-patient treatment). Generally, fees are low. Out-patient fees of Rp. 150
(US$0.23) ensures treatment and drugs for three days, with a smaller fee
charged for additional follow-up treatment. Hospital accommodation costs
range from Rp. 200 per day to Rp. 1,200 depending upon the type of accommoda-
tion. The reported income from health facilities in 1980/81 was estimated at
only Rp. 5.2 billion. This income was derived from MOH central hospitals
(96%), health centers (2%), and drugs (2%). Fees constitute an important
contribution to the district revenues, and their channelling back into the
health system remains an important issue.



- 10 -
2.31      Budgetary System.  The present system of financing health is
complex, stemming from the three-tier administration in Indonesia, i.e. the
central, provincial and district governments, each budgetting for health.
Each entity has its own budget for recurrent expenses (referred to as routine
budget) and for capital investments (referred to as development budget).
However, a clear distinction between investment and operating expenses is not
possible since the development budgets and the INPRES funds include major
recurrent expenditure items. At each level there is funding from more than
one source. For instance, in a health center, ancillary staff are paid by
the district budget while most nursing staff are paid by MOH. In addition,
nearly all workers receive incentives from either the central development
budget of MOH, NFPCP, or the provincial development budget. Some health
center staff receive no salaries, but only incentives and honoraria from the
district budgets and other sources. The district medical officers receive
salaries from MOH and incentives from various other sources including ASKES.
Basic drugs are provided by the District Health Office out of INPRES funds.
In addition, the district administration also purchases drugs for local
health facilities and rehydration drugs for cholera are funded by central
MOH. The complexity of the funding process is further compounded by lack of
data at the provincial and the local levels and results in inadequate
control. Under these circumstances, wastage and inefficiencies in operations
can be expected.
III. HEALTH SECTOR POLICIES AND PERFORMANCE
A. Health Policies
3.01      MOH has identified long-term objectives for the health system which
sets specific quality of life targets for the year 2000. These targets
include: (a) the increase of average life expectancy to at least 60 years;
and'(b) the reduction of (i) infant mortality to 45 per 1,000 live births;
(ii) the proportion of underweight babies from 14% to 7%; (iii) annual inci-
dence of diarrheal morbidity from 400 to 200 per 1,000; (iv) malaria
incidence in areas with a high prevalence to 25% of the 1980 level; (v) the
prevalence of tuberculosis from 4 to 2 per 1,000; (vi) mortality from
neonatal tetanus from 11 to 1 per 1,000 births; and (vii) protein calorie
malnutrition in the under-five age group from 30% to 10%. To achieve these
goals MOH has set a few specific operational targets, including: (i)
increasing the proportion of fully immunized children under 14 from 40% to
80%; and (ii) increasing the proportion of supervised deliveries from 40% to
80%.
3.02      The major health strategies being adopted by the GOI under Repelita
III include: (i) improvement in the coverage, quality and utilization in
health services; (ii) strengthening of the referral system through
improvement of the functions of health centers and rehabilitation of district
hospitals; (iii) manpower development, particularly the retraining and
upgrading of existing health manpower; (iv) development of village primary
health care as a way to increase community participation; and (v) expansion
of communicable disease control programs to the Other Islands. These strate-
gies are accompanied by efforts lto improve education, nutrition, population
control, hygiene, and safe water supply as these interventions have synergis-
tic effects on health status.



- 11 -
3.03      The MOH has identified programs under Repelita III to achieve the
health sector objectives, the planning and implementation of which will be
decentralized to take into account the variety of conditions and needs from
one region to another. The two major programs identified are health services
development (for which about 65% of program budget is allocated) and communi-
cable disease control (12%). The other program areas include: improvement
of nutrition status; provision of safe water supply; health manpower develop-
ment; food and drug control; improvement of physical health facilities, such
as office buildings, and staff housing; improvement of the efficiency of
public administration; and development of appropriate technologies for
health. In family planning, the program will be extended to all regions wit'
increased community participation. Information and education activities on
population problems will be increased and will be addressed particularly to
the younger generation.
3.04      Under health service development, the coverage and quality of
health services available from health centers, sub-centers, hospitals and
other facilities will be improved. Emphasis will be placed on developing a
functional and efficient system for storing, distributing and controlling
basic drugs for use in health clinics. The referral system will be
strengthened through upgrading of hospital equipment, facilities, management
and administration. Retraining and upgrading of existing health manpower
will be pursued through expanded in-service training. Community
participation in health activities will be promoted and systematic measures
will be taken to control non-communicable diseases. The communicable disease
control program (particularly for malaria) will be expanded to the Other
Islands.
B. Sector Performance
3.05      During Repelita I (1969-1974), the GOI assigned relatively low
priority to health and the other social sectors. The MOH focussed its
limited resources (about 2% of the total national budget) on health education
and the prevention of epidemics. The construction and renovation of
hospitals was kept to a minimum and limited to the provincial level.
A shortage of trained health manpower prevented the rapid establishment of
rural health services. Little progress was made in improving rural water
supplies and sanitation.
3.06      During Repelita II (1974-79), remarkable progress was made in the
expansion of primary health care infrastructure and manpower. The total
number of health centers rose from 1,058 at the beginning of Repelita I to
5,150 at the end of 1981 and every sub-district was assured of having at
least one health center. Financial barriers to health service utilization
were effectively removed in 1979 by lowering the health center consultation
fee from Rp. 450 to Rp. 150 (or from $0.68 to $0.23). The efforts required
to develop the health center infrastructure constrained the financial and
manpower resources available to expand and strengthen the disease control and
immunization programs in the Other Islands.



- 12 -
3.07      The development of health manpower has parallelled the pace and
direction of infrastructure growth.  The period 1974-79 witnessed a doubling
of health personnel and substantial progress in training of medical and para-
medical personnel, including tradiLtional birth attendants. The expansion of
the primary health care network during this period resulted in a sharp
increase in the demand for nurses which was largely met by an increase of
109% in the output of nurses.  Emphasis has also been given to improving the
quality of training and rationalizing the numerous categories of paramedical
workers. Initiatives were also made during Repelita II and continued under
the present plan to decentralize M4OH administration to develop its capacity
for providing technical advice and supervision.
C. Health Sector Issues
3.08      The basic question concerning the future directions for the health
sector is also faced in other soclal sectors, such as education -- whether
priority should be given to further service expansion at the primary level or
to improvements in quality of care and utilization of existing facilities to
increase their effectiveness. The GOI decision is to accord a higher
priority to the latter since the basic health infrastructure is already in
place. The major issues facing the GOI in increasing the effectiveness of
health services include: low utiLization of health services; ineffectiveness
of the referral system; inadequacies in health service management; lack of
outreach activities; inadequate financing; and complexity of the financial
system. These issues have important implications for future investments in
the sector and the GOI is addressing them presently.
3.09      Utilization of Health Services.  While basic health infrastructure
is now in place throughout the country, its effectiveness in delivering
health care services remains limited. The health centers do not always
provide the intended services and they are generally under-utilized. The
out-patient load generally ranges from 14 to 63 persons per day. Apparently
about 26% of the population who are ill do not seek assistance at all and, of
those who do, only about 50% use health centers and hospitals, while the rest
use traditional methods or private care (Annex 1, T-8). Maternal and child
health services provided by the health center reach less than 42% of babies
born, and less than 11% of under-fives. The results of the 1980 Household
Survey and the 1976 Health Center Utilization Study revealed that the low
quality of health care is the single most important reason cited for non-
utilization of services.  The under-utilization is due in large part to a low
confidence in the public health services, which in turn, is attributed to the
poor quality of health care provided at the health centers and sub-centers;
popular preference, particularly among the rural population, for traditional
healing methods; and the failure of the rural hospitals to support the
primary level by providing adequate care to referred patients. The latter
problem results from the GOI's former policy, imposed by financial
constraints of building up the primary level without parallel improvements at
the support and referral levels. In addition, inadequate management and
supervision and the absence of an effective monitoring and evaluation system
contribute to the problem of underutilization.
3.10      Referral System.  In improving the utilization of services, it is
essential to set up means of referring and channeling to the most appropriate
level of care complex cases or problems that are identified but not treated



- 13 -
at the primary level. Such referrals lead to continuity in care that guaran-
tees the effectiveness of the overall health system. However, because of the
deterioration in the physical condition and effectiveness of the district
hospitals, patients are bypassing the understaffed, under-equipped, dilapi-
dated district hospitals for provincial or private hospitals and are not
seeking medical care until conditions warrant hospitalization. The situation
is worse in the Other Islands, where the population is more dispersed, the
private hospital network less dense and therefore, less accessible and where
lower income levels mean that poor households cannot afford private care.
3.11      Many of the district hospitals were constructed in the 1920's.
Most suffer from poor maintenance and many of them have become dilapidated,
particularly in the Other Islands. Despite efforts in Repelita II, many dis-
trict hospitals still do not meet minimal standards for a referral center.
The hospital facilities are often in such poor condition that, in practice,
they can only function as a large health center. Consequently, referrals
between the health centers and district hospitals are rare. Many of them
face structural deficiencies, lacking the most elementary surgical and mater-
nity services and laboratory and X-ray units. In addition many suffer from
functional deficiencies, including: inadequate supplies of drugs, less than
the required specialist manpower, obsolete equipment, and inefficient manage-
ment. Most hospitals are run by personnel without any administrative train-
ing.
3.12      The GOI, recognizing the urgency of remedying these deficiencies,
has recently embarked on a hospital rehabilitation program. To deal with the
most urgent needs, a Rp. 50 billion crash program was initiated for equipping
hospitals during the three-year period (1981/82-1983/84) with new X-ray,
laboratory and surgical equipment. Arrangements have also been made for
medical specialists from provincial hospitals to make regular visits to
district hospitals. The GOI realizes, however, that a more comprehensive
approach including not only improvements in physical infrastructure and
equipment but also the upgrading of the skills of health staff, improved drug
supply and better management and maintenance, is required if the district
hospitals are to perform the referral role expected of them.
3.13      Health Service Management.  Over the last years inadequacies in the
management of the health sector have become a major concern to the GOI. The
rapid pace of service expansion in general and the introduction of lower
level auxilliary-based health care (which tends to be administration-
intensive) in particular, has placed severe strains on the management of the
system to the extent that it has now become a major constraint to future pro-
gress. Three principal problems can be identified. First, the key managers
of the primary health care system, the district medical officers, are often
not prepared for management or administration, including the inttoduction of
new health programs. Second, the management of activities to support the
primary health care system such as in-service training, management and
information system, and technical and administrative supervision, is very
weak, particularly at the district level. The rapid growth in health man-
power has resulted in some sacrifice in quality. Training facilities are



- 14 -
still inadequate to cope with an increasing demand and need for in-service
training, particularly for management. Third, partly due to these weaknesses
in provincial management, decision-making and control tends to be highly
centralized in Jakarta, leading to delays and other inefficiencies.
3.14      Notwithstanding its important role in primary health care, the
district health administration has been neglected in the overall development
of the health sector. It has received inadequate support in terms of train-
ing and administrative guidance and, consequently, its capability for health
care planning, management, supervision, information gathering, monitoring and
evaluation is limited. In addition, the physical facilities assigned to them
are inadequate: their present offices, usually located in hospitals, are in
many cases small, overcrowded, and often dispersed in several buildings, with
a consequent serious loss of administrative efficiency. Furthermore, their
supervision of health center and sub-centers staff is constrained by lack of
transport.
3.15      Drug Supply and Distribution.  The supply of drugs has improved
markedly since Repelita II.  (About 90% of the basic drugs are now being
produced in the country). While the production of drugs is not a major prob-
lem, the distribution and storage procedures in the public sector are
inadequate. In some districts, existing facilities for storing drugs are
deficient leading to premature deterioration due to heat and moisture. In
many districts, there are neither drug storage facilities nor an inventory
system to guarantee a regular supply of essential drugs. In these cases, the
drug supply for the whole year is delivered directly to the district hospi-
tals and health centers where the conditions for drug storage are even worse
leading to even greater waste and deterioration in the quality of drugs.
3.16      Outreach.  The evolution of the outreach program (PKMD) in
Indonesia showed mixed results. The program was found to have had positive
results in some of the pilot villages; a study conducted by UNICEF in 1980
suggested, for example, that some villages with PKMD show a decreasing number
of severe cases of gastroenteritis. However, the evaluation of PKMD also
suggested that its successful replication will be dependent upon a degree of
community involvement, political commitment and intersectoral coordination
which may not be found or feasible. The likelihood of success of the
volunteer-based system is further complicated by their need to work alongside
paid family planning, nutrition and community development workers. The sup-
ply of support materials has been erratic and a very high drop-out rate among
the health volunteers has been observed. The PKMD effort has also suffered
greatly from lack of support from the highest levels of government. The
speed of its further expansion will consequently depend upon the resolution
of these issues. GOI is aware of this and, with the assistance of UNICEF, is
presently addressing them.
3.17      In view of its potential in improving access to and utilization of
health services, there is a need not only to plan for the systematic improve-
ment of the program, but to develop program alternatives as well. For
example, the utilization of family planning fieldworkers for the delivery of
selected health services at the village level appears to be potentially a
fruitful area for further examination. In addition, GOI should review the
need for integrating health activities into the program of motivators in



- 15 -
other development sectors (for example, nutrition workers and women's groups)
as part of an overall program emphasis on decentralizing responsibilities to
the community.
3.18      Financial System.  The present complex system of finance places an
unnecessary burden on health care administrators, and this is likely to
increase as the health system utilization increases. In view of the weak
financial basis of regional and local authorities, it has been necessary for
the Central Government to provide funds for recurrent as well as capital
expenditures. A multiplicity of budgets exists at all levels of central and
local Government and any particular item of expenditure may be financed from
several sources; indeed, it is seldom that a program or activity is financed
entirely from one source or even from one level of Government. Such a system
tends to have three disadvantages: it strains the administrative capacity at
the local level; it encourages waste by reducing accountability; and it
hinders effective management.  The lack of correspondence between specific
functions and specific budgets makes it very difficult for managers to
reallocate funds when needed.  This is because each manager controls only
part of the resources required for each activity.  Nobody, therefore, has the
authority to plan or manage the system as a whole. The GOI is aware of these
problems and is exploring ways for improving the linkage between managerial
and financial responsibilities. Specifically, it is planned that, as the
provincial and district revenue bases are strengthened, and as the quality of
financial management at the local level is gradually improved, the local
governments will take over increasing responsibility for financing basic
recurrent expenditures. The Bank is pursuing studies on these matters in the
context of its sector work.
D. The Bank Role
3.19      The Bank Group's direct lending for health in Indonesia has hither-
to been confined to health components in agriculture, nutrition, population,
rural development and urban projects. These components include the
construction of health centers and the training of nurses, midwives and
traditional birth attendants. The total amount of Bank financing committed
to these components is $26.0 million.
3.20      The Bank has also helped finance three population projects,
starting with an IDA credit of $13.2 million in 1972 for the first population
project and loans of $24.5 million in 1975 and $35 million in 1980 for the
second and third population projects, respectively. The third population
project includes a health component (US$13.1 million, or 18% of total project
cost) which aims to strengthen maternal and child health services through the
upgrading of health centers, and training of health center doctors, nurses,
midwives, and traditional birth attendants. In addition, support of a
nutrition project was provided in 1977 through a loan of US$13 million.
3.21      The first population project has now been completed and implementa-
tion of the second population and nutrition projects is nearing completion.
The problems encountered in these projects appear to relate to two major
factors: (a) GOIT's cumbersome budgetary and administrative procedures,



- 16 -
delays in acquisition of sites, issue of tender documents and appointment of
key staff and consultants; and (b) inadequate local participation in planning
the projects.
3.22      Experience gained from these projects was taken into account in
designing the proposed provincial health project. Firstly, the project has
modest but achievable objectives involving a single implementing agency.
Second, unlike other projects which were designed and implemented at the
central level, the project has been prepared and will be implemented at the
provincial level ensuring it of a strong local constituency. Third, separate
project budgets for each province will be provided which will facilitate the
allocation and the flow of funds ior project activities. Fourth, key project
staff have already been appointed and funds for the first year activities
have already been included in the FY83 budget to facilitate a timely start to
project implementation. Fifth, implementation arrangements have been agreed
upon at all levels of the Government -- a meeting to discuss project
implementation has already taken place at which representatives from central
MOH, Provincial Health Administraltions, the Provincial Planning Boards
(BAPPEDA), and Provincial Public W4orks Departments were represented; and
sites for civil works have been identified and their acquisition is underway.
IV.  THE PROJECT AREA 1/
4.01      Sulawesi, which forms part of Eastern Indonesia, is one of the four
largest islands of the country. It is predominantly agricultural and had a
total population of 10.4 million in 1980, about 80% of whom live in rural
areas. Like the rest of the country, it has a comparatively high rate of
population growth, estimated at 2.2% per year (ranging from 1.7% in South
Sulawesi to 3.9% in Central Sulawesi) during the 1971-80 period. The Island
consists of four provinces: Central, North, South and Southeast Sulawesi, of
which North Sulawesi is the most developed. The project area, which consists
of Central, Southeast and South Sulawesi, comprises the three less developed
provinces that are also the primary receiving transmigration areas in Eastern
Indonesia. It covers about 80% (or 8.3 million) of Sulawesi's total
population.
4.02      Of the three provinces, South Sulawesi has the highest income per
capita (but only 70% of the national average) and the best roads and communi-
cations. Its capital, Ujung Pandang, is the major growth center in Eastern
Indonesia. In contrast, Central and Southeast Sulawesi are two of the least
developed provinces in the country; people live mostly in scattered villages;
the road network is limited; electricity is available only in the larger
towns; and public transportation, although improving, is still inadequate.
However, because these two provinces have considerable untapped land and
water resources and other factors favorable to large scale settlement and
agricultural development, they have been selected as primary transmigration
receiving areas.
1/ The characteristics of the project area are treated in more detail in a
separate Health Sector background paper for Sulawesi available in the
Project File.



- 17 -
4.03      Disease Pattern.  The disease pattern in the project area is
similar to that in the country as a whole (para. 2.08) except for malaria
which is the most important single disease. The annual incidence of malaria
reaches 300-400 per 1000 population in specific areas in Central and South
Sulawesi (compared with 1.4/1000 in Java-Bali). In 1980, Central Sulawesi
had the highest slide positivity rate: 25% in contrast to 11.4% and 1.9% for
the Other Islands as a whole and for Java-Bali, respectively (Annex 1, T-9).
It is estimated that 6.6 million, or 80% of the project area's population
reside in malarial areas, and approximately 2.7 million of them in high risk
or hyper-endemic areas. The disease is especially devastating in transmigra-
tion areas, as new migrants, particularly from Java-Bali, have no immunity to
the disease. Morbidity due to malaria among transmigrants, for instance, has
ranged as high as 750/1000 and epidemic case fatality up to 150/1000. The
most recent epidemic (1981) in Toili, Central Sulawesi, claimed about 160
lives. South Sulawesi, Timur-Timur, and the transmigration areas of Central
and Southeast Sulawesi, are the target areas for expansion of the national
malaria program.
4.04      Malaria infections are caused by Plasmodium vivax, P. falciparum,
and P. malariae. P. falciparum has the most severe clinical effects and the
greatest potential for fatalities. There are indications that strains of P.
falciparum have developed resistance to chloroquine. Although this drug
resistance problem appears to be confined to a limited area, it will never-
theless require continuous surveillance. The fight against malaria in the
Other Islands requires long-term and continuous commitment, in view of the
difficulties posed by the variety of geographic conditions, the size and
mobility of the population, the difficulty of access to villages, and the
tropical climate that fosters parasites.
4.05      Health Care Services.  As in the rest of the country, rural health
services in the project area are provided through a network of health sub-
centers, health centers and district hospitals. In 1981, the project area
had over 760 health sub-centers, about 390 health centers and 65 hospitals
with a total bed capacity of about 4,800. The health center and sub-centers
have actual coverage ratios of about 12,000 population per health center and
about 3,700 population per sub-center, which compare favorably with the
national norms of 15,000 and 4,000, respectively. Because of the dispersed
pattern of villages, however, particularly in Central and Southeast Sulawesi,
services have not reached all areas. Consequently, GOI is presently
constructing an additional 250 sub-centers in remote areas. The ratio of
population per hospital bed (1:1,744) is high when compared to the other
well-served regions in the country (e.g. Java, 1:943; Kalimantan, 1:1,140,
and Maluku, 1:1,308). Furthermore, the distribution of the hospitals within
the provinces is uneven. In South Sulawesi, for instance, 40% of the
hospitals are located in Ujung Pandang while the rest are distributed among
the other 20 districts. There are over 600 physicians in the project area
(or approximately 4 physicians per 10,000 population). About one-third of
these, however, work in the medical school in Ujung Pandang. Over 3,000
nursing personnel (nurses, auxiliaries and midwives) are employed in the
project area; most of them, however, need additional training in compre-
hensive health care delivery.



- 18 -
4.06      Family Planning.  The national family planning program operates in
the project area and the health center network serves as the basic outlet for
these services. The family planning program in the project area is better
supplied with physical infrastructure, vehicles, materials and funds for
operating costs than the health care system and there are 600 village contra-
ceptive distribution centers in the project area. Services are provided in
rural areas as part of general MCH services in the health centers and sub-
centers. Family planning services are also provided in the hospitals through
their post-partum program. Community leaders and village officials are
responsible for recruitment of acceptors and distribution of contraceptives
at the village level. Targets for acceptors have been consistently sur-
passed; South Sulawesi, where the program was introduced in 1975, has the
highest proportion of current users in the Other Islands (35% of eligible
couples compared to 19.6% average in the Other Islands and to the national
average of 36%). However, further expansion requires an effective health
center system. To date, only about 8% and 10% of the eligible couples in
Central and Southeast Sulawesi, respectively, are practicing family planning;
this proportion is expected to increase with the expansion of the program in
these provinces.
4.07      Health Related Programs.  There are other ongoing and planned acti-
vities in the health and other related sectors in the project area which aim
to improve the health status of the population. Several of these activities
are supported by multilateral and bilateral donor agencies, including the
Asian Development Bank, the Canadian International Development Assistance
(CIDA), UNDP, UNICEF, USAID, WHO, and the World Bank Group. They include
improvements in the water supply and sanitation facilities in the provinces;
provision of MCH/family planning services; improvements in the nutritional
status of mothers and children; expansion of immunization and communicable
disease control programs; and the training of health personnel, village-level
health and nutrition workers. In addition, the GOI has rapidly increased
funding of social services in rural areas through the INPRES program. This
support has helped to raise the proportion of rural population with access to
safe water to from 8 to 15%. It is the GOI's plan to significantly
accelerate water supply development with a target of supplying 35% of the
rural population with safe water by 1984.
4.08      Key Constraints.  The problems relating to the health sector in the
project area reflect the nationa:L problems (paras. 3.08-3.18) -- underutili-
zation of facilities, inadequate referrals, poor management and lack of
outreach. These problems are accentuated by features of the project area,
particularly the dispersed settlements pattern and many remote and isolated
islands.
4.09      The utilization of hea:Lth centers and sub-centers in the project
area varies between 10-60 patients a day, thus differing little from national
patterns. However, in certain areas of Central and South Sulawesi, particu-
larly the island districts, Muna, Buton and Banggai, cultural practices and
beliefs constitute a considerable barrier to utilization. However, popular
perceptions are gradually changing as a study on the marketing and consump-
tion of traditional drugs in 1978 showed. Primary health facilities are now
generally within reach of the population. The 1980 household survey
indicated that distance was no longer reported as a problem.



- 19 -
4.10      The development of outreach in the project area shows mixed
results. Central Sulawesi has operated a PKMD program since 1975 and has so
far trained about 980 volunteers. This program was assisted by CIDA and a
recent evaluation showed that of the volunteers trained, only 60 remain
active. The national PKMD program has been expanded to South and Central
Sulawesi, but information on the number of villages covered and manpower
trained is not available. The outreach programs suffer from a lack of
continuous support, transport and supervision. Furthermore, the relationship
of the new NFPCB village contraceptive distribution workers to the other
village health workers raises issues which need to be resolved.
4.11      While health center personnel are in place throughout the area, the
staff need in-service training to maintain and upgrade their skills. Many
nurses were trained 5-10 years ago with a clinical orientation and few have
since received training due to lack of facilities and funds. NFPCB has well
functioning provincial in-service training facilities and programs in two of
the provinces, but the provincial health administrations have no comparable
faciliLies. Recognizing the urgent need for training, the provinces have
recently organized short ad hoc in-service courses in various borrowed
premises. These courses, however, are too few and fall short of technical
requirements.
4.12      The district referral system of about 30 hospitals supports the
network of about 1,000 primary health facilities. The hospitals, however,
are in very poor condition and often cannot provide even minimal in-patient
services. The operating standards of many hospitals are well below those in
Java and Bali. This is reflected in wide variations in bed occupancy rate
ranging from 15% to 70%. Hospitals which provide effective services, even if
located in remote areas, are heavily utilized (i.e. Luwuk, with a bed
occupancy rate of 70%). On the other hand, hospitals providing poor services
are by-passed, negating the intentions of the referral process on which the
credibility of the primary health care concept is based.
4.13      As elsewhere in Indonesia, poor district level management
contributes to ineffective service delivery. In Sulawesi, district level
health managers have not been trained and furthermore, 60% of the district
health officers lack any office accommodation. There are no drug storage
facilities and health center drugs are often stored in the district hospitals
where they are used for hospital patients rather than being distributed to
health centers.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
5.01      The project aims to assist GOI in its effort to improve the health
status of the population by increasing the effectiveness of health care,
particularly in the rural areas, and by reducing the incidence of the major
endemic disease, malaria. To achieve this, the project will help:



- 20 -
(a)  improve the quality and increase the utilization of health
services through improvements in the health center, referral
and outreach system, health manpower development, and
strengthening of district level management; and
(b) extend and intensify malaria control.
The project also aims to strength!en the institutional capacity of the provin-
cial and district health administrations in order to support GOI's policy of
decentralizing health care planning and administration. The project was
identified, prepared and will be implemented by the respective provincial
health administrations with technical guidance and administrative support
from the central MOH.
B. Project Composition
5.02      The project will provide for:
(a)   Strengthening of the Referral System:
(i)  The improvement of services in ten district hospitals in
development and/or transmigration settlements with large
service areas, through the replacement of existing
physical facilities, the provision of equipment and
vehicles, technical assistance and fellowships for
hospital administration and maintenance.
(ii)  The expansion in the scope and improvement in the quality
of services in 15 health centers in isolated districts through
the provision of in-patient facilities and additional medical
equipment.
(b)   Staff Training:
The establishment of a provincial training center for
in-service training in each of the three provinces; each
to be provided with equipment, materials, vehicles, and
support for training expenses.
(c)   Management and Administration:
(i)  The strengthening of the administration of district
health services by constructing, equipping and
furnishing a health office in each of the 19 districts,
each with drug storage facilities and vehicles; the
setting up of a drug management system; the organization
of management training courses for district medical
officers; and the provision of consulting services for
strengthening the existing health information system and
for the study of health care finance.



- 21 -
(ii)  The provision of vehicles, office equipment,
fellowships, and support for incremental operating costs
for project implementation, including consulting
services for monitoring and evaluation, and the
preparation of a second Bank-assisted health project.
(d)   Malaria Control:
The extension and strengthening of malaria control in South
Sulawesi and in transmigration and other high priority areas
in Central and Southeast Sulawesi by providing equipment,
vehicles, insecticides and drugs, technical assistance and
support for incremental operating costs.
(e)   Technical Assistance and Studies:
The provision of about 228 man-months of consultant services
to carry out studies and individual project components.
C. Detailed Features
5.03       Strengthening of the Referral System.  A viable primary health care
system with community health activities at the village level is not likely to
be effective without strong referral and support systems. GOI has,
therefore, emphasized the development of infrastructure and effective
services as a precondition for the expansion of outreach activities. In line
with these policies, GOI is starting to improve the quality and expand the
scope of health services in the rural areas by developing a referral system
to support the primary health care network. Selected health centers and
district hospitals are being upgraded through the provision of equipment,
facilities, trained manpower and strengthening of management and
administration (para. 3.04). The Bank, under the Third Population Project
(L1869-IND) is supporting these efforts by providing for the construction of
in-patient facilities for about 50 health centers in the country (13 of which
are in South Sulawesi) and for the training of primary health nurses,
midwives and health center staff.  Additional support to this program will be
provided by the proposed project focussing on the upgrading of health
centers, rural hospital rehabilitation, staff training, management and
maintenance.
5.04      At the district level, the project will provide for the construc-
tion and equipment of six Class D and four Class C hospitals to replace the
existing dilapidated buildings, which are over 60 years old, and which would
be uneconomical to renovate.  The hospitals will conform to existing GOI
design standards and equipment lists, which were reviewed by Bank staff and
found adequate. The district hospitals to be replaced under the project have
been selected, in agreement with the local and central governments, according
to the following criteria: (i) poor physical condition; (ii) large service
areas; (iii) proximity to transmigration areas; and (iv) location in priority
development areas. The location of these hospitals is shown in Map 16439 and
in Annex 1, T-10.



- 22 -
5.05      Each Class C hospital will consist of about 5,000 m2 of floor space
comprising of medical, surgical, obstetric and gynecological and pediatric
wards, X-ray and laboratory facilities, and residential quarters for medical
and nursing staff. Each hospital will have not more than 100 beds. The
present staffing pattern, which is adequate, consists of three to four
physicians and about 150-170 support staff who are in place. The
professional qualifications of the general practitioners are considered
acceptable. In addition, the GOl has a training program for medical
specialists, and no difficulties are expected in recruiting them. Each
hospital will also be provided with service vehicles.
5.06      Each Class D hospital will have a total floor area of about 3,500
m2 and will provide the same basic curative and preventive services as Class
C hospitals, but will not provide specialist services. Each will have not
more than 50 beds. Each hospital is staffed in accordance with current
staffing patterns consisting of one or two general practitioners and about 80
support staff. The staffing patterns for these hospitals are shown in Annex
1, T-11. Operating costs for these hospitals are provided by GOI under its
regular budgets.
5.07      The construction of these hospitals will be accompanied by improve-
ments in two other critical areas -- management and equipment maintenance.
The project will provide assistance in the design and conduct of a training
course in hospital administration for hospital directors. The training
course will be implemented with the assistance of consultants whose major
tasks will be the following: (a) review present procedures for hospital
administration; (b) design and conduct a training course for hospital
administration, including the production of training materials; and (c)
evaluate the course for nationaL replication. The consultants will work
closely with a counterpart committee which the GOI has already established
for this purpose. This activity is estimated to require 48 man-months of
consultant services. In addition, ten fellowships to train district hospital
administrators in modern hospital administration techniques will be provided.
5.08      In view of the critical importance of equipment maintenance, the
project will also provide technical assistance for the expansion of the
national hospital equipment maintenance network to Sulawesi.  This study,
which will require about six man-months of consultant services, will deter-
mine (a) the maintenance needs based on an inventory of existing equipment;
and (b) the appropriate number, location and staffing of maintenance work-
shops, and prepare preliminary architectural drawings for these workshops.
5.09      It is estimated that the above facilities will provide access to
improved hospital care for aboul: 3.4 million people. The facilities will
also provide referral back-up support for the primary health care services
delivered by about 500 health centers and sub-centers, including (a) easier
access to laboratories, X-ray rooms, and other hospital-based services for
patients referred by primary health workers, (b) maintenance and repair
capability for primary care faciLlities, and (c) prompt response by hospital
specialists and other hospital staff to the needs of primary care workers at
the community level. Support would be extended to preventive and diagnostic
aspects of care and would include consultation on problem cases. In addi-



- 23 -
tion, since these hospitals are participating in the national hospital post-
partum program, they will provide family planning services, including refer-
ral support in respect of side effects and complications of pills and IUDs.
5.10      At the sub-district level, the project will include construction,
furnishing and equipment of 10-bed annexes at 15 selected health centers in
Central and Southeast Sulawesi. Such enlarged health centers will be able to
care for high-risk pregnancies, deliveries, emergencies, and IUD insertion,
in addition to the regular services provided by health centers (para. 2.12).
Each of the health centers identified for upgrading is remote from a district
hospital or other referral hospital, but accessible to surrounding health
centers and health sub-centers for which referral and support services will
be provided.
5.11      Each in-patient annex will comprise a 10-bed ward, a small
operating room, a recovery room, a nurses' station, a delivery room, a
storeroom, and staff housing. The equipment to be provided will include beds
with accessories, and nursing and surgical equipment. Each 10-bed annex will
require additional staff comprising one midwife, two primary health nurses,
one clerk and one night watchman. The total staff of an enlarged health
center will then comprise: one doctor, three nurses, two midwives, one
sanitarian, three auxiliary nurses/midwives, a dental nurse shared among
three health centers, two clerks, and one night watchman.
5.12       Since each sub-district in the project area now has a health center
and the GOI is presently constructing 250 more sub-centers, no additional
facilities will be constructed at the sub-district level under the project.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that by December 1984 the GOI
will review trends in the utilization of health centers and make
recommendations for improving them, and that it will have also reviewed the
performance of PKMD, particularly its impact on utilization of services, to
plan for the expansion of PKMD or an alternative program for improving
outreach (para. 3.17).
5.13       Staff Training.  The technical knowledge and skills of health
personnel must be kept up to date if the quality of primary and secondary
health care is to be improved. Many staff who were trained 10-15 years ago
to provide essentially curative services must now be upgraded and reoriented
towards a community-based system. The GOI relies on the provincial health
services to provide in-service training of provincial and district health
personnel. However, the provinces have not been equipped to handle this, and
training has been conducted in borrowed or rented premises or improvised
rooms and there has been no full-time training.  The present in-service
training is therefore ad hoc, irregular, and limited to immediate needs; it
is not geared to operational requirements and the needs of an expanding
community-based system.
5.14      The MOH has started to expand and improve the quality of in-service
training (para. 2.21). Because of ethnic, religious and cultural diversity
and problems of distance, the design and execution of training programs will
be localized at the provincial level. The project includes the establishment



- 24 -
of a Provincial Training Center (PTC) in each of the three provinces. Each
center will include at least two classrooms, a library, administrative
offices and hostels, and will be provided with vehicles and training equip-
ment. The PTC in South Sulawesi will have a floor area of about 2,500m2 and
those in Central and Southeast Sulawesi, about 1,480 m2 each. The sites of
the three PTCs have been identified and are conveniently located in nearby
medical facilities. The project will also provide funds for training
expenses.
5.15      As is customary in in-service training, the trainers will largely
be drawn from the experienced provincial level staff of the MOH directorates.
There are ongoing programs supported by USAID to upgrade the technical skills
of trainers. The staff of each PTC will consist of a director and one course
coordinator (except in South Sulawesi, where there will be three because of
its larger training program), and about 4-6 administrative staff. Technical
guidance will be provided by MOH's Center for Education and Training
(P1USDIKLAT).
5.16      The categories to be trained have been defined and their training
needs assessed based on local traini-g needs (Annex 1, T-12). The various
health workers who will receive in-service training will include health
center doctors, community health nurses, midwives, assistant pharmacists,
laboratory assistants, assistant nutritionists, health inspectors, assistant
health inspectors, and other auxiliary health workers. A detailed training
program will be prepared annually by the Training Coordinator in each of the
provinces in consultation with PUSDIKLAT. The program will include the
training schedule, the number of trainees, and course outlines for the
various categories of staff, together with itemized cost estimates.
5.17      District Health Administration.  As pointed out in paras. 3.13-
3.14, the present poor state of the district health system was identified as
one of the major obstacles to improving the quality and utilization of health
services. As an essential accompaniment to the expansion and decentraliza-
tion of health care administration, the MOH is therefore strengthening and
improving the efficiency of the crganization and administration of the health
service delivery system at the district level. This will be achieved
through: (i) upgrading the managerial skills of district health administra-
tors; (ii) improving the physical infrastructure, particularly the provision
of office accommodation and transport; and (iii) construction of drug storage
and development of a drug management system. District-level health care
finance issues and the existing health information and reporting system will
also be addressed.
5.18      To upgrade the managerial skills of district health administrators,
the project will provide for the training of district medical officers (one
for each district) in health care planning, management and supervision.
About 36 man-months of consulting services will be provided for designing and
carrying out the training course and evaluating it, for possible national
replication.  In addition, the project will provide 38 four-wheel drive
vehicles (at least one for each of the 19 districts which do not have
vehicles) to enable district level staff to perform field supervision more
effectively.



- 25 -
5.19      The MOH has initiated a program to construct new district health
offices which include drug storage facilities and residential quarters for
district health officers and assistant pharmacists. To date 12 health
offices have been constructed in the project area. The project will provide
for the construction of similar offices in the remaining 19 districts based
on standard designs which were found acceptable. Operating costs are
provided by the GOI under its regular budgets.
5.20      The drug store attached to each of the district health offices will
be sufficient to hold a five-month supply of drugs for hospitals and health
centers, a three-month supply for routine activities, and a one-month buffer
stock. It will also be used for storing small medical equipment. Consulting
services (about 6 man-months) will also be provided for setting up a drug
management system and training the staff on the system to ensure that stocks
are adequate to permit the demands of hospitals and health centers to be
properly met, but are turned over rapidly enough to minimize storage costs
and deterioration. The small drug storage facility with a well managed drug
and supplies inventory should go a long way towards improving availability of
drugs. Drugs will be provided by the GOI through its regular budgets.
5.21      The GOI is also exploring ways for improving the linkage between          (
managerial and financial responsibilities.  Specifically, it is planned that,
as the provincial and district revenue base is strengthened, and as the qual-
ity of financial management at this local level is gradually improved, the
local governments will take over responsibility for all recurrent health
expenditures. A study will therefore be undertaken in 10 selected districts
for which about 6 man-months of consulting services will be provided, to
review ways to simplify the health finance system at the district level and
examine possibilities for additional resource mobilization through appro-
priate cost recovery mechanisms. This will include a review of appropriate
user fees for district hospitals and ways to retain these funds to supplement
operating costs. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that this
study will be completed by December 31, 1984.
5.22      An efficient  hospital reporting system is being implemented by the
MOH in all hospitals, including army hospitals and those in the private
sector. It provides for the reporting of hospital activities, performance
and morbidity/mortality statistics. In 1980, a computerized health center
surveillance system was designed and implemented with the objective of
improving the quality of services and collecting information on the utiliza-
tion of services and conditions of health facilities. The recording and
reporting by the health centers and sub-centers has continued to be weak,
however, and the project therefore provides for this problem to be studied.
About six man-months of consultant services and short-term fellowships will
be provided for this purpose. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the study will be completed by April 1985.
5.23      Project Implementation.  The project will finance five vehicles,
office equipment, fellowships, and incremental operating costs of project
implementation, including consulting services (12 man-months) for monitoring
and evaluation, and for the preparation of a second Bank-assisted health
project. The staffing requirements of the project coordinating team and the
provincial offices are described in paras. 7.01 and 7.02.



- 26 -
5.24      Malaria Control.  The project is designed to support the GOI s
long-term efforts to reduce malaria in the Other Islands to an incidence rate
of about 20/1000--a level at whichi it will no longer present a public health
threat. Priority will be given to areas which are foci of resettlement and
where the incidence of malaria is high.
5.25      The malaria control program (which is integrated into the health
services) consists of the identifiication of malaria transmission areas, the
surveillance of malaria incidence and patterns, action needed to reduce the
number of infected mosquitoes substantially, and the treatment of the sick.
The project will support an expansion of the program to cover the entire pro-
vince of South Sulawesi and transmigration and hyper-endemic areas in Central
and Southeast Sulawesi. Control activities in other areas of Central and
Southeast Sulawesi are presently not feasible because of poor road access,
the rugged terrain, and the widely dispersed pattern of settlements.
5.26      Specifically, the project will provide for the deployment of about
65 additional supervisors, additional malaria spraymen (paid on a piece work
basis), and for the purchase of spray equipment, DDT and vehicles. About 240
additional field operation teams will be organized, each comprising a chief
and six spraymen. For every three teams, one field supervisor will be
employed. Altogether, the provincial malaria control staff will be increased
by about 70 full-time personnel, including 5 management and 65 supervisory
staff. Blood samples will be analyzed in health centers and cross checked by
the district and provincial laboratories. Infected people will be treated at
health facilities. The house spraying will be carried out by the use of DDT,
75% wettable dispersable powder, applied at a dosage of 1 or 2 gram/sq.
meter. -Normally 2 grams are applied in one cycle in areas of seasonal
transmission and 1 gram in areas of perennial transmission in two spray
cycles a year. About US$5.1 million worth of insecticides will be used over
the project period, and an estimated $0.1 million-worth of spraying and other
equipment and $0.3 million worth of drugs will be purchased as well as 36
vehicles (one for each district and two for each province), and about 80
motorcycles (for field team supervisors).
5.27      Epidemiological assessments will be carried out and will be based
on: (i) passive case detection by health facilities; (ii) active case detec-
tion by limited surveillance; (iii) malariometric surveys; and (iv) special
studies in focal epidemic areas. These data will provide an adequate inform-
ation base for the assessment of the program. Since there are presently no
qualified local specialists, technical assistance during the duration of the
project will be provided; these will include an entomologist and two
malariologists (a total of 108 man-months). Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that a full complement of staff and consultants will have been
appointed by March 1984 when the program is expected to be in full
operation.
5.28      It is expected that the intensive control activities provided under
the project will reduce the malaria incidence in the operational areas from
the present 140/1000 population to below 50/1000 by 1987. During the project
period, about 1.3 million people will be protected by house spraying and
about 2 million people will have access to drug treatment.



- 27 -
5.29      Technical Assistance and Studies.  In total, the project will
provide about 228 man-months of consultant services to carry out studies and
individual project components (paras. 5.07, 5.18, 5.20, 5.21, 5.22, 5.23 and
5.27). The services required are as follows: hospital administration (48
man-months); hospital maintenance (6 man-months); management training of dis-
trict medical officers (36 man-months); development of drug management system
(6 man-months); study of health finance system (6 man-months); study of
health information system (6 man-months); malaria control program
implementation (108 man-months), monitoring and evaluation (6 man-months),
and preparation of second health project (6 man-months). (See Annex 1,
T-13.) It is expected that about 50% of these will be provided by local
consultants. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that terms of
reference of consultants will be satisfactory to the Bank, and that their
selection and employment will be in accordance with Bank guidelines.
VI. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
6.01      The total project cost is estimated at US$54.4 million equivalent,
of which US$27.7 million (51%) is the foreign exchange component.  Because of
the tax-exempt status of the implementing agency, the project costs do not
include taxes and duties.  Project costs are summarized below, and details
are given in Annex 1, T-14 to T-15.
6.02      Project costs are expressed in November 1982 prices.  Cost esti-
mates for civil works are based on current BAPPENAS guidelines, which have
been reviewed by the Bank and found reasonable. Building space allowances
conform to GOI requirements.  Estimates for medical equipment are based on
equipment lists which are reasonable in scale and cost. The average man-
month cost of consultant services, including the cost of travel, subsistence
and allowances, is estimated at about $3,000 equivalent for a local consul-
tant and $12,500 for a foreign consultant. These estimates are based on
recent contracts in Indonesia. The costs of training courses are based on
prevailing GOI local travel and per diem allowances. The contingency allow-
ance of $10.2 million includes: (a) physical contingencies estimated at 10%
of the base cost of civil works; and (b) price contingencies averaging 17% of
base cost plus physical contingencies, assuming the following annual
inflation rates:
Foreign           Local
Year           Component        Component
1983              8.0%             12%
1984              7.5%              10%
1985              7.0%              10%
1986              6.0%             10%



- 28 -
Table 6.1:  PROJECT COST SUMMARY
% of
Foreign Total
Ex-      Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total  change   Costs
(Rp Billion)          (US$ Million)       (%)
A. Strengthening of the
Referral System
District Hospital            8.5      6.5    15.0  12.8      9.9  2207   43.6      51.5
Health Center Upgrading      0.7    0).6      1.3    1.1     0.9    2.0  45.9       4.4
Sub-total                    9.2      ,.1    16.3   13.9   10.8  24.7   43.8    55.9
B. Staff Training               2.2      1.0     3.2    3.4     1.6    5.0   31.9      11.3
C. Management and
Administration
District Health
Administration             1.7      1.3     3.0    2.6     2.0    4.6  43.6       10.4
Project Implementation       0.5      0.3     0.8    0.7     0.5    1.2  40.7       2.7
D. Malaria Control              1.1      4.6     5.7    1.7     7.0    8.7   80.4     19.6
Base Cost:                  14.7    14.5    29.2  22.3    21.9  44.2  49.5   100.0
Physical Contingencies       0.9      0.6     1.5    1.3     1.0    2.3  42.3        5.1
Price Contingencies          2.0      3.2     5.2    3.1     4.8    7.9  61.2    17.8
Total Project Costs:        17.6    18.3    35.9  26.7    27.7   54.4  50.9    122.9
Front-end Fee on the
Bank loan                   -       0.3     0.3     -      0.4    0.4
Total Financing Required    17.6    18.6    36.2  26.7    28.1  54.8



- 29 -
B. Project Financing
6.03      The proposed Bank loan of $27.0 million (including a US$0.4 million
capitalized front-end fee) will finance 50% of total project cost and will
cover the total foreign exchange cost except for US$1.1 million representing
the foreign exchange cost of vehicles which will be financed by GOI on the
basis of reserved procurement. The balance of $27.8 million equivalent will
be financed out of annual GOI budget appropriations. Retroactive financing
up to US$0.3 million is recommended to help cover eligible expenditures after
May 31, 1982 for start-up activities, particularly the appointment of archi-
tectural consultants to prepare plans and tender documents. The closing date
of the loan will be June 30, 1988.
C. Procurement
6.04      Civil Works.  All civil works contracts, totalling about $17.0
million, are small and widely scattered geographically and over time. The
contracts will range in amount from about $30,000 to $1.5 million, but the
majority will be about $100,000. Only about four will reach $1.5 million.
Past experience in Indonesia indicates that international contractors are not
interested in tendering for contracts of this value. Consequently, construc-
tion contracts will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding con-
ducted according to current GOI procurement procedures, which are acceptable
to the Bank.
6.05      Goods and Services.  Contracts for the supply of hospital equipment
($3.3 million) and DDT ($5.1 million) will be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Locally
advertised competitive bidding, following GOI procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank, will be used for furniture and drug supply contracts of less
than $75,000 equivalent, subject to a maximum of $1.5 million. Contracts of
value less than $32,000 (e.g. for sprayers for malaria control and other
small equipment) will be procured through prudent shopping based on at least
three price quotations. Consultants will be employed according to the Bank's
guidelines for use of consultants and their contracts (US$1.8 million) will
be awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines.
6.06      Contract Review.  The threshold for the Bank's prior review of
civil works contract documentation and award recommendations would be set at
US$500,000. All civil works contracts below this level would be subject to
post award review by the Bank. Contracts for items to be procured through
ICB ($8.4 million) would be subject to the Bank's prior review of documenta-
tion and award recommendations; all other contracts would be subject to
review by the Bank after contract award.
D. Disbursements
6.07      The Bank will disburse at the following rates:
(a)   100% of total expenditures for the civil works contracts for
the 10 hospitals and 3 PTCs;



- 30 -
(b)   100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported
materials and equipment; 95% of ex-factory; and 65% of the
cost of locally procured imported goods;
(c)   100% of the cost of consultant services and fellowships.
The estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 1, T-16.
E. Accounts and Audit
6.08      Separate accounts for all project expenditures will be maintained
in each of the three provinces and in Jakarta.  Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the MOH will have the project accounts for each fis-
cal year audited by independent: auditors acceptable to the Bank, and furnish
the Bank with copies of the audited accounts not later than six months after
the end of each GOI fiscal year.
VII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Project Management
7.01      Central Level.  The Secretary-General of the MOH will be the
Project Director and will be responsible for the execution of the project.
He will be assisted by a Project Coordinator in Jakarta with two full-time
and three part-time staff. This team, which has now been appointed, will
assist the provincial project officers in the preparation of annual work
programs and budgets, the procurement of goods under ICB, the recruitment of
consultants and the processing of reimbursement applications. The team will
also consolidate project progress reports; implement, with the assistance of
consultants, the various studies; and coordinate monitoring activities and
evaluation of project impact (Aknnex 1, T-17).
7.02      Provincial Level.  The Provincial Health Officers who will act as
the Sub-Project Directors will be responsible for the execution of all proj-
ect components except those mentioned in para. 7.01 above. Each Sub-Project
Director will appoint a Project: Officer. In addition to the technical staff
referred to in para. 7.07, the Project Officer will be provided with support
staff for local procurement, the preparation of annual work programs and
budgets, and monitoring and reporting on the progress of the project.
7.03      Present practice of GOI in Bank-financed projects is that project
funds are centrally-controlled and managed by the implementing ministries in
Jakarta.  This practice has resulted in delays in release of funds to the
local implementing agencies and consequent delays in project implementation.
To avoid similar problems, a separate project budget will be provided
directly to each of the provincial Sub-Directors and, for activities to be
implemented in Jakarta, to the Project Director. The existing budgetary
system allows this without any modification in its procedures.



- 31 -
B. Project Implementation
7.04      Civil Works.  The civil works element consists of in-patient facil-
ities for 15 health centers, four Class C and six Class D hospitals, three
Provincial Training Centers, and 19 District Health Offices with drug stores
and staff houses. The locations of these facilities are shown in Annex 1,
T-10.
7.05      With the exception of three PTCs, standard designs, which have been
used satisfactorily by GOI for many years and found satisfactory by the Bank,
exist for all facilities and will be used for construction of buildings under
the project. Designs for the PTCs will be prepared at provincial level by
consultants according to schedules of accommodation which have been agreed
with the Bank and using as guidelines the successful PTCs built by NFPCB
under the Second Population Project. Consultants at each province will adapt
the standard designs for the other facilities to suit individual sites and
local planning conditions.
7.06      The Provincial Project Officers will be responsible for initiating
construction in accordance with normal GOI procedures and they will appoint
one or more consultants to prepare plans, tender documents, contracts, and to
supervise construction and advise on technical matters.
7.07      To assist the project officer in implementing the civil works
component, the GOI has agreed to appoint additional full-time technical staff
to each province for the duration of the planning and construction period.
Three such staff members will be appointed to South Sulawesi and one each to
Central and Southeast Sulawesi. Additional technical advice and control will
be obtained from the PWD whose provincial representative will be a member of
the tender and implementation committees required under GOI regulations.
Contracts for construction will be awarded at provincial level through tender
committees convened by the Provincial Health Officer in accordance with
normal GOI procedures.
7.08      Control of documentation and construction will thus be located at
each province under the Provincial Project Officer. It is expected that this
arrangement will have the advantage of decentralizing decision-making and
speeding up implementation.
7.09      Sites.  About 32 new sites will be required for project buildings,
six of them during the first year of the project period.  Most of the project
sites have been selected and found to have adequate water, road and elec-
trical services, and in most cases the sites will shortly be acquired by the
MOH. All the six sites for the first year construction program have been
acquired. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the remaining
sites will be acquired according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank and
that evidence satisfactory to the Bank will be furnished after acquisition.
7.10      Implementation Schedule.  The project is scheduled for completion
within four years. The implementation schedule is given in Annex 1, T-18.



- 32 -
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
7.11      The efficiency with which project components are being carried out
will be monitored against agreed indicators (Annex 1, T-19). Input indica-
tors will include: the number of project facilities constructed, staffed,
equipped, and in operation, and the number of staff trained. Indicators of
coverage and utilization of services as a measure of the provision of health
care would include: the number of children immunized; the number of pregnant
women who received ante-natal care or have their deliveries supervised by a
trained attendant; number of first and repeated consultations per health unit
and by type of illness; number of referrals, and number of family planning
users by type of contraceptive use. Periodic visits to health centers and
sub-centers will be made as part of- the routine supervisory function of the
district health administration to ensure that this information is being
collected accurately by the health units and promptly submitted to the
district offices for submission to MOH in Jakarta through the provincial
health administration.
7.12      Hospital utilization data in respect of in-patient and out-patient
care will be analyzed through existing routine reporting. The indicators
would include, among others: number of admissions per month; average length
of stay; bed occupancy rates; number of deliveries; number of operations;
number of referrals from health centers; and disease specific mortality
rates.
7.13      Information on trends and current levels of utilization, and
reasons for non-use of health faciLities, are available from the 1976 and
1980 household surveys. Another household survey is planned in 1987. By
comparing the results of two recenit surveys, the change toward attaining the
project objectives will be measured.
7.14      The performance of the malaria control component will be monitored
against agreed indicators. The process indicators will include the number of
dwellings treated with chemicals, the number of blood samples collected and
analyzed (slide positivity rate), and the number of patients treated. The
outcome indicator will be the annual malaria incidence.
7.15      An evaluation of the direct impact of the project on mortality and
morbidity is not possible due to t'he variety of external factors influencing
health status. However, the project will attempt to document changes in
health status in the project area. The health status indicators will
include: nutritional status; infant mortality rate; child mortality rate;
life expectancy at birth; maternal mortality rate; disease specific mortal-
ity; and incidence of major diseases.  The data from the 1980 Household
Survey, 1980 Census and National Public Expenditure Survey for the project
area will be used as baseline data. Data from the planned 1987 household
survey will provide an opportunity for monitoring changes in the health
status.
7.16      The Project Coordination Team in Jakarta assisted by MOH's Division
for Data Collection and Analysis (which has computerized facilities and
access to provincial data) will have overall responsibility for monitoring
and evaluation.



- 33 -
VIII. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
8.01      Justification.  The project will accelerate the improvement of the
health status of the population in the three provinces by (i) improving the
effectiveness of the primary health care system, and (ii) reducing the
incidence of the major endemic disease, malaria.
8.02       It is expected that the expansion in the scope and improvements in
the quality of health care provided at the health centers and district
hospitals through the upgrading of facilities, staff training, management and
other outreach efforts will lead to an increase in utilization of health
services. In addition, the expected increase in the effectiveness of the
health center system is also a precondition for the further development of
the outreach program. While it is difficult to quantify the impact of the
project on health status, both the increased utilization and improved quality
of care are expected to lead to a substantial reduction in morbidity and
mortality.
8.03      The project beneficiaries will be mainly mothers and children who
constitute about 80% of those presently seeking primary care in health cen-
ters and sub-centers and as out-patients in district hospitals. The improve-
ments in district hospitals and health centers will directly benefit the
rural poor who cannot afford to go to private hospitals and doctors, which
are, in any case, mostly located in urban areas. Assuming that utilization
will increase by about 50% of present level, it is estimated that by 1987
about 3 million mothers and children will be reached. Since deaths of
children below 5 years of age accounts for about 40% of all deaths, project
impact on infant and child mortality is expected to be substantial. Such
reduction in mortality may be expected to increase motivation to accept
family planning.
8.04      The project will also reduce mortality and morbidity by providing
hospital care for which there is considerable unmet demand. The expected
utilization of the facilities after they are completed and in full operation
is estimated at about 250,000 out-patient consultations per year, and about
38,000 in-patient admissions per year (or an increase of about 144,000 and
10,000, respectively). Additionally, they will greatly enhance the much-
needed credibility of the primary health care network by providing referral
back-up support to about 500 health centers and health sub-centers.
8.05      The intensified and expanded spraying operations under the project
will make possible the drastic reduction of malaria incidence from 140/1000
to about 50/1000 by 1987. In addition, the proper treatment of malaria will
reduce morbidity considerably. By maintaining these efforts over a period of
5 to 7 years, it will be possible to gradually control malaria in the areas
now seriously affected.
8.06      The institution-building effect of the project will be at least as
important as the direct service benefits. The assignment of responsibility
for planning and implementing the project to the provincial authorities will
support GOI efforts to decentralize health administration. This new approach
will facilitate execution of health programs adopted to local needs.



- 34 -
Furthermore, the project will directly strengthen the district health
administration through staff training, provision of transport and office
accommodations.
8.07      Fiscal Impact.  It is estimated that incremental annual recurrrent
costs generated by the project when it is fully operational in 1987 will
amount to about US$3.1 million, or about 15% of the health budget of the
three provinces, which is considered well within the fiscal capability of
GOI. On a per capita basis, the operating cost for the comprehensive and
sustained large-scale attack on malaria represents about US$1.40 per person
protected, per year. It is expected that these costs will decline as the
intensity of malaria control operations diminishes. Project-generated
incremental costs for improving the services of the 10 hospitals are low
principally because these would replace or upgrade existing facilities. The
project will not require new personnel to be posted nor provide additional
hospital beds.
8.08      Environmental Impact.  The use of DDT for malaria control has a
much smaller environmental impact than when it is used for agriculture, since
it is used selectively inside houses. There are in any case, no cost-
effective alternative pesticides.
8.09      Risk.  Implementation capacity is a concern.  A great deal will
depend on the ability of the provincial health services to execute the proj-
ect. However, experience under the MOH's hospital rehabilitation and INPRES
health center construction programs indicates that the provinces have already
considerably increased their capacity to carry out development projects.
Furthermore, the appointment of additional staff and architectural
consultants to supervise the civil works component will minimize the risks.
8.10      The technical feasibility of the malaria control program has
already been successfully proven in Java-Bali. Nevertheless, the probability
that in due course mosquitoes will become resistant to DDT and parasites to
chloroquine will make malaria control more difficult. The development of
alternative pesticides and anti-malaria drugs, however, is a priority
research area of the Tropical Disease Research Program jointly sponsored by
the WHO, UNDP and the Bank.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements Reached
9.01      Assurances were obtained from the GOI during negotiations that:
(a) by December 31, 1984, the MOH will have reviewed trends in
the utilization of health centers and make recommendations for
improving them and will have also reviewed the performance of
PKMD, particularly its impact on utilization of services to
plan for the expansion of PKMD or alternative programs for
improving outreach (para. 5.12);



- 35 -
(b) by December 31, 1984, the MOH will have undertaken a study on
simplifying the health finance system at the district level and
on possibilities for additional resource mobilization through
appropriate cost recovery mechanism (para. 5.21);
(c)  by April 1985, the MOH will have undertaken a study on the
existing recording and reporting activities at the health centers
and sub-centers and make recommendations for strengthening the
existing health information system (para. 5.22);
(d) the full complement of staff and consultants for the malaria
component will be appointed by March 1984 when the program is
expected to be in full operation (para. 5.27);
(e) terms of reference for consultants and the contracts entered
into with them will be satisfactory to the Bank, and the
selection and employment of the consultants will be in
accordance with Bank policies and procedures (para. 5.29);
(f) the implementing units will maintain separate accounts for all
project expenditures and retain these accounts until at least
one year after the closing date; these accounts will be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and
audit reports will be submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of each GOI fiscal year (para. 6.08);
(g) the GOI will appoint additional full-time technical staff (three
in South Sulawesi and one each in Central and Southeast Sulawesi)
throughout the planning and construction period to assist in
implementing the civil works (para. 7.07); and
(h) sites for the project facilities will be acquired according to
a timetable satisfactory to the Bank and evidence satisfactory
to the Bank will be furnished after acquisition (para. 7.09).
Recommendation
9.02      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of $27 million, with a 20-year maturity, including a grace period of five
years. The Borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



- 36 -                                 ANnEX 1
T-1
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
POPULATION BY PROVINCE: SIZE, DENSITY AND GROWTH
Population
Population    Popnlation         Percent of    Growth Rate
Size 1980    Density, 1980         Total           (% p.a.)
(million)    (persons/sq.km.)  Populatlon  1961-71.  1971-80
D.K.I. Jakarta                6.5          11,028              4.4          4.6       4.0
West Java                    27.5             594             18.6          2.1       2.7
Central Java                 25.4             742             17.2         1.7       1.7
D.I. Jogjakarta               2.7             866              1.9          1.1       1.1
East Java                    29.2             609             19.8         1.6        1.5
Java:  Total              91.3              691            .61.9         1.9       2.0
D.I. Aceh                     2.6               47             1.8          2.1       2.9
North Sumatra                 8.4             118              5.7         2.9        2.6
West Sumatra                  3.4               68             2.3         1.9        2.2
Riau                          2.2              23              1.5         2.9       3.1
Jambi                         1.4              32              1.0         3.1        4.1
South Sumatra                 4.6              45              3.1         2.2       3.3
Bengkulu                      0.8               36             0.5         2.5       4.4
Lampung                       4.6             139              3.1         5.2        5.8
Sumatra:  Total           28.2               59             19.0         2.8       3.3
West Kalimantan               2.5               17             1.7          2.5       2.3
Central Kalimantan            0.9                6             0.7         3.5       3.5
South Kalimantan              2.1              55              1.4         1.4       2.2
East Kalimantan               1.2                6             0.8         2.9        5.8
Kalimantan:  Total          6.7              12              4.6         2.3       3.0
North Sulawesi                2.1              110             1.4          2.4       2.2
Central Sulawesi              1.3              18              0.9         3.4       3.9
South Sulawesi                6.1              83              4.1          1.4       1.7
South East Sulawesi           0.9              34              0.6         2.5        3.1
Sulawesi:  Total          10.4               55              7.0         1.9       2.2
Bali                          2.5             444              1.7          1.8       1.7
West Nusa TengFara            2.7              135             1.9          2.0       2.4
East Nusa Tenggara            2.7               57             1.8          1.6       1.9
Maluku                        1.4               19             0.9          3.3       2.9
Irian Jaya                    1.1                3             0.8          2.0       2.4
East Timor                    0.6               37             0.4         n.a.       n.a.
Others: Total             11.0               16              7.5         n.a.      n.a.
INDONESIA: TOTAL           147.4               77            100.0         2.1        2.3



-37 -                                     ANNEX 1
T-2
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
SOCIOECONOMIC INDICATORS IN SELECTED COUNTRIES: 1979 /1
Indonesia /2   Korea   Malaysia   Philippines   Singapore
Total Population (mlns.)              147           37.8      13.1          46.7             2.4
Urban Population (%) /2                18           55        29            36             100
Crude Birth Rate (per 1000)            35           25        28            34              18
Crude Death Rate (per 1000)            12            8         6             8               5
Rate of Natural Increase (%)            2.3          1.7       2.2           2.6             1.3
Infant Mortality Rate /2               93           37        32            65              13
(per 1000 live birthsY
Life Expectancy at Birth               53           63        68            62             71
Adult Literacy Rate (%) /3             62           93        60            33             87
Per Capita Income (US$)               520 /4      1480      1370           600           3830
Annual Per Capita Health
Budget (US$; 1978)                    4            2        15             3             52
Health Budget as % of Total
National Budget (1978)                2          n.a.        5.2           3.6            4.8
/1  Source: IBRD, World Development Report, 1981; Data are for 1979 unless noted otherwise.
/2  1980
/3  1976
/4  1981



- 38 -                                 ANNEX 1
T-3
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
PRINCIPAL CAUSES OF DEATH IN INDONESIA, 1972 AND 1980
1972                    1980
Causes of Death                          Numbe.r        Z        Number          %
Acute lower respiratory tract infection           70          12.0      180          19.9
Diarrheal diseases                                99         16..9      170          18.8
Cardiovascular diseases                          30           5.1        90           9.9
Tuberculosis                                     35           6.0        76           8.4
Tetanus                                           27          4.6        59           6.5
Diseases of the nervous system                    30          -5.1       45           5.0
Liver diseases                                     -          -          37           4.2
Injuries and accidents                           12           2.1        32           3.5
Neoplasm                                           -           -         31           3.4
Typhoid fever                                     12          2.1        30           3.3
Other infectious diseases                                                27           3.0
Ccmplication of pregnancy                         13          2.2        23           2.5
childbirth                                    14           2.4         -           -
Neonatal condition                              241 /a       41.3 /a    62            6.8
Other                                              -          -          43           4.8
TOTAL                                           583         100.0       905         100.0
Source: MOH, Household Survey, 1972 and 1980
/a    Includes  causes of death listed above,



ANNEX 1
- 39 -                               T-4
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
INFANT MORTALITY AND LIFE EXPECTANCY, BY REGION, 1969 AND 1978
Life ExDectancy b/
Province/                Infant Mortality,? a/                               Years
Island               1969       1978    X decline        1969        1978   Increase
Java-Madura         137.6       104.0       24          47.1        53.1        6.0
West Java        159.4      132.2        17          43.5       48.0         4.5
Central Java    135.8        98.2        28          47.4       54.2         6.8
East Java        114.0       95.4        16          51.3       54.8         3.5
Jakarta          119.4       80.1        33          50.2       57.9         7.5
Yogjakarta        93.1       62.5        33          55.3      .61.8         6.5
Sumatra             138.5       92.6        33          47.0       55.4         8.4
Kalimantan          139.3      106.1        34          46.8       53.8         7.0
Sulawesi            149.0      108.2        27          45.2       52.3         7.1
Eastern Islands    164.4       133.4        19          42.7       47.8         5.1
Indonesia           140.0      105.2        25          46.7       52.9         6.2
a/ Per 1,000 live births.
b/ In years, at birth.



ANNEX 1
-- 40 -                               T-5
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
DISEASE PATTERNS, 1972 AND 1980
1972                    1980
Per 1000
Diseases                               Number of   Per 1000                  Popu-
Cases     Population      Cases   lation
Upper respiratory tract infection               980           0.9         3.796       3.1
Skin diseases                                   721           0.6         1.013      0.8
Lower respiratory tract infection               422           0.4         1.041       0.9
Diarrheal diseases                              297           0.3           947       0.8
Tuberculosis                                    577           0.5           732       0.6
Cardiovascular diseases                         120           0.1           717       0.6
Eye infections                                  224           0.2           451       0.4
Diseases of musculo skeletal and  ___
connective tissues                             26           0.0           442      0.4
Malaria                                         279           0.2           219       0.2
Diseases of the nervous system                   74           0.1           254       0.2
Aniemia                                         182           0.2           250       0.2
Arthro-skeletal diseases                         94           0.1           321       0.3
Dental d.iseases                                 70           0.1           293       0.2
Other infectious diseases                       107           0.1           268       0.2
Accidents                                        55           0.1           248       0.2
Others                                        1,319           1.2         2,937       2.4
TOTAL                                         5,547                      13,929
Source: Ministry of Health, Household Survey, 1972 and 1980



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
T-6
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
CENTRAL MINISTRY OF HEALTH BUDGETS
1979/80-1981/82, BY PROGRAMS
(in millions Rupiahs)
1979/80    1980/81    1981/82
A. DeveloDment Budget
Education and Training ror health social
welfare, women's role, family planning            2,050       6,000       6,600
Health Education                                      750       1,200       1,250
Health Services Development                        30,650      42,300      56,500
Control of Co=unicable Diseases                    10,700      16,500      19,500
Improvement of Nutrition Status in the
Community                                         1,odo       3,000      3,325
Control of Food and Drugs                          *1,250       2,100       2,400
Research and Development                              750         850       1,000
Efficiency of Public Administration                   475         625         900
Improve Physical Facilities                           975       2,925       3,800
Women's Role                                          300         400         425
Water Supply                                          800       1,500       2,100
Environmental Sanitation                              200         300         350
Younger Generation                                    200         300         350
Total:  Development Budget                         50,100      78,200    106,750
B.  Special Pr-esidential Funds (INPRES)
Health Servizes Development                        24,465      43,468      56,520
Environmental Sanitation                            5,535       6,523      13,471
Total:  INPRES                                     30,000      49,991      69,991
C.  Routine
Central Ministrv of Health Administration           5,276      10,742      18,112
Education and Training for Upgrading,
Technical and Professional Staff                  2,717      4,101       5,395
Education and Training for Administrative
Staff                                               321         446         590
Health Services Development                        21,079      30,909     45,015
Control of  Comunicable Diseases                    1,140       1,567       2,173
Production and Distribution of Drugs                  914         972       1,121
Total:  Routine                                    31,447     48,737       72,406
Total Budget for Health                           111,547    176,928    249,147
NOTE: This does not include the budget for health of the provinces, districts and
other ministries.



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT, INPRES, AND ROUTINE BUDGETS FOR MOH, 1974/75-1981/82
1974/75        1975/76        1976/77        1977/78        1978/79        1979/80         1980/81         1981/82
B U D G E T.
Millions       Millions       Millions       Millions       Millions       Millions        Millions        Millions
Rp.    %       Rp.    %       Rp.    %       Rp.    %       Rp.    %       Rp.      %      Rp.      %      Rp.      %
National Ministry of
Health - Development    8,615   34   13,010   27   15,742   29   20,970   30   23,842   31    50,100                 78,200         106,750                       t
Budget
Special Presidential    5,291   21   15,220   32   20,929   39   26,292   38   26,900                30,000          49,991          69,991
Funds
National Ministry of
.Health - Routine        11,285   45   19,190   41   17,379   32   21,646   31   25,979   34    31,447                48,737          72,406
Budget
TOTALS             25,191  100   47,421          54,051  100   68,907  100   76,720            111,547         176,928         249,147
01
>c
I-



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
T-8
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF HOUSEHOLD SURVEY, 1972 AND 1980
A. NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION REPORTED ILL/SICK
BY TYPE OF TREATMENT, 1972 AND 1980
Population Condition                          P o p u 1 a t i o n
Effort of Treatment                       1972                  1980
Number       7        Number      %
Population surveyed                111,689    100.0      121,129    100.0
Population without complaint       106,142      95.0     107,288      88.6
Population with complaint            5,547       4.9       13,841     11.4
a.  Not receiving treatment          2,442      44.1        3,630     26.2
b.  Receiving treatment:             3,105      55.9       10,221     73.8
- Medical treatment              2,122      38.3       6,021      43.5
- Non-medical treatment            252       4.5          613      4.4
- Self treatment                   705      12.7       3,551      25.7
- Others                            26       0.5           26      0.2
B. NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF PATIENTS NOT TREATED
BY REASON GIVEN, 1972 AND 1980
Population Condition                          P o p u 1 a t i o n
Effort of Treatment                        1972                 1980
Number      %         Number
Cost                                   315      26.8        1,547     42.6
Distance                               289      24.8          185       5.1
Not needed                             385      33.1        1,304     35.9
Others                                 178      15.3          594     16.4
T 0 T A L                1,164    100.0         3,630   100.0
Source:  M0H Household Survey, 1972 and 1980



INDONESIA
PROCU5J1IAL HEALTH PRO=EC'
MAIARIMGMEMIC INDICES
Central Sulawesi       South East Sulawesi       South Sulawesi         Other Islands                Java
I                  ~~~~~~A.P.I.
YEAR   lPer.Ex.IS.P.R.%l % F    Per.Ex. S.P.R.%   % F    Per.Ex. S.P.R.% % F   Per.Ex. S.P.R.% % F j Per.Ex.  S.P.R.%  % F  [(0/00)
1978   20,000   35 (a) 20 (b)  13,000  11.0 (a) 85 (b)  23,000   14.8   18  423,000  14.0   34   8,174,000   1.5   35           1.4
1979    15,000   16 (a) 64 (b)   3,000  12.6 (a) 18 (b)  18,000   13.0   23   514,000  18.0   32   8,042,000   0.9   47         0.8
1980    17,000   25 (a) 17 (b)   8,000 10.4 (a) 17 (b)  18,000   13.4    17  503,000  11.4    30   9,089,000   1.9   47         1.8
S.P.R.:  Slide positivity rate.
% F:     Percent of plasmodium falciparum.
A.P.I.: Annual parasite incidence.
Per.Ex.: Persons examined by blood slide.  (Represents on average about one-third of clinically reported cases.)
(a)  Data observed through nmlariometric survey.                                                                                                  tE
(b) Data reflects local conditions in survey areas, not provincial averages.



- 45 -
Annex 1
T-10
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT FACILITIES
Facilities         Central Sulawesi       Southeast Sulawesi      South Sulawesi
Class D Hospitals      Toli-Toli              Kendari                 Majene
Ampana                                         Bulukumba
Selayar
Class C Hospitals      Luwuk                                          Pare-Pare
Bone
Palopo
Provincial
Training Center      Palu                   Kendari                 Ujung Pandang
District Health
Offices              Donggala               Kendari                 Maros
Pankep
Barru
Pare-Pare
Pinrang
Polmas
Majene
Enrekang
Sidrap
Waj'o
Bone
Gowa
Takalar
Jeneponto
Bantaeng
Bulukumba
Sinjai
Health Center
Upgrading            Banggai                Rumbia
Leok                  Kabaena
Bungku                Mawasangka
Dondo                 Lasolo
Pendolo               Lasusua
Banawa                Kalisusu
Tomini                Tiworo-Kepulaun
Tombu



- 46 -                            ANNEX 1
T-l1l
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
STANDARD HOSPITAL STAFFING PATTERNS
Staff                                Class C             Class D
General Practitioner                         1                   2
Dentist                                      1                    1
Pediatrician                                 1                   -
Surgeon                                      1                   -
Obstetrician & Gynecologist                  1                   -
Internist                                    1                   -
Pharmacist                                   1                   -
Nurse                                        5                   2
Assistant Nurse                             30                   12
Auxilliary Nurse                            90                  43
Midwife                                      6                    3
X-Ray Technician                             2                    1
Nutritionist                                 1
Assistant Nutritionist                       1                    1
Anesthesist                                  1
Analyst                                      2                    1
Physiotherapist                              1                   -
Dental Nurse                                 1                    1
Trained Statistician                         2                    1
Technican                                    2                    1
Housekeeper                                  2                    1
Sanitarian                                   1                   1
Driver                                       4                    3
Supervisor                                   1                   -
Finance/Accountant                           5                   4
Administrator                                5                    2
TOTAL:                                     173                  81
Source: Directorate General of Medical Care, MOH, Indonesia



ANNEX 1
T-12
ININESIA
PRDVT2IAL HEAUS PRalECT
MINIM1 EXPECI  TRAINDC ILDAIS AT POVINIAL IN-SEVICE TRAINI  CENIES
No. to be
Course Title           Trained       Course      Participants    Course            Typical                         Istructional
Province   & Audience              per yr        Duration    per Course    per Year         Ccurse Content                        Staff /a
SS         Hospital and            125           6 days          20             6      Medical and Mbnagement Topics:         Hospital and
Health Center                                                            - mmnagement of primary care problems  Health Center
Doctors                                                                  - appropriate referral                  doctors plus
-  -w  diagnostic techiique            District
CS                                  50                            16            3      - useful drug therapy                  Administ
- supervision of persornel
SE                                  60                           20             3      - drg logistics
- insuization programs
SS         Health Nnrses           300           6 days          25            12    NHrsing and Mnagement Topics:           NHrsing School
anxd Aadliary                                                            - nutritional assessment of infants    staff plus
Nurses                                                                       and children                        hospital and
- identifying the higr-risk            health oenter
pregnancy                          doctors.
CS                                 125                           25             5      - magement of diarrteal disease
in children
- organizing the nursing team
SE                                 150                           25             6      - imainization programs
Ss         Assistant                32           6 days          16             2      Pharmcy and Drug Tventory              1harcy Schmol
Pharmacists                                                                Management:                           Faculty plus
- mnaging dnrg inventory               Practicing
CS                                  12                            12            1      - expiration of drugs                  Pharnacists aid
- the cold chain for vaccines          District
SE                                  12                            12            1      - drug control including               Administration
security
SS         Health Center            50           6 days           16            3      laboratory Procedures:                 Medical
and Hospital                                                             - blood examLnations                    Analysts, Lni-
CS           laboratory             30                            15            2      - stool exaninations                   versity IPG
- urine examinations
SE                                  30                            15            2
Hospital YonageMent                  12 days          25             2     Hospital Mangement Procedures           Hospital
Course for South,SE                                                        and Problems:                         Manag-ent
and Central                                                              - persornel management                  Consultants &
Silasesi Hospital                                                        - equipment maintenne                   counterparts
Directors                                                                - supply irventory procedures           frao Jakarta
Others: Health In-                                                         To be determined.
pectors, Dental
Nurses, leprosy
Inspectors, Mlaria
Supervisors, Assistant
Nutritionists, etc.
/a There is an ongoing program to train trainers for the categories listed.
SS - South Sulaoesi
CS - Central Sulawesi
CE - South East



ANNEX 1
- 48 -                                                               T-13
INDONESIA
PREOVINCIAL EEALTR PROJECT
LIST OP STUDIES AND TECfNICAL ASSISTANCE
C-naItisg Servicen Pro-
Inplementig       vided under the Project          Starting         Corplation
Pt-pose -                                    (in 550-macthe)                  Date             Date
A. Studies
health Fi-atce             To re-iew says to saiplify health        MOH/PCJ           6 mae-mtha of                   Jaly 1984       Decenber 1984
finance system at the district leve                       consultants
sad etane pos.hbilitias fot sddi-
tional resoocoe mobili-ation through
appropriate cost recovery
=echanis-. Mao, to stody appropri-
ate nser fees for district hospitals
cad =ays to cetain these fsnds to
suppleteot operating casts.
Health Infot=ation         To review the e.istiog syste  f-or       MOH/              6 -as-noths of                Asgust 1984       April 1985
Systen                   reporting cod recording activities       Directocate       consultant
of health centeve and the dintrtit      Genera: C-
offices sad thereafter make reco-        unity Health
=endatis_ for atreogtheaing the
system to effecti-ely support plao-
viog activities.
Utilizatics of Health      To review preseot trends of  tilica-    MOH/Ilotitote      None; iscluded as               Jlly 1984       Desb- 1984
S-rvices                 tics of health center aod tv make        of Health         a c      tvece=t
recotodario-s for i=proving them.       Besearch
Ostreach Activities        To st-dy the porfarmcoce of PYMD,        MOH/             NSon; incloded an a               July 1984      April 1985
portic-larly its irpact oe otilisa-     Directorate       -coenat
tion of health seevices in order to     Gecral 
establish optimal conditioss for         Mrectirate
program taintenance cod to plan for     Gene-al far
its expansion or alterective pro-       Cordity
gra=s  fot iprevig outreach.            health
B. TechnicaL
Assistanne
Hospital Addiailtration    To review present procedorer for         PCU/lro-ctcr-     46 mae-mortho                 August 1984       May 1984
district hospital ad=inistvation,       ate Gen.-ral
design sad condoct tra-iaig coot-e      for HeaLth
fa- hospital ad=linLtratora  sad        Sereices/PHA
eyalucte the cose far ntional
replication.
Hespital Eqip-nt           To determine: (i) saistecanoe needs      PCU/Driectot-     6 mano- tha of                Juns 1984         Decehbe- 1984
Maintenance              of district hospitals baaed on as        ate Genral        cone-ltants
isnyetary of redical cqfip-not,         f-r MedIcal
cad (ii) the approprlcte nu=ber,        Care
locstion ssd staffig for
maintenance workshops, and prepare
preliriasry architectt-al drawings
for these etk-hahpo.
Hespital Equiprnst         To assist MOH to prepare specifica-      PCU/Dir!cto.r-    2 -a-onths                    April 1983        May 1983
tices of hospital eqsip-ent             ate Gea!rcl        of casltr
for Medical
Care
Msnagesent Traning of    Ta design sod carry act a managerent    PNa/PUSIIVViT        36 man-mantho of              Septe=e-  1984    Hsy 1985
District IsdAl           ttaining toarae fo- dIstrict tedical                       consultntsr
Officer                  officer..
Drug Managemnt System   To estahblih a drag inventory system    PbA                    6 man-mtho of
at the district level.                                     co-naLtantr                 DSeneser 1983      May 1985
Entamologist and           Ta assist in malaria srueilLance         PNW               108  a-nths of                Decehr 1983       Decehe  1986
HsLariologist            cad epidemiclogicaL aDsecsremt.           irectorate       consoltants
Generl far
Casicshle
Diseases
Monitoring and             To masEat MOH iv -ealnatiag project      MOH1/Planniag     6 -an-nths of                 Febhuary 1987    May 1987
EyaLuation               Iqiract.                                 Bureau            c-nsalta-es
Project Preparation       TI sasist MOH in preparing a second       MOI/Planaing      6   -ahnantho of              Sapteaetr 1983    February 1984
health proJect for bank fi-ancing.      Ba-                co-otants
PCI - Project Coordinating Unit
PdA - Prviacial HeaLth Adinoatration



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
INDONESIA                                                              T-14
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT                                                             Page 1 of 11
Table A.  DISTRICT HOSPITALS
Detailed Cost Table
(Rp. '000)
Quaritits                                                   Base Cobts
Urlit     1   2   3   4  Total  Unit Cost            1            2             3            4          Total
! .lQE>ltlENT r 0'15
h. CENTkAl iUIAWE5I
Cl, i C                                    50,000 m:         -   -   -      I R,. 7,500/m2   392,599.9                -            -             -    392,5S9.9
CI ASS D                                   25,000 m2   -   I   1   -        2 Rp. 7,500/m2              -   196,333.4   196,333.4                -    392,666.9
Sub-Tutal LA'ND                                                                                    392,599.9   196?333.4   196,333.4                -    785,266.8
CIVIL UDRN.S
COINSTRUICTION                                NO.       1   1   1   -       3                1,066t616.5   632,680.3   632,680.3                -  2,331,977.1
FUFNITURE                                   Amount        -     -    -   -                     213,185.8   126,536.1   126,536.1                -    466?257.9
Si  lut l CiVIl U0ohNS                                                                          1,279,802.3   759,216.4   759,216.4                 -  20798235.0
3. HDSFPITAL E0UIPMENT
t(IASi C  /a                                  No,       -   1   -   -       1    307,071.6              -   307.071.6              -            -    307,071.6
ClASS I'                                      No.       -   -   I   1       2    307,071.6              -             -   307,071.6   307,071.6    614,143.2
Sub-Tutal H0SFITAL EQUIPMENT                                                                                -   307,071.6   307,071.6   307,071.6    921,214.8
4. VEHICLES
CEE'AN FOR CLASS C                            NO.       -   2      -        2    8,463,744              -    16,927.5              -            -      16,927.5
SEDAN FOR CLASS D                             NO.       -   -   1   1       2    8,463.744              -             -     8,463.7       B,463.7      16,927.5
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                                          -    16,927.5       8,463.7      8,463.7       33t855.0
Sub-Total CENTRAL SULAWESI                                                                          1,672,402.1 1,279,548.9 1,271,085.2   315,535.3  4,538,571.6
B. FELLOVSHIFS
CLAS' C ADMINISTRATORS                           ND,        1   -   -   -       1        17,853    17Y853.0              -             -            -      179853.0
CLASS D HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATORS                   NO.       -   2      -        2     1,071.1B              -     2.142.4             -             -       2o142.4
Sub-Total FELLOWSHIPS                                                                                  17,853.0       29142.4             -            -      19P995.4
C. SOUTH SULAWESI
1. LAND
CLASS C                                    50,000 m2   1   2   -   -        3 Rp. 7,500/02   392.599,9   785,199.7                 -             -  1,177,799.6
CLASS D                                    25,000 m2   1   1   -   1        3 RP, 7,500/m2   196s333.4   196,333.4                 -   196,333.4    589,000.3
Sub-Total LAND                                                                                     588,933.3   981.533.2               -   196,333.4  1,766,799.9
2. CIVII WORNS
CONSTRUCTION - CLASS C                        NO.       1   2   -   -        3               1,066,616.5 2,133,233.0               -             -  3,199,849.5
FUF:NITURE - CLASS C                        Amount      -   -   -   -       -                  213,185.8   426,371.5               -             -    639,557.3
CONSTRUCTION - CLASS D                        NO.       1   1   -   1       3                  632,680.3   632,680.3               -   632,680.3  1898,041.0
FURNITURE - CLASS D                         Amourit     -   -   -   -       -                   126,536.1   126,536.1              -   126,536.1    379,608,2
Si,b-Tot2l CIVIL WORNS                                                                          2,039,018.6 3,318,820.9                -   759,216.4  6,117,055.9



- 50                                                               ANNEX 1
Table A. (Continued)                                                                                                                             T-14
Page 2 of 11
3. HOSFITAL EQUIPMENT
CLASS C  lb                                     No.        -   -   -   -        -                           -             -             -             -              -
CLASS D                                         No,        -   I   I   1        3    307,071.6              -   307.071.6   307,071.6   3079071.6    921.214.8
Sib-Total HOSPITAL EOUIPMENT                                                                                    -   307,071.6   307,071,6   307.071.6    921,214.8
4. VEHICLES
SEDAN FOR CLASS C                               No.       2   4   -   -        6      RF, 7.5.      16,927.5      33,855.0              -             -      50,782.5
SEDAN FOR CLASS D                               No.        I   I   1   -       3      RF. 7.5sm       8,463.7      8.463.7       8.463.7              -      25.391.2
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                                      25.391.2      42.318,7       8.463.7              -     76.073.7
5. FELLOWSHIP
CLASS C HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATORS               Ac,our,t     -   1   2   -        3        17,853              -    17,853.0    350706.0                -      53,559.0
CLASS D HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATORS               Amount       -   3   -   -        3      1,071.18             -      3213.5               -             -       3,213,5
Sub-Total FELLOWSHIP                                                                                            -    21.066.5    35,706.0                 -      56,772.5
Sub-Total SOUTH SULAWESI                                                                                2,653,343,2 4,670,B10,9    3519241,3 1,262,621.4  8,938,016.9
D, SOUTHEAST SULAWESI
1. LAND
CLASS Di                                     25,000 m2   -   -   I   -          1 RP. 7,500/n2              -             -   1969333.4               -    196,333,4
2 CIVIL WORKS
CONSTRUCTION                                  Anour,t      -   -   1   -        I                           -             -   632.680,3               -    632P680.3
FURNITURE                                     Amount       -   -   -   -       -                             -            -   126.536,1               -    126,536,1
Sib-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                                           -             -   759,216,4               -    759,716.4
3. HOSFITAL EQUIPMENT                              No.        -   -   I   -        1    307,071.6               -             -   307,071.6               -    307,071.6
4. VEHICLES
SElIAN FOR CLASS D                              No.        -   -   I   -        1    8.463.744              -             -      8,463.7              -       8P463,7
Sb-Total VEHICLES                                                                                                                    8.463.7              -       B,463.7
S. FELLOWSHIP
CLASS D HOSPITAL APIMINISTRATOR               Amount       -   I   -   -        1      1,071.18             -       1,071.2             -             -       1,071,2
Sub-Total SOUTHEAST SULAWESI                                                                                       -      1,071.2 1,271,085.2                -  1.272,156.3
E. JAKARTA
1. CONSULTANTS
HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATION
10REILiN CONSIILTANTS                       sm        10   6   -   -    16   $12.500/mm    89,265.0            53t559.0              -             -    142,824.0
HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATION
LOCAL CONSULTANTS                            MO       10  10   5   5    30    $3,000/mm          20,102.4      20,102.4      10,051.2      10,051.2       60,307.2
HOSPITAL MAINTENANCE
FuREIGN CONSULTANTS                         M5         6   -   -   -        6   $12,500/MM    53,559.0                 -             -             -      53t559.0
HOSPITAL EOUIPMENT SPECIFICATIONS               mm         2   -   -   -        2   $12,500/MM       17,853.0             -             -             -      17,853.0
SJb-Total CONSULTANTS                                                                                  180,779.4      73,661.4      10,051.2    10,051.2        274,543.2
Sub-Total JAKARTA                                                                                         180,779.4      73,6b1.4      10,051.2    10.051.2    274,543.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                     4,524,377.7 6,027,234.8 2,903,462.9 1,588.20B.0 15,043,283.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                        4,524,377.7 6,027t234.8 2,903,462.9 1,588,208.0 15.043,283.4
la Partial eouipmer,t Frovided through Dutch aid.
/b Hospital eauiF*ent for Palopo,8one, aad Pare-Pare provided ba Japanese aid.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
INDONESIA                                              T-14
PROVINCIAL HEALTH  PROJECT                                         Page  3 of  11
Table B. HEALTH CENTER UPGRADING
Detailed Cost Table
(Rp. '000)
Quantit'3                                           Base Costs
Unit  1   2   3   4  Total Unit Cost         1           2           3          4         Total
1. INVESThENT COSTS
A. CENTiRAL SULAWESI
1. LAND,
L,ANEl             No.    2   2   2   2       8  8.308.992   16,616.0   16,618.0   16Y618.0   16,618.0    66,471.9
2. CItJIL WORKS
CONSTRUCTION       No.    2   2   2   2       8 54,671,832  109,343.7  109,343.7  109,343.7  109,343.7   437.374,7
FEES               No.    2   2   2   2       8  2,814.336    5,628.7    5,628.7    5Y628.7    5,628.7    22,514.7
EQUIPMENT          No.    2   2   2   2       8   14,282.4   281J64.8   28,564.8   28tJ64.8   28,564.8   114,259.2
FURNITURE          No.    2   2   2   2       8  50776.646   11,553.3   11,553.3   11,553.3   11,553.3    46,213.2
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                           155,090.4  155,090.4  155,090.4  155,090.4   620,361.7
Sub-Total CENTRAL SULAWESI                                         171.708.4  171,708.4  171,708.4  171,708.4   686,833.7
B. SOUTHEAST SULAWESI
1. LANI,
LANED              No.    2   2   2   1       7  8,308.992   16,618.0   16,618,0   16,618,0    8,309.0    58,162.9
2. CIVIL WORKS
CONSTRUCTION       No.    2   2   2   1       7 54,671.832  109,343.7  109,343.7  109,343.7   54,671.8   382,702.8
FEES               No.    2   2   2   1       7  2,814,336    5,628.7    5,628.7    5,628.7    2,814.3    19,700.4
EQUIPMENT          No.    2   2   2   1       7   14,282.4   28,564,8   28,564.8   28,564.8   14,282.4    99,976.8
FURNITURE          No.    2   2   2   1       7  5,776.646   11,553.3   11,553.3   11,553.3    5,776.6    40,436.5
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                           155,090.4  155,090.4  155,090.4   77,545.2   542,816.5
Sub-Total SOUTHEAST SULAWESI                                       171,708.4  171,708.4  171,708.4   85,854.2   60O,979.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                 343t416.8  343v416.8  343,416.8  257,562.6 1,287,813.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                    343,416.8  343,416.8  343,416.8  257,562.6 1287,813.1
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
INDONESIA                                                T-14
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT                                            Page 4 of 11
Table C. PROVINCIAL TRAINING CENTER
Detailed Cost Table
(Rp. '000)
guantitv                                           Base Costs
Unit   1   2   3   4  Total Unit Cost  1             2                        4         Total
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. SOUTH SULAWESI
1, LAND'
L A.,N D                    Amount   -   1   -   -         1                -   2099065.0            -            -   209,065.0
2. CIVIL WORKS
7ONSTRUCTION                Amount   -   l   -   -         I                -   658,812.8            -           -   658,812.8
FEES                        Aniount   -   -   -   -        -                -    66,018.8            -            -    66,018.8
FURNITURE                   Amount   -   -   -   -         -                -   120Y346.8                         -   120i346.8
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                          -   845,178.4            -            -   845,178.4
3. VEHICLES                      No.      -   4   -   -       4  Rp. 7.5m    -    33,008.6               -           -    33,008.6
4. A.V. EGUIFMENT and BOOKS  Anount   -   -   -   -           -                -    28,300.6             -           -    28S300.6
5. TRAINING EXPENSES            Aiouirt   -   -   -   -       -                -            -  149,355.4  2855133.0   434,488.3
Sub-Total SOUTH SULAWESI                                                          - 1,115,552.5  149,355.4  285,133.0 1,550,040.8
B. CENTRAL SULAWESI
1. LAND
LAND                        Amount   -   I   -   -         1                -   104,532.5            -            -   104,532.5
2. CIVIL WORKS
CONSTRUCTION                Anount   -   I          -      1                -   378,232.8            -            -   378,232.8
FEES                        Amount   -   -   -   -         -                -    37,823.3            -            -    37,823.3
FURNITURE                    Amount   -   -   -   -        -                -    68!769.6            -            -    68.769.6
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                          -   484.825.7             -           -   484,825.7
3. VEHICLES                      No.      -   2   -   -       2   RP,7.5m    -    16,504.3               -           -    16.504.3
4. A.V. EQUIPMENT and BOOKS  Amount   -   -   -   -           -                -    14,150.3             -           -    14,150.3
5, TRAINING EXPENSES            Amount   -   -   -   -        -                -            -   58,255.4  169.722.0   257,977.4
Sub-Total CENTRAL SULAWESI                                                        -   620,012.7   88,255.4  169,722.0   877,990.2



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Table C.  (Continued)                                                                                 T-14
Page 5 of 11
Quantity                                      lase Costs
Unit   1  2   3   4  Total Unit Cost  1         2           3          4        Total
C. SOUTHEAST SULAWESI
____ __ _____ _____
1. LAND
LAND                     Amount   -   1  -   -       1              -   104,532.5          -          -   104,532.5
2. CIVIL WORKS
CONSTRUCTION             Amoulnt   -   -   -   -    -               -   366,542.0          -          -   366,542.0
FEES                     Amount   -   -   -   -    -                -    36,447.9          -          -    36,447.9
FURNITURE                Amount   -   -   -   -    -                -    66,706.5          -          -   66,706.5
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                  -   469,696.4          -          -   469,696.4
3. VEHICLES                  No.     -   2   -  -       2 RP. 7.5s    -    16,504.3           -          -    16,504.3
4. A.V. EOUIPMENT and BOOKS Amount   -   -   -  -    -                 -    14,150.3          -          -    149150.3
5. TRAINING EXPENSES        Amount   -   -   -   -      -              -           -  SBY255.4  169,722.0   257,977.4
Sub-Total SOUTHEAST SULAWESI                                              -   604,883.4  98,255.4  169,722.0   862,B60.9
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                                                       - 2,340,448.7  325,866.2  624,577.0 3,290,891.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                          - 2,340,448.7  325,866.2  624,577.0 3,290,891.9
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  ----  - -------------------------- - --



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
INDONESIA                                                           T-14
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT                                                             Page 6 of 11
Table D. DISTRICT HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
Detailied Cost Table
(Rp.  '000)
Guantitv                                                 base Costs
Unit   1   2   3   4  Total  Unit Cost            1            2            3           4         Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. SOUTH SULAWESI
1. LAND
LAND                         Aoount   4   7   6   -    17    15r076.8   60,307.2   105,537.6   90,460.8                      -   256,305.6
2. CIVIL WORKS
CDNSTRUCTION                 Amount   4   7   6   -    17 108301.375  433,205.5   758,109.6  649,808.2                       - 1,841,123.4
FURNITURE                    Amount   4   7   6   -    17   5t372,625   21P490.5    37,608.4   32,235.8                      -    91,334.6
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                           454,696.0   7950718.0  682,044.0                - 1,932,458.0
3. EQUIPMENT                    Amount   4   7   6   -    17    39537.57   14,150.3            24,763.0   21,225.4              -    60i138.7
4. VEHICLES                       No.      -  10  10  14    34    8,252.15               -    82,521.5   82,521.5  115,530.1   28O0573.1
5. TRAINING EXPENSES  /a        Asount   -   -   -   -         -                         -    15,614,4   15,614.4   15,614.4    46P843.3
Sub-Total SOUTH SULAWESI                                                            529,153.5 1,024i154.5  891,866.1  131P144.5 2,576,318.7
B. CENTRAL SULAWESI
1. LAND
LAND                         Amount   -   I   -   -         1    15,076.8             -    15,076,8             -            -    15P076.8
2. CIVIL WORKS
CONSTRUCTION                 Amount   -   I   -   -         1 108,301.375             -   108,301,4             -            -   108,301.4
FURNITURE                    Amount   -   1   -   -         1   5,372.625             -      5t372.6            -            -     5,372.6
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                    -   113,674.0              -           -   113,674.0
3. EQUIfMENT                    Amount   -   1   -   -         1    3t537.57             -      3,537.6            -            -      3,537.6
4. VEHICLES                     Amount   -   2   -   -         2    Bt252.15             -    16,504.3              -           -    166504.3
5. TRAINING EXPENSES  /b        Anount   -   -   -   -         -                         -      2,036.7    2,036.7    2,715.6          6,788.9
Sub-Total CENTRAL SULAWESI                                                                   -   150,829.3    2,036.7    2,715.6   155,581.6
C. SOUTHEAST SULAUESI
1. LAND
LAND                         Amount   -   1   -   -         1                         -    149741.8             -            -    149741.8
2. CIVIL WORKS
CONSTRUCTION                 Aaount   -   I   -   -         1 108v301.375             -   108,301.4             -            -   108301,4
FURNITURE                    Amount   -   1   -   -         1   59372.625             -      5,372.6            -            -      5,372.6
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                    -   113,674.0              -           -   113,674.0
3- EQUIPMENT                     Amount   -   1   -   -        1    3,537.57              -     3,537.6             -           -      3,537.6
4. VEHICLES                     Amount   -   2   -   -         2    8,252.15             -    16,504.3              -           -    166504.3
5. TRAINING EXPENSES /a          Amount   -   -   -   -        -                          -     1,357.8    2,036.7    2,715.6          6,110.0
Sub-Total SOUTHEAST SULAWESI                                                                 -   149,815.4    2,036.7    2,715.6   154,567.6



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
T-14
Table D. (Continued)                                                                                                               Page 7 of 11
Quantitv                                                 Base Costs
Unit   1   2   3   4  Total  Unit Cost           1             2           3            4         Total
D. JAKARTA
1. CONSULTANTS
MANAGEMENT TRAINING         Anount  12  12   6   6    36   S3,000/ma   16.081,9    16,081,9    8,041.0    B.041.0    48,245.8
DRUG MANAGEMENT STUDY       Amount   -   6   -   -         6   $3,000/mm            -      8,041.0            -           -      8,041.0
FINANCE STUDY               Amount   -   6   -   -         6  $12,500/MM            -    53,559.0             -           -    53,559.0
INFORMATION SYSTEM          Amount   -   6   -   -        6  $12,500/MM             -    53t559.0             -           -    53F559.0
Sub-Total CONSULTANTS                                                           16,081.9   131,240.9    8,041.0    B,041.0   163,404.7
Sub-Total JAKARTA                                                                  16,081.7   131,240.9    8,041.0    8.041.0   163,404.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                               545F235.4 1,456,040.1  903,980.4  144t616.6 3,049,872.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                  545,235.4 1,456,040.1  903,980.4  144,616.6 3,049,872.6
/a 22 Dokabus Y. Rp. 25,000 x 21 daas x 2 sears.
/b  4 tikabus x RP. 25,000 x 21 davs x 2 vears.
-- -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- -- - - -- -- _ - - - -  _ - - - - - - - -- - - -- - - -- -- -- -- -- - - -- - - -- - - -



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
INDONESIA                                                            T-14
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT                                                            Page 8 of 11
Table E. MALARIA CONTROL
Detailed Cost Table
(Rp. '000)
Quantity                                                    Base Costs
Unit      1      2    3   4  Total Unit Cost            1            2             3             4         lotal
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. SOUTH SULAWESI
1. ['[T                               Amount        -      -   -   -       -                428,472.0   4289472.0   42B,472.0   4287472.0 1,713i888.0
2. VEHICLES
.11 IFS                             No.         12    13   -   -    25  8t463.744    101t564.9   1100287 7                                 -   211,593.6
MOTORCYCLES                         No.         60      -   -   -    60    705.312        42v316.7              -                          -    42318.7
Sub-Toutl VEHICLES                                                                          143,883.6   110,028.7                -             -   253,912.3
3. EGlIIlMENT ISPRAY CANS)             No.        300   170   -   -   470         83.845     25,153.4    14t253.6                -             -    39s407.0
4. D'RUGS                             Amounrt       -        -      -      -                 29,601.4    29,601.4    29t601.4          29,601.4   118,405.7
5. RECIJRENT CUSTS
SAlAhRES AND DAILY WAGES           Auulint            -    -            -                 89120.6    89,120.6    89,120.6    89,120.6   356,482.6
FElOhL                             Arount        -      -   -   -       -                 24,994.2    24p994.2    24,994.2         24,994.2    99,976.8
TRAINING EXFENSES                  Amount        -      -   -   -       -                 33,944.4    33.944.4    33Y944.4    33,944.4   135,777.6
SuL-lotil RLCUIRRENT COSTS                                                                  148,059.2   148P059.2   148,059.2   14B8059.2   592,237.0
Sub Tut31 SOUTH SUIAWESI                                                                        775,169.7   730,414.9   606,132.7   606,132.7 2,717F850.0
B. CENIRAL SULAWESI /a
1. * lLI                              Amount        -          -   -       -06,59,2   206,559.2    206,5959.2   206,559.2    826*236.8
2. VEHICIES
JELPS                               No.         6      -   -           6  Bt463.744       500782,5             -             -             -    500782.5
MOTORCYCLES                         No.         10      -   -   -    10    705.312         7,053.1              -             -            -      7,053.1
Suab-Total VEHICLES                                                                          57,835.6              -             -                  57,835.6
3. EQUIPMENT                          Amount    150   160   -   -   310           83.845     12t576.7    13,415.2                -             -    25P991.9
4. [liUGS                             Amount        -      -   -   -       -                  12,188.B     12,188.8      129188.8    12,188.B    48,755.3
5. RECURRENT COSTS
SALARIES AND [1AILY WAGES          Asournt       -      -   -   -       -                 35,514.2    35,514.2    35,514.2    35,514.2   142,057.0
FElROL                             Amount        -      -   -   -       -                  9,819.2       9,B19.2       9,B19.2       9,819,2     39,276.6
TRAINING EXPENSES                  Amourt        -      -   -   -       -                 16,972.2    16,972.2    16,972.2    16,972.2    67,888.8
Sub-Totdl RhCURRENT COSTS                                                                    62,305.6    621305.6    62,305.6    62,305.6   249,222.4
SI,b-o0tdl CENTRAL. SULAWESI  /a                                                                351,465.9   294,468.8   281P053.6   281,053.6 Ii208041.9



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Table E. (Continued)                                                                                                              T-14
Page 9 of 11
Quantity                                                   Base Costs
Unit      1     2    3   4  Total Unit Cost            1            2            3             4         Total
C. SOUIHEAST SU\.AIESI
1. 11T                               Amount       -      -   -   -      -                206,559.2   206,559.2   206,559.2   206P559.2   8269236.8
27 VEHICLES
JELfS                             No.          6     -   -   -       6  8,463,744    50,782.5              -             -            -    50,7B2.5
MOTORCYCLES                        No.        10     -   -   -    10    705,312         7,053.1            -             -            -      7,053.1
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                        57,835.6             -            -            -    57,835.6
3. EQUIPMENT                         Amount    200   180   -   -   380         a3.a4s    1676689    15s092.O                -            -    31w861.0
4.  RfilUGS                          Amount       -     -   -   -       -                  1,218.9      1P218.9      1,218.9       1,218.9      4,875.5
5. RECURRENT COSTS
SAIARIES AND IAILY WAGES         Amolurit      -     -   -   -       -                35,514.2    35,514.2    35vbI4.2        35,514.2   142,057.0
PETRhL                            Amour,t      -     -   -   -       -                  9,819.2      9,819.2      9,819.2       9,8192      39,276.6
TRAINING EXPENSES                Amount        -     -   -   -       -                 16?972.2    16,972.2    16,972.2    16,972.2    67,888.8
Sub-Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                 62,305.6    62,305.6    62,305.6    62,305.6   249,222.4
Sub-lotal SOUTHEAST SULAWESI                                                                344,688.2   285ol75.7   270,083.7   270,083.7 1,170,031.3
D. JAKARTA
1. CONSULTANTS
MM ARILiIGIST                  HANHON1H    15    15  15  15    60 MM290oo/MH   133,897.5   133t897.5   133tB97.5   133,897.5   535,590.0
ENTOMOLOGISI                    MANMONTH    12    12  12  12    48   3,000/MM    24,122.9    24,122.9    24,122.9    24,122.9    96,491.5
.wib-Totdl l(lNSULTANTS                                                                  158,020.4   158i020.4   15820.4   158,020.4   632,081.5
'b  lutul JAlKARTA                                                                          158,020.4   158,020.4   158,020.4   158,020.4   632,081.5
lotal INVESTMENT COSIS                                                                       1,629p344.2 194689079.B 1,315,290.3 1,315,290.3 5,728,004.7
lotal BASEIlNE COSTS                                                                          1,629s344.2 1,468)079.8 1,315,290.3 1.315,290.3 5,728,004.7
la About 40X of South Sulawesi



- 58 -
INDONES IA                                                   ANNEX 1
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT                                                 Page 10 of 11
Table F. PROJE3CT IIIPLEMENTATION
Detailedi Cost Table
(Rp. '000)
Ouantit~~~~~~~~~                          Base Costs
Unit   1I         3   4  Total Unit Cost          1            2            3           4          Total
I. INYESTMENT COSTS
A, CENTRAL SULAWESI
YEHICLES                    No.        1   - - -            1  8,463,744      8,463.7             ---    8,463.7
OFFICE EOUIPMENT           Amournt    -   -   -   -         -                 5o660.1             -           -            -    5,660.1
FELLOWSHIPS                 No.        -   -   -   -        -                        -    7,y141.2    7,i141.2             -   149282.4
OFFICE SUPPLIES            Aafourit    -   -   -   -        -                 1,397.4      4P890.9    4,192.2    4,p192.24   14,672.8
HONORARIUM                 Amount    -   -   -   -          -                 49690.6    49690,6    4,690.6    4,690.6   16,762.2
INCREMENTAL SALARIES    Amouint    -   -   -   -            -                 24010,2    2,010.2    2,010.2    2,010.2    8?041.0
PER DIEM/TRANSPORT         Amfount    -   -   -   -         -                 4,020.5   139401.6   13,401.6   13,401.6   44,225.3
MISCELLANEOUS              Amount    -   -           -      -                 1,340.2      3,350.4      3,350.4    2,680,3   10,721.3
Suib-Total CENTRAL SULAWESI                                                     27,582.7   .35,484.9   34,786.2   26,975.0  124,828.8
B. SOUTHEAST SULAWESI
YEHICLES                    No,        1                    I       8,463.744    8,463.7          ---    8,463,7
OFFICE EQUIPMENT           Amout r     - -   -   -    -                       5,660.1--                                    -    5,660.1
FELLOWSHIPS                 No.                               -                            7,141.2    7,141,2              -   14,282.4
OFFICE SUPPLIES            Amount      - -   -   -    -                       1,397.4    4,192,2    4,192.2    4,192.2   13,974,1
HONORARIUM                 Amounjrt    - -   -   -    -                       2,680.3    4,690,6    4,690.6         1,340,2   13,401,6
INCREMENTAL SALARIES    Amount    -   -   - -              -2,010.2    2,010.2    2,Y010.2    2,010.2                            8,041.0
P-ER DIEM/TRANSPORT        Amouint    -   -   -   -         -4,020.5   13,401.6   13,401.6    9,381,1   40,204.8
MISCELLANEOUS              Amfount    -   -   -   -         -1Y340.2'    3,350.4    3,350.4                         2,680.3   10,721.3
Sujb-Total SOUTHEAST SULAWESI                                                   25i572.5   34,786,2   34,786.2    19,604,1  114,749,0
C. SOUTH SULAWESI
VEHICLES                    No.        29                      8,463,744   16,9217.5                           -           -   16,927.5
OFFICE EQUIP'MENT          Amfounrt    - -   -   -    -                      11,320.2-                         -           -   11,320.2
FELLOWSHIPS                 No.          -   -   -    -                              -   14,282.4   14,282,4               -   28,564.8
OFFICE SUPPFLIES           Amounirt    -   -   -   -        -2,794.8                       5,589,6      5,589.6     4,890.9   18i865,1
HONORARIUM                 Amount    -   -   -   -          -69700.8   12,731.5   10,721.3   10,721.3   409874,9
INCREMENTAL SALARIES    Amounrt    -   -   -   -            -6,030.7    6,030,7    6,030.7                          6,030.7   24,122,9
PER DIEM/TRANSPORT         Amouint     - -   -   -    -                      10,721.3   16,752.0   16,752.0   13,401.6   579626.?
MISCELLANEOUS              Amouirt    -   - - -                               3,350.4      4,690,6    4,690.6       49690.6   17,422.1
Sub-Total SOUTH SULAWESI                                                        57,845,7   60,076.8  'J8,066.6   39,735.1  215,724,3



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Table  F.  (Continued)                                                                                        T-14
Page 11 of 11
Quantitv                                           Base Costs
Unit   1   2   3   4  Total Unit Cost  1             2           3            4        Total
DI. JAKARTA
VEHILlES                  No.      1   -   -   -      1  8,463.744    8,463.7            -          -           -    8, '3.
CONSULTANT              MANHONTH   -   6   -   6    12 $12t500/NM            -   539559.0           -   53,559.0  107,118.0
FELLOWSHIPS               No.      -   -   -   -      -                      -   21,423.6   28,564.8            -   49,988.4
OFFICE SUPPLIES          An,aur,t    -   -   -   -    -                4,890,9    6,987.1    5,589.6    4,890.9   22.358.6
HONORARIUM               Amount    -   -   -   -      -               11,391.4   10,721.3   10,721.3   10,721.3   43,555.2
INCREMENTAL SALARIES    Amount    -   -   -   -       -                4,020.5    4,020.5    4,020.5    4,020.5   16,081.9
FER DIEM/TRANSPORT       Amount    -   -   -   -      -               16,752.0   16,752.0   16,752.0   16,752.0   67,008.0
MISCELLANEOUS            Amount    -   -   -   -      -                4,690.6    4,690.6    4,020.5    4,020.5   17,422.1
OFFICE ELUIPMENT         Amount    -   -   -   -      -               14,150.3           -          -           -   14,150.3
Sib-Total JAKARTA                                                        64,359.4  118,154.0   69,668.7   93,964.2  346,146.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                     175,360.3  248,502.0  197,307.8  180,278.3  801,448.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                        175,360.3  248,502.0  197,307,8  180,278.3  801,448.4
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_-- -- - - - - - - - - - - -_ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
INDONESIA                                         T-15
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
ANNUAL EXPENDITURE BY COMPONENT
(Rp. Billion)
Total
Base Costs       -------------
(USS
1    2    3    4   Rp.  Million)
A. REFERRAL SYSTEM
DEVELOFPMENT
DISTRICT HOSPITALS                           4.5  6,0  2.9  1.6 15.0       22.8
HEALTH CENTER UPGRADING                     0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  1.3        2.0
Sub-Total REFERRAL SYSTEM
DEVELOPMENT                                 4,9  6.4  3.2  1.8 16.3        24.7
B. STAFF DEVELOPMENT
and TRAINING
PROVINCIAL TRAINING CENTERS                   -  2.3  0.3  0.6  3.3        5.0
Suib-Total STAFF DEVELOPMENT
and TRAINING                                   -  2.3  0.3  0.6  3.3        5.0
C. MANAGEMENT and ADMINISTRATION
DISTRICT HEALTH OFFICES                     0.5  1.5  0.9  0.1  3.0         4.6
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                      0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.8         1.2
Sub-Total MANAGEMENT and ADMINISTRATION         0.7  1.7  1.1  0.3  3.9        5.8
lI. HALARIA CONTROL PROGRAM                     1.6  1.5  1.3  1.3  5.7        8.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                              7.2 11.9  6.0  4.1 29.2       44.2
Phvsical Contingencies                         0.4  0.7  0.3  0.1  1.5        2.2
Price Contingencies                            0.4  1.8  1.5  1.5  5.2        7.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                               8.0 14.4  7.8  5.7 35.9       54.4
Foreign Exchange                              3.7  6.7  4.4  3.5 18.3        27.7
------------------- ------------- --- ---------- ----------- ------ --- --__---- ----__ -



- 61 -                             ANNEX 1
T-16
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS /a
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and Semester                 US$ Million       Percent
FY83
Second                                      0.4              1.0
FY84
First                                       0.7              3.0
Second                                      2.5              9.0
FY85
First                                       4.0             15.0
Second                                      5.4             20.0
FY86
First                                       9.4             35.0
Second                                     13.5             50.0
FY87
First                                      16.2             60.0
Second                                    20.2              75.0
FY88
First                                      23.0             85.0
Second                                     27.0           100.0
/a   The disbursement schedule has taken into consideration the annual
phasing of project expenditures and time overruns in Bank-financed
projects in Indonesia.



- 62 -                                ANNEX 1
T-17
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES
Activities                              Agency Responsible
A. Referral System Development
1. Civil Works Component
Land acquisition                         Provincial Health
Administration (PHA)
Preparation of plans and
tender documents                       PEA
Tendering                                PEA
Award of contracts and payment           PEA
Supervision                              PEA
2. Procurement
ICB (hospital equipment)                 Central MOH
Local procurement                        PRA
3. Hospital Administration and
Maintenance
Selection, appointment: and
payment of consultants                 Central MOH, in consulta-
tion with PHA
Supervision of consult:ants              PEA
Training of hospital administrators    PEA
B.  Staff Training
1.  Civil Works Component                       PHA
2.  Local Procurement                           PEA
3. In-Service Training
Preparation of annual program            PEA, in consultation with
central MOH
Submission of program to the
Bank for review                        MOH
Implementation ot program                PHA



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
T-17
Page 2 of 3
Activities                                Agency Respbnsible
C. Management and Administration
1.  Civil Works ComDonent                        PEA
2.  Procurement                                  PHA
3. Management Training
Selection, recruitment and
payment of consultants                   MOE
Supervision of consuiltants                PEA
lmplementation of program                  PEA
4. Studies
Selection, recruitment and
payment of consultants                   M.OH
Supervision of consultants                 PEA
D. Malaria Control
1.  Procurement
ICB (DDT)                                  MOE
Local procurement                          PEA
2. Appointment of Consultants
Selection, contracting and
payment                                  MOH, in consultation with
with PEA
Supervision                                PEA
E.  Reporting, Monitorinz, Evaluation
and Other Studies
1.  Quarterly Proaress Renorts
Preparation of reports                     PEA
Coasolidation and submission
to the Bank                             MOE
2.  Monitorinz and Evaluation
Monitoring of key indicators               PEA
Analysis of data                           MOH
3.  Preparation; of Second Health Project        MOP



- 64 -
ANNEX 1
T-17
Page 3 of 3
Activities                                 Agency Requirements
F. Budgets and Accounts
1. Preparation of annual work
program and budget                            PEA, in consultation
with MOH
2.  Preparation of withdrawal applications
Supporting documents                          PEA
Preparation and submission of with-
drawaal applications to the Bank           MOH



- 65 -                                          Annex I
T-18
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1983            1984            1985            1986            1987
Facility           No.    JFMAMJJASOND   JFMAMJJASOND   JFMAMJJASOND   JFMAMJJASOND   JFMAMJJASON\
CENTRAL SULAWESI
District Hospitals
Type "C" Hospitals           I          DD
TTTTT
CCC   CCCCCCCC
Type "D" Hospitals           2                        ODDDD               DDDD
TTTTT              TTT   T
CC   CCCCCCCCC        CCCCCCCCCCC   CC
Provincial Training Centers
Small P.T.C.                 1         DDDDDDD
TT   TTT
CCCCCCCCC   CCCCCCC
District Health Offices
with Drug Stores
(a) Health Office (1)                                          D   DD
(b) Drug Store    (1)        I                                       TTTTT
(c) Staff Houses  (2)                                                      CCCCC   CCC
Health Center Annexes
Ward Block Annexes           8         | DDD        DDD    DDD           DDD        DDD
TTTT        TTTT   T   TTT    TTTT          TTTTTT
CC   CCCCCC CCCCC   CC CCCCCC CC   CCCCC    CCC   CCCC
Project                                                               Pro,ect
Begins                                                                Ends
LEGEND:
DDD: Drawings
TTT: Tenders
CCC: Construction



- 66 -                                          Annex 1
T-18
Page 2 of 3
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1983           1984            1985            1986           1987
Facility          No.    JFMAMJJASOND   JFMAMJJASOND   JFMAMJJASOND   JFMAMJJASOND   JFMAMJJASOND
SOUTH SULAWESI
District Hospitals
Type "C" Hospitals          3        LDDD          DDD               DDD
TTTT         TTT             TTTTT
CCC   CCCCCCC CCCC   CCCCCCCC  CC   CCCCCCCCCCCC   CCC
Type "D" Hospitals          3         DDD            DDD               DDD
TTTTT         TTTTT             TTTTT
c   ccccccc   CC   cccCCCCCcc      ccCCCccCCCcc   cCc
Provincial Training Centers
Large P.T.C.                1        DDDDDDDDD   DDD
TTTTT
CCCCC   CCCCCCCC
District Health Offices
with Drug Stores
(a) Health Office  (1)                   DDDD           DDD           DDD
(b) Drug Store      (1)     3              TTT            TTTT          TTTT
(c) Staff Houses   (2)                            CCCCCCCCC      CCCCC      CC   CCCC
(At 17 locations in
South Sulawesi)
DDD            DDD           DDD
3           TTTT            TTTT         TTTT
CC   CCCCCC    CC   CCCC    CCCC   CC
DDD                DD              DD
3        |   TTTT                T   TTT         T   TTT
CCCCCCCCC        CCCCCCCC        CCCCCCCC
DDD    DD            DDD           DD
4          TTT       TTTT       TT   TT       TTTT
CCCCC      CCCCCCC       CCCCC         CCCCCC
DDD        DDD         D   DDD        D   DD
3        | TTTT        TTTT           TTTT            TTTT
CCC   CCC  CCCCCCC   C    CCCCCCC         CCCCCCC   C
Health Center Annexes
Ward Block Annexes          Nil
Project                                                             Project
Begins                                                              Ends
LEGEND:
DDD: Drawings
TTT: Tenders
CCC: Construction



- 67 -                                             Annex I
Page 3 of 3
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1983            1984             1985             1986             1987
Facility            No.    JFMAMJJASOND   JFMAMJJASOND   JFMAMJJASOND   JFMAMJJASOND   JFMAMJJASOND
SOUTH-EAST SULAWESI
District Hospitals
Type "D" Hospitals            1                                   D   DDD
TTTTT
l                         ~~~~~~~~CCCCC   CCCCCI
Provincial Training Centers
Small P.T.C.                  1           DDDDDDD
T   TTT
l          ~~~CCCCCCCCC   CCCI
District Health Offices
with Drug Stores
(a) Health Office  (1)                  | DDDD
(b) Drug Store       (1)      1                TT   TT
(c) Staff Houses   (2)                  I              CCCCCCCCCC
Health Center Annexes
Ward Block Annexes            2         DDDD            DDD       D   DD
(at 7 locations)                           TTT            TTTT         TTTT
CCCCC   CCCC   CCCCC   CC  CCCCCCCC   CCI
DDD             DDD              DDD
2             TTTT             TTTT             TTTT
C   CCCCCCC    C   CCCCCC    CC  CCCCCCI
DDD          DDD       DDD            DDD
2           TTTT         TTTT    TT   TT          TTT   T
CCCC   CC   CCCCCCC   C CCCCCCCCC    CCCCCCCCI
I                                                        TTT
l                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~CCCC              I
Project                                                                 Project
Begins                                                                  Ends
LEGEND:
DDD: Drawings
TTT: Tenders
CCC: Construction



ANNEX 1
- 68 -ANN__
T-19
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL REALTH PROJECT
KEY PROJECT INDICATORS
Actual                             Targets
Principal Objectives                                   Key Indicators                   _                                                                        _
1982        1983        1984        1985        1986        1987
A. Referral System Development
To strengthen referral system through:           -  Number of hospitals constructed                                                      3           5            2
a. Reconstructing and equipping                  -  Number of hospitals fully staffed,
10 regency hospitals                             equipped and in operation                                                            3           5           2
b. Strengthening hospital administration,    -  Number of out-patient consulta-
maintenance and financing mechanism              tiuns per month per hospital                 1,100        1,200        1,200       1,500      2,100       2,400
c. upgrading 15 health centers by                -  Average length of stay                       7 days
providing in-patient facilities
-  Bed occupancy rate                           58%                                                            80%
-  Number of deliveries/hospital/month         10-40
-  Number of maternal deaths/hospital             2%                                                            1%
- Number of hospital administrators
trained
- Number of health centers with
in-patient facilities staffed,
equipped and in operation                                                           5           5           5
- Mothers and children seeking care
at health center/sc'bcenters               1,500,000                                                    3,000,000
- Number of consultat.ions/day/health
cester                                      15-40                                                          60
B. Staff Development and Training
To improve quality of health services            -  Number of PTCs constructed                                                           3
through health manpower development by:
- Number of PTCs fully staffed,
a. Establishing a provincial training                equipped and in operation                                                           3
center in each province
- Number of staff trained by
b. Empand and improve quality of in-                 category                                                      (To be determined annually)
service training of health staff
C. Management and Administration
To strengthen the administrative capacity    -  Number of district health offices
of district health offices to plan, imple-           and drug stores constructed                                             6          12          19
ment and maintain health services in line
with GOI's policy of decentrali-ation            -  Number of district health officers
through:                                             trained                                                                20          40          60
a. Construction of district health offices
b. Construction of drug storage facilities
C. Improvement of drug management system
d. Training of district health officers
D. Malaria Control Program
-  Number of spraymen trained                               2,000       2,000       2,000       2,000
To reduce the incidenee of malaria through:
-  Number malaria supervisors trained                         65
a. Training of malaria workers and super-
visors                                        -  Number of houses sprayed                    180,000    280,000    380,000        480,000      596,000    596,000
b. House spraying                                -  Number of cases found and treated           152,000    167,000    252,000    358,000    460,000           460,000
c. Case finding and treatment                    -  Annual Parasite Incidence                      14%                    (To be determined annually)             5%
d. Blood examination                                                                                                               I           I



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Health Sector
A.1   World Bank, Indonesia Health Sector Overview, Feburary 1979,
2379-IND
A.2   World Bank, Indonesia Updated Health Sector Review (In Draft)
A.3   World Bank, Indonesia Health Manpower Review, October 1, 1982
(In Draft)
A.4   World Bank, Indonesia 1982 Country Economic Memorandum, May 3,
1982, 3795-IND
A.5   World Bank, Indonesia Growth Patterns, Social Progress and
Development Prospects, February 1979; 2093-IND
A.6   CIDA, Sulawesi Regional Development Study: Final Report, May
1979
A.7   GOI, Mid-Term Review of Repelita III for Central and South
Sulawesi
A.8   GOI, INPRES Program for Health, 1981-82
A.9   GOI, National Health System, March 1982
A.10  WHO, Role of Hospitals in Primary Health Care, November 1981
B. Selected Working Papers
B.1   Sector Background Paper for Sulawesi
B.2   Summary Project Proposal
B.3   Central Sulawesi Project Proposal
B.4   Southeast Sulawesi Project Proposal
B.5   South Sulawesi Project Proposal
B.6   Hospital Equipment List
B.7   Architect's Working Papers



- 70 -
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
C-1: The Structure of the Ministry of Health
Minister of Health
Inspector General                                               Secretary General
Director General                  Directoe General                         Director General                 Director General of
of Medical Care                of Community Health                        o Coamunscable                 Drug and Food Control
National Institute of                              National Center for
Research & Development                             Education and Training
Head of
Provincial Health Office
Head of
District Health Office
Head of
Health Center (PUSKESMAS)
World Bank - 21489



JOU \:S A
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
C-2: Organization Structure of the Ministry of Health Provincial Health Office
Provincial Health Officer
Administration
Division
Personnel           Finance              Logistic          General Affairs
Sub Division        Sub Division        Sub Division         Sub Division
Division of Directing 1
Programs Formulation         Division of Directing       Division of Directing         and Monitoring of
and Evaluation Div.       and Monitoring Comm.         and Monitoring of CDC         Prod, and Utilization
Medical Care                                          of Food and Drugs
Data Collection and         Section of Health           Section of Epidomi-          Section of Prod. and
Processing Section           Center Services           ological Surveillance        Distribution of Food
of CDC                      and Drugs
Programs Formulation         Section of Hospital         Section of Surveillance       Section of Food and
Section                     Services               (Transmitter-insects)         Drugs Utilization
Health Manpower             Secton of Nutri-           Section of Environ-        Section of Dangerous
Formulation SectiOn         tional Improvement            mental Health                Drugs Control
Evaluation and    l       Section of Lab. and  |       Section of Health    l      Section of Traditional
Reporting Division            Health Facilities            Engineering      J               Drugs
World Bank-24005



- 72 -
INrDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
C-3: Organization Structure of the Ministry of Health District Health Office
Head
|     _         J  ~~~~Adnninistration
Sub Division
Sub Section:; ofv Sub Section of                       of
Geea Affairs               Personnel     ll       Fiac         l
Section of D irect-                           Section of Direct-
ing and Monitoring                           ing and Monitoring
of Community                                of CDC and Drugs
Services                                 and Food Control
World Bank-24006



- 73 -
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
C-4: The Indonesia Health and Family Planning Systems
Level                  Health Network                 Family Planning Network
I            l                   |            INational Family Planingi
I Central                Ministry of Healthi             |Coordinating Board
Prvic              I                                       I
I Province             I | Health Office  I            I NEPCB Office
I          i                                L            j.I
| District               I District Office I             i NEPCB Office
1-__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
I 1  5   [        |             | Field Workers   I
ISub-Districtl           I Health Center   II   (Java/Bali and  I
| pilot areas in
I                      I 5 Other Islands)
1                            1                                 I
I                                                          I _ __ _   _ _
Village    i           IVillage VolunteersI             IVillage Contraceptive
l(in few villages) I            I Distribution Center






IBRD 16439
120                                  122                                    124-                           JUNE 1982
X~~~~~~~~~~ 'q    j~t f:x:     _                                                  bagu
*~~~~~~~~ a
I                                                             tJ <: t D;: > ;:, Goronf=o==
?    ,                     T ,  --
At ~~~~~~~~~~~~DondagoX~/ 
!iC  e  n t r a< a. 1                          6\We
-2-            Srnpaga                                                                                                 INDONESIA                           2
HEALTH PROJECT
n Uf9kU                   Project  Facilities   and    Activities
Morn           l u' / a\w$ e) X  . ,>                                                                        Sulawesi
;  ;  as  '                                                     4. .4  s-   '  FF REGENCY HEALTH OFFICE & DRUG STORAGE
alopo                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGENCY HOSPITALS:
h                      WT 2  AX ! ;COPO A (S f I  CLASS C
CLASS D
Moien       re               ,9 Las...~~       t ~'A    PROVINCIAL TRAINING CENTERS
MO;eneX3  6  Enre~s,  \P   S    t        L(3;6aSOlO          <           )  HEALTH CENTERS WITH BEDS
PinrorT                                         w PP   \2V   \\   . b   <Kendari         MALARIA CONTROL AREAS
4.           To /                                                                                                 AIRPORTS                                  4
Parol                0 a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~.PORTS
MOO C- -O r                                                (                      ;s '--       -      NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
BarrU                                   1 / . Tinan     r9ea                    _     PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYS
-           o~~~~tompone        4                         A             --  OTHER ROADS
X               /mPne  -X --- A ,  t,   KASUPATEN  BOUNDARIES
PangkO;en                                          .r9 . J k . -                             PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL EOUNDARIES
nU  .;U                                o                  |  6 C'                          POPULATION DENSITY / SOQKM.
mmas                                            Mawasangka f          -    ,            MORE THAN 250
Je                                                                  1 ~~~~~~~~~~~ovo,26-100
- 6                                A  ~~~~~~~EI A YARF 
6' ~~~~~~~~~~~~etn6'
w                                               ~          ~          ~         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~124  126'
WTHAILAND                         - . =  PHILIPPINES
.           B _   s ->   3RUNE5'-%
fE z Z__ '  Rt--S   fX /                              kMALAYS I A-'   -.                                                                         NEW
O  50  100  150  200          a,,ksstaffo        sX,SINGAPORE                                           NE PAPA
50  IT  15,0  2 0   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~,O-,AAA,,ArKal,mantan,  -                                                                  GUINEW
0  00lso 20bedmesom6tersm                             j>> ,oAO4A                                 -   ,     }            Su iowesi       ~       - I
asno is, A~    mv,mInS Mso the            -Jayo
0            50           100           150                                 7o s te bdmsss5lese-''-,  >4 W, X                                         Ja\rpa
Mi es                                                        sorV 5 moAdoseS mt 0                           B
Mi es   120'                            22'ecdgtm7eo -uchboemdanes           ~                      Timor



