Document of              ,X -. .  - -       a-7 
The World Bank               fl            C au8r'
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3402-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$27 MILLION
TO THE-REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
January 12, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah
US$1           =  Rp 660
Rp 100         =  US$0.151
Rp 1 million  =  US$1,515.00
WEIGTITS AND 2-lEASURES - METRIC SYSTEII
1 millimeter  (mm)            =  0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                   =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)              =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)  =  0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                =  2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
GOI         -  Government of Indonesia
MOH         -  Ministry of Health
NFPCB       -  National Family Planning Coordinating Board
PKMD        -  Village Community Health Development Program
REPELITA   -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74,
Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III, 1979-84)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Repub'lic of Indonesia
Amount:          US$27 million equivalent (including capitalized
front-end fee)
Terms:          Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate
Project
Description:  The project aims to assist the Government of Indonesia (GOI)
in its efforts to improve the health status of the popula-
tion by increasing the effectiveness of health care services,
and by reducing the incidence of the major endemic disease,
malaria in three provinces of Sulawesi. The project will
improve the quality and increase the utilization of health
services through improvements in the health center, referral
and outreach system, and health manpower development. The
project will also extend and intensify malaria control and
aims to strengthen the institutional capacity of the pro-
vincial and district health administration in order to imple-
ment GOIEs policy of decentralizing health care planning and
administration. The project was identified, prepared and
will be implemented by the respective provincial health
administrations with technical guidance and administrative
support from the Ministry of Health (MOH).
The project beneficiaries will mainly be mothers and children
who constitute about 80% of those presently seeking primary
care in these facilities. Since the deaths of children below
age five accounts for about 40% of all deaths, project impact
of improved services on infant and child mortality is expected
to be substantial. The intensified and expanded spraying
operations under the project will make possible a drastic
reduction in malaria incidence.
The major project risk is that of possible inadequacy of
implementation capacity at the provincial level. However,
experience under the MOH's hospital rehabilitation and the
ongoing health center construction programs indicates that
the provinces have already considerably increased their
capacity to carry out development projects. Furthermore, the
appointment of additional staff and architectural consultants
to supervise the civil works component will minimize the risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theirofficial duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                         Local  Foreign  Total
--- (US$ million) ---
Referral system development             13.9    10.8    24.7
Staff training                           3.4     1.6      5.0
Management and administration            3.3      2.5     5.8
Malaria control                          1.7     7.0      8.7
Base Cost                         22.3    21.9    44.2
Physical contingencies                   1.3     1.0      2.3
Price contingencies                      3.1     4.8      7.9
Total Project Costs               26.7    27.7    54.4
Front-end fee on the Bank loan           -       0.4      0.4
Total Financing Required          26.7    28.1    54.8
Financing Plan:
Bank                                     0.0    27.0    27.0
Government                              26.7     1.1    27.8
Total                             26.7    28.1    54.8
Estimated
Disbursements:   Bank FY             1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
------------ (US$ million) -------
Annual                 0.4   2.1   2.9   8.1   6.7   6.8
Cumulative            0.4   2.5   5.4  13.5  20.2  27.0
Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 4131-IND dated January 12, 1983.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$27 million (including
the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance a Provincial Health Project.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.         A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, titled "Indonesia: Financial Resources and Human Development in the
Eighties" (No. 3795-IND dated May 3, 1982) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 6, 1982. Annex I gives selected social and economic
indicators for the country.
Background
3.         The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.3%o p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has
a highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources,
significant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system
of agricultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these
primary resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra
and Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java which has
areas with some of the highest rural population densities in the world.
About 20% of the population live in urban areas in both Java and the Outer
Islands, and the current rate of urban population growth is over 4% p.a.
The 1981 estimate of GNP per capita is $520, which places Indonesia for the
first time amongst middle income countries./2
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Nucleus Estates
and Smallholders VII Project (No. P-3444-IND), circulated under cover of
R83-6, dated January 6, 1983, and submitted for consideration by the
Executive Directors on January 25, 1983.
/2 On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



-2-
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for
over a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public
expenditures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this
occurred in the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s. The
Government took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. HIowever for the last decade
the dominant external influence has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the
oil and gas sector rose from $0.6 billion in 1973/74 to $10.8 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of $2.5 billion. Oil
receipts also provide about 70% of Central Government receipts and have
helped finance the sustained increase in demand via the budget. The pattern
of expenditures has also helped foster diversified growth: of particular
note has been the support for agriculture, through investment in infrastruc-
ture, support services and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer
incentives. This bore fruit in two successive record rice harvests in 1980
and 1981. During 1971 to 1980 manufacturing has also enjoyed a high growth
rate (of about 14% p.a.) from a very low base, but here sectoral growth has
been in spite of a more restrictive policy environment and distorted
incentives.
5.        In 1981-82 the macroeconomic resource position changed dramatic-
ally. Depressed international markets and a weak oil price have led to a
turnaround in the current account of about $9 billion in two years, with a
deficit of the order of $7 billion likely for 1982/83. Owing to historically
prudent debt and reserve management, Indonesia does not face problems of the
magnitude of other oil exporters. However, barring a major recovery in oil
prices, there will be a need for short-run adjustment in the next two years.
The burden of adjustment will have to fall on import-intensive public expen-
ditures, leading to some rephasing of existing expenditure plans. This will
lead to some reduction in the growth rate in the short run. Increased
domestic resource mobilization will also be necessary - the significant
reduction in the oil subsidy in January 1983 was an important step in this
direction. At a more fundamental level the change in external prospects
emphasized the need for substantial structural change in the eighties. If
the pace of development is to be sustained the development of a strong and
diversified nonoil production and export base is essential.
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
6.        Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence, from household expenditures surveys, indicates a fairly
wide distribution of the benefits of growth and a reduction in poverty
incidence over the past ten years. This is also borne out in the basic health



- 3 -
indicators, with a 25% reduction in the infant mortality rate and an increase
in life expectancy from 47 to 53./l These improvements should not, however,
mask the continued existence of widespread poverty. Almost 50% of the
population are estimated to have been in this condition in 1978. The core of
the poverty problem continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers
form a large, and possibly rising, fraction of the population, and where, for
most of the 1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural
wages. However, in the last two years of good rice harvests it is likely that
significant improvements occurred on Java, while agricultural incomes on parts
of the Other Islands dependent on export crops have declined in the face of
the international recession.
7.        In the future the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 3% p.a., equivalent to around 2 million people p.a., in the next decade.
In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and industry only
13%, while the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total in 1971 to
32% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremental employment in
the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained by rising oil
incomes in the 1970s; if services are to continue to be a major source of
labor income there is again a strong case for diversifying the pattern of
productive growth. Open unemployment, at about 2% in the 1971-80 period, is
not yet a serious problem - it is concentrated amongst secondary school
leavers waiting for high income work; the key issues are of widespread
underemployment (seen in short working hours in some sectors) and low wages.
To tackle this a sustained rise in labor demand is crucial - through the
maintenance of overall growth and the encouragement of labor-intensive choice
of techniques in production, especially in the industrial sector.
8.        In the 1970s there was substantial progress in extending the pro-
vision of social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in
primary education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in
junior secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of
the population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development
and a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will
be necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. The situation is similar in the health sector. There has been a
large expansion in facilities, notably at the subdistrict level, but continued
expansion and an improvement in quality will be necessary to increase effec-
tiveness. This will have to be complemented by a major expansion in water
supply and sanitation if the improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity
in the 1970s is to be maintained. Currently only 18% of the rural and 40% of
the urban population have access to safe water /2 compared with Government
targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.
/2 Government estimates for 1981.



-4-
Policy for Structural Change
9.        Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the nonoil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively inprove the basic needs situation of
the poor. The re-emergence of a significant foreign exchange constraint has
reduced the capacity of the economy to carry a high level of investment.
Policies that promote appropriate investment choices in the public and
private sector will be critical if the structural adjustment process is to
be sustained.
10.       In inuustry, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) is planning a
program of large-scale natural resource-based investments, in refineries,
LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer, cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and
mining. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have very limited
employment implications and is very foreign-exchange intensive in the
construction phase. Of greater importance for both employment and exports
is the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private manufacturing through
an improvement in the economic environment. Over the last year the GOI has
allowed the rupiah to depreciate about 10% against the US dollar, thereby
increasing incentives for the production of traded goods. Furthermore, the
GOI has initiated a general review of the trade regime, with a view to
removing the distortions caused by the wide variations in rates of effective
production. It has also embarked on a program designed to promote the
expansion of nonoil exports, including export financing arrangements, export
insurance, improved ports procedures, export processing zones and a system
of export certificates (duty rebates). However, the private sector suffers
from significant domestic constraints to its expansion, including a heavy
regulatory burden, especially in the area of investment licensing, and a
distorted and poorly developed financial system. Further policy reforms to
alleviate these constraints are needed to create an environment conducive to
private investment.
11.       The energy sector is at the core of the structural adjustment
problem. Oil and gas now account for 98% of domestic consumption of
commercial energy and demand has been growing rapidly. If Indonesia is to
avoid a serious reduction in foreign exchange earnings from the oil sector
in the 1990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage and improve the
efficiency of energy consumption. This will require both price and
investment measures. In January 1983 domestic oil prices were increased by
about 60%, and this followed a similar increase in January 1982. This was a
decisive step that substantially reduced domestic prices and the average
opportunity cost; however, price relativities between products diverge widely
from those prevailing on the international market. In addition a major
program of investment is planned, with public and private participation, in
coal exploration and development, exploitation of hydro and geothermal
resources, and a six-fold increase in electric power generation in the coming
decade.
12.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 nonoil exports), food production



- 5 -
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to an estimated
total in 1982 of 23.2 million tons, compared with 13 million a decade
earlier. This achievement is largely a result of the provision of new, and
the rehabilitation of existing, irrigation systems, and the dissemination of
new agricultural technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery
of seeds and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially in irrigation and rural roads, combined with a favorable market
environment and good support services will be the main determinants of further
expansion in food production.  In the past tree crops have suffered from
relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very old, but GOI
has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting, necessitating
substantial investment in manpower and improved organization of distribution
and marketing. Transmigration remains a high priority program for promoting
development in underpopulated regions, providing opportunities for landless
families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving economic and environmental
pressures on those densely populated islands.
Financing Development - Domestic Resources and External Capital Flows
13.        With a relative decline in oil incomes, alternative sources of
domestic finance for investment will have to be found. This will require a
major increase in resource mobilization through the public sector, through a
combination of reduced subsidies on petroleum products and increased nonoil
taxes. In 1980 it is estimated that taxes on the domestic economy were only
6% of GDP, if the domestic oil subsidy is netted out, compared with well
over 10% for comparable countries. The 1982/83 budget represented a
significant effort to improve the situation, with a halving in the annual
level of the oil subsidy and a 15% budgeted increase in nonoil taxes, but
this will have to be sustained in following years. In addition to public
resource mobilization it is becoming increasingly important to encourage the
growth and improve the efficiency of distribution of financialized savings,
through an improved financial regime and the development of a domestic
capital market.
14.        Even with effective measures to mobilize domestic resources there
will be a substantial need for foreign savings in the 1980s, especially in the
short-run adjustment to loss in oil income. The most important component of
this will be in the form of medium- and long-term debt flows. Total disbursed
and outstanding external public debt was almost $16 billion at the end of 1981
and undisbursed debt amounted to an additional $11 billion. The inter-
Governmental Group on Indonesia remains a principal source of external capi-
tal, including Official Development Assistance, to the country. During the
1970s, however, Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid transformation in its
public debt structure from a situation of heavy reliance on official conces-
sional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional and variable
interest loans in the second half of the decade. In 1981 private source debt
accounted for 52% of new commitments of public debt. The fact that Indonesia
remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s, and the efficiency
with which GOI has managed debt, are clear indicators of how far the country
has progressed. However, the debt servicing capacity depends on commodity



- 6 -
production rather than a broad industrial base, and this makes Indonesia
somewhat more vulnerable to developments in international markets. The
implication is that debt utilization should remain very prudent, and that
there will be a continued justification for official debt of long maturities
in the 1980s. Present projections indicate that Indonesia's financing
requirements can be met with the debt service ratio remaining close to 20%
throughout the decade.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
15.        As of September 30, 1982, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 75 Bank loans amounting to $4,938.6 million.
IFC investments totalled $136.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1980 was
about 10.7%, and the share of debt service about 7.1%. By the end of 1981,
these ratios increased to around 11.2% and 7.4%, respectively. Annex II
contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1982, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for
employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group supported
projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been
extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transpor-
tation, education, urban development, water supply, rural development, nutri-
tion, industrial development financing (including small-scale industry),
power, telecommunications, population and technical assistance.
16.        During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities.
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Nucleus
Estates and Smallholders VII Project (No. P-3444-IND) circulated under
cover of R83-6, dated January 6, 1983, and submitted for consideration
by the Executive Directors on January 25, 1983.



17.       Although the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part I, it is essential that the development
momentum be maintained. This will require both effective policy reform,
notably in improving the environment for private investment, and major
investments in industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human
resources development. The Bank-s program of lending and economic work is
being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the sub-
sector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level.
The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a rapid
expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the severe
shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth sector
work focused on a policy for the promotion of labor-intensive, export-
oriented growth has been substantially completed, and it is planned to
follow this with a series of industrial projects. In energy, sector work
and continued lending is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia-s
energy base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation
and tree crops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in
view of the importance of these sectors, and continued support for transport
is anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of social
services, in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water
supply will increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development
of innovative low-cost solutions.
18.       For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance, which deteriorated rapidly in
the late 1970s. The disbursement ratio (the ratio of actual disbursements
during the fiscal year to the cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning
of the fiscal year) declined from about 26% in FY77 to about 13% in FY80. The
Bank-wide average was 21.31% in FY80; the comparable ratios for Thailand and
Nigeria were 21.2% and 17.31%, respectively, in the same year. While much
of this decline was merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments
which took place during this period (total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% in the FY77-79 period compared to a Bankwide increase of
83%), it also reflected increasing implementation difficulties. Many of the
problems appear to be related to GOITs cumbersome budgetary, procurement and
payment procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of
letters of credit. These problems are further compounded by the severe
shortages of both managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps
have been taken by GOI and the Bank to address these issues.  Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The
GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project specific problems and work out
corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars were held in
Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981.  As a consequence of these



-8-
joint initiatives, GOI has taken several measures to streamline some of the
complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation.
In addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration
at a later stage in the project cycle. Indications are that, as a result of
these efforts, improvements are taking place. This was reflected in an
increase in disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $501.3 million in
FY82, implying a disbursement ratio of around 18%. While it is important
that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are encouraging.
19.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of
payments position, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.       The proposed project constitutes the fourth lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under advanced
stage of preparation and appraisal include the F'ourth Transmigration, Third
Agriculture Training and Manpower Development projects.
PART III - THE HEALTH SECTOR
Health Status
21.      Significant progress has been made in improving health status in
Indonesia over the last 15 years or so. In the 1970's life expectancy rose
from 47 years to 53 years, and the infant mortality rate declined from about
140/1000 live births to about 93/1000, an improvement that is 50% greater
than the average for all low-income countries. This progress notwithstand-
ing, life expectancy is still low and mortality rates are still high in com-
parison with those in countries with similar income levels. The crude death
rate in 1980 was estimated at 12/1000 population, of which 39% is accounted
for by children under five years. Maternal mortality, due principally to
post-partum hemorrhage, infection and toxemia, is also high. Only 10% of
pregnant mothers receive pre-natal care and only 15% of deliveries are
attended to by medical or paramedical personnel, or trained traditional birth
attendants. Children are at a high risk of mortality from acute respiratory



- 9 -
infections and gastroenteritis. The four chief causes of death for all ages
are acute lower respiratory infections, diarrheal diseases, cardiovascular
diseases, and tuberculosis. Significant rural, urban and inter-regional
differentials exist in the levels of mortality. Over the coming decade it
will be necessary for the health sector to adapt to changing disease patterns
associated with economic growth and improved social conditions and changes in
age structure. While childhood diseases of the infectious type will continue
to prevail, there is clearly a tendency for diseases of aging, trauma and
other non-communicable diseases to increase with the changing age structure of
the population. New health problems associated with urban living are
beginning to appear; the emergence of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular
diseases has recently been noted.
22.       There is conclusive evidence that there has been a decline in the
overall fertility rates in Indonesia, primarily in Java-Bali and in the urban
areas. Recent estimates show a change in the birth rate from 43/1000 in 1970
to 35/1000 in 1980. Despite these encouraging developments, the present crude
birth rate is still high. The death rate is likely to decline sharply in
the near future, with the possible consequence of a further increase in the
present high rate of population growth if fertility reduction is not accel-
erated. Reductions in family size are essential to continued improvements in
health and nutrition. Recognizing this, the GOI has intensified efforts to
accelerate fertility decline, particularly in the Other Islands where the
fertility level is higher and where the prevalence of contraceptive use is
lower than in Java-Bali. In recent years, agriculture and nutrition programs
and policies have been successful in increasing the levels of food output and
consumption in Indonesia, and in facilitating access to a broad range of
nutrition services. Despite this success, an estimated 30% of children under
the age of five suffer from protein-calorie malnutrition with serious
consequences for health status. The GOI is in the process of developing a
food and nutrition plan to address these problems.
The Health Service System
23.       In Indonesia, rural health services are provided through a network
of health sub-centers, health centers and district hospitals. In addition,
attempts have been made by the GOI to develop community-based services which
use village health volunteers to provide elementary health care. Patients
requiring more specialized care such as major operations, long-term care and
rehabilitation, are referred to provincial and specialized hospitals, which
are usually located in larger cities. A health sub-center is generally
staffed by a full-time nurse auxiliary, and provides basic maternal-child
health care and family planning, routine vaccinations, nutrition and community
health education. Health centers, which are the principal source of compre-
hensive health services in rural areas, provide basic medical care, maternal
and child health services, family planning services, communicable disease
control, hygiene and sanitation, nutrition, community health education and
dental treatment, and are also responsible for disease reporting and



- 10 -
surveillance. Health centers generally are not equipped for in-patient
care. Government and private hospitals function at the central, provincial
and district levels. The district hospital serves as the main referral
point for health centers and subcenters. In addition, it is the primary
source of care for those who live in the immediate vicinity, providing both
in-patient and out-patient care. District hospitals play an important role
in supporting the primary health care system and in providing continuing
care to patients for whom health centers and subcenters are not equipped or
not capable of treating, including complicated deliveries, accidents,
pediatric emergencies, and general surgery.
24.       While family planning and health services are integrated at the
health center level, their planning and administration are separate. The
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (NFPCB) is responsible for the
planning and administration of the national program. Of all the implementing
units which NFPCB works, the Ministry of Health (MOH) carries by far the
largest family planning service load. Its network of health centers have
provided the major clinical facilities. In addition, hospitals participate
in the national post-partum program.
25.       Manpower training has been given a high priority by GOI in the
health sector and remarkable progress has been made over the past decade.
However, the ratio of health manpower to population is low. For example,
recent estimates put the number of Indonesian doctors at one per 13,670
population. By contrast, Philippines has one doctor per 2,800; India, one
per 3,630; and Thailand, one per 8,220. Medical personnel are also unevenly
distributed, being excessively concentrated in large urban centers. There
is also an acute shortage of specific technical personnel, particularly
laboratory and X-ray technicians and specialized nurses, and there are still
too few community health nurses being trained. These issues are receiving
GOI attention. With the increasing awareness of the need for health care,
there will be an increased demand for more and improved health services.
These foreseeable requirements make it imperative to intensify the training
or retraining of health staff.
26.       Total expenditures for the health sector in 1981 were estimated at
about Rp 1,306 billion ($1.98 billion), of which about 60% was in the private
sector and 40% in the public sector. The 1981 MOH budget shows the following
breakdown of expenditures. By category of expenditure, construction accounted
for 25% of the total; materials and drugs, 25%; personnel, 20%; equipment,
17%; and others, including maintenance and supervision, 13%. By type of
program, about 66% of the total budget was allocated for health services
mostly to rural areas, 10% for communicable disease control, 6% for manpower
development; and the remainder for other program activities such as control
of foods and drugs, research, water supply, and environmental sanitation.
This is in line with the objectives of Repelita III. In 1976, public



- 11 -
expenditures on health were equivalent to about 0.7% of gross domestic
product, about half the average share for developing countries. Since that
time, the percentage has risen to almost 1%, while in many developing
countries, it has fallen. Despite this increase, the budgetary priority given
to health remains inadequate; the sector receives approximately 3% of total
Government expenditure which is low. On a per capita basis, this amounts to
$4.0, well below their requirements. The Government receives fees for most
services provided by health facilities. The exceptions are free treatment of
certain communicable diseases and free vaccination against childhood diseases.
Otherwise, patients pay according to a scale of charges, which is, in
principle, standardized for all medical units (with variation by classes of
accommodation for in-patient treatment). Generally, fees are low and the
reported income from health facilities in 1980/81 was estimated at only Rp 5.2
billion. Fees constitute an important contribution to the district level
revenues, and their channelling back into the health system remains an
important issue.
Health Sector Performance and Strategy
27.        During Repelita I the GOI assigned relatively low priority to health
and the other social sectors. The MOH focussed its limited resources for
health (about 2% of the total national budget) on health education and the
prevention of epidemics. The construction and renovation of hospitals was
kept to a minimum and limited to the provincial level. A shortage of trained
health manpower prevented the rapid establishment of rural health services and
little progress was made in improving rural water supplies and sanitation.
During Repelita II and in the initial years of Repelita III, health has
received greater priority and remarkable progress was made in the expanding
primary health care infrastructure and manpower. The total number of health
centers rose from 1,058 at the beginning of Repelita I to 5,150 at the end of
1981 and every sub-district was assured of having at least one health center
(or one health center per 30,000 population in Java-Bali and one per 15,000
population in the Other Islands). The period 1974-79 witnessed a doubling of
health personnel and substantial progress in training of medical and para-
medical personnel, including traditional birth attendants. The expansion of
the primary health care network during this period resulted in a sharp
increase in the demand for nurses, which was largely met by an increase of
109% in the output of nurses. Emphasis has also been given to improving the
quality of training and rationalizing the numerous categories of paramedical
workers. In addition, medical graduates were compulsorily assigned to rural
areas. Initiatives were also made during Repelita II and continued under the
present plan to decentralize MOH administration to develop its capacity for
providing technical advice and supervision.
28.        MOH has identified long-term objectives for the health system which
set specific quality of life targets for the year 2000. These targets
include: the increase of average life expectancy to at least 60 years and the
reduction of (i) infant mortality to 45 per 1,000 live births; (ii) diarrheal



- 12 -
morbidity from 400 to 200 per 1,000; (iii) malaria incidence in areas with a
high prevalence to 25% of the 1980 level; (iv) the prevalence of tuberculosis
from 4 to 2 per 1,000; (v) mortality from neonatal tetanus from 11 to 1 per
1,000 births; (vi) protein calorie malnutrition in the under-five age group
from 30% to 10%; and (vii) reducing the 1971 fertility rate by 50% by 1990.
The major health strategies that have been adopted by the GOI under Repelita
III include improvement in the coverage, quality and utilization in health
services; strengthening of the referral system through improvement of the
functions of health centers and rehabilitation of district hospitals; manpower
development, particularly the retraining and upgrading of existing health
manpower; development of village primary health care as a way to increase
community participation; and expansion of communicable disease control
programs to the Other Islands. These strategies are accompanied by efforts to
improve education, nutrition, family planning, hygiene, and safe water supply.
Health Sector Issues
29.       The basic question concerning the future directions for the health
sector is whether priority should be given to further service expansion at
the primary level or to improvements in quality of care and utilization of
existing facilities to increase their effectiveness. The GOI decision is to
accord a higher priority to the latter since the basic infrastructure is
already in place. The major issues facing the GOI in increasing the
effectiveness of health services include: low utilization of services;
ineffectiveness of the referral system; inadequacies and shortcomings in
health system management; lack of outreach activities; and inadequate
financing and complexity of the financial system. These issues, which have
important implications for future investments in the sector, are reviewed
briefly below. The various components of the proposed project focus on each
of these issues.
30.       Utilization of Health Services.  While basic health infrastructure
is now in place throughout the country, its effectiveness in delivering health
care services remains limited. The health centers do not always provide the
intended services and they are generally underutilized. The out-patient load
generally ranges from 14 to 63 persons per day. Apparently about 26% of the
population who are ill do not seek assistance at all, and of those who do,
only about 50% use health centers and hospitals, while the rest use tradi-
tional methods or private care. Maternal and child health services provided
by the health center reach less than 42% of babies born, and less than 11% of
under-fives. The results of the 1980 Household Survey and the 1976 Health
Center Utilization Study revealed that the low quality of health care is the
single most important reason cited for non-utilization of services. The
underutilization is due in large part to a low confidence in the public health
services, which in turn is attributed to the poor quality of hea-lth care
provided at the health centers and sub-centers; popular preference, partic-
ularly among the rural population, for traditional healing methods; and



- 13 -
the failure of the rural hospitals to support them by providing adequate care
to referred patients. The latter problem results from the GOI-s former
policy, imposed by financial constraints of building up the primary level
without parallel improvements at the support and referral levels. In
addition, inadequate management and supervision and the absence of an
effective monitoring and evaluation system contribute to the problem of
under-utilization.
31.       Referral System.  In improving the utilization of services, it is
essential to set up means of referring and channeling to the most appropriate
level of care/complex cases or problems that are identified but not treated at
the primary level. Such referrals lead to continuity in care that guarantees
the effectiveness of the overall health system. However, because of the
deterioration in the physical condition and effectiveness of the district
hospitals, patients are bypassing the underequipped and dilapidated district
hospitals for provincial or private hospitals and are not seeking medical care
until conditions warrant hospitalization. The situation is worse in the Other
Islands, where the population is more dispersed, and the private hospital
network less dense and therefore less accessible and in areas where lower
income levels mean that poor households cannot afford private care.
32.       Health Service Management.  Inadequacies in the management of the
health sector have become a major concern to the GOI. The rapid pace of
service expansion in general and the introduction of lower level auxiliary-
based health care (which tends to be administration intensive) in particular,
has placed severe strains on management capacity. Three principal problems
can be identified. First, the key managers of the primary health care system,
the district medical officers, are often not prepared for management or
administration, including the introduction of new health programs. Second,
the activities needed to support the primary health care system such as
in-service training, management and information system, and technical and
administrative supervision, are underdeveloped, particularly at the district
level. Third, partly due to these weaknesses in provincial management,
decision-making and control tends to be highly centralized in Jakarta, leading
to delays and other inefficiencies.
33.       Drug Supply and Distribution.  The supply of drugs has improved
markedly since Repelita II. Yet while the production of drugs is not a major
problem, the distribution and storage procedures in the public sector have
been inadequate. In some districts, existing facilities for storing drugs are
deficient leading to premature deterioration due to heat and moisture. In
many districts, there are no drug storage facilities and no inventory system
to guarantee a regular supply of essential drugs. In these cases, the drug
supply for the whole year is delivered directly to the district hospitals and
health centers where the conditions for drug storage are even w6rse, leading
to even greater waste and deterioration in the quality of drugs.



- 14 -
34.       Outreach.  A recent evaluation of the health outreach program
suggested that its successful replication will be dependent upon a degree of
community involvement, political commitment and intersectoral coordination
which is not now present. The likelihood of success of the volunteer-based
system is further complicated by their need to work alongside paid family
planning, nutrition and community development workers. The supply of support
materials has been erratic and a very high drop-out rate among the health
volunteers has been observed. The ongoing outreach effort has also suffered
from lack of support from the highest levels of Government. The speed of its
further expansion will consequently depend upon the resolution of these
issues.
35.       Financial System.  The present complex system places an unnecessary
burden on health care administrators, and this is likely to increase as
utilization of the health system increases. In view of the weak financial
basis of regional and local authorities, it has been necessary for the
central Government to provide funds for recurrent as well as capital
expenditures. A multiplicity of budgets exist at all levels of central and
local Government and any particular item of expenditure may be financed from
several sources; indeed, it is seldom that a program or activity is financed
entirely from one source or even from one level of Government. Such a
system tends to have three disadvantages: it strains the administrative
capacity at the local level; it encourages waste by reducing accountability;
and it hinders effective management. The lack of correspondence between
specific functions and specific budgets makes it very difficult for managers
to reallocate funds when needed.
The Bank Role
36.       The Bank Group-s direct lending for health in Indonesia has hitherto
been confined to health components in agriculture, nutrition, population,
rural development and urban projects. These components include the construc-
tion of health centers and the training of nurses, midwives and traditional
birth attendants. The total amount of Bank Group financing committed to these
components is $26.0 million. The Bank Group has also helped finance three
population projects, starting with an IDA credit of $13.2 million in 1972
(Credit 300-IND) for the first population project and loans of $24.5 million
in 1977 and $35 million in 1980 for the second and third population projects
(Loans 1472-and 1869-IND), respectively. The third population project
includes a health component ($13.1 million, or 18% of total project cost)
which aims to strengthen maternal and child health services through the
upgrading of health centers, and training of health center doctors, nurses,
midwives, and traditional birth attendants. In addition, support of a
nutrition project was provided in 1977 through a loan of $13 million (Loan
1373-IND).



- 15 -
37.       The first population project has now been completed and implemen-
tation of the second population and nutrition projects is nearing completion.
The major problems encountered in these projects relate to two factors: (a)
GOIs cumbersome budgetary and administrative procedures, delays in acquisi-
tion of sites, and appointment of key staff and consultants; and (b)
inadequate provincial local participation in planning and implementation of
the projects. Experience gained from these projects was taken into account in
*        designing the proposed project.  First, the project has modest but achievable
objectives involving a single implementing agency. Second, unlike other
projects which were designed and implemented at the central level, the project
*        has been prepared and will be implemented at the provincial level ensuring it
of a strong local constituency. Third, separate project budgets for each
province will be provided which will facilitate the allocation and the flow of
funds for project activities. Fourth, key project staff have already been
appointed and funds for the first year activities have already been included
in the FY83 budget to facilitate a timely start to project implementation.
Fifth, implementation arrangements have been agreed upon at all levels of the
GOI a meeting to discuss project implementation has already taken place at
which representatives from all the key agencies were represented - and sites
for civil works have been identified and their acquisition is underway.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The project was prepared by GOI with Bank assistance.  The project
was appraised in May 1982. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4131-IND) is being
circulated separately. Negotiations were held in Washington from December 1
to 3, 1982, with a GOI delegation led by Dr. Soejoto, Secretary General,
Ministry of Health. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Area
39.       The project area, which consists of Central, Southeast and South
Sulawesi, comprises the three least developed provinces in Sulawesi. These
are the primary receiving transmigration areas in Eastern Indonesia, and cover
about 80% (or 8.3 million) of Sulawesi-s total population. The project area
is predominantly rural and agricultural. The disease pattern is similar to
that in the country as a whole, with malaria remaining as the most important
single disease. The problems relating to the health sector are similar to the
national problems discussed above - underutilization of facilities, inadequate
referrals, poor management and lack of outreach.



- 16 -
Project Objectives
40.       The project aims to assist GOI in its effort to improve the health
status of the population by increasing the effectiveness of health care,
particularly in the rural areas, and by reducing the incidence of the major
endemic disease, malaria, in three selected provinces of Sulawesi. To achieve
this, the project will:
(a) improve the quality and increase the utilization of health
services through improvements in the health center, referral
and outreach system, health manpower development, and
strengthening of district level management; and
(b) extend and intensify malaria control.
The project also aims to strengthen the institutional capacity of the
provincial and district health administrations in order to support GOIs
policy of decentralizing health care planning and administration. The project
was identified, prepared and will be implemented by the respective provincial
health administrations with technical guidance and administrative support from
the central MOH.
Project Composition
41.       The project will provide for:
(a) Strengthening of the Referral System:
(i)  The expansion in the scope and improvement in the quality
of services in 15 health centers in isolated sub-districts
through the provision of in-patient facilities and
additional medical equipment.
(ii)  The improvement of services in ten district hospitals in
development and/or transmigration settlements with large
service areas, through the replacement of existing physical
facilities, the provision of equipment and vehicles,
technical assistance and fellowships for hospital adminis-
tration and maintenance.
(b) Staff Training:
The establishment of a provincial training center for
in-service training in each of the three provinces; each to
be provided with equipment, materials, vehicles, and support
for training expenses.



- 17 -
(c) Management and Administration:
(i)  The strengthening of the administration of district health
services by constructing, equipping and furnishing a health
office in each of the 19 districts, each with drug storage
facilities and vehicles; the setting up of a drug management
system; the organization of management training courses for
district medical officers; and the provision of consulting
services for strengthening the existing health information
system and for the study of health care finance.
(ii)  The provision of vehicles, office equipment, fellowships,
and support for incremental operating costs for project
implementation including consulting services for monitoring
and evaluation, and the preparation of a second Bank-assisted
health project.
(d) Malaria Control:
The extension and strengthening of malaria control in South
Sulawesi and in transmigration areas and other hyper-endemic
areas in Central and Southeast Sulawesi by providing equip-
ment, vehicles, insecticides and drugs, technical assistance
and support for incremental operating costs.
(e) Technical Assistance and Studies:
The provision of about 228 man-months of consultant services
to carry out studies and individual project components.
Project Description
42.       Strengthening of the Referral System.  A viable primary health care
system with community health activities at the village level is not likely to
be effective without strong referral and support system. GOI has, therefore,
emphasized the development of infrastructure and effective services as a
precondition for the expansion of outreach activities. Selected health
centers and district hospitals are being upgraded through the provision of
equipment, facilities, trained manpower and strengthening of management and
administration. The Bank, under the Third Population Project (Loan 1869-IND),
is supporting these efforts by providing for the construction of in-patient
facilities for about 50 health centers in the country (13 of which are in
South Sulawesi) and for the training of primary health nurses, midwives and
health center staff. Additional support to this program will be provided by
the proposed project, focussing on upgrading of health centers, rural
hospital rehabilitation, management and maintenance.



- 18 -
43.       The project will include construction, furnishing and equipment of
10-bed annexes at 15 selected health centers in Central and Southeast
Sulawesi. Such enlarged health centers will be able to care for high-risk
pregnancies, deliveries, emergencies, IUD insertion, in addition to the
regular services provided by health centers. Each of the health centers
identified for upgrading is remote from a district hospital or other referral
hospital, but accessible to surrounding health centers and health posts for
which referral and support services will be provided. Each in-patient annex
will comprise a 10-bed ward, a small operating room, a recovery room, a
nurse s station, a delivery room, a store room and staff housing. The
equipment to be provided will include beds with accessories, and nursing and
surgical equipment. In addition, it was agreed during negotiations that by
December 31, 1984, the GOI will review the utilization of health centers and
make recommendations for improving them and will have studied the performance
of the Village Community Health Development Program (PKMD) particularly its
impact on utilization of services and to plan for the expansion of PKMD or
alternative program for improving outreach (Section 3.06(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
44.       At the district level, the project will provide for the construction
and equipping of 10 rural hospitals to replace the existing dilapidated build-
ings, which are over 60 years old and uneconomical to renovate. The hospitals
will conform to existing GOI design standards and equipment lists, which were
reviewed by Bank staff and found acceptable. The district hospitals to be
replaced under the project have been selected, in agreement with the local and
central Governments, according to the following criteria: (i) poor physical
condition; (ii) large service areas; (iii) proximity to transmigration areas;
and (iv) location in priority development areas. Each hospital will also be
provided with vehicles. Each rural hospital will have about 50-100 beds.
45.       The construction of the hospitals will be accompanied by
improvements in management and equipment maintenance. The project will
provide assistance in (i) the design and conduct of a training course in
hospital administration for hospital directors and (ii) medical equipment
maintenance. The training course in hospital administration will be
implemented with the assistance of consultants. The consultants will work
closely with a counterpart committee which the GOI has already established for
this purpose. In addition, the project will provide fellowships on hospital
administration. In view of the critical importance of equipment maintenance,
the project will also provide technical assistance for the expansion of the
national hospital equipment maintenance network in Sulawesi. This will
require about six man-months of consultant services to determine overall
maintenance needs and the appropriate number, location and staffing of
maintenance workshops, and prepare preliminary architectural drawings for
these workshops.



- 19 -
46.       Staff Training.  The MOH has started to expand and improve the
quality of in-service training. Because of ethnic, religious and cultural
diversity and problems of distance, the design and execution of training
programs will be localized at the provincial level. The project includes the
establishment of a Provincial Training Center in each of the three provinces.
Each center will include at least two classrooms, a library, administrative
offices and hostels, and will be provided with vehicles and training
equipment. The project will also provide funds for training expenses. The
trainers will largely be drawn from the experienced provincial level staff of
the MOH directorates; there are ongoing programs to upgrade the technical
skills of the trainers. Technical guidance will be provided by MOH-s Center
for Education and Training. A detailed training program will be prepared
annually by the provinces in consultation with the center. The program will
include the training schedule, the number of trainees, and course outlines for
the various categories of staff, together with itemized cost estimates.
47.       District Health Administration.  As an essential accompaniment to
the expansion and decentralization of health care administration, the MOH is
strengthening and improving the efficiency of the organization and
administration of the health service delivery system at the district level.
This will be achieved through: (i) upgrading the managerial skills of district
health administrators; (ii) improving the physical infrastructure, particular-
ly the provision of office accommodation and transport; and (iii) construction
of drug storage and development of a drug management system. District-level
health care finance issues and the existing health information and reporting
systems will also be addressed. To upgrade the managerial skills of district
health administrators, the project will provide for the training of district
medical officers (one for each district) in health care planning, management
and supervision. About 36 man-months of consulting services will be provided
for designing and carrying out the training course and evaluating it, for
possible national replication. In addition, the project will provide 38
four-wheel drive vehicles (at least one for each of the 19 districts which do
not have vehicles) to enable district level staff to perform field supervision
more effectively.
48.       The MOH has initiated a program to construct new district health
offices which include drug storage facilities and residential quarters for
district health officers and assistant pharmacists. To date 12 health offices
have been constructed in the project area. The project will provide for the
construction of similar offices in the remaining 19 districts based on
standard designs which were found acceptable. The drug store attached to each
of the district health offices will be sufficient to hold a five-month supply
of drugs for hospitals and health centers, a three-month supply for routine
activities, and a one-month buffer stock. It will also be used for storing
small medical equipment. Consulting services (about 6 man-months) will also
be provided for setting up a drug management system to ensure that stocks are
adequate to permit the demands of hospitals and health centers to be properly
met, but are turned over rapidly enough to minimize storage costs and
deterioration. The small drug storage facility with a well managed drug and
supplies inventory should go a long way towards improving availability of



- 20 -
drugs. Drugs will be provided by GOI through its regular budget. The project
will also provide six man-months of consulting services to review, in about
ten selected districts, ways to simplify the health finance system at the
district level and examine possibilities for additional resource mobilization
through appropriate cost recovery mechanism. This will include a study on
appropriate user fees for district hospitals and ways to retain these funds to
supplement operating costs which will be completed by December 31, 1984
(Section 3.06(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The recording and reporting by
the health centers and sub-centers has continued to be weak and the project
therefore provides for a study of this problem. About six man-months of
consultant services and short-term fellowships will be provided for this
purpose; this study to be completed by April 30, 1985 (Section 3.06(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
49.       Malaria Control.  The project is designed to support the GOI-s
long-term efforts to reduce malaria in the Other Islands to an incidence rate
of about 20/1000 - a level at which it will no longer present a public health
threat. Priority will be given to areas which are foci of resettlement and
where the incidence of malaria is high. The malaria control program (which is
integrated into the health services) consists of the identification of malaria
transmission areas, the surveillance of malaria incidence and patterns, action
needed to reduce the number of infected mosquitoes substantially, and the
treatment of the sick. The project will support an expansion of the program
to cover the entire province of South Sulawesi and transmigration and hyper-
endemic areas in Central and Southeast Sulawesi. Control activities in other
areas of Central and Southeast Sulawesi are presently not feasible because of
poor road access, the rugged terrain, and the widely dispersed pattern of
settlements. Specifically, the project will provide for the deployment of
about 70 full time personnel, adequate additional malaria spraymen (paid on a
piecework basis), and for the purchase of spray equipment, DDT and vehicles.
Epidemiological assessments will be carried out to provide an adequate
information base for the assessment of the program. Consultant services will
be provided for surveillance activity and epidemiological assessment; these
will include an entomologist and two malariologists (a total of 108 man-
months). The full complement of staff and consultants will be appointed by
March 31, 1984 when the malaria program is expected to be in full operation
(Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Management
50.       Central Level.  The Secretary-General of the MOH will be the Project
Director and will be responsible for the execution of the project. He will be
assisted by a Project Coordinator in Jakarta with two full-time and three
part-time staff. This team, which has now been appointed, will assist the
provincial project officers in the preparation of annual work programs and
budgets, the procurement of goods under ICB, the recruitment of consultants
and the processing of reimbursement applications. The team will also
consolidate project progress reports, implement, with the assistance of
consultants, the various studies, and coordinate monitoring activities and
evaluation of project impact.



- 21 -
51.        Provincial Level.  The Provincial Health Officers who will act as
the Subproject Directors will be responsible for the execution of the project
at the provincial level, except those mentioned in para. 50 above. To assist
the Project Officer in implementing the civil works component, the GOI has
agreed to appoint additional full-time technical staff to each province for
the duration of the planning and construction period (Section 3.02(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Each Subproject Director will appoint a Project
Officer who will be provided with support staff for local procurement, the
preparation of annual work programs and budgets, and monitoring and reporting
on the progress of the project. Present practice of GOI in Bank-financed
projects has been that project funds are centrally controlled and managed by
the implementing ministries in Jakarta. This practice has often resulted in
delays in release of funds to the local implementing agencies and consequent
delays in project implementation. To avoid similar problems, this project
will be implemented at the provincial level and consequently the budget will
be allocated along these lines. A separate project budget will be provided
directly to each of the provincial Subdirectors and, for activities to be
implemented in Jakarta, to the Project Director. Another problem common to
projects in Indonesia is delay in land acquisition for project facilities.
Provincial authorities have therefore already identified suitable sites and
land acquisition is beginning. Sites will be acquired according to a time-
table satisfactory to the Bank and evidence on the acquisition satisfactory to
the Bank will be furnished after purchase (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
52.        To assist in project supervision, the project will finance office
equipment, five vehicles, fellowships and incremental operating costs of
project implementation, including consulting services (12 man-months) for
monitoring and evaluation, and the preparation of a second Bank-assisted
health project.
Project Costs and Financing
53.        The total project cost is estimated at $54.4 million, of which
$27.7 million (51%) is the foreign exchange component. Because of the
tax-exempt status of the implementing agency, the project costs do not include
taxes. The project will provide about 228 man-months of consultant services
(about 108 man-months will be provided by foreign consultants and about 120
man-months will be local) to carry out studies and individual project compo-
nents. The average man-month cost of consultant services, including the cost
of travel, subsistence and allowances, is estimated at about $3,000 for a
local consultant and $12,500 for a foreign consultant  These consultant fees
are based on recent contracts in Indonesia.  The costs of training courses are
based on prevailing levels.  The contingency allowance of $10.2 million
includes:  (a) physical contingencies estimated at 10% of the base cost of
civil works; and (b) price contingencies averaging 16% of base cost plus
physical contingencies, assuming the following annual inflation rates: for
local costs, 12% in 1983, and 10% thereafter; for foreign costs, 8% in 1983,
7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985, and 6% thereafter.



- 22 -
54.       The proposed project will be financed by a Bank loan of $27.0 mil-
lion (including $0.4 million for the front-end fee), or about 50% of total
project cost. The loan will cover the total foreign exchange cost except the
foreign exchange costs of the vehicles provided by the GOI. The balance of
$27.8 million equivalent will be financed out of annual GOI budget appropria-
tions. Retroactive financing up to $0.3 million is recommended to help cover
eligible expenditures after May 31, 1982 for start-up activities, particularly
the appointment of architectural consultants to prepare plans and tender
documents (para. 4 of Schedule I of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       All civil works contracts, totalling about $17.0 million, are.
small and widely scattered geographically and over time. The contracts will
range in amount from about $30,000 to $1.5 million, but the majority will be
around $100,000 (only four will reach $1.5 million). Past experience in
Indonesia indicates that international contractors are not interested in
tendering for contracts of this value. Consequently, construction contracts
will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding conducted according
to current GOI procurement procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank.
Civil works contracts of $500,000 equivalent and over will not be awarded
until the Bank has reviewed the GOI evaluations; the other civil works
contracts will be available to the Bank for post-award review. Standard
tender and contract documentation will be agreed with the Bank in advance.
Contracts for the supply of hospital equipment ($3.3 million) and DDT
($5.1 million) will be awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Locally advertised competitive
bidding, following GOI procedures which are acceptable to the Bank, will be
used for furniture and drug supply contracts of less than $75,000 equivalent
subject to a maximum of $1.5 million. Contracts of value less than $32,000
(e.g. for sprayers for malaria control and other small equipment) will be
procured through prudent shopping based on at least three price quotations.
Because GOI does not allow importation of vehicles, contracts for vehicles
will be procured locally following GOI procedures: this is viewed as reserve
procurement and the Bank will not disburse against them. Consultants
($1.8 million) will be employed according to the Bank Group Guidelines for use
of consultants.
56.       The Bank will disburse at the following rates:  for the civil works
contracts for the 10 hospitals and three provincial training centers, 100% of
total expenditures; for hospital equipment and pesticides, 100% of foreign
expenditures, 95% of ex-factory, and 65% of locally procured imported goods;
and for consultants services and fellowships, 100% of total expenditures.
Funds for the remaining project components will be provided by the GOI.
Disbursements will be made against full documentation.



- 23 -
Accounts and Audit
57.       The implementing units will maintain separate accounts for all
project expenditures. During negotiations it was agreed that the MOH will
have the project accounts for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish the Bank with copies of the audited
accounts not later than six months after the end of each GOI fiscal year
(Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Justification and Risks
58.       The project will accelerate the improvement of the health status of
the population in the three provinces by (a) increasing the effectiveness of
the primary health care system, and (b) reducing the incidence of the major
endemic disease, malaria. It is expected that the expansion in the scope
and improvements in the quality of health care provided at the health
centers and district hospitals through upgrading of facilities, staff
training, management and other outreach efforts will lead to an increase in
utilization of health services. In addition, the expected increase in
effectiveness of the health center system is also a precondition for the
further development of the outreach program. While it is difficult to
quantify the impact of the project on health status, both the increased
utilization and improved quality of care are expected to lead to a
substantial reduction in mortality and morbidity.
59.       The project beneficiaries will be mainly mothers and children which
constitute about 80% of those presently seeking primary care in health centers
and as outpatients in district hospitals. The improvements in district
hospitals and health centers will directly benefit the rural poor who cannot
afford to go to private hospitals and doctors, which are, in any case, mostly
located in urban areas.  Assuming that utilization will increase by about 50%
of present level, it is estimated that by 1987 about 3 million mothers and
children will be reached. Since deaths of children below 5 years of age
account for about 40% of all deaths, project impact on infant and child
mortality is expected to be substantial. Such reduction in mortality may also
be expected to increase motivation to accept family planning. In addition,
the project will reduce mortality and morbidity by providing hospital care
for which there is considerable unmet demand. The expected utilization of
the facilities is estimated at about 250,000 out-patient consultations per
year, and about 38,000 in-patient admissions per year (or an increase of
about 144,000 and 10,000, respectively). Additionally, they will greatly
enhance the much-needed credibility of the primary health care network by
providing referral back-up support to about 500 health centers and health
subcenters.
60.       The intensified and expanded spraying operations under the project
will make possible the drastic reduction of malaria incidence from 140/1000 to
about 50/1000 by 1987. In addition, the proper treatment of malaria will
reduce morbidity considerably. By maintaining these efforts over a period of
5 to 7 years, it will be possible to gradually control malaria in the areas
now seriously affected.



- 24 -
61.       The institution-building effect of the project iuill be at least as
important as the direct service benefits. The assignment of responsibility
for planning and implementing the project to the provincial authorities will
support GOI efforts to decentralize health administration. This new approach
will facilitate execution of health programs adopted to local needs. Further-
more, the project will directly strengthen the district health administration
through staff training, provision of transport and office accommodation.
62.       Implementation capacity has been focussed on as a major risk:  A
great deal will depend on the ability of the provincial health services to
execute the project. However, experience under the ongoing hospital
rehabilitation and health center construction programs indicates that the
provinces have already considerably increased their capacity to carry out
development projects. Furthermore, the appointment of additional staff and
architectural consultants to supervise the civil works components will
minimize the risks. Finally, the issue of site acquisition, often a
constraint to implementation in Indonesia is already being addressed by
provincial authorities (para. 51 above).
Environmental Impact
63.       The environmental impact of the malaria program has also been a
concern. The decision to proceed with DDT reflects the fact that its use in
malaria control (where its use is selective and within houses) has a much
smaller environmental impact than its use in agriculture. There are, in any
case, no cost effective alternative-pesticides. The development of alter-
native pesticides and anti-malaria drugs, however, is a priority research area
of the Tropical Disease Research Program jointly sponsored by the WHO, UNDP
and the Bank.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMIENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 25 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
January 12, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                         Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND Sq. KM.)                                                                        - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)'8
TOTAL            1919.3                                              MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRECULTLRAL      316.5                     1960  /b    1970 lb       ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC           ASIA S PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                          80.0        140.0             430.0             261.4                    890.1
ENERGY CONSU.PTION PER CAP:ITA
(KILOGAHIS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)            124.7         121.9            225.4              448.7                   701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)        94680.0    116143.0           146557.0                  .
CRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)        14.6          17.1             20.2               17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                     216.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                       376.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                                 2110
POPULATIDN DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                              49.3         60.5              74.6              158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           355.9        378.8             452.4              355.9                  1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                                40.7         44.0              40.1               36.8                    39.9
15-64 YRS.                                56.2          53.4             56.9               59.7                    56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                          3.1           2.5              3.1                3.5          -          3.3
PoPULATIUN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     2.1           2.0              2.3                2.0                     2.3
URBAN                                     3.7           3.6              4.0                3.3                     3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            46.8          40.7             35.3               29.3                    31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            24.5          17.2              13.3              11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                      2.8          2.7              2.2                2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)               ..        181.1           2216.0
USERS (PERCENT UF MARKED WOMEN)            ..          0.2              27.1               19.3                    36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX of FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                 93.0        102.0             113.0              108.1                   115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                          86.3         93.9             101.71c             97.3                   106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                 38.2         42.4              44.8 c             56.9                    54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE               5.6          6.2               6.6Th             20.0                    13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE             22.9         16.8              11.3              10.9                     6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)           41.2          47.3             53.1               57.8                    59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                 149.9         120.9             92.7               89.1                    63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                       ..          3.0             12.0/d             32.9                    32.0
URBAN                                       ..         10.0             35.0o7             70.7                    51.9
RURAL                                       ..          1.0              6.0o7             22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                       .          12.0             15.0/e             18.1                    37.7
URBAN                                       ,,         50.0             60. 0cT            72.7                    65.7
RURAL                                       ..          4.0              5.0c7              4.7                    24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                46778.7      26498.5           13674.6             3297.8                  8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSINhG PERSON           4517.0        7672.8           8871.6             4929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  1360.3       1644.6            1609.9/d           1100.4                  1047.5
URBAN                                   251.8            ..            699.0Td            301.3                   651.6
RURAL                                       ..           ..           3166.8/d           5815.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                   ..           ..              22.4/e              ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                     4.4           4.8
URBAN                                     4.9           5.3                .
Rl;AL                                     4.3           4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                       ..          1.5
URBAN                                       ..          1.6
RURAL                                       ..          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                      ..            ..
URBAN                                       ..           ..
RURAL                                       ..           ..



ANNEX I
- 27 -                                              Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7RACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                      71.0        78.0             94.0               97.4                   96.2
MALE                      86.0         83.0            100.0             1D1.0                   99.8
FEMALE                    58.0         73.0             89.0              87.8                   92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                       6.0        16.0             22.0               53.0                   37.6
MALE                      10.0         21.0             27.0              63.8                   41.1
FEMALE                     3.0         11.0             18.0              41.3                   34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)        20.4        22.1              19.8               1.7                   20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 38.8        28.9              37.2              37.7                   35.5
SECONDARY                               14.0         13.1             17.0              20.2                   25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)             39.0         56.6             62.0              52.1                   73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               1.1          2.1              3.5/c             1.5                    9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               7.2        22.0              41.9              35.4                  116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               0.1          0.8              8.6               3.2                   37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       11.0           ..             17.7/d            16.4                   53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA        2.8           ..              0.87O             3.6                    2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          34791.4     41069.9          52582.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        27.8        30.9              29.3              29.5                   33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   75.0         66.0             58.0              70.0                   52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                       8.0        10.0              12.0              15.0                   17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     36.7         35.4             35.9              40.0                   38.5
MALE                                      54.2         49.5             51.0              51.8                   50.5
FEMALE                                    20.0         21.6             20.9              23.8                   26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.2          1.3              1.2               1.0                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED bY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..           ..             23.5/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..           ..             49.47.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..           ..              6.6ld
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..           ..             14.47.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URRAN                                     ..           ..            136.0             133.8                  194.7
RURAL                                     ..           ..            112.0             111.5                  155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..           ..            119.0                ..                  178.2
RURAL                                     ..           ..             98.0                ..                  164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                     ..           ..             28.0              43.8                   24.4
RURAL                                     ..           ..             51.0              51.7                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted aritbmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975.
May. 1982



-28 -                                                             ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
AO ST       ASAARAAR'                        6TcIt           0107AS             DR   TS         tsl    AI    Rs   S ,sA5IAdIA  EbARt  is ....  SEAA-A-                           g
-h        IidiR TIAEAAATA                      TSS    SAiA      I-r             ISgASRS             lAS        (RAARI               ( Rt- s
AREA   AT   -- <                                                               Sft5jjAflJt~~~~~~~~~-IA.tAA-s15IA-AAssI       A-A.  SAAtAAAAI-PR(.,TA~~~~~~~,ly  ' I-AA-  ('AAI-AdI.
Ti~~AA~,AA  AA  --A->   ~A5    ,-SAARAAAA1RRAAARASARAAASI .                      SSAt,   A(AAT)(A)AAAARRTSR                  (A         shAd-TRs-- -1SA
I'll-, ly I'm,      IIA- O-IATRA   ARTST 1A IA 7:A8 AAAiTA<  199 ARtS                              IAAA-RAAIO-(sTRi   A  -ASREId bR A,EtSAAAS1  sR
III PI,  ~~~~~~~~~p IAA5R AI                                   T  AASA6AIAIADIRe    --OT  1   SE, SRA    FR7955 i
19SO 1-                                         lh~~~~~~~~sAAREpAS-   RA-RAE  ((TA-s-        I 
PAsT  , A ,i- N  i:<    2D0D   - CI                                          -          8 
I   A  OA   I   160,(97, oR   900WiAIN
-d                                                    d-II~~~~~~~~~ASSR   As  tAAOId (AR   ZE            RA 
ORAAAAA   TAT-AtAA AAA                  *AAREAIAA    (A.A                             AAA-     ARRS-AA. AD-RAR A.RdAtEI,ARfAAR-1A.ARR-
AA - tR    A.d   -                                                   t(  sRIRIS    R  tE1t   AR 
'At- AEAAAAES      At-A ti    A   AA-IS- STAR                  IEO   AS   SAES              RSA                   A    -I    ASA 
,I ,f-i   -,.-x .  ...  -b  g    -J.                          bl  dj-df-   if-d   19t                        fp,i    ~ ~.-LIf 
i-If         Th,   AAAR-A    A-1A,  i-..p. TAAA                                        AR(IRSI  EIdIA iA    A-TA                    -Itptt11  AsIDRSA-AI
20tA-A.0.                      -ISAIAAA((AATAIRSR,tAAIASiR    -TA-A'~-AIR d--.-.   -
AS  ItAAI  SARAAA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-(AtAA-AA,ASAOSA5*AAAARSAtAS.~.            ......   ..    ..p...    .  'yI:""
ALA-                       I kiSlS, --A   OR-E   AAAASAA- A AS-                 SAA)SSASA  ST              ent A  AOf  S  A    AIA   AAAASSAtAAA
,.,.I   1960, :Q7          AAAAA9 ASA                                                     .-TTA  lSOAIA    RD555  AA-RA(-5S-(ARlOSATS   RAtS.  (A)AAAAI,S    526
RAd    A SpA             I. AARIR -REA -AAAE    ASSAAAYSA    ,AASROAI5AA   RAAA ADAADAROA 
-  -At--       StttAySA    A>. TA1A960A   AAAOA   sS  StAAIAA9SA7AIAAA -RAOAAA   T  ITit.S -STdAA-    -09 P dARSA
AAIAAA  RtA    AA    (AATA.SAAStREASSIIAASSAD-ASRA5IAR5AS   IDTs-AISARASS-                                          A- ,  IEA)SRT55
A  SA   A A- SID,     sSA-DA    -S niATA-S  ASOASIS    RA  A   AgA  S --EAd                                   -)j      ..E A-yRA   ARIA diAj& -Asi  A-(-ARA  AAh LAAAiRAAR
AtSRi  IRSO, (ITT  RT  (IT) (ADA-                                            IttAlA,- AAA 651-Al.  (AA IssIR I - As RATR  pA R(OAS5ASAAt SA pSSAAS   StAIISAR
i-i-RAR  ASS :5  -60. AA 960p73  0,   TA-       TR   9l  (AA         RR   A-AI(5                         ASR 1970      IS(aR-AD   (ehL- iS AII             ...-...A.. ORRSI  t
Cs-d0    lAsTI,    ADD,( RAR10-d9(A-SA      -           bAio (,,SPARh-5Ad  TASSEIR ~Ig  -- EASAT A I'dA  ASI  ST-d AAAS
DASSI-   SRS lAT9 6    lIA-O   AA   0-A
IRRI                                           J,,011600 1AT?  1960 ARIA                      NtI -OD(I-i-   b.1ihdl-
ESASS(SAAASASS(DAT    AE5RI(   At RA)(5555   LASOSEAssA   A  IAAy-SS     RAb REAAASA (DR SAS5AAADADA)ISAR                   A)-  (DSSRO DARIASA  OAtSSAt
ERAlERSb        96,190    gR90    RI--lS ASS  5b                                                                           5R)   sls  S   S  AR    0AAPAIA   RA  TA.RI...
ASRAA9SRRRA-ARSIAA AASS-STSSAgSi-     ddsihS--O AIDARSAIAII1SDd ISsAsEIISIY IAASSIA IAAAAs fITIARSTS ISIADASAAIA
(ASRASRAIS)tRARRIA   5RREAIOOAASASATSDS5   ASISA   AgIADSAOTIOA-                    ISSISSIRIISESAADSTRsIESR    TAR    TRASAdASRA1ADA6)ItRE
,,,,P DASlDAIAgAIAA   I   90    90.AA16.                                      SSAASSI   SO I   I dEiASTA ......d,id-
DAITSAIISAADAREStADAARAAIOTRIRRR)    AATAlDIRSSSREADpAl,DD i-ISS    d5AS-AAAAA5RDiAOR(CyRRlAR    ARSRRRST
ASAIAO-RARRIARAANAASDAs(ISS-OAASTSlOAIIA(AATOASA3Is         3ASDI(5ITRDSS6RIAAASRSAS5A;SAARSIt-I                                     i-SS    RISR -AII
PASAlAIAsTA)7~0   (lDSDIASbRARSSAARdRDIARA5IOID` ISDSR SSA                                                                     IIApA ySSS I -S3ARORSt             -ISSIS    ASOD
RRIsA-     RSST   65- 5A5A        a (ISAS6TA7s-IRS.) ....A.   ..  ..S-RESR           --lAlA           C15t5n-5  RIS-1AIRS -IPSt 051,5pl  Y-AIADSARSI   3-dERt-AOSI             -S I-
ARIAS  IA SASS-Ag- IDA-   -                                                                     R-TA- IRD R11 AT-IID gIOSSAI                     --SAIRRSDSA    AsIdA As A   i _.R
-d-   -r 1- I        P'i-""   S--~~ . .....  ........                 7ADIAIR  R.i-RI   RSILOAR'TA)RSIAIA      SIRSII
DSR  AR EtA lAAAl -  AEDAIRATA  ASRASRALAR  Al SA~~RNRASAO  SA -S AS               001970-3 (R0ICA
ARSIRAA 1 ARIRRS  ARRAR-IS  ((IS IRISSSIA   96-69.1).AA  199-Ad                          AA   AARSAS(RRIAs  ...dAAAb., lf                  0 A p--AS 5SSA -. ISAbAS.-
IRS1A9STOR   AtdA  OR.. A SA(t  nRdAAIA I...A.           S .SdADIA                           TAIIA)DAEISTR RI.-AtbIl- (- t   Al  Ages f--  iA   IAR                h- ASIAsE iASS   A-S
(AS   At    9SAIAAtA AHR    ApIERSAR              SRRIR   SApAR-d   IA., 1- lARSA-ASE                                 196, 167  SAd  lIARbASS-,;16,17     d18    .
t  -R--A           M ,l-ISSASTSRRDROSlg,RAlSI -,~--AI              bTAdy R    RIATI-AAbEIAI(DYRAA-TORASASD I-OD.AA..........6-AA
STS( AA ASAlA tA-A ((5555 SAASAA5sIA-~bSAAS-A ASS A-RA( ARISR - 161                        ISRS((SAISI-iOSAOSSI  SlA--,  ASSDASIA  1,- ARAASSIA
ARo-ATAId ASARI   1961-00.  1970 A-A 19)7 RAS-                                                           1963.  1913 SIA 1330 AdSA-
AIA-AsRSTR                 P POAt)A A tRD-SR -AdR20 SAtASAA-I-1AAA                           19h0, 1970A.AT 1980RA-S   Th-SAS   b-dR(IRIITEpA0A    SSI
AE Al IdARAJ STARER  1961-65. 1970SA  1977RR  A-                                                        AROeARS   ASIOSS
SIRiA  OS-  -505 ,S ,Rd pSI-ISIT   -AS  DAT d1y,  1961-65, 1,970 s-d 19 77 T-A                     1609C01 OIO3IBDOIAN
AT SbSAtl; 1960. 19)0  ARd 1980 dASIS.                                                                  Ad ISARId bI IASI-DStId lISth DR-IAI-AAIA-tiA-
A'AT,    RSAI-                     --d)oI  EASRI-RSAR   SISS   ISAIRI   A  SlID                        6111-d1-R    -I-IS FAII   ASSEIS                  t  1   AASA      S          R   AI-1-
EgIAI  ISh-Rt-   IRI  bSTtSs; 1963. 1971 ISA  1960 ARA                                           RIOA.(ASA    -OSI  -IAl                     ItIA ARRS- ISIA I       SARhi   A    ' SA IA
TA TA-R ARASS (ASRAISS AARAAIAS5RAT --AIRi, ASIA  -Ad  -RESIl--SAd- PSISSAO)RISSR                                   I.,SIAA   IA ttAA--RAA-        OASIIASSSA
IASIENRSA   ORAL(ARAS- ARIS I,I                 bIg . RA   -I.1AI ,      SlI   AlbRDS)SIOhIRII tAIO                          SRI    IrDIl ON     - AADIDA  RIt fRI oAg  DIR RA-I
DIDAAAOIA   151   SsPRA,R   DDRASAR  -(AAAASASAlISpEil                                         PRSdA iARA1   AhteRAA -  LAS A.                      A I  ASSd         ISh.IA
-elA '- t-RR-bDRSSSrRt-
A SS PlSSSOADA    (-bA-R -O  -RDE)15-R5  -            -R -t RAR  SARSA
SIAS      b-TAt  TA  ASS  AARRER)-IAR   oARRA   RIRIIS
(S   SS-AA    SARRSAhSSSA   ASAA- SSSS   A5Spri,i-SIAA"TEIj
ISA AR- IRSIA   AA A  A5(RP-,  Ss- Adldd byIIA    -ISAI-S  Al St,i-,h,lSE-1-d5-011-Dii6,
"P""" R-AR5)IS ,Ai OIS AS  AT -1- RA A            LAdsot
ARDIR AR  AR(AIT)A   S5AIRTA  ASAAA  67RAlS   RDSISIASSDSAI                                                                  EDRAE-SR   6) A)015 DA5IR



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
Population      :  147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$520 (1981 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual growth rate (%)
Amount                                  (at constant 1973 prices)
(million US$ at
current prices)                        Actual                         Estimate           Projected
Indicator                             1980           1975   1976   1977   1978  1979        1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         70,024            5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7         7.5    2.1    4.8    5.0    5.0
Agriculture                     18,003            0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.1    1.7    1.6    2.2
Industry                        29,227            5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    8.7   -5.5    7.0   10.0    6.0
Services                        22,794           10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    9.0    7.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Consumption                       48,976            6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    6.6   10.3    2.3    2.4    3.6
Gross investment                  15,176           14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   23.0    6.3    1.0   -1.0    4.3
Exports of GNFS                   21,365           -9.7   12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2  -10.5  -11.5    1.9   15.0    6.7
Imports of GNFS                   15,494            7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6    6.0    8.0   -2.0    2.0    2.0
Gross national savings            17,576          -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1    8.0    3.0    2.0    4.0    5.0
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                           166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                       415    415    415    442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                           Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100             3.9          8.4          7.5         5.0         5.0
Agriculture                  54      47     32      26      22      17         2.7          4.1          4.1         2.5         3.5
Industry                     14     18      34      42      44      46         5.2         12.0         9.7          5.5         6.5
Services                     32     35      35      33      36      36         4.8          9.7         9.0          6.5         5.0
Consumption                  91     89      79      70      74      74         4.1          8.4         8.9          5.0         5.0
Gross investment              8     14      20      22      26      27         4.8         18.3         11.7         6.0         4.5
Exports of GNFS              13     13      23      31      23      18         3.6          9.2         8.7         -2.4         1.8
Imports of GNFS            -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19              3.2         22.1        14.0          2.5         3.5
Gross national savings        8      9      17      25      25      22         6.1         23.1         14.4         4.8         5.3
As % of GDP
1960           1970            1975.          1980
PUBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                            11.7           10.1            10.5            23.4
Current expenditures                                                        14.0            8.4             9.3           '13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                 -2.3            +1.6            +7.1          +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                          n.a.           5.0            10.7            13.5
Foreign financing                                                            0.2            3.5             3.7             3.4
1960-70         1970-75             1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                4.5              7.6                 6.9              4.9             4.8
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                     2.4              5.1                 4.5              2.5             2.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                 2.9            16.0                 15.0             7.0              6.0
ICOR                                                      2.2             2.2                  3.1             4.5              4.3
Marginal savings rate                                     0.30             0.48                0.30             0.2             0.3
Import elasticity                                         1.2             2.8                  1.9              1.2             0.7
/a At market prices.
/b Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
January 3, 1983



Population      :  147.4 million (mid-1980)                              - 30 -                                             ANNEX I
GNP per Capita:  US$520 (1981 estimate)                                                                                     Page 5 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions USS at current prices)
Actual                       Estimate                   Projected
Indicator                    1977       1978      1979      1980       1981      1982       1983       1984      1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                               10,861    11,353    17,494   22,245   20,295         20, 698   24, 125   27,829    42,761    50, 179
(a)  Oil & LNC (gross)                 7,354    7,374    11,323    16,661    16,541       16, 550   19 ,033   21,772    32,824    38,308
(b)  Nonoil                            3,507     3,979     6,171      5,584     3,754      4,148      5,092     6,057    9,937    11,871
2.  Imports (including net NFS)          -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -23,541   -22,683  -23,507  -25,358  -34,514  -41,856
(a)  Oil sector                      -2,909   -3,364   -4,348    -5,884   -5,572          -5,053   -4,682   -4,706   -6,591   -7,164
(b)  Nonoil imports                  -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,790  -15,340   -15,340  -16,466  -18,561  -25,521  -32,022
(c)  NFS (net)                         -536       -586      -659      -975   -2,629       -2, 290   -2 ,359   -2,091   -2,402   -2, 670
3.  Resource balance                         175      -140      3,459     3,596   -3,246      -1,985        618     2,470    8,248       7 816
4.  Factor services                         -865   -1,015   -1,261    -1,205   -3,8 52    -4,482   - 5,210   -6,267   -9,141  -10,719
(a)  Interest public debt              -441       -514      -772      -819   -1,118       -1,319   -1,617   -1,953   -2, 605   -2,836
(b)  Other (net)                       -424       -501      -489      -386   -2,734    -3,163   -3,593   -4,314   -6,536   -7,883
5.  Capital grants                            66         46        52        76   -7,099      -6,467    -4,591    -3,798       -894.7 -2,904
6.  Balance on current account              -624   -1,109       2,198     2,467        100        100       100        100       100       100
7.  Direct foreign investment                285        271       217       140        276        350       450        600       800    1,000
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                      1,956     2,205     1,865     2,536      5,180      5,922     6,384      6,473     6,234    7,091
(b)  Amortization                      -825   -1,548   -I,329         -953   -1,376    -1,720   -2,042   -2,440   -4,052   -5,120
(c)  Net disbursements                 1,131       657        536     1,583     3,803      4,202     4,342      4,033     2,182     1,971
9.  Other capital (net)                     -140        891   -1,261   -1,454    1,274          1,897        456     -202       -210       -22
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651           -708   -1,690   -2,736        1,645         -82      -757      -733      1,977       -45
11.  Net official reserves                  2,208     2,916      4,606     7,342     4,709       4,791     5,548     6,282    11,180   12,148
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                          3.4       4.3       5.6       6.9        3.7        3.8        4.0       4.1       5.3       4.6
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system /d                                   -         -     6,906    10,787      8,509      7,091      7,348     8,082    12,980   13,948
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                             3.4       4.3       8.6       10.1       6.7         5.6       5.3       5.3        6.2       5.3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /b
Cross Disbursements                       1,956    2,205       1,865     2,536     2,356
Concessional Loans                          442        484       433       679       802
Bilateral                                 381        448       399       631       729
IDA                                        49        29         30        42        68
Other                                      12          6         5         6          5
Nonconcessional Loans                     1,514     1,721      1,432     1,858     1,552
Official export credits                   218       271         61        25       154
IBRD                                      191       168        199       331       106
Other multilateral                         16         12        46        52        86
Private - source                        1,089     1,270    1,126       1,450     1,206
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658    13,107    13,233    14,882    15,529
Official - source                     7,077     8,390    8,434    9,400    9,746
Private  - source                     4,583     4,717     4,799      5,482     5,783
lUndishursed debt                       4,475     5,839     7,932    9,454    11,288
Debt Service
Total service payments                  1,262     2,062     2,101      1,772     1,974
Interest                                441       514       771        819       973
Payments as x exports /e                 11.6      18.2       12.0       8.0       9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(%)                                       6.3       7.6        6.6       8.4       9.1
Official - source                         5.4       4.6        5.0       5.0       7.8
Private  - source                         8.6      10.2        8.6      12.8      10.4
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                  20.5      18.7      19.1       19.0      15.6
Official - source                        23.9      30.1       25.8      24.8      20.8
Private  - source                        10.4       8.6       11.1      10.0      10.7
As 1 of debt outstanding at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                     30.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                                    60.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                      4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
lb  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
Ic  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reseryes.
7i   At end of period.                                                                                        East Asia and Pacific Programs
7e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                               January 3, 1983



ANNEX II
- 31 -                Page 1 of 29 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve Loans and thirty-four Credits fully disbursed  559.3   491.5             -
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea          -       7.8         1.4
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate               -      16.5         7.5
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                -      16.0         1.9
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension              -      30.0         1.6
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.0     -           7.6
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.5     -           1.3
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.0     -           4.0
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.0     -          19.8
1237     1976   Fourth Education                           37.0     -           6.2
1250     1976   Second Shipping                            54.0     -           4.7
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.0     -           2.2
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.0     -           8.0
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.0         -           3.5
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                   52.5     -           7.0
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.0     -           9.3
1365     1977   Sixth Power                               116.0     -          31.5
1373     1977   Nutrition Development                      13.0     -           4.5
1433     1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.0     -           7.7
1434     1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.0     -          36.3
1435     1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.0     -           6.7
1472     1977   Second Population                          24.5     -          12.8
1486     1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.0     -           4.9
1499     1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.0     -          25.4
1513     1978   Seventh Power                              94.0     -          33.9
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development                -      40.0         9.2
1578     1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.0     -         115.2
1579     1978   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.0     -          17.5
827     1978   Rural Credit                                -      30.0         3.7
1604     1978   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders II          65.0     -          51.8
869     1979   Polytechnic                                 -       49.0       36.9



ANNEX II
-32 -                        Page 2 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.0     -          52.0
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.0     -          28.5
898    1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                  -      10.0         9.2
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.0     -          35.8
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.0     -          22.7
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             123.2     -          83.5
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.0     -          10.9
919    1979   Transmigration II                           -      67.0        30.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.0     -          89.5
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.0     -         104.1
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.0     -          28.9
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                -      12.0        10.3
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders III         99.0     -          69.9
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development              -      45.0        36.3
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                        -      45.0        33.2
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II           -      42.0        40.9
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                     116.0     -          95.0
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders IV          42.0     -          35.8
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research             35.0     -          35.0
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research              -      30.0        28.1
1869    1980   Third Population                           35.0     -          34.5
1872    1980   Ninth Power                               253.0     -         224.9
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development            46.0     -          43.9
1904    1981   University Development                     45.0     -          44.1
1950    1981   Tenth Power                               250.0     -         205.5
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                          22.0     -          19.6
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                   43.0     -          41.3
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V          161.0     -         155.7
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.0         -          53.3
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                   85.0     -          85.0
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                            170.0     -         170.0
2066    1982   Second Seeds                               15.0     -          15.0
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                185.0     -         167.7
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                   100.0     -         100.0
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                    80.0     -          80.0
2102    1982   Second Textbook                            25.0     -          25.0
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                       37.0      -         37.0
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                     70.0     -          70.0
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution /1    66.0         -          66.0
2126    1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI             68.1     -          67.1
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering /1            25.0     -          25.0
2199    1982   Central Java Paper and Pul. /1              5.5     -           5.5
/1  Not yet effective.



-33 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits             4,611.60  931.80
Of which has been repaid                    -162.60   -5.93
Total now outstanding                         4,449.00  925.87
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a            4,447.97  925.87
Total undisbursed                            2,813.9   250.20   3,064.10
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



34                          ANNEX II
Page 4 of 29 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market       4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia             Construction
Material            48.0       5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market          4.0       0.3        4.3
Total gross commitments                             118.8     18.0      136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                  78.6       5.7      84.3
Total held by IFC                                    40.2      12.3       52.5
Undisbursed (including participant-s portion)   30.82           0.3       31.12



-35 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5 of 29 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1982
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                             6-10
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995, 1958, 2118 and 2119)
Other Agricultural Projects   (400, 1318, 1707/919, 1499,                 10-14
1604, 1751, 1835, 984, 1898 and
2007, 2126)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996, 1840/1014 and 2066)   14-16
Rural Development (946)                                                      16
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and.2011)                                16-17
Education (869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692, 1904, 2101 and 2102)                17-20
Energy (1365, 1513, 1708, 1872, 1950, 2056, 2079 and 2153)                  20-22
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                     22
Development Finance Companies (1703)                                      22-23
Population and Nutrition
Population (1472 and 1869)                                                23-24
Nutrition (1373)                                                             24
Technical Assistance (898 and 1197)                                         24-25
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (2120)                                               25
Highways (1236, 1696, 2049 and 2083)                                      25-26
Marine Transport (1250)                                                   26-27
Ports (1337)                                                                 27
Tourism (479)                                                                  27
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                     28-29
Water Supply (1709)                                                             29
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



36 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 29 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate, mostly because of delays. Dis-
bursements at the end of June 1982 were about 94% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the postponement of drainage
works in both Rentang and Cirebon subprojects due to budget constraints.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 88% of the appraisal
estimate. Because of the continuing delays the Closing Date has been
postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
projects and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 111,000 ha have been completed and the balance was
expected to be completed by March 1982. The construction of North Sadang
has suffered a delay of about four years due to design revisions and late
award of contracts. Completion of the project is expected by March 1984.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 75% of appraisal estimate.



37 -                   ANNEX II
Page 7 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage I) serving an area of about 75,000 ha, including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, a pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in Ciujung. Only the drainage works and
road improvement in both the Ciujung and Madiun subprojects are expected to be
delayed due to budget constraints and lack of experienced staffing. GOI has
mobilized additional engineers and foreign consultants for construction
supervision at Ciujung and has tapped additional sources of funds to keep the
Madiun works on schedule. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were 40% of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project includes (a) rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of irrigation
system, drainage rehabilitation on 19,000 ha of the Sedeku area in Central
Java; (b) new irrigation pumping system on 3,280 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage I) in West Sumatra for transmigrants; and (c) feasibility studies of
ten small to medium irrigation projects and of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage II), with detailed designs. Delay in completion of the Sedeku
irrigation drainage rehabilitation by about three years continues, compared
to appraisal estimate. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage I) construction has
progressed well, with pumps commissioned and trial runs made. The main and
secondary canals are completed, the tertiary network is 80% completed, but
land development is lagging. Feasibility studies of the ten small to medium
irrigation systems have been completed. The Situing Stage II system studies
and designs are completed, and construction was financed under Ln. 2118-IND
(Irrigation XVI). Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 78% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date:  August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area and extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. Due to initial
delays in survey and mapping of the irrigation service areas, delay in decid-
ing canal capacities till completion of the dam studies and staff shortage
during the years 1979 and 1980, the implementation of Way Seputih and Way
Sekampung components are behind schedule by about two years. However, the
field surveys and the dam studies have now been completed and the staffing
situation has improved. The construction tempo and standard of construction
in the Kali Progo area has also improved. The GOI has decided to delay



- 38 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8 of 29 pages
construction of the Batutegi Dam to serve the Way Sekamping system since other
dams on Java appear of higher priority. Downstream works will therefore be
restricted until dam construction starts to ensure an adequate rate of return.
The Dumoga irrigation project studies were completed and construction
financed in Irrigation XV (Credit 995-IND). Disbursements at the end of June
1982 were 35% appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The Cipamingkis irrigation subproject, to serve an area of about
7,600 ha is progressing well, the headworks with intake structure were com-
pleted by end 1981. The main and secondary canals to serve 3,820 ha are pro-
gressing on schedule, but there is a setback of nine months in the rest.
A delay of 9-12 months is expected in assigning consultants for tertiary
design, with a consequent delay in tertiary construction. The project is
currently estimated to be completed by mid 1984, a delay of 18 months compared
to appraisal estimate. The hydrological measurement program is expected to be
completed by March 1984, with a delay of about 2 1/2 years. It is expected
that there will be $4 million savings which will be used to finance the
tertiaries for the Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension Project (Credit 514-IND)
which did not cater for the higher intensity of canals now adopted in all
systems. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 53% of appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The project includes: tertiary development on about 186,000 ha of
the Jatiluhur Irrigation System, W. Java; drainage improvement in the Cisedane
irrigation area including upgrading of roads in W. Java; and studies of
drainage and flood control in Pemali-Comal and Sadang irrigation areas; tidal
and swamp lands development for about 350,000 ha in the Lalang and Mesuji
areas of S. Sumatra, and the Sebangau area in Kalimantan; and detailed
designs for reclamation of about 110,000 ha of swamp land in Karang Agung of
S. Sumatra. The area of tertiary development has been increased to 205,800
ha. All the civil works contracts of Cisedane drainage and roads improvement
are awarded, currently estimated to be completed by March 1985; a delay of
over two years over appraisal estimate. Studies are mostly completed; the
remaining are expected to be finalized by 1982. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 40% of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $50 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the project are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control



- 39 -                     ANNEX II
Page 9 of 29 pages
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good progress has been made on the
civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected to be completed
by mid-1984. The latest supervision mission recommended that the
implementing agency should consider using the savings for procurement of
additional operation and maintenance equipment such as dredgers, dozers,
draglines, dump trucks and loaders. The equipment will be useful for
emergency repairs of other rivers such as Cisanggarung which causes damage
during the wet season. The latest project cost estimates indicate that $6-8
million loan funds will remain unused by the completion of the project. The
list of equipment to be procured using the savings under the Loan is being
reviewed. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 59% of appraisal
estimate.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation: $116 Million Loan of April 3, 1980;
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage II) serving about a 65,000 ha area and tertiary
development serving a 120,000 ha area in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalen Sampean
subprojects. The project contracts for flood mitigation works for the Serang
River have been awarded after one year's delay. Works in the Madiun area
and the tertiary development are progressing well ahead of schedule. Dis-
bursements at the end of June 1982 were about 72% of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation: $45 Million Credit of April 3, 1980
Effective Date:  July 3, 1980; Closing Date:  January 31, 1985
The project includes (a) completion of Kosinggolan Irrigation
System on about 5,000 ha and construction of the new Toraut Irrigation system
for 6,600 ha; catchment protection and nature reserve on an area of about
100,000 ha; institutional support through consultancy services and training;
and studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. Construction of
the Toraut headworks and the first 2 Km of the main canal which commenced in
January 1981 were greatly delayed but the contractor has now agreed to work
to a revised program to be completed by May/June 1983. Award of two ICB
contracts is behind appraisal schedule by 15-18 months. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by June 1985 compared to March 1984 in
the appraisal estimate. GOI has commenced implementing the "Dumoga-Bone
National Park" master plan covering an area of about 270,000 ha. The Bank
will review progress in late 1982 before finally agreeing with the GOI
proposal to finance US$1.1 million from the credit for the expanded National
Park as against US$0.7 million provided for the Nature Reserve. Four
studies included in the project should be completed by early 1983, present
progress is about 50%. Institutional support program will continue up to
June 1984. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 60% of
appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
- 40 -                     Page 10 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation: $22 Million Loan of Marchn 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by
implementing a 9,000 ha swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang
Agung, South Sumatra. In addition to physical works, the project comprises
the preparation of future swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an
investigation of groundwater for drinking, and project monitoring. The major
works contract for construction of canals was awarded end-1981 and consultants
for construction supervision were assigned in March 1982. Consultants for
studies are being recruited. The project completion is likely to be delayed
due to the eight months' delay in the start of construction. Disbursements
at the end of June 1982 were about 75% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2118 Sixteenth Irrigation: $37 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will complete construction of the Sitiung Irrigation
System (Stage II) in Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and
local farmer lands; improvement of management systems of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD); training and support for
water users and their associations; expansion of DGWRD's basic hydrological
data network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung River Basin
and detailed design of the Jatigede Dam.
Loan No. 2119 Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province): $70 Million Loan
of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This is the first irrigation project to be concentrated in a
single province and implemented through a provincial irrigation service. It
will rehabilitate existing surface irrigation systems serving about 50,000
ha; develop groundwater irrigation systems to serve about 13,000 ha; upgrade
operation and maintenance for about 140,000 ha of irrigation systems already
rehabilitated; and strengthen the East Java Provincial Irrigation Service.
Other Agricultural Projects
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides for credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
to improve productivity on 10,000 ha smallholder tea and 3,200 ha private
estates (PTPs) tea, rehabilitation of five private estate tea factories,
construction of two new factories for smallholdier leaf; training of extension
staff and tea growers, studies for marketing, diversification and BRI



- 41 -                       ANNEX II
Page 11 of 29 pages
management. The project is making a substantial contribution to smallholder
tea industry with 8,500 participants against the appraisal estimate of
7,000. Of the five private tea estates participating, two are excellent,
two are fair and one is poor. Progress on construction of the PTP XII
factory, to process smallholder and estate tea, is satisfactory. Extension
and training has helped about 16,000 smallholders. The project still
suffers from weak management, loan collection is deteriorating and many
scattered borrowers make loan servicing difficult. Disbursement at the end
of June 1982 were about 70% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After a slow start which resulted in extension of the Closing Date
to December 31, 1982, the project has shown continuous progress since
mid-1980 and is expected to be completely disbursed by end-1982. In
Baturaja, 4,400 families (98% of target) have been settled and 1,300 shallow
wells (91% of revised target) have been established. The pasture develop-
ment program is well established in Baturaja and Way Abung and 8,800 cattle
(93% of target) have been distributed in both sites. Rubber development is
almost completed with only 400 ha (6% of target) to be planted in 1982.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 88% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
About 800 families have been settled to date and an estimted 3,000
of the proposed 30,000 families will be settled by the end of the next fiscal
year. Sufficient land has been mapped in Jambi province for 20,000 families
but half of these sites have been excluded from the project because they lie
in production forests.   No other areas in Jambi province are likely to be
suitable for large scale settlement and land has been identified in South
Sumatra for 10,000 families. Because of the importance of land identifica-
tion, about $50 million has been allocated from the Transmigration II
project for site selection and evaluation for the GOI program. Delays in
settlement and rehabilitation components have led to slow disbursement and
cost overruns and much remains to be done to ensure sustainable food crop
production. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 1.7% of
appraisal estimate. Agencies are better informed about the project than
they were previously and are working conscientiously. To circumvent
problems of land shortage and increasing implementation delays: (a)
settlement targets should be reduced to 20,000 families, (b) about
one-fourth of project funds should be allocated to mapping and consultancy
services; and (c) current disbursement rates should be maintained. To speed
implementation, the size of land clearing contracts should be reduced and
contracts should be tendered for each site as it is prepared.
Recommendations have also been made which



- 42 -                          ANNEX II
Page 12 of 29 pages
would permit action on Singkut rehabilitation and simplify procurement. To
improve incomes, actions should be taken to reinforce agricultural services
and introduce tree crops into existing and new communities. To accomplish
these objectives changes in the loan documents would be necessary.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The nucleus estates have planted about 60% of the 11,500 ha of
rubber to be established for smallholders and will complete about 72% by the
end of the current planting season; have constructed about 3,400 settler
houses and settled about 1,035 families. In their own estates, the nucleus
estates have rehabilitated 18,400 ha of rubber, planted 7,200 ha of rubber,
3,700 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha of oil palm, exceeding project targets
for rubber planting and rehabilitation. Three rubber factories and one palm
oil mill have been constructed. However, as there were start-up delays in
some smallholder planting, and some civil works construction will not be
completed on schedule, the Closing Date has been extended to June 30, 1984.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 58% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress with rubber and infrastructure development has slowed
but construction of settler houses, preparation of food crop areas and the
enrollment of settlers are on target. Action has been taken to speed up the
lagging operations and the project is expected to be mostly completed by
June 1985, except for the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province
where farmer response has been poor. Particular efforts are being made to
encourage farmer participation but the 4,500 ha replanting target is
unlikely to be achieved by that date. The project Closing Date will
probably have to be extended to June 30, 1985. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 30% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III:  $99 Million Loan of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 settler houses are occupied and garden lots
established. In 1982, one of the estates, PTP I, was upgraded to take over
responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component under
NES I (1499-IND). Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 55% of
appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
- 43 -                       Page 13 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Smallholder oil palm planting is on schedule and of excellent
quality. Village layout, settler house construction, and road development
are a little behind schedule due to problems of land availability. However,
these problems are being actively addressed by the implementing estate
(PTP X) and the Project Coordinating Committee, and project completion is
likely by target date. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 66%
of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to progress satisfactorily, by early 1982 over
9,700 ha rubber or 85% of plan was planted. Delays in road construction are
affecting project implementation and supervision, and measures to speed up
progress are under review. Training of field staff and smallholders will be
kept strictly practical; visual aids are being prepared. Creation of a
trainer/coordinator position at provincial level but working at the Project
Management Unit level is being considered. The creation of an internal audit
unit and timely recruitment of staff to deal with financial matters is
urgently required. Four studies, including a feasibility study, for an
eventual second project are nearing completion and after review by GOI will
be submitted to the Bank for review and comment. There are no major problems
with this project, apart from the requirement to strengthen management and
the seriously delayed procurement of vehicles. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 101% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development:  $46 Million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Although the planting programs of tall and hybrid coconuts under
the project seem reasonably on target, the results being achieved are gener-
ally not satisfactory. Problems relate to lack of control of project manage-
ment in Head Office, Provincial Offices (PO) and Coconut Working Centers
(CWC) regarding the selection of suitable planting areas and participating
smallholders, technical control and supervision of planting and maintenance
standards, timely supply of seednuts and of essential inputs, and slow
release of project funds, and thus a slow rate of withdrawal application
and disbursements. To improve control of field operations some restructur-
ing of the project in its scope and management structure is needed, by
reducing the project area and reorganizing the PO/CWC management system.
GOI agrees in principle with this recommendation and proposes to take
necessary action. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 19% of
appraisal estimate.



- 44 -                     ANNEX II
Page 14 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
The project would develop about 53,000 ha of tree crops (rubber, oil
palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, West Kalimantan
and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as implementing agents. The
project has made a good start including the nurseries establishment, initial
planting for the smallholders in West Java, construction of some roads,
estates offices and smallholders' houses. Disbursements at the end of June
1982 were about 115% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2126   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder VI:  $68.1 Million Loan of
April 23, 1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This loan was declared effective on July 23, 1982. The project
will assist the GOI's nucleus estates and smallholders development program
by establishing 28,200 ha of tree crops (rubber and coconuts), food crops and
house gardens in West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku provinces with public sector
estates as implementing agents.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will close on December 31, 1982. Civil works in Sungai
Putih and Sembawa (rubber) and Sukamandi (rice and palawija) were behind
schedule and are now almost complete. Most of of the field and workshop
equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and contracts for
laboratory equipment and chemicals for Margahayu (highland vegetables) and for
Sungai Putih and Sembawa have been awarded. Ten agricultural information
centers (AICs) under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension have been constructed, furnished and equipped. Two additional
centers at Aceh and Ambon are under construction and will have to be financed
from another project after closing of this project. Extension materials are
being produced and distributed from the completed AICs. Loan proceeds are
expected to be almost fully disbursed at the closing of the project.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The targetted programs for construction, equipment procurement and
training have been achieved. Some additional activities in these fields
which are included in the follow-up project, the Second National Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr. 996-IND) are currently being undertaken. These are
expected to be completed within the revised closing date for the Loan of
December 31, 1982. Overall the project continues to make satisfactory
progress.



- 45                       ANNEX II
Page 15 of 29 pages
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Substantial progess has been made with the construction and reha-
bilitation program for the Rural Extension Centers and the Training and
Visits System is progressively gaining more strength.  Contact farmers and
their associated farmers groups are responding to the two-weekly meetings
with the field extension workers. Staff shortages in the field extension
workers and extension subject matter specialists cadres and shortages of
motor cycles for field staff are continuing problems; also, the strengthen-
ing of training in extension packages in nonrice crops needs early actions.
The project unit is aware of these deficiencies and steps are expected to be
taken to address the problems; although the staff shortfall may continue
into the next fiscal year. A unified extension system embracing other
subsectors has not yet begun to function although keen interest in this
approach is evident in some Provinces and could form the basis for
developing a workable system. Overall, the project is making satisfactory
progress.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1014)  Million Credit of May 16, 1980;  Effective Date:  July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment (AARD)
for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry and estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
Directors for the Central Research Institutes and for Research Institutes
and Centers already approved by the Minister of Agriculture have been
appointed. Civil works for the six locations planned for 1980/81 are going
ahead and contracts for most of the civil works planned for 1981/82 have been
awarded. More than fifty candidates for long-term local fellowships have been
selected. A contract for consultancy services has been executed between AARD
and the International Agricultural Development service.
Loan No. 2066   Second Seeds :  $15 Million Loan of January 15, 1982;
Effective Date: March 11, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1989
This project provides for: establishment of 18 medium Seed
Processing Centers (SPCs) for the National Seed Corporation, P. T. Pertani
and Cooperatives; six small SPCs for Cooperatives; additional equipment and
facilities for five Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs), Provincial Seed
Farms and Seed Control and Certification Services; establishment of a
diploma course on seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute; and
in-service training, technical assistance and studies for strengthening the
institutions operating in the seed subsector. Locations for the five medium
SPCs to be constructed in the first year have been decided on and land



ANNEX II
- 46 -                      Page 16 of 29 pages
acquisition is in progress. Tender documents for the SPCs are being
finalized for issue of tender shortly. Long-term consultants are also
expected to be appointed shortly. The first supervision mission has been
recently fielded.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The improving trend in overall project performance discerned
during the October 1981 supervision has continued. Activity targets are now
being substantially met with the exception of the Small Scale Industries (SSI)
and Village Health Components. Firm recommendations have been given to
improve performance of these two components which should yield early,
positive results. If, however, results are not forthcoming, firm steps should
be taken either to terminate them or simplify their objectives and scope.
Project performance rating has been upgraded to 2.2.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project provides technical assistance to strengthen GOI's small
credit programs, KIK/KMKP, and credit assistance to small-scale enterprises
(SSEs) in West Sumatra and East and Central Java which account for about a
third of countrywide KIK/KMKP loan approvals. Satisfactory experience with
this first Bank-assisted pilot project has led to a nationwide SSE develop-
ment project which is supported by the Second Small Enterprise Development
Project (Loan 2011-IND). The credit component is fully disbursed.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia for program development, training in term
lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services, the
project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension of the
project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is rapidly
catching up.



- 47 -                  ANNEX II
Page 17 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I the project has expanded
to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small Investment (KIK)/Small
Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) program is being implemented. Small
credit lending financed under the project continues to expand rapidly. Annual
loan approvals of over $1 billion in 1981 reached about 12-14% of known
small-scale enterprises throughout the country. In addition to technical
assistance designed to strengthen banks' small credit operations, the project
also provides for industrial extension services under the Directorate General
of Small-Scale Industries (Ministry of Industry). The loan became effective
on October 16, 1981 and disbursements are on schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 869  Polytechnic:  $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices, and assist in strengthening education planning and management. The
project would establish a Technician Education Development Center (TEDC), six
polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and include technical
assistance and associated studies. The project is making good progress and
implementation is on schedule without a cost overrun. The TEDC building has
been completed and construction of the six polytechnics is near completion.
Equipment contracts for the TEDC and the six polytechnics have been awarded.
The first batch of students was enrolled in the six polytechnics in 1982.
The expert services and fellowship program are progressing satisfactorily.
The accountancy component after initial delays, is now making good progress.
Three study contracts have been awarded and two are being awarded.
Disbursements are on schedule.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing
teacher training colleges and four new centralized workshops for technical
training for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers, an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution. The completed MEC subproject
is problem-free and facilities are operating satisfactorily. The MOM
subproject has made some progress but is about two and a half years behind



ANNEX II
- 48 -                  Page 18 of 29 pages
schedule with a 16% cost overrun. Problems faced include poor equipment
procurement management, shortage of funds, low utilization of completed
facilities, poor quality of training (less than 50% of trainees placed in
employment), and partial compliance on covenants. The LAN component has
made no progress for three years and is now about three and a half years
behind schedule, mainly due to the default of the civil works contractor for
price escalation disputes with GOI. After retendering, a new contract has
been approved recently and construction of the remaining unfinished portion
of the building is expected to be completed in late 1983. Furniture and
equipment procurement has not commenced. It is unlikely that this component
will be completed by the present Closing Date. The GOI has been informed of
the overall status and urged to take remedial actions. A second extension
of the Closing Date to December 31, 1983, has been approved. Disbursements
at the end of June 1982 were about 81% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. Approximately 88%
of the civil works program has been completed. Phase I is complete and 90%
of the construction in Phase II is finished. Overall, 50% of furniture and
equipment has been procured and delivered. The first cycle of teacher
training has been completed and the second cycle is in process with all
training expected to be concluded by October 1982. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 52% of appraisal estimate due principally to lags
in disbursement for civil works and delays in procurement of books,
equipment, and furniture. It is expected that disbursements will accelerate
during the coming months. Despite delays and the current low disbursement
level, it is expected that the project will be completed on time.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover:
civil works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial
centers, instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance.
Construction of the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school
education) centers, has been completed. All furniture and equipment are
already on site. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting
appraisal targets and production and distribution of pretested learning
materials is accelerating. The technical assistance program is on schedule;
local staff have replaced foreign consultants. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 57% of appraisal estimate and are expected to continue
to accelerate in the next few months.



49                       ANNEX II
Page 19 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were
540% of the appraisal estimate. The FAO technical assistance team is now
in place and fellowship utilization remains up to schedule. Implementation
of a tracer study of agricultural secondary school graduates was planned to
begin in June/July 1982.
Loan No. 1904   University Development:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term university development
program. Its main objectives are to increase the output of high level man-
power and improve the quality of university education in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business admin-
istration and accountancy), as well as strengthen the management of the
overall university system. The additional land required for the University
of Gadjah Mada and the new site for the University of Andalas have been
acquired. The campus master plan for the University of Indonesia has been
completed, and the Universities of Gadjah Mada and Andalas are expected to
be completed by early 1983. The initiation of technical assistance
provisions are about eighteen months behind schedule. A contract is being
negotiated with an external agency to administer the program of fellowships
and visiting professors. Two contracts were signed with the British Council
for the training of university administrators and textbook editors. Work is
in progress to establish a Management Information System and a Monitoring
Evaluation System in the Directorate General of Higher Education and in each
project university. There have been no indications to suggest that project
costs will be other than estimated at appraisal. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 27% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2101   Second Teacher Training:  $80 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: May 24, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project seeks to improve the skills, competence and
effectiveness of the education staff involved in primary and secondary
education and educational administration.
Loan No. 2102   Second Textbook:  $25 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will support the establishment of the Integrated Text-
book Project, a permanent organization to plan and manage textbook development



- 50 -                      ANNEX II
Page 20 of 29 pages
activities; a Center for Curriculum Development, which would develop improved
curricula for primary and secondary schools, and an improved national
distribution system for all textbooks for primary and secondary schools.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Construction work on the project has reached its final stage. The
200 MW Unit No. 4 was synchronized on November 26, 1981 and has been in com-
mercial operation since March 1982. Unit No. 5 went into commercial operation
in August 1982. The associated studies have been completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978
($15 million cancelled November 30, 1980); Effective Date:
June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts were awarded at highly competitive costs with a sub-
stantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the origi-
nal loan of $109 million has been cancelled. The Bank also agreed to the
inclusion of the following additional studies in the scope of the project:
(a) Sunda Strait submarine cable feasibility; (b) optimization of location of
future thermal plants: (c) power sector management information system design.
Construction work at the site has been delayed by about 21 months. Commercial
operation of the 200 MW generating unit is expected early in 1984. Construc-
tion of the associated transmission lines is progressing satisfactorily. The
feasibility study of the East Java coal-fired thermal power station site has
progressed to the point of selection of a suitable site. Contracts for the
studies (a), (b) and (c) mentioned above have been signed, and work is
progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of June, 1982 were about
60% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Effective
Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project encountered a number of problems and slipped nearly
eleven months behind schedule by September 1981. However, progress since then
has improved and the estimated delay has not increased. The main causes of
the delay of one year were: (a) late finalization of contracts, and (b) tardy
performance of the local contractor for piling work. Most contract awards
have now been made and the commissioning date for Unit No. 1 at Suralaya is
expected to be October 1984. Disbursements, though much lower than the
appraisal estimates, are in line with the revised projections prepared in July
1981. The project cost is expected to remain within the appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
- 51 -                      Page 21 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980; Effective
Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is now expected to be June 1985, i.e. six
months behind schedule. The EHV project is delayed by almost one year due to
delay in finalizing contract awards. All major contracts are expected to be
finalized. Progress of land acquisition for the substation and the
transmission lines is satisfactory. Disbursement at the end of June were
about 24% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
All major contracts for construction and installation of generating
equipment required for the Saguling hydroelectric project have been placed
with an estimated saving in total project costs of about $99 million. Con-
struction work started at the main dam site in August 1981, and encountered
problems in regard to timely completion of diversion tunnels. River diver-
sion planned for end-May 1982 was not achieved. However, steps have been
taken to divert the river in December 1982 and so modify the later
construction program as to ensure that original dam construction targets are
met. Other project subcomponents are progressing with 3-6 months delays,
some of which are expected to be recovered. No cost overruns are expected.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 42% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2056   Eleventh Power:  $170 Million Loan of
November 16, 1981; Effective Date: April 15, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Contracts
worth about $50 million have already been evaluated and approved by the Bank.
Contracts valued at $100 million have been evaluated by PLN and are presently
under review by GOI. PLN is planning to issue, in December 1982, another
invitation to bid for the balance of the distribution equipment estimated
at $20 million.
Loan No. 2079   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation:
$185 Million Loan of January 22, 1982; Effective Date:
May 25, 1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has commenced. Thus far no delays have
occurred which would affect the project completion date. The consultants are
now fully mobilized. Soil investigation and geological work is ongoing at
the mine site. The bids for the main mining equipment have been received.
The turnkey contract for the Tarahan terminal were signed and procurement of
the ship is in progress. During the initial startup moderate problems have
been noted in respect to project management and concerns have arisen with



ANNEX II
- 52 -                     Page 22 of 29 pages
respect to the procedure for procurement of packages not financed by the
Bank. These matters received close attention from the first supervision
mission and they will remain a focus of subsequent supervision missions.
Loan No. 2153   Coal Exploration Engineering:  $25 Million Loan of June 14,
1982; Effective Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will evaluate coal reserves and assess the viability
of specific coal deposits in South Sumatra and other promising areas in
Indonesia. The project will be aimed at providing GOI and its agencies with
a coal reserve inventory of its major coal bearing areas and feasibility/
prefeasibility studies of attractive deposits, thus enabling it to establish
investment priorities and define policies for its short, medium and
long-term strategy for coal production and coal use.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Credit was for the development of an industrial estate at the
eastern border of Jakarta. Land acquisition difficulties have persisted
since project inception and have eventually resulted in a substantial project
delay. Consequently, disbursement of the Credit has been slow, and the
Closing Date of the Credit has been extended to December 31, 1982 to enable
the remaining funds to be used for the development of an export processing
zone and related studies. As of September 15, 1982, a total of $8.9 million
has been disbursed. Full disbursement of the Credit is expected by the new
closing date.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
BAPINDO continues to make significant progress in both operations
and institutional developments: its operations in terms of new loan and
equity investment approvals more than doubled compared to 1979; its financial
position and performance recorded a marked improvement; and the portfolio
quality showed signs of reduced loan arrears in relation to the portfolio.
Moreover, BAPINDO continued to make progress in implementing the agreed
Action Program of 1977 and other programs for further strengthening its



ANNEX II
- 53 -                    Page 23 of 29 pages
organization and increasing its project promotion activities as agreed during
the last loan negotiations in April 1979. BAPINDO put into effect on April 1,
1981 a General Improvement Program involving a number of organizational
reforms and staff training and deployment. This was done in order to enable
BAPINDO to play a larger role in promoting the country-s industrial develop-
ment as well as increasing its operational capabilities. Commitments and
disbursements under the loan, which were slow at the beginning have
accelerated during the past year and the loan may be disbursed on schedule.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Loan No. 1472 Second Population: $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
All civil works are completed and the buildings are occupied and
operational. The mobile service units provided under the project are making a
significant contribution to the recruitment of contraceptive acceptors.
Training and population education are scheduled to be completed by the end
of 1982. The research components -- the contraceptive raw materials study
and the community incentive scheme -- will not be completed before the loan
closing date and an extension is likely to be requested by the Government.
A loan saving of $7.0 million has been reallocated for the purchase of
equipment in support of project activities and procurement is expected to be
completed by December 1982. A further savings of $3.3 million is antici-
pated and the Government intends to request Bank approval for reallocation.
Only about $11.2 million, or 48%, has been disbursed out of the loan. A
sizeable proportion of the balance will be disbursed by the Closing Date,
but not the full loan amount.
Loan No. 1869 Third Population: $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Progress on the health components of this project, particularly
training, has been very good. Training is ahead of the appraisal schedule
and the construction of health center annexes is underway. Population
components have, however, made less than satisfactory progress. While the
procurement of vehicles and audio-visual equipment for mobile information
units is in process, the implementation of civil works has been delayed
considerably. As a result of recent GOI-s efforts, this component is
beginning to make some progress. A sizeable number of contracts are
expected to be awarded by December 1982 and construction should start in
early 1983. Population education has also been delayed pending decisions on
the recommendations of an evaluation which was completed in July; a report
on this was submitted to the Government in August. A detailed program for



ANNEX II
- 54 -                   Page 24 of 29 pages
training teachers was also required before funds could be released. A
recent Bank mission has reveiwed these issues with the concerned agencies
and it is expected that implementation will start soon. Because of delays
in physical implementation, disbursement is lagging behind appraisal
estimates.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The pace of project implementation has increased considerably,
with the construction of the laboratory at the Nutrition Academy now completed
and the construction of the Nutrition Training Center currently underway
and is expected to be completed by end of 1982. Contracts for unprocured
equipment have been awarded and delivery is expected to be completed in early
1983. More than 80% of project fellowships and over 60% of consultancy months
have either been utilized or committed. The project was evaluated by an
independent team in July/August, the findings of which are quite positive.
Bank staff have reviewed the findings with Government and made pertinent
observations. Physical progress during the past twelve months has been faster
than ever before. This rapid progress is reflected in a sharp increase in the
level of cumulative disbursement from $4.3 million as of August 31, 1981 to
$8.3 million by August 31, 1982. A further saving of $800,000 has been
reallocated from the category vehicles and equipment to consultants services,
fellowships and salaries of local experts for the staff of the Project
Director. The project is expected to be completed by December 1982 and no
further extension in closing date date will be required.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, are installed. Computer
equipment for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed



ANNEX II
- 55 -                    Page 25 of 29 pages
plotter has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the Closing Date
until December 31, 1983. The photography operation started in July 1981 and
is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 2120 National Fertilizer Distribution: $66 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: September 27, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
This project will increase agricultural production in Indonesia by
substantially expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Funds are also provided for preparation of future maritime transport projects,
including master plans and detailed engineering for several ports.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project although now substantially completed has been under
implementation for nearly six years. Because of slow execution, the Closing
Date was postponed by two years to December 31, 1982. The only component
still ongoing is the road betterment program and the related consultancies for
works supervision. Other consultancies have been completed satisfactorily,
sometimes with substantial delays. Four road sections have been transferred
from the Fifth to the Fourth Highway Project. Bank participation in
expenditures to be incurred in 1982 on these contracts would fully utilize the
surplus.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979 ($6.8 Mil-
lion cancelled June 30, 1981); Effective Date: August 28,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly three years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The project is about 25% completed compared
to 70% scheduled. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious project
objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
gu-delines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments



ANNEX II
~ 56 -                  Page 26 of 29 pages
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards.   However, work is
now underway on nearly all project components, and there is still a reasonable
chance of completing the project with a total delay of only one year. The
Provincial Departments of Public Works programs of support works were just
started in January 1982 with mobilization of consultants and after road
maintenance equipment had been ordered. $6.8 million of the loan has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Effective Date: February 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
The project will increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway. Consultants have been selected for
construction supervision, and contract negotiations have been concluded.
Bid opening for the four sections of road works took place in late May 1982,
somewhat behind schedule. The bid evaluation report is being reviewed by
the Government. Land acquisition has been completed up to and including
negotiations with property owners, and payment of compensation is underway.
Negotiations are about to begin with consultants to provide technical assist-
ance to the Indonesia toll road corporation, P. T. Jasa Marga.
Loan No. 2083 Rural Roads Development: $100 Million Loan of January 22,
1982; Effective Date: August 11, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project will improve rural road infrastructure in selected
provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public works agencies
and implementing an expanded program of rural roads works; and supporting
a rural road development program for a three-year period in five Indonesian
provinces. The project also contains components for training and technical
assistance. Implementation of the various project components is still at an
early stage. Bids were received in March 1982 for road construction and
maintenance equipment and bid evaluation has been completed for about half of
the items. Consultants are now being mobilized to provide technical
assistance to the district public works agencies and to assist the Directorate
General of Highways in preparing further rural roads programs.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government-s Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. All funds for ship
procurement ($48.0 million) have been disbursed and the balance of



ANNEX II
57 -                    Page 27 of 29 pages
funds for technical assistance ($6.0 million) have been disbursed or allo-
cated. It is expected that all funds will be disbursed by loan closing date.
All of the operations under the loan appear to have been carried out satis-
factorily.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, the Basin III civil works financed by
the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, and civil works financed
by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are completed. Several Bank-financed
studies which are proposed or have been completed, will enable the GOI to
identify components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing
probably in FY84. Overall estimated project costs remain approximately at
appraisal levels despite an increase in civil works costs.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All works on the infrastructures and the amenity core at Nusa Dua
were completed in June 1982. The access road to Nusa Dua from the airport
and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and opened for traffic in
December 1980. The hotel training school was completed in July 1979 and has
been in operation since then. The preparation of possible participation by
the Bali Tourism Development Corporation in hotel investment utilizing the
uncommitted portion of the credit is expected to be finalized by the end of
September 1982. The market for tourism to Bali has been good and in-
ternational standard hotels in Bali have been achieving high occupancies. The
construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa Dua is progressing
well for completion in March 1983. The construction of a second hotel (250
rooms) by Anchol Group at Nusa Dua has just started. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 81% of appraisal estimate.



- 58 -                    ANNEX II
Page 28 of 29 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at providing basic infrastructural facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to
about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas (kampungs) in Jakarta and
374 ha in Surabaya. The physical program is now complete with a coverage
of about 3,434 ha kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha in Surabaya.  Supplementary
technical assistance studies related to future projects preparation and
utilizing the accrued loan residual have been recently agreed upon. To
facilitate the financing of these studies, the Bank, in December 1981,
extended the loan Closing Date from December 31, 1981 to June 30, 1983.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 85% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1653. Third Urban Development: $54 Million loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project extends the slum (kampung) improvement programs (KIP)
under the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336-IND) in the cities of
Jakarta (750 ha) and Surabaya (580 ha), and also provides for similar basic
infrastructural facilities in three additional cities -- Ujung Pandang (375
ha), Semarang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha) -- with the KIP coverage in each
city ranging between 15 to 37% of total kampung areas to be upgraded. Also
included in the project is a comprehensive solid waste management program
(SWIP) in Jakarta, and Surabaya and macro-drainage improvements in Surabaya.
The KIP component is nearing completion in all cities with its actual coverage
exceeding the target levels in Jakarta and Surabaya. SWIP implementation is
progressing well in Surabaya but has just started in Jakarta due to earlier
start-up delays in pilot testing. The Surabaya drainage component is in the
construction stage which is somewhat beset with land acquisition problems (for
canal dredging schemes) warranting local government s more intensive
participation and an increased allocation of funds for the program. The
overall project is expected to be implemented within the appraisal projected
dated of December 31, 1984. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about
59% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1972 Fourth Urban Development: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1986.
The project further expands Bank-s assistance to GOIs slum impro-
vement programs (KIP) under the earlier urban projects to six nationwide pro-
vincial capital cities with a total target KIP area of 2,000 ha and with a
coverage in each city representing about 15 to 33% of total KIP area to be up-
graded. Sites and sevices schemes, aimed at providing affordable core housing



ANNEX II
- 59 -                   Page 29 of 29 pages
units to the low-income population, will be developed for a total of about
11,000 plots in some six to seven cities. Sectoral programs comprising of
solid waste improvement, and improved water supply are also included in one
of the project cities. A national urban mapping program covering 125 cities
will be undertaken providing base data for future city planning, land regis-
tration and valuation programs. The developoment of the housing and mortgage
financing institutions is a prominent feature of the project. Technical
assistance for project management, training and feasibility studies to various
urban authorities and agencies will be provided. The sites and services pro-
gram is proceeding satifactorily. The start-up delays in the implementation
of the KIP programs have been overcome and the progress of these programs
should significantly improve with the consultants currently being appointed.
The first phase of the urban mapping contracts covering some 45 cities will
commence in October 1982. Technical assistance programs are proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 35% of
appraisal estimate.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project expands and improves existing water supply and distri-
bution systems in the cities of Tangerang and Surabaya (both in Java),
Jember (Sumatra), Pare-Pare (Sulawesi) and Ambon (Moluku), and provides for
the construction of new systems in Klaten and Purwakarta (both in Java).
The total increase in raw water yield in the cities as a result of the
project is projected at 1,770 lit/sec and the total installation of trans-
mission and distribution mains will amount to about 375 kms with house
connections targetted at a total of 40,000 in the project cities. The
project is also aimed at establishing water enterprises (WEs) in the project
cities and strengthening the skills of WE-s staff, as well as the Cipta
Karya (Housing and Urban Development) staff, in the areas of administration,
financial and operational performance of the enterprises. After consider-
able delays (up to 18 months) the award of most of the International
Competitive Bidding procurement contracts for the supply of pipes and
materials is now complete and procurement is in progress.  The construction
of the civil works in the project cities is currently underway. The
organizational and management training for the WEs has been underway since
It          September 1981 and is proceeding satisfactorily.  Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 28% of appraisal estimate.



- 60 -                            ANNEX III
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:            2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:           Ministry of Health (MOH)
with Bank assistance
(c)  First submission to the Bank:                May 1980
(d) First Bank mission to identify the
project:                                     July 1980
(e) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                     May 1982
(f)  Date of completion of negotiation:           December 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:               May 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The MOH will have studied by December 31, 1984 the utilization
of health centers, including recommendations for improving them
and will have studied the performance of the Village Community
Health Development Program (PKMD) particularly its impact on
utilization of services and recommendations to plan for the
expansion of PKMD or alternative programs for improving outreach
services (para. 43);
(b) The MOH will complete a study by December 31, 1984, for ten
selected districts to review ways of improving health finance
system at the district level and to examine possibilities for
additional resource mobilization through appropriate cost recovery
mechanisms, (para. 48);
(c) The MOH will undertake by April 30, 1985 a study of health centers
and sub-centers and methods of improving the collection of infor-
mation,recording and reporting activities at the district level
and make recommendations for strengthening the existing health
information system, (para. 48); and
(d) The full complement of staff and consultants for malaria
component will be appointed by March 31, 1984 (para. 49).



r                             r
I  irl O .                                             S For consideration on
E.- %~E , r_ IFebruary 8, 1983
-----                                            R83-13/1
FROM:  Vice President and Secretary                    January 26, 1983
INDONESIA: Provincial Health Project
Corrigendum
The attached map (IBRD 16439) replaces the map (IBRD 16639)
included in the President's Report and Recommendation on Indonesia:
Provincial Health Project (R83-13) distributed on January 20, 1983.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice Presidents
Senior Management Council
Vice Presidents, IFC
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC
i hI' 1   ~    i~   CCIIII,ol~   MLIV    [101  (1;1'~"I()~,  *  * --
I~~~~~~~~~~d                     .,,  .  x, ,trl,' ,I'9t UL t 09Lll i     t'ill. 1d-t n. 5; lizL tt1*.:t .-i) 1:; . 






IBRD 16439
120'                                  122-                                  124-                          JUNE 1982
lit ]i           f[LEF>i         S/i   Icw
N.    X      > >>tLinboto          KoWmubagu
Do ggal.
2-             Smpaga                                                                                               INDONESIA                          2
HEALTH PROJECT
X   ~s~-l   / \,-_{_ ''Z><    ungku                        Project Facilities  and  Activities
Mamul          ;          t- wSfi l                                                                           \W   Je s  <  ' Sulawesi
7)   g    >  Stlopo  ,ft 0    .   .    X                     i3   REGENCY HEALTH OFFICE & DRUG STORAGE
REGENCY HOSPITALS.
Mi _                                                  CLASS C
PoleWol,                                                     '2'        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CLASS D
MoIeoe'~~~'  //  Enre                  La,saA   PROVINCIAL TRAINING CENTERS
p   ;/AZ,+SS   . x .       \'  C       t       I 3OLasoo           'R;>      (+) HEALTH CENTERS WITH BEDS
Pinra ~~~~~~~~"  ~ ~ ~ ~   C ~~MALARIA CONTROL AREAS
-4-           7e, k                                                                                             AIRPORTS
ang             Kolokao ,JLr   PORTS
m,a~a, aan       so         -,/G                                                                    NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
Barru    a       /Tn ene                                                           PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYS
/  tor,,po,,e                                                      OTHER ROADS
- -  KABUPATEN BOUNDARiES
Pangk'ale ne                                                                               PROVINCIAL EOUNDARIES
P a  n   g kar      }          T s  / k                \   ( S ) z 0 h o A <      - - I N T E R N A T I O N A L   B O U N D A R I E S
Uiun~~~~~,~~~onlon  ijoi ~~~                      ~        B  TO            POPULATIDN   DENSITY   /  50 ,KM.
suliiggum                9-0            ~ ~~~~~MaWsgka    6MORE THAN 250
S~- " r i 3 g  mba           BM       u     au                    101 150
LESS THAN 25
KSLAYAR                                                                                              8
E entent6  
24'                                   126-
\>JHAILAND                        < C#,s  _    '    (PHILIPPINES
f  Of 'O                                                                                         MALAYS I           r                   Ft A
50      100     150      200                                                                              Kaiom,tsa,,dh,  Ko  Wa,,5- /      UINIA
Mi es 120- anyl#lowCtrecohd dnZs C r F_, ob6at11 < Li
120'                                  12'                           </                              o






IFRl, 16 .9
.^-              -2                                                 120030'                                                 12C"45'                            AJGUST  1S32
Thts map has been prapared by the World -anks staff e-c-ustuely forthe cothen-enn-
-     the reeders of the repert 1o ah,h re's attached T-e dens--e-na-ns  -ed are the
b-,,d-rie  shea- e- th,. ep do no rrpy. en the per af the W-r/d 8-ki -ndt
.a-biates   y judmnt en t-id m. 1egeit  ew  f           -y serr,tnrg nr any etdnren,en or
,/ r !0J A .                            ace esanet-  ef Such bsundar,es
SULAWESI                              -         21 5
)                      l                                                                                          \>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tonjk ,rmnr,;no
12015'
2030'
<n   (S             9             >         E                                                   '     \      /              X                  \S 
-245'F2'                                                                                                                                                                                                     2'45'
/              t               C      X              /   ~~~~~~~~~~ Rompoang
Bstsatus taandnk \                ,            )                                                                    | INDONESIA
Mantalinga  NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS VII PROJECT
South Sulawesi Component
PROJECT AREAS
NUCLEUS ESTATE AREA
SMALLHOLDER ESTATE AREA
300'                          -        %Palo_o                                                                                                ROADS                                                       3055
POSSIBLE WVHARF
JETTY
RIVERS
KILOMETERS                        10                 20                  30
MILES                                   l'                              230
120' . ,                                             12030'                                               12045' 



