Report No. PIC4149
Project Name                   Kyrgyz-Public Sector Resource...
Management Adjustment Credit (PSRMAC)
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Public Sector
Project ID                     KGPA8521
Borrower                       Kyrgyz Republic
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Finance
Erkindik St. 58, Bishkek 720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Date this PID prepared         November 7, 1996
Projected Appraisal Date       November 13, 1996
Projected Board Date           March 20, 1997
Peer Reviewers                 Shantayanan Devarajan (PRDPE)
David R. Dollar (PRDMG)
John R. Hansen (EC4C1)
COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
The Kyrgyz Republic has been one of the fastest reforming countries
in the former Soviet Union (FSU). It has also been among the countries
most adversely affected by the transition, since it is a small
landlocked country with few readily exploitable resources and had a
relatively high level of specialization within the FSU. The country has
also suffered a very large terms of trade shock. Since independence GDP
has fallen 48 percent below its 1991-level. GNP per capita has fallen
commensurately and was estimated at US$690 in 1995. Output began to
recover in 1995, however, led by modest growth in crop production and by
the establishment of a growing private service sector. Preliminary data
suggest that overall GDP grew by 1.3 percent in 1995.
Overall, the economy has followed a path of sustained
stabilization, supported by successive IMF programs. As part of the
stabilization program, the Government established a fully liberalized
exchange regime with no restrictions on current or capital account
transactions. The national currency, the Som, was introduced in May
1993, and the exchange rate has remained stable against the US dollar
during the past two years.   Inflation has largely been brought under
control and has declined to low single digits. Price liberalization has
been essentially completed, and most direct price controls and trade
restrictions have been removed. The state order system has been
eliminated. The privatization program is progressing with small scale
privatization nearly completed and medium and large scale privatization
proceeding well through coupon and cash auctions.
Despite the progress in implementing structural and sectoral
reforms, stabilization has not yet been consolidated. Expenditure
compression has taken place, the fiscal deficit has remained high. The



stabilization program aims to reduce the fiscal deficit to 6 percent of
GDP in 1996. Current signs are that this objective is still on track.
For the coming years the fiscal deficit would be around 4-5 percent of
GDP in 1997 and 2-3 percent of GDP in 1998, a level which would avoid
Central Bank borrowing and could be financed by concessional foreign
assistance and treasury bills. The programmed reduction in the fiscal
deficit would be achieved through an increase in revenue collections
supplemented by efforts to rationalize expenditure and to reduce the
share of government spending, while maintaining critical expenditure
aimed at the alleviation of poverty. Over the medium-term, expenditure
would be rationalized through ongoing sector reforms (e.g. health,
social safety net), as well as through the implementation of the budget
reforms to be supported by the proposed PSRMAC which addresses the
shortcomings of the budgetary system. Securing the desired fiscal
adjustment over the medium term will require actions to deal with the
structural aspects of public finances and fiscal management, e.g.
formulation of a macroeconomic framework and a medium-term financial
plan; improving the linkages between planning and budgeting, especially
with regards to investment expenditures; restructuring the coverage,
preparation and classification of the budget; and improved budget
implementation and expenditure control.
In addition, the current arrangements for intergovernmental
finances have several features that jeopardize stabilization efforts and
the effectiveness of the social safety net: (i) revenue sharing
arrangements give sub-national governments limited incentives to
increase their tax efforts; (ii) the intergovernmental transfer system
provides a soft budget constraint for sub-national governments and
reduces the incentives to keep expenditures within budget; (iii) unclear
expenditure assignments between the national and local levels result in
local governments accumulating large payment arrears, often for social
expenditures and especially in the poorer oblasts where resources are
scarce. Furthermore, local governments are currently having to assume
expenditure responsibility for the divested social assets of former
state enterprises, but to date, no system for financing these services
has been designed. This has led to cuts in important social services,
since local governments are not able to finance them out of their
limited budgetary resources.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The proposed Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Operation
would support reforms in budget management, processes to rationalize
expenditure, intergovernmental finance and divestiture of social assets.
It will address structural reforms in public finance which are needed to
make the fiscal adjustment sustainable. The operation would address the
deficiencies in budget formulation, execution and control. Reforms in
budget formulation also provide the basis for generating meaningful
information for future expenditure and sectoral allocation reviews. The
project will introduce a more structured and robust intergovernmental
system and help improve the effective provision of social services by
ensuring that scarce resources are used for their intended purposes.
Financial provisions for essential services divested by former State
Enterprises will be agreed.
-2-



PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The proposed Credit will provide quick disbursing support. The
proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed in two equal tranches, subject
to satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program as a whole, and
to specific policy conditions related to the above mentioned areas of
reform.
PROJECT FINANCING
The proposed Credit (on IDA terms) would total SDR 30 million.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A working group was established in the Ministry of Finance in March
1996. A PSRMAC Monitoring Unit (PMU) will be established in the MOF to
facilitate and coordinate implementation of the reform program.
POVERTY CATEGORY
not applicable
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
As the credit is an adjustment operation, no environmental rating
has been assigned. The project would be consistent with IDA policies
and procedures.
Contact Point:       Helga Muller, EC3C1
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-7158
Fax No.: (202) 477-3372
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending November 15, 1996.
- 3 -



