Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20643
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(NO160; 29491)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 32 MILLION
TO THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FOR A PUBLIC SECTOR RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
June 26, 2000
POVERTY REDUCTION AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT UNIT
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASSIA REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 20, 2000)
Currency Unit = som
som 1 = US$ 0.0207
US$ 1 = som 48.20
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EU-TACIS             European Union, Technical Assistance Program, CIS
LAS                  International Audit Standards
IDA                  Intenational Development Association
MOE                  Ministry of Economy
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MTFF                 Medium-term Financial Plan
PHRD                 Policy and Human Resource Development
PSRMAC               Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Credit
SAP                  State Procurement Agency
SFI                  State Financial Inspectorate
SOSAC                Social Sector Adjustment Credit
TA                   Technical Assistance
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
WTO                  World Trade Organization
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:    Kiyoshi Kodera, ECCO8
Sector Director:   Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE
Task Team Leader:    Helga Muller, ECSPE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   11
6. Sustainability                                                                       12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      16
9. Partner Comments                                                                     18
10. Additional Information                                                              18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    25
Anmex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       28
Anmex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008521                                        Project Name: PUB SEC RES MGT ADJ.
Team Leader: Helga W. Muller                               TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: May 15, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: PUB SEC RES MGT ADJ.                            L/C/TFNumber: N0160; 29491
Country/Department: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                       Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/07/96                                 Effective: 06/17/97            06/17/97
Appraisal:  11/13/96                                   MTR:
Approval:  04/16/97                                 Closing: 06/30/99             06/30/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                               Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Kiyoshi Kodera                              Kadir Yurukoglu
Sector Manager:       Pradeep Mitra                              not applicable
Team Leader at ICR:   Helga Muller                               Helga Muller
ICR Primary Author.   Kathy Lalazarian; Helga Muller
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Credit (PSRMAC) was intended to assist
the government in strengthening the public sector's effectiveness and efficiency.  The main
objective of public sector reform in the K)rgyz Republic was to start to transform budget systems
and processes into instruments of economic policy by setting public finances within an overall
macroeconomic framework and making resource allocations based on policy priorities and
resource constraints. Furthermore, the reform program aimed to initiate the creation of a more
robust and transparent intergovernmental finance system that is supportive of the Government's
overall reform program, provide incentives for revenue collections and efficient public expenditure
management at the local level, and ensure that expenditure programs are implemented as planned.
The successful implementation of the reform program supported by the operation was expected to
lead to the creation of a better process of allocating government resources to programs of highest
priority and keeping the cost of providing these services as low as feasible. In this system, the
annual budget would be a policy statement of the Government and would become a vehicle for
purposeful resource allocation and economic and fiscal management.
PSRMAC was the fourth in a series of adjustment operations.  The program has also been
supported by successive IMF programs in the upper credit tranches. PSRMAC built on the
country's achievements in changing the incentive structure facing the private sector (e.g.
liberalization of prices and trade, and privatization of the majority of state enterprises). At the
time PSRMAC was prepared, the sizable contraction in the size of government highlighted the
resource constraints facing government finances and the need for changing basic public sector
incentives in order to increase efficiency and to improve resource allocation. It had become
evident that, despite the considerable progress achieved in implementing structural and sectoral
reforms, the fiscal situation in the Kyrgyz Republic remained in structural imbalance. The
measures introduced by the Government to reduce the budget deficit had focused on cutting
expenditure and increasing tax collections, but the underlying structural and institutional problems
had not been addressed. Many of the budgetary problems (e.g. the high level of arrears,
overestimation of revenues, expenditure programs which were not executed, lack of controls,
disincentives for tax collections) stemmed from the continuation of procedures developed in the
era of central planning, that did not serve well in the transition to a market economy. Changes in
these budget procedures and controls were a prerequisite for implementing effective and efficient
expenditure programs and for achieving an overall reduction of the fiscal deficit.
The project objectives were clearly stated and overall very important for the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). The project was strongly focused at the main areas of concern (i.e. the budget),
the scope was limited to implement initial, important improvements and the limited complexity of
the project took into account the circumstances in the country and development priorities.
However, the project might have needed a broader scope to include measures on administrative
and civil service reforms which are closely linked and somewhat a prerequisite to changes in
budget processes and decision making. The program was adequately prepared and could be
readily monitored. Moreover, objectives and the timetables to enact and complete particular
activities, measures, tranching provisions and trigger mechanisms were realistic.
- 2 -



3.2 Revirsed Objective:
Not applicable
3.3 Original Components:
PSRMAC had three main components:
1. Budget Management: Improving budget formulation, execution and financial controls;
2. Intergovernmental Finances;
3. Divestiture of Social Assets;
The first two components constituted the main part of the project. The components were very
closely related to achieving the objectives. The project took into account lessons learned in prior
projects in the country/sector. The project centered around one sector which made a stronger
focus possible and eased implementation. Moreover, the project built on prior work done i.e.
economic/sector work related to the three main components. The project, being an adjustment
operation, was closely linked to the provision of technical assistance and training especially for the
two first components.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry Assessment rated the overall quality to be satisfactory. This rating was based
on institutional capacity aspects, and readiness for implementation which were all rated to be
satisfactory. Consistency with the CAS, clarity and realism of development objectives, strength of
borrower ownership and appropriateness and realism of project conditionality (selectivity) were
evaluated to be highly satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, PSRMAC's outcome can be rated satisfactory since the project achieved all its major
relevant objectives and is expected to achieve relevant development results. A broad technical
assistance (TA) and training program financed partly by donor resources had been put in place in
support of the overall program. The TA program is still on-going and has been successful in
assisting the Government with the implementation of the program, as well as advising on further
refinements and training of the counterparts so that the reform process will continue. The
Government has made continuous efforts to refine and institutionalize the reforms in budgetary
procedures and processes. If the project is seen as one of the first building blocks in a longer
process, the impact of public sector reforms supported by PSRMAC have been significant.
It needs to be noted that on the macroeconomic side, the country has been hit by several external
developments since 1998. 1998 started off buoyantly, but with some worrisome signs. Growth
was strong initially, as were tax revenues. However, the fiscal situation weakened and arrears
grew as the year progressed. On the external account the improvement of 1997 seemed to be
reversed in early 1998. The current account deficit in the first half of 1998 (US$160 million) was
almost 2.5 times as big as it was in the corresponding period in 1997 (US$63 million). Only part
-3 -



of that deterioration was due to fiscal slippage. In the middle of 1998, the country was hit by a
series of external shocks (natural emergencies, a cyanide spill, and lower revenues from its two
main exports, gold and hydroelectricity). Then in August 1998 the Regional financial crisis hit.
Growth, buoyant until mid-1998, collapsed, the exchange rate depreciated sharply (a real
depreciation of 43 percent in 1998), inflation accelerated and external imbalances widened further.
Exports to the FSU, excluding electricity, fell sharply in the third and fourth quarters by 17
percent and 25 percent respectively over the same period in 1997. Exports of electricity fell by 4
percent of GDP over the year, which triggered huge losses for the public electricity company,
Kyrgyzenergo, since export revenues are used to cross-subsidize domestic electricity and heat
consumption. Other public companies, such as gas and airlines, were also slow to raise their prices
(already below cost recovery) in response to the real depreciation of the exchange rate and so
incurred larger losses, thus undermining fiscal consistency. The losses of the gas sector brought
down at least one of the largest banks that was overexposed to the gas company. This
precipitated a banking sector crisis, as banks were already facing a substantial deterioration in
their lending portfolio (half of which is in dollars) because of the financial distress of their main
clients, trading companies.
Right now the economy is considerably weakened. The economic downturn in the region and
competitors' prices continue to exert a downward pressure on the Kyrgyz economy. Exports to
the FSU (other than electricity) were down by 36 percent in 1999 compared with 1998. The
exchange rate depreciated a further 55 percent in nominal terms and 13 percent in real terms
against the dollar in 1999, but the real exchange rate is still somewhat appreciated compared to
the Russian rouble. Inflation in 1999 rose to 40 percent. The fiscal deficit remains unsustainably
high. Lower economic activity has led to lower fiscal revenues. An incursion by foreign militants
who took hostages in late August 1999 and occupied a region in the south of the country for
three months placed additional pressures on the budget. Debt indicators, already rising fast due to
the large current account deficits, deteriorated sharply with the impact of the regional financial
cnsis. Renewed efforts are underway to consolidate macroeconomic stability: a significant fiscal
adjustment is required.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Budget Management: Budget Formulation, Execution and Financial Controls.
Achievement of the objective to start transforming budget systems and processes and resource
allocation processes was satisfactory given that institutional change takes a long time and a
credible start has been made. Overall, the project has put in place many of the building blocks for
an improved system of budgeting and budget management and has resulted in a quantum leap in
the transparency of the budget and budget process. However, as stated above, the project on its
own could realistically only initiate the reforms in the given time frame.
Under the reform program, comprehensive changes were made to the "Law on the Principles of
the Budget" which is the foundation of the budget system and process and of the
intergovernmental finance system. The law now codifies the full set of reforms supported under
the PSRMAC. The changes in the budget systems law and the associated improvements are
expected to lay the foundation for a more effective, strategic and realistic management of the
budget. Amendments to the Law include: (i) specification of the responsibilities of the budget
-4 -



commission (articles 8 and 9); (ii) extension of the budget calendar (articles 11, 13, 40-42, 45);
(iii) expansion and refinement of appropriation classification (article 14); (iv) establishment of
expenditure ceilings and inclusion of all revenues and expenditures into the budget (articles 19, 20
and 30); (v) clarification of the accountability of government officials for proper execution of the
budget (article 22); (vi) preparation of a public investment plan which is incorporated into the
budget and includes all externally financed projects (article 20); and (vii) preparation of a
medium-term financial plan (article 9). The Law also prescribes the substantial changes which
have been made in the intergovernmental structure under implementation in the 1997/98-budgets
(articles 33-36 and 37/38). The changes in the budget process required that the budget calendar
was to be extended and improved substantially. The comprehensiveness of the budget has also
been extended by including all special funds into the budget. Public investments were also fully
integrated into the budget. The law now also includes provisions that local borrowings have to be
approved by the MOF.
As an important first step in introducing expenditure programming into the budget preparation
process, the program introduced the establishment of sectoral budget ceilings to keep proposals at
levels consistent with financial resource constraints and avoid excessive and unrealistic demands,
but they also force line ministries to choose among program alternatives within the ceilings and to
prioritize expenditures. Starting in 1998, budgets have been prepared on the basis of expenditure
ceilings for line ministries. The Budget Commission discusses, revises and approves these
ceilings. The ceilings are then conveyed to the ministries together with the general budget
instructions in order to base the budget proposals on these ceilings. At the same time, the
ministries and spending agencies have obtained some increased flexibility to choose among
program alternatives and priorities in preparing their budgets as long as they prepare their budgets
within the ceilings. Provisions on the budget ceilings have been codified in the amended "Law on
the Principles of the Budget". The problem with the budget ceilings so far has been that (i) they
are mostly incremental i.e. based on the previous years budget, and they are not driven necessarily
by medium termn relative priorities and (ii) are not always fully enforced.
To take decisions on overall budget policy, to set the ceilings monitor and to adjust expenditure
during the course of the fiscal year, a budget commission was established in January 1997. These
revised procedures have led to greater interaction between the parties involved i.e. the line
ministries and the MOF. The Budget Commission has undertaken several budget reviews and is
meeting regularly. The reviews of the Commission have increasingly become more extensive and
included: (i) an evaluation of expenditure and revenue execution against the adopted budget to
establish any need to adjust the expenditure program; (ii) an elaboration of formal Government
priorities for use in reducing expenditures; (iii) announcement of expenditure adjustments
assigned to spending units to keep execution within revenue available; and (iv) establishment of
expenditure ceilings. The Government has recently restructured and broadened the composition of
the budget commission to bring in representatives from the executive.
To make the budget a tool of economic policy it needed to be integrated within a larger
macroeconomic framework and linked to a medium-term financial plan. The MOF started to
develop a medium-term financial plan (MTFF) to direct the attention of decision makers to the
continuing financial implications of current policies and for showing the extent to which available
- 5 -



resources were already committed to those policies. During the preparation process of the 1998
budget, the MOF developed a first MTFF for 1998, 1999, and 2000, which was finalized in
August 1997 and provides a longer term perspective for the budget. The MTFF has been
expanded and further improved for the preparation of the 1999 budget. Several workshops with
high-level participation have been held and the sectoral ministries have been included in the
process of medium-term financial planning. Over time it will be important that the MTFF is used
as a strategic tool for allocating expenditures which is not necessarily the case currently but will
take time.
In addition, a multi-year public investment program is now prepared by the MOF. In order to
ensure efficient investment progMMMix  the program foresaw the establishment of a proper
institutional framework. The responsibility for the public investment program was transferred
from the Ministry of Economy (MOE) to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to ensure full integration
of all public investments into the budget process and budget. There were, however, short-comings
which are currently being addressed like building capacity inside the MOF on PIP development,
and expenditure monitoring for PIP expenditure (incorporation into the warranting system).
To ensure full transparency and accountability, the Government expanded and regrouped
appropriations to correspond with actual spending units, and submits ministerial budgets to
Parliament as part of the annual budget. Appropriation proposals in the 1998 budget plan were
classified by sector and by spending unit. The 1998 budget plan presented to Parliament also
included the spending unit appropriations. Parliament approved the 1998 annual budget classified
by spending units which was important to establish financial accountability. In order to establish
and reinforce the accountability of spending units, government officials are now directly held
accountable for their approved appropriations.
The reform program aimed to improve budget execution through several measures. Expenditures
were supposed to be more carefully controlled under a newly introduced system of expenditure
warrants and through reviews of the budget commission. The implementation of the warrant
system required substantial technical assistance and a change in the budget classification system.
The new classification system was approved in November 1997 but needed further adjustments.
Key spending agencies were involved in the final design of the system. The MOF established the
warrant system internally for the Ministries of Education and Health in November 1997 on a trial
basis and fully implemented it for all other ministries with an order of the MOF (No. 2.1) on
January 1, 1998. Spending units periodically (monthly at present) received spending authority --
restrained either by the appropriated amount or the amount of money available to the
Government, whichever is lower -- and are guaranteed that amount for that period. Full
implementation of the system was inhibited by: (i) diversion of budgetary funds to emergency
relief and repair operations; (ii) delayed changes to the treasury system to enable accounting by
administrative unit; (iii) inability for treasury system to account separately for budget means
expenditure and mutual settlements and (iv) the warranting database was not integrated into the
treasury accounts system. In September 1998, because of the financial crisis, the operation of this
system was suspended. The MOF is attempting now to make it operational again and is
addressing the above mentioned shortcomings i.e extension of warranting system to include
special means, mutual settlements, PIP and oblast expenditure and integration of the warranting
- 6 -



system with the budget and PIP systems. A Human Resources Information System has been
developed and is in the process of being extended to the oblasts and then to the line ministries.
An issue which complicated the implementation of reforms was the structure of the MOF and that
the reorganization of the ministry was not directly addressed in the project. The structure and
staffing of the MOF was not conducive to the changes in the budget process. The MOF is now
considering reorganizing the ministry and has obtained advice from the IMF on this issue.
To improve budgetarv and financial control the MOF created an internal unit in the MOF and has
strengthened audit systems. Audits of the local governments and treasury were undertaken.
The project also intended to establish a clearer division of audit responsibility. The State Financial
Inspectorate (SFI) was placed under the MOF as a separate control and revisions department in
1998. A clearer division of responsibility between the remaining entities, i.e. the Chamber of
Accounts and the internal audit unit in the MOF, was established in the "Memorandum of
Understanding" between the Chamber of Accounts and the MOF dated May 12, 1998 with the
Chamber of Accounts having the sole responsibility for external audits. The Memorandum also
addressed the development of an audit plan which assured appropriate audit coverage and avoids
duplication, the use of audit standards, and disclosure of audit results.
This seemed to solve the long outstanding issue of overlapping extemal audit responsibilities
between the Chamber of Accounts and SFI. However, in July 1999 the Government
re-established the SFI and formed a State Inspection on Financial Control (SIFC) in and basically
backtracked on the advances made. The official reason stated for this was to strengthen financial
controls but the de facto reinstatement of the SFI again constitutes an overlap of audit
responsibilities. Institutional audit mandates between the different audit entities are unclear and
some of the institutions might mis-use or be mis-used to perforn audits on an ad hoc basis for not
very transparent reasons. Moreover, the Chamnber of Accounts is still not adequately staffed. All
of these issues need to be addressed urgently to implement proper financial controls and financial
accountability. The measures supported under PSRMAC therefore need to be reinstated and
reinforced through a transfer of staff from the SIFC to the Chamber of Accounts. A letter
advising the Government of the Bank's concerns in this regard, seeking reinstatement, has been
sent. Follow up discussion will be held during the upcoming CDF National Governance
workshop.
The Chamber of Accounts publishes its audits as they are completed and the findings are reported
in the newspapers. Also, the Court now publishes an annual volume of all its audit reports (Report
of the Court of Accounts of the Kyrgyz Republic) which includes reports on audits of: (i) the
republican budget execution; (ii) funds in the social sector; (iii) use of credits included in the
national budget; (iv) the State Property Fund; (v) the National Securities Commission; (vi) special
funds of the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Justice, Prosecutors Office, State Financial
Inspectorate, State Tax Inspectorate, Supreme Arbitration Court, Ministry of Transport; (v) the
Central Treasury and (vi) the Ministry of Defense. The Court of Accounts audits the annual
statement of the execution of the budget and the head of the Court of Accounts reports on the
- 7 -



audit to Parliament orally and in writing.
As part of the PSRMAC program the government undertook several audits. The treasury system
in the MOF has been audited by the Court of Accounts from April-July 1997. The internal audit
unit also undertook a variety of other audits concerning the use of funds and the functioning of
the treasury system at the local level. An audit schedule was established and audit reports for the
audits have been prepared.
The program supported the introduction of the legal and institutional framework to manage and
regulate public procurement as a requirement for greater accountability. Compliance with this
component has been very good. A procurement system has been developed and introduced which
is substantially consistent with international norms and practices, the World Bank's procurement
procedures and policies, and WTO agreement on government procurement with effect from June
1, 1997. The system includes the public procurement law and enabling regulations to implement
the provisions contained in the law. The Government has established the State Agency on
Procurement (SAP), through a Presidential decree promulgated in December 1996. The SAP is
fully operational. The SAP is responsible to regulate, and exercise oversight on, public
procurement in the country. The administration of the procurement function is the responsibility
of the respective ministry or agency. The Government has prepared a set of country standard
procurement documents and users' manuals to maintain the consistency of documentation. The
regulatory and administrative regimes of the public procurement system are fully satisfactory.
The lack of transparency in Social Fund accounting was to be addressed through the development
and implementation of a double-entry bookkeeping system. The Social Fund introduced a manual
system that now (i) allows monthly (rather than quarterly) presentation of accounts; (ii) facilitates
reconciliation of numerous entries with the Ministry of Finance (MOF) budget figures; and (iii)
includes a detailed schedule of debts. During the preparation of the Social Sector Adjustment
Credit (SOSAC), additional analysis of the Social Funds accounting system was undertaken and it
became clear and the decision was taken that a more comprehensive reform effort will be required
to modernize the system to introduce compliance with International Audit Standards (IAS). Such
fundamental reform was envisaged under the SOSAC and a partial waiver was required for the
respective condition under PSRMAC. Thus, building on the more limited approach under
PSRMAC, and in conformity with international accounting practices, the new system would result
in an accounting system that provides more accurate and informnative decision making tools for
management and other interested parties, proper recording of system assets and liabilities,
including future pension liabilities, an auditable transaction trail with the ability to trace to source
documentation, safeguarding of assets through strengthened controls, and a cost effective use of
resources.
Intergovernmental Finances
Reformns in intergovernmental finances constituted an important part of the reform progran. The
goal was to implement a system that is: (i) adjustable to the varying degrees of political
decentralization that the country might choose as its institutions progress; and (ii) supportive of
the government's reform program. The objective (to initiate the creation of a more robust and
- 8 -



transparent intergovernmental finance system) has been achieved and progress has been
satisfactory. The reform program focused on putting appropriate controls and incentives between
the oblasts (provinces) and central level in place.  This initial focus on the central
government/oblast relationship was a necessary beginning point in this process. However, it will
have to be taken further in a second step (which is currently underway) to address the relationship
between the oblasts and local governments.
Implementation of a revised intergovernmental system in the 1997 budget and refinement of the
system for the 1998 budget was ensured. A clearer system of revenue and expenditure sharing
had been set up between the central and local governments, including a grant system which
ensures that wage payments for health and education are met. The implementation of the new
system went actually more smoothly than expected. The negotiation factor of the previous system
was substantially reduced and the government adhered to the new tax sharing rates and
categorical grants. Initially, arrears were substantially reduced. However, due to severe financing
constraints there were lapses in providing some of the financing fully on time to the sub-national
level starting in mid-1998.
One component of the program envisaged a review of expenditure of expenditure assignments
between levels of government to address the ambiguities created by inconsistencies between
financing and expenditure responsibility i.e. when expenditure responsibilities are moved between
levels of govermnent or when the level providing the service is not given appropriate financing.
After the review was undertaken the MOF issued guidelines identifying: (i) central government
functions; (ii) shared functions; (iii) local functions subject to central regulation; and (iv) purely
local functions. These expenditure responsibilities were also codified in the Law on the Principles
of the Budget.
An imiportant concern which triggered some of the changes in the intergovernnental finance
system was the provision of social services at the local level. Most of the social expenditures are
undertaken at the local level which had de facto autonomy to reallocate budget allocations. In
some cases, local governments diverted funds to other purposes which often led to ad hoc cuts in
social expenditures, and in turn caused serious variations and lapses in vital social services
especially in very poor localities. The government could not ensure that social expenditures were
made at nationally detennined minimum levels in accordance with agreed plans. Moreover, in
cases where subnational expenditures were not sufficiently reduced in light of revenue shortfalls,
or in instances where local governments diverted funds designated for one purpose by the central
governmnent to other purposes, very large arrears for wages and social payments had occurred.
The reform program addressed these problems by implementing a categorical grant system.
Starting with the 1997 budget, oblasts received categorical grants from the central government
which were dedicated to salaries/wages, social insurance contributions and stipends. Oblasts were
not allowed to use these funds for other purposes. There were some delays in allocation of these
grants during the financial crisis. Overall however, the categorical grant system has been quite
effective but needs to be further refined e.g. the basis needs to be adjusted and the categorical
grants need to be gradually reduced. Moreover, the equalization grants are still calculated as a
residual by the MOF.
-9-



The previous intergovernmental system had provided the oblasts very limited incentives to
increase their tax efforts. Tax sharing rates and transfers were negotiated annually and even
adjusted within the fiscal year which created a soft budget constraint at the local levels.
Alternatively, efforts to increase local revenue collections often resulted in the central government
claiming a higher share of revenues in the following year's tax sharing negotiations. The
negotiated and constantly changing nature of the system provided furthermore a lot of room for
discretion and limited transparency. Tax sharing rates for instance differed by tax and locality. As
part of the PSRMAC reform program and starting with the 1997 budget uniform tax sharing rates
were implemented for all shared taxes and all localities. The VAT was eliminated from the tax
sharing scheme. To partially equalize each oblast's ability to provide general local services,
transfers were provided to the poorer oblasts. However, these transfers still need to be
substantially refined and an equalization formula needs to be implemented. This is currently under
development, but has taken much more time than initially anticipated.  Moreover, the
implementation of the system seems to have been complicated by constant changes in tax rates for
the shared taxes which made adjustmnents in the revenues assigned to the local level necessary and
caused an imbalance or revenue receipts for Chui oblast. Other complications included the
prevalence of barter arrangements especially for the land tax.
To establish the appropriate incentives for oblasts to increase revenue collections and to promote
responsible subnational budgeting, the government substantially increased the scope of local taxes
in the 1997 budget. They converted the temporary national sales tax to a local tax and provided
local govemrnents the option of adopting several excise taxes and licenses fees. Revenues from
the land tax were also assigned to the local governments.
The program also addressed the issue of dual subordination. In practice the loyalty of tax officers
who are subordinated to the MOF was spread between the oblast and central governments which
led to the pursuit of local fiscal interests by the tax inspectorate and in some instances also by the
treasury officials. The program partly addressed this issue by introducing a system of rotation of
staff.
Divestiture of Social Assets
To implement a more structured process for the divestiture of non-production related assets from
state enterprises, the program included the following steps: (i) review of the classification of
service responsibilities; (ii) preparation of a plan for the divestiture of the remaining
non-production related assets and (iii) inclusion of funds for assets the Government deemed
essential in the budget. The main issue which triggered the inclusion of this component was that
local governments had been forced to take over the social assets previously without financing
being provided to them to do so i.e. it constituted an unfunded mandate. Under the reform
program, several measures were taken to address this issue. The budget system law explicitly
stated that unfunded mandates should not be undertaken.
During the first half of 1997 an inventory was completed of the existing non-production related
assets of enterprises which might be candidates for assumption under the budget, if they are
divested. As a result of this inventory, a comprehensive strategy document developing different
- 10 -



options was also produced under the auspices of the MOF by June 1997. This docunent served as
the foundation for establishing a policy on the process for divestiture, the type and range of assets
which might be shifted to the budget, and mechanisms to finance retained services. The
Government established a "Commission for the Separation of Social Sector, Housing and
Communal Facilities from Enterprises and Organizations" on July 29, 1997 (Government
Resolution, No. 451) which worked on finalizing the divestiture plan. A resolution by the Prime
Minister dated May 28, 1998 (No. 310) was issued officially identifying the principles the
Government follows in the assumption and financing of divested assets. It establishes: (i) which
types of social assets are eligible for funding from the budget; (ii) includes an inventory of social,
housing and conmmunal services likely to be transferred to the local budgets for the period
1998-2000 and (iii) establishes the budgetary financing mechanism for these services.
Based on the principles developed in the divestiture plan and the inventory developed, the
Government has included a limited range of essential educational, health and communal services
as eligible for absorption in the budget. Non-essential services will be closed down or privatized.
For services which are taken over by local governments provisions are provided in the local
budgets. The MOF has issued a resolution (MOF Instruction of Division of Responsibilities
between the Central Government and Local State Administrations, dated January 28, 1997) which
makes it mandatory to compensate local governments if social assets have to be taken over by the
local government and were not included in the initial budget plan (prohibition of unfunded
mandates). In practice, the government is not able to finance most divested social assets due to
budget constraints, but the implemented changes help to ensure that local governments are not
forced to finance these assets on top of other obligations.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has improved the country's institutional capability to make more effective use of its
financial and human resources by (i) improving transparency and control in the budget process,
and (ii) putting the foundations of a budget and intergovernmental system in place which leads to
better resource allocation.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The program has been substantially affected by external shocks since 1998. In the middle of
1998, the country was hit by a series of external shocks (natural emergencies, a cyanide spill, and
lower revenues from its two main exports, gold and hydroelectricity). Then in August 1998 the
Russian financial crisis hit. Growth, buoyant until mid-1998, collapsed, the exchange rate
depreciated sharply, inflation accelerated and external imbalances widened further. The economy
is considerably weakened since the economic downturn in the region and competitors' prices
- 11 -



continue to exert a downward pressure on the Kyrgyz economy. The fiscal deficit remains
un-sustainably high, with lower economic activity having led to lower fiscal revenues. Additional
pressures were placed on the budget as a result of an incursion by foreign militants, who occupied
a region in the south of the country and took hostages in late August 1999. All of these shocks
led to a crisis and substantial problems which forced the government to focus more on the
immediate urgent problems than on the more longer-term nature of the PSRMAC reform
program, and led to ad hoc revisions in the budget and the build-up of arrears
An additional problem which arose during implementation of PSRMAC and was outside of the
direct control of the Government at that point was the delay of provision in the some of the TA
financed by other donors. The Govemment tried to remedy this situation but had little success. It
needs to be stressed that the successful implementation of an institutional reform program like
PSRMAC require substantial technical assistance. The Government and the project team had
taken a comprehensive look at the overall needs of public sector resource management and
identified key areas where TA was required for restructuring public sector management. The
purpose of the TA was to assist with the implementation of the reform program, advice on further
refinements of the program, and train the counterparts so that reforms would continue after the
departure of the advisors. The Government had secured grant funding from other donors and
financed the remaining needs of the TA program from its own resources. Substantial problems
arose with the implementation of this TA program which had a negative impact on the program.
Financing for one part of the program materialized very late i.e. the advisors came only on board
after PSRMAC was closed.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government commitment on the project was in general good. but there could have been more
involvement from higher levels in the government in the overall reform effort on a more
continuous basis. At some stages of the program, it was seen by the staff (especially of the
Ministry of Finance) that the management level was pre-occupied by day-day emergencies.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Not applicable
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
The sustainability of the project's achievements is likely if follow-up work continues. In the
previous year, the Government restated its commitment to governance and institutional reforms,
including the reform areas within the scope of the project but also had widened it to other areas
such as administrative restructuring and civil service reform. There is currently a follow-up TA
project financed by EU-TACIS building on PSRMAC. Other assistance is provided by UNDP.
The issue of governance and anti-corruption which is related to the financial management issues
addressed under the project has come to the forefront in the Kyrgyz Republic. The Government
- 12 -



has requested from the Bank a follow-up project focusing on governance issues and is also
co-operating with other donors in this area.
It is too early to judge what impact the reforms will have in the long run. The Government is
currently in a very difficult fiscal and economic situation, which has switched the focus to
immediate short-term considerations.  Fiscal year 1999 was the first year where all the
components in place but also a year where the country was substantially affected by external
events. However, substantial technical assistance is now available to increase the administrative
capacity of the local government, a local government office has been created and the influence of
the locally elected parliament is increasing.
One of the main concerns when the changes were implemented had been the political
sustainability. In general, this concern did not prove true. Tax sharing rates and the grants were
implemented as planned in the 1997 budget and the system has been fully maintained (and even
refined) for the 1998 budget. Moreover, both levels of government seem to appreciate the
non-negotiated nature of the system. The local governments stress that funds are much more
predictable. For instance, after the implementation of the categorical grants, arrears for the
expenditures covered by the grants (local salaries for health and education) went down
dramatically.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA's performance in project identification and preparation was satisfactory. PSRMAC was an
innovative operation in the FSU countries at the time of preparation and one of the first
adjustment operations in the FSU focusing entirely on budget and intergovernmental finance
reform. Overall, project preparation was thorough, and the measures and activities identified and
tranching and trigger provisions employed were realistic The project built on previous ESW on
intergovernmental reform and substantial interaction with the government on budget and
intergovernmental finance reform. It had been envisaged to address these issues under a previous
adjustment operation (APEAC) which was focusing on agriculture sector reform and
privatization. However, when the complexity and the importance of the issues, the time frame
needed and the level of reforms needed became obvious, it was decided to focus an operation
fully on these issues.
There were also discussions with the government to include components on administrative/civil
service reform but this was rejected since the government was supposed to be provided assistance
by other donor agencies on this topic. This assistance did not materialize later on in the form or
quality needed, which impacted somewhat the implementation of the PSRMAC program.
The project was a key component of the country assistance strategy (CAS) and fully consistent
with the Government's development priorities. Project identification and preparation included very
- 13 -



close cooperation with the government at all levels. The government team led by the Ministry of
Finance included a diverse group of entities from all levels and branches of government.
IDA's project preparation team included staff with substantial experience in the selected areas like
budgeting, intergovernmental finance reform and auditing and partly also in the country. There
was high staff continuity during project preparation, all the main mission members participated in
all preparation and in the appraisal missions. The country economist participated in the appraisal
mission. There was also continuity and consistency between the previous economic work done
and the project preparation team. The high level of continuity ensured a good working
relationship with the govermuent counterparts and in the substance of advice and strategic
approach.
Preparation of PSRMAC has involved very close cooperation with the work of the World
Development Institute (WDI) very early on in project identification/preparation and through the
whole project cycle. A prograrn was developed in collaboration between WDI, the Government
and the project preparation team which educated and trained a wide range of government
officials, Parliamentarians, and other policy makers in the objectives and implementation of the
PSRMAC program.
The appraisal team adequately evaluated the commitment to the project and ensured that in areas
where there was a higher risk substantial up-front and remedial actions were taken and
implemented. One of the risks of a project like PSRMAC which includes actions closely tied to
the budget process is that these actions can only be taken once a year and are closely tied to
decisions of Parliament. The team addressed these risks by substantially front-loading the project
and addressing these issues upfront (especially regarding measures on intergovernmental reforms),
and by attempting to build broad ownership and awareness of the reforms. The team for instance
visited all oblast governments and closely interacted with them. The oblast governments were also
closely involved in the training program.
The team closely coordinated with other relevant donors i.e. the IMF, multilateral and bilateral
agencies especially on the issue of technical assistance. The TA prograrn put in place eventually
was a combined effort between different donor agencies.
During preparation and appraisal of the project the initial approach was to prepare an adjustment
operation and accompanying technical assistance project since an institutional reform project like
PSRMAC needs substantial TA for implementation. The team identified upfront that the
Government's administrative and institutional capacity was a risk and there were questions
whether the government was able to handle the complexity of the reform process. The program
design attempted to take this into account and attempted to minimize complexity by appropriately
phasing the program. Since the government was reluctant to borrow for TA the team made all
efforts to ensure donor funding to put a TA program in place. The funding only materialized after
appraisal. Since the TA was crucial for the success of the project PSRMAC included an
effectiveness condition on the implementation of the core TA as a safeguard.
- 14 -



7.2 Supervision:
IDA's supervision was satisfactory and PSRMAC was supervised at close intervals, with five
supervision missions in the 13 months between Board presentation and second tranche. There
was a high level of continuity in the team. Project implementation progress was adequately
reported and problems in implementation were identified and addressed pro-actively. The
supervision mission provided detailed and systematic feedback to the authorities on program
implementation, and made suggestions how to address problems. The project team effectively
monitored the implementation of the policy measures, interacted very closely with other project
teams working on related topics (IDF grant for procurement reform, SOSAC team) and was
effective in processing the tranche release. The resident mission also played a crucial role in
monitoring developments on a daily basis. Supervision reports regularly rated project
implementation satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall performance was satisfactory for all stages of project development and supervision.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation
The Borrower's performance during implementation was satisfactory. The Borrower was very
much involved in project preparation, and set up a government commission led by the Minister of
Finance with members from different government agencies and levels of government. Follow-up
on outstanding items was in general very good.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The PSRMAC team had a good counterpart team in the MOF and in the broader government.
The team in the government closely foHowed up on the program and was committed to its
implementation since they saw it very much as the govemrnment's program which had been
developed by the government and had not been imposed by IDA. The main concern of the budget
director in the MOF was basically the PSRMAC program and he followed up on all components.
In turn, the MOF underwent a major reorganization just after appraisal of PSRMAC (MOF was
merged with the Ministry of Economy) and the Minister of Finance who had carried the program
changed. The team in the MOF also tried to closely involve other stakeholders like the local
governments, respective line ministries and Parliament.
The envisaged PSRMAC program was overall implemented on time and in substance. There were
minor slippages due to capacity problems or timely provision of TA. Moreover, there was
reluctance from the government to push ahead with issues related to restructuring of the MOF,
restructuring of the government in general and civil service reform. These measures were not
directly included in the PSRMAC program but affected the implementation of PSRMAC actions
and somewhat also the sustainability of the program. TA provided in this area was ineffective. The
project team tried to explain that at least restructuring of the MOF was crucial but there was little
responsiveness at that time. The government now has realized the importance of these reforms
and is taking measures to address these issues.
- 15 -



The Government also administered a PHRD grant and the technical assistance which was financed
by other donors by itself and follow-up given the institutional capacity was in general good. The
government in general followed-up effectively on advice provided under the PHRD grant or TA
program. There were some problems, however, given the limited capacity of the MOF. Staff was
sometimes too busy to work closely on a daily basis with the consultants.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Not applicable
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower has shown substantial commitment to the Program, and was open to any
suggestions and refinements regarding the program. Institutional reforms require a substantial
level of borrower commitment on two levels: (i) the government needs to be committed to go
beyond discrete policy changes and needs to see the change as a continued process, and (ii)
conmmitment needs to go beyond tranche release conditionality if the process is to be sustainable.
Tranche release conditionality can only address the start of the implementation of a process that
can be easily reversed.
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons leamed from the implementation of PSRMAC essentially confirm the broader
international experience with institutional reforms. Implementation of institutional reforms is a
highly complex and time consuming process. The scope of the required changes is formidable.
Public sector reform to be successful require a clear vision, careful timing and implementation
arrangements over a period of time. It also requires striong leadership on these reforms covering
various miistries and agencies in the government which are often reluctant to accept changes in
their operations. The experience in the Kyrgyz Republic also illustrates some of the challenges
involved:
(a)   Time Horizon/Building up Institutional Capacity. Budget reforms and reforms in the
intergovernmental finance system are institutional reforms that require capacity building and
significant time to implement. Adjustment operations are quick disbursing and are difficult to
adjust to the more long-term nature of this type of reforms. The PSRMAC program tried to
address this issue by linking the adjustment operation with ESW, technical assistance, training and
also complementary programs of other donors. The adjustment operation was only part of an
overall program which was started in 1994 with ESW and has continued after the disbursement of
the second tranche of PSRMAC in July 1998 with a TA program which is still on-going and
programs of other donors and most likely a follow-up operation of the Bank. This long-term
approach seems to be essential since (i) it takes substantial time to build up consensus on
politically very sensitive reforms like the ones on intergovernnental finances; and (ii) overall
implementation of these institutional reforms and training will take time. It also needs to be
recognized that these reforms are very vulnerable in a environment which is prone to external
shocks. Again, this can only be addressed through longer-tern involvement like through
extending the time period of the adjustrnent operation (several tranches over several years) or
phased efforts (combination of ESW and several different vehicles).
- 16 -



(b)   Linkage to the Budget Cycle. Many of the reforms in the operation focusing on the
budget and intergovernmental finances can only be implemented once a year due to the
dependence on the budget cycle. This implies a high level of risk if tranche release conditionality
is tied to changes made in the annual budget preparation process or to the implementation of
changes in the intergovernmental structure in an annual budget. For instance, if a condition
requires changes in a law or passage of a Presidential Decree this can be done at any given point
of the year. In turn, if changes in budget preparation are not done in one year there will be a
year's delay in tranche release. This is an issue that most likely cannot be avoided if an adjustment
operation is used but it increases the risk of the operation. During the implementation of
PSRMAC, this risk was reduced somewhat by having a committed govermnent, a very good
government counterpart team which followed up very closely and interacted closely with the
Bank. All of this helped to ensure that potential delays/problems could be detected and addressed
early on.
(c)   Motivation. The implementation of intergovernmental finance reform is often linked to
and motivated by decentralization efforts in order to increase the efficiency in the use of public
resources. In the Kyrgyz Republic, the reforms implemented under PSRMAC were much more
driven by concerns on the provision of social service and macroeconomic stability. The reforms
put more control on the use of the resources on the local level. However, the program also put a
more structured system into place that can be slowly adjusted to different levels of
decentralization. The issue was that fiscal decentralization in itself was not the ultimate goal of
the project. Decentralization in itself would not have brought about immediate benefits since it is
not yet accompanied by effective local accountability which needs to be developed over time.
(d)   Role of Technical Assistance (TA): The problems associated with the implementation of
the technical assistance financed from several different sources show that there is commitment
neecled from all donors to provide the needed TA on time to ensure effective burden sharing.
Otherwise, crucial TA might need to be financed by the World Bank directly in order to ensure
the sustainability of the program.
(e)   Linkage between Budget Reforms and Administrative Restructuring. The delays in
implementing measures on administrative and civil reforms which were supposed to be supported
by other programs had some impact on the implementation of some of the measures under
PS1RAC since restructuring of the MOF was needed to adjust the structure to the new functions.
This emphasizes the need to link reforms in budget management to administrative and civil service
reforms. Many of the components require further refinement. Institutionalization of the project's
outputs will to some extend depend on further structural reform of the Ministry of Finance and
strategic consolidation of the ministry that fosters better strategic planning, consolidation of
capital investments into the budget, tighter expenditure management and overall management of
the budget process.
- 17-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/limplementing agency:
Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic
23 June 2000 No.09-11/3765
To:   Mr. Kiyoshi Kodera
Country Director for Uzbekistan,
Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan,
Kyrgyz Republic,
Europe and Central Asia Region
Dear Mr. Kodera,
Re: Public Sector Resources Management Adiustment Credit (PSRMAC).I
Implementation Completion Renort
We would like to thank you for providing us with the Implementation Completion Report
on the Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Credit. We have carefully reviewed it and
would like to add the following comments.
Reforms in the area of public sector resource management implemented under the
PSRMAC framework, have considerably changed the process of state budget formulation and
execution.
We think that the key positive results of the reform program are the following:
*  Establishment of the more clear-cut and streamlined interrelations between the budget formulation
and medium-term parameters of the country's macro-economic development;
*  Expansion of the framework of the budget calendar, earlier start of the budget formulation and
involvement of the highest governing authorities of the country in the process of discussion of the
basic budget parameters at a more earlier stage;
*  Establishment of clearer rules and conditions for the formulation of local budgets, mainly for
determining the volume of the transfers within the framework of the intergovernmental financing
system;
*  Creation of more transparent format for budget presentation;
*  The budget is formed based on administrative classification;
*  Integration of the resources of the Public Investment Program (PIP) into the state budget
framework.
As one of the positive moments of the project's outcome, we also consider adequate and
active participation of the staff of the Ministry of Finance in many directions of the reform which
is under implementation; this kind of participation implies continuity in consolidation of the
positive changes. Nevertheless, after the project completion, our concern had been the issue of
- 18 -



sustainability of the reforms. Now we can note with satisfaction, that the basic reforms initiated
during implementation of the program have been developed further developed, that is reflected in
both the structural changes, which have been carried out in the Ministry of Finance, and the stages
of the budget preparation process for the year 2000. The "Expenditures" Department has been
expanded and strengthened by the "Budget Policy and Expenditure Analysis" Department, the
main basic purpose of which is preparation of the medium-term financial projection. Forecast of
the 2001-2003 financial framework has been prepared by the staff of this department in
cooperation with the "Revenue and Economy" Department. The staff working on the Public
Investment Program has been increased. Now the staff of this department is preparing the PIP for
2001-2003 in cooperation with the ADB Project on Strengthening the Institutional Basis of PIP.
Furthermore, other important tasks of this department are the following: assessing efficiency of
utilization of the PIP resources and optimization of the program structure. In order to improve the
process of monitoring the program's expenditures, financed from external sources, we are
currently elaborating the calculation methods to include the data on volume of financing into the
accounts of the Central Treasury.
Unfortunately, problems with financing of technical assistance have resulted in some break in
time in reforming some aspects of the intergovernmental relations at the levels "republic - oblast"
and "oblast - rayon" and "oblast - aiyl-okmotu". This is evidenced by the particular fact that the
positive changes have really been secured in accordance with the methods of calculating the
categorical grants based on the size of the local population and targeting the needs of the health
care and educational organizations which are financed by local budgets. However, this kind of
changes have been adopted only at the level "central budget-oblast", and did not move to the
lower level of intergovernmental finance relations such as "oblast-rayon" or "rayon-ayil-okmotu".
In order to fill this gap, the Ministry of Finance has carried out a certain work on modification of
the formula for calculation of categorical grants at the "oblast - rayon" level. Results of the work
were submitted for discussion by the oblast financial authorities at a workshop held in the end of
1999. Based on the results of the workshop, we expect that the formula of calculating the
categorical grants planned for the oblast needs in the year 2001 will also be used for the rayons,
and we will use the formula containing the same fundamental elements as the method of
distribution at the "republic-oblast" level. At the same workshop, we presented the Draft of the
Administrative Classification, adapted to the needs of local financial authorities, for consideration
of the oblast financial authorities. Preparation of the local budgets based on administrative
classification (rather than on functional classification, as it used to be done until recently), will
help to prepare the State budget of the Republic in a unified format. This fact will promote
further increase of budget transparency, more comprehensive reflection of the expenditure of the
administrative departments within the budget ceilings both for the analytical purposes, and for
increasing the responsibility of the heads of the departments for rational use of the financial
resources provided to them. In addition, formation of the local budgets based on the
administrative classification will facilitate improvements in the process of defining the target
figures both for sectors of the economy, and for administrative departments within the scope of
the state budget (including local budgets), rather than only the central (Republican) one, as it is
done till now. Certainly, this process will require both an increase in responsibility and the role of
the chiefs of the central offices of the organizations for development of the short- and
medium-term policies of the organizations, including definition of the ultimnate goals of activity, as
well as strengthening the coordination works of the local authorities and administrative
- 19-



organizations in terms of defining the development tendencies and volumes of financing the
subordinated institutions out of the local budgets.
We agree with your remark concerning duplication of the functions of the State Inspectorate
for Financial Control and the Internal Audit Department of the Ministry of Finance. Numerous
checks by various inspection bodies of both state and private organizations, interfere with the
activity of the latter and complicate private business development. To this end, the Government is
currently considering a possibility of reorganizing and putting in order all supervising bodies,
including the State Financial Inspectorate.
Implementation of the PSRMAC program has shown the imminent necessity to reorganize the
civil service system in order to optimize the public administration system upon simultaneous cuts
of the expenditures out of the public sector resources. Currently the Government negotiates
attraction of additional technical assistance for development of specific measures in this sphere.
Concerning the process of social assets divestiture, we would like to note that the real transfer
of these assets to the balance of local governments should be accompanied by increase of the
appropriate allocations from the local budgets. At the same time, the state budget of the Republic
is being prepared and executed currently in extremely rigid economic conditions that require a
careful analysis to be done upon selection of the social assets subject to transfer to the balance of
local governments. As regards the assets of lower priority, the Government is now conducting a
joint work with the State Property Fund on development of the mechanisms to transfer or sell
these assets to the local private entrepreneurs'.
The Government realizes, that further increase in the efficiency of public sector resource
management under current economic conditions of the transition period, will require radical
changes both in the activities of each ministry, and in the structure of governing bodies according
to the current capacity of the budget.
We are very grateful to the World Bank for the assistance in preparation and implementation
of the budgetary reforms program and the extended credit, and we are looking forward to future
fruitful cooperation.
Sincerely yours,
Sultan Mederov,
Minister of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic
(b) Cofinanciers:
na
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
na
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatowlMatrix                     rojctd In last P$R                   ActuaULatest Estima
The Borrower has amended the law on the                                       Condition met.
principles of the Borrowers budget in a
manner satisfactory to the Administrator
The Borrower has provided satisfactory                                        Condition met.
evidence to the Administrator that the
Borrowers budget plan for fiscal year 1998:
(i) has been prepared on the basis of a
medium-term financial plan, satisfactory to
the Administrator and expenditure ceilings
consistent with such plans; (ii) includes
expenditure appropriations to the spending
units: and (iii) covers all investment projects
implemented by the Borrowees agencies or
financed under the budget.
The Borrower has adopted a double-entry                                       Condition was partially met and partially
accounting system for the Social Fund and                                     waived.
has prepared: (i) monthly financial accounts
and reports for the last three (3) months; and
(ii) and operational manual.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory                                        Condition met.
evidence to the Administrator that two (2)
quarterly reviews of the Bonrowees budget
have been completed, according to criteria
agree with the Administrator.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory                                        Condition met.
evidence to the Administrator that for at least
six (6) months: (i) a system of warrants to
spending units has been implemented; and
(ii) the Borrower has complied with the
indicators for fiscal performance agreed with
the Administrator.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory                                        Condition met at second tranche release.
evidence to the Administrator that: (i) the                                   Back-tracking on (i) which is currently being
Borrower has established a ciear division of                                  addressed.
audit responsibility among the Chamber of
Accounts, the Borrowers State Financial
Inspectorate, and the intemal audit unit of the
Borrower's Ministry of Finance; (ii) the
Chamber of Accounts has made public, on a
quartedry basis, the results of all audits that it
has carried out in the last three quarters; and
(iii) the Borrowers's Govemment has
submitted to the Borrower's Padiament the
annual statements on the execution of the
budget for fiscal year 1996, together with the
audit report of the Chamber of Accounts on
these statements.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory                                        Condition met.
evidence to the Administrator that it has
audited: (i) the treasury system of the
Borrower's Ministry of Finance; and (ii) the
budget of all six (6) of the Borrowers oblasts
and the City of Bishkek.
-21 -



The Borrower has provided satisfactory                                        Condition met.
evidence to the Administrator that: (i) all the
necessary rules and procedures relating to
the Agency for Public Procurement have
been adopted and are in force; and (ii) the
Borrower has prepared standard bidding
documents for works and goods, in a manner
satisfactory to the Administrator.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory                                        Condition met.
evidence to the Administrator that the
intergovermmental tax sharing and transfer
system, provided for in the Borrower's
budget for fiscal year 1997, has been
implemented and reflected in the Borrower's
budget plan for fiscal year 1998, in a manner
satisfactory to the Administrator.
The Borrower has: (i) prepared a plan,                                        Condition met.
satisfactory to the Administrator, for
assuming the cost of essential social and
other non-production related services to be
financed by the public sector; and (ii) has
included the cost of such services in the
Borrower's budget plan for fiscal year 1998.
Output Indicators:
not applicable
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
not applicable
- 23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
not applicable
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) tissions:
Stage of Project Cyclc                 No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, ctc.)      Implementation        Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                          Progress            Objective
Identification/Preparation
01/96                            2    1 economist, 1
intergovernmental finance
specialist
03/96                            6    2 economists, I
intergovernmental finance
specialist, 1 budget specialist, 1
research assistant, I public
finance specialist
07/96                            7    2 economists, 1
intergovernmental finance
specialist, 1 budget specialist, 1
research assistant, I public
finance specialist, I audit reform
specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/96                            6    1 economists, I
intergovernmental finance
specialist, I budget
specialist, I research
assistant, 1 public finance
specialist, I audit reform
specialist
Supervision
06/97                            3   1 economist, I                           S                   S
intergovernmental finance
specialist, I budget specialist
11/97                            4   1 economist, 1                           S                   S
intergovernmental finance
specialist, I public finance
specialist, I research assistant
03/98                            4   1 economist, I                           S                   S
intergovernmental finance
specialist, I public finance
specialist, I research assistant
06/98                            2   1 economist, I research assistant        S                   S
ICR
06/98                            2    1 economist, I public sector            S                   S
specialist
- 25 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 76                        232.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                     38.6                        119.8
Supervision               _               40.5                        131.8
ICR                                        3.8                          8.1
Total                                    158.9                       492.1
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                            O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Sector Policies                           O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
F Physical                                 O H OSUOM ON *NA
N Financial                                OH OSUOM ON *NA
 Institutional Development                0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
I Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction
ZGender                             O H OSUOM O N * NA
0 Other (Please specify)
Z Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
 Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                         O HS * S   OU   OHU
M Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
Z Preparation                                         O HS * S  O  U  O HU
O Government implementation performance               0 HS * s  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                   O HS * S   O u   O HU
0 Overall                                             OHS OS O u O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Second tranche release memo, July 2, 1998.
Back-to-office report and aide memoire ICR mission, July 7, 1999.
- 29 -



