Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N016-0 KG
Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Credit)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established  
with funds contributed by certain members of  
International Development Association  
pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184  
of the Board of Governors of 
International Development Association
Dated May 6, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N016-0 KG
INTERIM FUND 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
 AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1997, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B)
the Administrator has received a letter, dated March 5, 1997, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s public sector resource management (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Administrator in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof; and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Administrator has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making an 
Page  2
Interim Fund Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, "Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively; 
(c)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Interim 
Fund 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Interim Fund Credit 
is made.”;
(d)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows:
“15.
“Participating Country” means any country that meets the 
requirements set 
forth in Section 5 (e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the 
Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as 
determined by the Administrator as of the date on 
which the Interim Fund Credit was 
approved pursuant to Section 5 (c) of said Resolution” and 
“Participating Countries” 
means, collectively, all such countries.”;
(e)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(f)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account shall be made in the currency of 
the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement.”;
(g)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit in accordance with the provisions of 
the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions.”;
(h)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(i)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity;
(j)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c)
Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Administrator, 
the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the  Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble 
to the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Administrator of their respective 
Page  3
obligations under the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit.”;  and
(k)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“SOM” means the Borrower’s currency;
(b)
“Social Funds” means the Borrower’s pension fund, employment fund and 
social insurance fund, established by Governmental Decree No. 535 dated November 3, 
1993 and amended by Governmental Decree No. 39 dated January 27, 1994; and
(c)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty two million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 32,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund Credit from the Interim Fund Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Administrator the 
first request for withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator.  All withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account shall be deposited by the Administrator into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Administrator shall have determined at any time 
that any proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been used to make a payment 
for an expenditure excluded pursuant to the provisions of said Schedule 1, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the 
Administrator shall so request, refund such amount to the Administrator. Amounts 
refunded to the Administrator upon such request shall be credited to the Interim Fund 
Credit Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawal shall be made from the Interim Fund Credit Account after 
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 16,000,000 unless the 
Administrator shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Administrator: (i) that 
the macro-economic framework of the Borrower is consistent with the Program as 
determined on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Administrator; (ii) with the 
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (iii) that 
the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken. If, after said 
exchange of views, the Administrator shall have given notice to the Borrower that the 
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days 
after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, then the Administrator may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit or any part 
thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Page  4
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or 
cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semi-annual installments 
payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing May 15, 2007 and ending November 15, 
2031. Each installment to and including the installment payable on November 15, 2016 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit as of the first 
semi-annual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or 
more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that the events 
set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest rate at an 
annual rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
Page  5
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Administrator for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Administrator on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Interim Fund Credit which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Administrator’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator;
(b)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the date of the Administrator’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall have reasonably 
requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition of 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the Borrower has entered into advisory service contracts with 
the six following advisors: (i) a principal advisor on the Program, (ii) an advisor on 
medium-term financial plan, (iii) an advisor on investment planning and budgeting, 
(iv) an advisor on expenditure control, (v) an advisor on intergovernmental finance, 
and (vi) an advisor on estimation of expenditures.
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Page  6
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Erkindik Boulevard, 58
Bishkek 720874 
Kyrgyz Republic
Telex:
245156 NUR KH
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
By /s/ Baktybek Abdrissaev
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  as Administrator of the interim trust fund established
  with funds contributed by certain members of 
  International Development Association pursuant to
  Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
  International Development Association
By /s/ Kadir T. Yurukoglu
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Page  7
Excluded Expenditures 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund Credit shall not be used to finance the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank, the Association 
or the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank, the 
Association or the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to finance under 
another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Administrator by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   --
Alcoholic beverages
121
   --
Tobacco, unmanufactured, 
tobacco refuse
122
   --
Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
   --
Radioactive and
associated materials
667
   --
Pearls, precious and
semi-precious stones, unworked 
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated 
for nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
 
897 
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems)
971
   --
Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a Participating 
Country, or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) 
on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such 
Page  8
payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Administrator determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit during the procurement or 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has amended the law on the principles of the Borrower’s budget, in 
a manner satisfactory to the Administrator.
2.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Administrator that the 
Borrower’s budget plan for fiscal year 1998: (i) has been prepared on the basis of a 
medium-term financial plan, satisfactory to the Administrator, and expenditure 
ceilings consistent with such plan; (ii) includes expenditure appropriations to the 
spending units; and (iii) covers all investment projects implemented by the Borrower’s 
agencies or financed under the budget.
3.
The Borrower has adopted a double-entry accounting system for the Social Funds 
and has prepared: (i) monthly financial accounts and reports for the last three (3) 
months; and (ii) an operational manual.
4.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Administrator that two 
(2) quarterly reviews of the Borrower’s budget have been completed, according to 
criteria agreed with the Administrator. 
5.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Administrator that for at 
least six (6) months: (i) a system of warrants to spending units has been implemented; 
and (ii) the Borrower has complied with the indicators for fiscal performance agreed 
with the Administrator. 
6.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Administrator that: (i) 
the Borrower has established a clear division of audit responsibility among the 
Chamber of Accounts, the Borrower’s State Financial Inspectorate, and the internal 
audit unit of the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; (ii) the Chamber of Accounts has 
made public, on a quarterly basis, the results of all audits that it has carried out 
in the last three quarters; and (iii) the Borrower’s Government has submitted to the 
Borrower’s Parliament the annual statements on the execution of the budget for fiscal 
year 1996, together with the audit report of the Chamber of Accounts on these 
statements.  
7.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Administrator that it has 
audited: (i) the treasury system of the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; and (ii) the 
budget of all six (6) of the Borrower’s oblasts and the City of Bishkek.
8.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Administrator that: (i) 
all the necessary rules and procedures relating to the Agency for Public Procurement 
have been adopted and are in force; and (ii) the Borrower has prepared standard 
bidding documents for works and goods, in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator.
9.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence to the Administrator that the 
intergovernmental tax sharing and transfer system, provided for in the Borrower’s 
budget for fiscal year 1997, has been implemented and reflected in the Borrower’s 
budget plan for fiscal year 1998, in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator.
10.
The Borrower has: (i) prepared a plan, satisfactory to the Administrator, for 
assuming the cost of the essential social and other non-production related services to 
be financed by the public sector; and (ii) has included the cost of such services in 
the Borrower’s budget plan for fiscal year 1998.
Page  9
