                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                          <Date>
                                                                             Report No.: AB6854
                                              (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


Operation Name                     BJ- Poverty Reduction Support Grant - PRSC 7 (new series)
Region                             AFRICA
Country                            Benin
Sector                             Central government administration (60%);General
                                   agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (20%);Public
                                   administration- Industry and trade (20%)
Operation ID                       P122803
Lending Instrument                 Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                        THE GOVERNMENT OF BENIN
Implementing Agency                INISTRY OF FINANCE
Date PID Prepared                  November 2, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal        October 31, 2011
Estimated Date of Board            December 8, 2011
Approval
Corporate Review Decision          Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                   proceed with the preparation of the operation.
Other Decision {Optional}          Teams can add more if they wish or delete this row if no
                                   other decisions are added

I.     Country and Sector Background

       The reforms supported by this PRSG are closely aligned with Benin's Third Strategy for
Growth and Poverty Reduction (SCRP (2011-2015)). This proposed grant is an integral part of
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for 2009-2012, presented to the IDA Board in February
2009, and leverages and complements other Bank operations in Benin.

        As Benin embarks on the implementation of a new SCRP, the country is at a challenging
juncture. A succession of external and internal shocks has seriously affected the country’s
economic growth and public finances and has possibly reversed earlier gains in poverty
reduction. These shocks started with the food and fuel price crises, continued through the 2009
global economic crisis, were exacerbated by a Ponzi scheme scandal in the microfinance sub-
sector, and culminated in a devastating flood in the final quarter of 2010.

        As a result, after several recent years of steadily improving GDP growth (rising from 2.9
percent in 2005 to 5.0 percent in 2008) growth slowed to 2.7 percent in 2009, 2.6 percent in 2010
and is estimated at 3.8 percent in 2011. The weaker performance in 2009 and 2010, excluding
the flood impact, largely stems from: weaker global demand for exports, particularly in 2009; a
decrease in re-export trade, primarily to Nigeria; lower foreign direct investment; lower public
investment; a domestic financial scandal; and, lower cotton production. The global economic
crisis has unambiguously resulted in a significant economic slowdown and a widening of the
fiscal and current account deficits. As such, recent economic developments in Benin over the
past two years, as elsewhere, are largely a result of the impact of a series of crises and resultant
responses.

         The economy remains heavily dependent on cotton and transit/re-export trade, both of
which suffer from serious vulnerabilities. Cotton is Benin’s largest single official export,
representing typically 25 – 40 percent of annual exports. Regional re-export and transit trade is
the other mainstay of the economy (much of it informal), accounting for 20 percent of GDP and
25 percent of government revenues. The recent global economic crisis highlighted Benin’s
vulnerability in this regard, as trade through Benin destined for and coming from neighboring
countries slowed. This is estimated to have reduced GDP growth in Benin by approximately 2
percentage points and significantly affected fiscal revenues. The Nigerian response to the food,
fuel and global economic crises in 2008/09 had the greatest effect, as transit/re-export trade in
Benin is largely based on arbitrage opportunities between Benin and Nigeria. Reduction in
tariffs and the removal of quotas and bans on certain imported goods in Nigeria reduced these
arbitrage opportunities and affected transit and re-export trade.

        The failure to rebound more strongly in 2010 and 2011 is due to the prolonged weakness
in global markets and the necessary withdrawal of the fiscal stimulus in order to address
mounting revenue and budgetary pressures. This recent deceleration of growth, largely due to
difficulties in the cotton and re-export sectors, highlights the urgency of deepening reforms to
diversify the economy and expand the productive base

       It is in this challenging context that this PRSG aims to assist the Government in
continuing and strengthening the implementation of its reform agenda to support the country's
economic recovery and lay the foundation for sustained pro-poor growth, including by
encouraging a more diversified, resilient and dynamic economy for the years to come.

II.    Operation Objectives

       The tier one development objective of the new PRSG-7, in line with Benin’s SCRP
(2011-2015), is to accelerate real economic growth and reduce the incidence of poverty in Benin
through focusing on the following two tier-two development objectives or pillars:

        Strengthened public sector management, administration and policy making through
meaningful public financial management, civil service, decentralization, taxation, customs and
structural reforms; in order to,

      Deliver more effective public services in the pursuit of enhanced private sector
competitiveness and greater economic diversification.

       More specifically, these efforts, including prior actions and triggers, will be organized as
follows:

PILLAR 1: Public Financial Management and Public Administration
     Budget Planning and Execution
     Procurement
       Civil Service Reform
       Decentralization

PILLAR 2: Private Sector Competitiveness and Economic Diversification
     Transport, Port and Customs Reform
     Business Enabling Environment
     Agricultural Diversification and Cotton Sector Reform}

III.   Rationale for Bank Involvement

        This PRSG is in the amount of SDR [ ] (US$30 million) and is designed to support
implementation of the Government's poverty reduction strategy by providing focused support in
improving public sector policy and public administration (budget reform, procurement reform,
internal control and external audit, civil service reform, decentralization, structural reforms) in
order to strengthen and make more effective government efforts to deliver services and enhance
private sector competitiveness.

       The reforms supported are closely aligned with Benin's Third Strategy for Growth and
Poverty Reduction (SCRP (2011-2015)). This proposed grant is an integral part of the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy for 2009-2012, presented to the IDA Board in February 2009, and
leverages and complements other Bank operations in Benin.

        As Benin embarks on the implementation of a new SCRP, the country is at a challenging
juncture. A succession of external and internal shocks has taken a toll on Benin's open economy.
These have seriously affected the country's economic growth and public finances and have
possibly reversed earlier gains in poverty reduction. These shocks started with the food and fuel
price crises, continued through the 2009 global economic crisis, were exacerbated by a Ponzi
scheme scandal in the microfinance sub-sector, and culminated in a devastating flood in the final
quarter of 2010.

         Despite a long period of positive economic growth, the economy has shown little
structural change, limited diversification, an unambitious export drive beyond cotton and the re-
export/transit trade, and minimal job creation in the formal private sector. The new SCRP
(2011-2015) aims to address these challenges and builds on measures initiated during SCRP II in
the pursuit of these goals.
It is in this challenging context that this PRSG aims to assist the Government in continuing and
strengthening the implementation of its reform agenda to support the country's economic
recovery and lay the foundation for sustained pro-poor growth, including by encouraging a more
diversified, resilient and dynamic economy.

        The Country Assistance Strategy for Benin notes the use of PRSCs as a key IDA
instrument for supporting Benin's Poverty Reduction Strategy (SCRP). In particular, the PRSG
will continue to be the key instrument for the Bank's dialogue with Government and
development partners on policy issues. The strategic objectives in the CAS are structured around
three key pillars: (i) strengthening competitiveness and accelerating private sector-led growth;
(ii) improving access to basic services; and (iii) promoting better governance and strengthening
institutional capacities. The current PRSG objectives are directly in line with the CAS objectives,
particularly objectives (i) and (iii) noted immediately above.

        The link to the Bank’s Strategy for Africa is clear and direct. The strategy identifies
governance and public sector capacity as its foundation and notes: “. . . underlying Africa’s many
development problems is the challenge of governance and political leadership. Competitiveness
is constrained by restrictive business regulations that are difficult to remove because of vested
interests. Infrastructure—often considered another binding constraint—is itself impeded by poor
public investment choices, weak budget management, corrupt or lethargic procurement practices,
inefficient public utilities, and regulations that prohibit entry into the trucking industry or keep
electricity tariffs below sustainable levels.? This PRSG focuses directly on governance issues in
these very areas (budget management and procurement) while also fostering increased
competitiveness through agricultural diversification, strengthening of the business climate, and
through reforms in the port and transport sectors.

IV.    Tentative financing

Source:                                                                               ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                        0
International Development Association (IDA)                                             30
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
Total                                                                                   30

V.     Tranches (if applicable)

                                                                                      ($m.)
First Tranche
Second Tranche
Etc.
Total


VI.    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

       The proposed operation would consist of a single tranche grant of SDR [ ] million
(US$30 million equivalent) to be available upon effectiveness and disbursed on the basis of a
withdrawal application. The borrower is the Republic of Benin, represented by the Ministry of
Economy and Finance. The proposed operation would follow IDA's disbursement procedures
for development policy operations and would not be linked to specific purchases. Once the grant
becomes effective, the proceeds will be deposited by IDA into a dedicated account at the Central
Bank which forms part of the country's foreign exchange reserves. The borrower shall ensure
that upon the deposit of the credit into said account, an equivalent amount is credited in the
borrower's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. Based on previous
experience, the execution of such transaction from the Central Bank to the Treasury (Ministry of
Economy and Finance) does not require more than four days. The borrower will report to the
Bank on the amounts deposited in the foreign currency account and credit in local currency to the
budget management system. Assuming that the withdrawal request is in foreign exchange, the
equivalent amount in CFAF reported in the budgetary system will be based on the market rate at
the date of the transfer. The borrower will promptly notify the Bank by fax or email that such
transfer has taken place, and that proceeds have been credited in a manner satisfactory to· the
Bank. The proceeds of the credit will not be used to finance expenditures excluded under the
Agreement. The closing date of the operation will be June 30, 2012. The dedicated deposit
accounts could be audited on terms of reference acceptable to IDA.

VII.   Risks and Risk Mitigation

         Risks facing this operation include: (i) downside risks to the macroeconomic framework;
(ii) political risk and weakening consensus for structural reforms; and, (iii) weak implementation
capacity.

        These risks are mitigated by direct measures and actions proposed in this operation to
further the reform agenda, strengthen public finance management, promote civil service reform
and support increased competitiveness and an improved investment climate, thus contributing to
a sound and increasingly stable macroeconomic framework. Also, the IMF and the Bank are
working closely together in Benin, together with other donors, and will continue to closely
monitor the Government's macroeconomic performance. Furthermore, IDA is supporting
engagement with domestic stakeholders, including the National Assembly, sectoral ministries
and civil society in order to build and reinforce consensus around key reforms as well as leverage
the dissemination of AAA and ESW work as a means to increase knowledge on the broad
advantages to be gained through structural reforms of national importance. Increased public
awareness of necessary reforms and an appreciation of the challenges are important in building
consensus and in garnering broad support for reforms. In terms of implementation capacity,
elements related to capacity building and civil service reform have been incorporated in this
operation and several complementary Bank investment activities are helping to build institutional
capacity in key areas.

VIII. Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts

       The proposed PRSG-7 is expected to have a significant positive direct impact on poverty
reduction. The strengthening of public sector management is expected to enhance the efficiency
and effectiveness of public resources not only in the direct pursuit of increasing economic
performance and economic diversification, but also in the delivery of development and social
services. It should be noted that equitable development is an explicit objective of the SCRP III,
and the PRSG-7 supports it through improving public sector management including components
emphasizing access to basic services at the decentralized level. Components are clearly aimed at
improving access and quality of services delivered to the poor through improved performance of
relevant ministries, improved efficiency of resource utilization and improved priority
expenditure identification and tracking. Results of the poverty assessment currently being
undertaken and the recent PER will allow for more refined analysis and tracking of the impact of
social service spending (see CAS Report No. 46485-BJ) and better targeting of measures and
actions as we proceed to PRSC-8 and 9.

Environment Aspects

        The activities supported by the proposed operation are not likely to have significant
negative environmental effects. Given that the operation is primarily focused on public financial
management reforms, there are little direct environmental implications. Any potential
environmental effects associated with the proposed PRSG-7 would be mainly related to the
agriculture and energy sectors, though even here the nature of the reforms supported give rise to
no obvious environmental concerns. The environmental assessment of potential impacts under
this operation will be informed by environmental and social analysis conducted for other Bank
operations as well as the capacity of national and local public sector agencies to manage the
environmental and social issues facing Benin. Furthermore, support for Benin's environmental
compliance is provided by environmental management activities in several IDA investment
projects in the sectors of energy, forestry, infrastructure and agriculture, among others.

IX.     Contact point
World Bank
Contact: David Cal MacWilliam
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: (202) 473-8137
Fax:
Email: cmacwilliam@worldbank.org

Borrower
Contact: Mohammed Gado
Title: Secretaire Technique -- CSPEF
Tel: 21 30 02 17
Email: gadsoon@hotmail.com

X.     For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
