                                        CONFORMED COPY




                                      GRANT NUMBER H748-BJ




Financing Agreement
   (Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Grant)



                   between



            REPUBLIC OF BENIN



                     and



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




           Dated September 21, 2011
                                                            GRANT NUMBER H748-BJ

                             FINANCING AGREEMENT

         AGREEMENT dated September 21, 2011, entered into between the REPUBLIC
OF BENIN (“Recipient?) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (“Association?) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to
        nineteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,000,000) (“Financing?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
        Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

2.05.   The Payment Currency is Euro.
                                           -2-



                             ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.    The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
         To this end:

         (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
                 of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                 framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
                 the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

         (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                 Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
                 achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
                 shall reasonably request; and

         (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                 Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
                 situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
                 of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
                 action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

               ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.    The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely a situation
         has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part
         of it, will be carried out.

                ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.    The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely the
         Association is satisfied with: (i) the progress achieved by the Recipient in
         carrying out the Program, and (ii) the adequacy of the Recipient’s
         macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.    The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
         date of this Agreement.

                ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6. 01.   The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister responsible for
         finance.

6.02.    The Recipient’s Address is:

                 Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances
                 B.P. 302
                                          -3-



               Cotonou
               Republic of Benin

               Cable address:           Telex:               Facsimile:

               MINFINANCES              5009 MINFIN or     (229) 21 30 18 51
               Cotonou                  5289 CAA           (229) 21 31 53 56

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

               International Development Association
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Cable address:           Telex:               Facsimile:

               INDEVAS                  248423(MCI)          1-202-477-6391

               Washington, D.C.

         AGREED at Washington D.C., United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.



                                REPUBLIC OF BENIN




                                By: /s/ Cyrille S. Oguin
                                                           Authorized Representative



                                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                By: /s/ Madani Tall
                                                           Authorized Representative
                                          -4-



                                     SCHEDULE 1

                  Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.       Actions Taken under the Program

        The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:

             PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION

Budget Planning and Execution

1.      The revised LOLF, in line with the West African Economic and Monetary
        Union(WAEMU) Directive 06/2009 concerning, inter alia, public finance and
        budget content, presentation, preparation, adoption, execution, and control, has
        been submitted to the Recipient’s Supreme Court.

2.      The Recipient’s public expenditure chain has been reinforced by establishing a
        real-time satellite connection between the Recipient’s central agencies and their
        deconcentrated units for the reporting of fiscal (SIGFIP) and accounting
        (ASTER) data.

Public Procurement

3.      The Recipient has consistently published weekly results of public procurement
        processes as from May 2011.

4.      The following presidential decrees implementing the Procurement Code have
        been adopted:

        (i)      decree No. 2010-494 dated November 26, 2010, determining the
                 responsibilities, the organization and the operation of the Regulatory
                 Authority for public procurement;

        (ii)     decree No. 2010-495 dated November 26, 2010, determining the
                 responsibilities, the organization and the operation of the National
                 Directorate of public procurement monitoring;

        (iii)    decree No, 2010-496 dated November 26, 2010, determining the
                 responsibilities, the organization and the operation of the public
                 procurement officer, the public procurement commissions and the
                 control panels for public procurement;

        (iv)     decree No. 2011-478 dated July 8, 2011, adopting the code of ethics and
                 values in public procurement;
                                          -5-



        (v)     decree No. 2011-479 dated July 8, 2011, defining the level of authority
                and contracting thresholds for public procurement; and

        (vi)    decree No. 2011-480 dated July 8, 2011, defining the procedure for the
                elaboration of the public procurement planning process.

Decentralization

5.      The Recipient has completed technical audits with respect to the FADEC
        resources for the years 2008-2009 within the Recipient’s 77 communes.

Civil Service Reform

6.      The Recipient has adopted the Public Service Code of Values and Ethics for the
        Public Service.

Public Sector Governance

7.      The Recipient has adopted and promulgated the Anti-Corruption Law.

        PRIVATE SECTOR COMPETITIVENESS AND ECONOMIC DIVERSIFICATION

Transport, Port and Customs Reform

8.      The Recipient has entered into the Electronic Truck Traffic Management System
        Contract.

9.      The Recipient has adopted the New Generation Import Verification Program
        Measures.

Business Enabling Environment

10.     The Recipient has adopted and promulgated the Code on Civil, Commercial and
        Administrative Judicial Procedures.

Agricultural Diversification and Cotton Sector Reform

11.     The Recipient has adopted the PSRSA.

Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
        accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
        the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.
                                        -6-



B.   Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
     withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the
     Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out
     in the table below:

                Allocations                   Amount of the Financing Allocated
                                                    (expressed in SDR)
      (1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                      19,000,000
      TOTAL AMOUNT                                       19,000,000

C.   Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

1.   No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
     Association is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient,
     and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
     framework.

D.   Deposits of Financing Amounts

1.   The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request
     for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain a dedicated
     deposit account (“Dedicated Account?) on terms and conditions satisfactory to
     the Bank.

2.   The Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing
     into the Dedicated Account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
     Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
     Association.

E.   Audit. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall:

1.   have the Dedicated Account audited by the Recipient’s Chamber of Accounts
     (Chambres des Comptes) (or such other independent auditors acceptable to the
     Association), in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
     acceptable to the Association;

2.   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
     four(4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a
     certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the
     Association shall reasonably request; and

3.   furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Dedicated
     Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request.
                                      -7-



F.   Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
     determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a
     payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
     from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
     the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
     cancelled.

G.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2012.
                                          -8-



                                      APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.      “Anti-corruption Law? means the Recipient Law No. 2011-20 dated October 12,
        2011 (Loi portant lutte contre la corruption et autres infractions connexes en
        République du Bénin), which, inter alia, aims to prevent and combat corruption
        and other related practices.

2.      “Autonomous Port of Cotonou? means the Recipient’s public company
        established by the Recipient law No. 64-39, dated December 31, 1964, and
        reorganized by the Recipient Ordonnance Number 76-55, dated October 11, 1976
        as amended thereof.

3.      “ASTER? means a computer-based accounting system.

4.      “Code on Civil, Commercial and Administrative Judicial Procedures? means the
        Recipient’s code under law No. 2008-07 dated February 28, 2011 (Loi portant
        code de procedure civile, commercial, sociale, administrative et des comptes)
        which, inter alia, streamlines the judicial process and introduces stricter
        deadlines for the delivery of judicial decisions.

5.      “Dedicated Account? means the dedicated deposit account referred to in
        Section I.D.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

6.      “Electronic Truck Traffic Management System Contract? means: (i) the contract
        dated May 22, 2010 between the Recipient, through its Ministry of Maritime
        Economy, Maritime Transportation and Port Infrastructure, and Sequest
        Technologies; and (ii) the contract dated May 29, 2010 between the Autonomous
        Port of Cotonou and Sequest Technologies, both in respect, inter alia, of an
        electronic truck traffic management system for the Port of Cotonou.

7.      “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

        (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
                international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
                the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
                the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
                loan;

        (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
                International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
                by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
                (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
                revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
                Recipient:
                               -9-




               Group           Sub-group            Description of Item
               112                                  Alcoholic beverages
               121                                  Tobacco, un-
                                                    manufactured, tobacco
                                                    refuse
               122                                  Tobacco, manufactured
                                                    (whether or not containing
                                                    tobacco substitutes)
               525                                  Radioactive and associated
                                                    materials
               667                                  Pearls, precious and
                                                    semiprecious stones,
                                                    unworked or worked
               718             718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                    thereof; fuel elements
                                                    (cartridges), non-
                                                    irradiated, for nuclear
                                                    reactors
               728             728.43               Tobacco processing
                                                    machinery
               897             897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                    platinum group metals
                                                    (except watches and watch
                                                    cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                    silversmiths’ wares
                                                    (including set gems)
               971                                  Gold, non-monetary
                                                    (excluding gold ores and
                                                    concentrates)

(c)   for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
      consumption;

(d)   for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
      which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
      agreements to which the Recipient is a party;

(e)   on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
      Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
      United Nations; and
                                        - 10 -



      (f)     with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
              collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
              Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
              Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
              action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
              occur.

8.    “FADEC? means the Recipient’s Communal Development Support Fund ( Fonds
      d’Appui pour le Développement des Communes).

9.    “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association
      General Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 31, 2010 with the
      modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

10.   “LOLF? means the Recipient’s draft Organic Budget Law (Avant-projet de loi
      organique relative aux lois de finances).

11.   “New Generation Import Verification Program Measures? means the following
      measures: (i) the contract between the Recipient, through its Ministry of
      Maritime Economy, Maritime Transportation and Port Infrastructure, its Ministry
      of Economy and Finance and its Ministry of Planning, Development, Evaluation
      and Coordination, on the one hand, and Société Bénin Control SA, on the other
      hand, dated February 2, 2011 for the installation of scanners, a system for the
      electronic tracing of products in transit and the certification of weight and value
      of terrestrial imports and imports from the Port of Cotonou; (ii) the presidential
      decree No. 2011-106 of March 22, 2011 on the establishment of a new
      generation import verification program; and (iii) the inter-ministerial decision
      No. 161/MEF/MPDEPP-CAG/MDCEMTMIP for the implementation of said
      decree.

12.   “PSRSA? means the Recipient’s Strategic Plan for Reform of the Agriculture
      Sector dated August 2011(Plan Stratégique du Secteur Agricole) and adopted by
      the Recipient’s cabinet on October 12, 2011.

13.   “Procurement Code? means the Recipient’s code for public procurement under
      law No. 2009-02 dated August 7, 2009.

14.   “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
      promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
      referred to in the letter dated October 28, 2011 from the Recipient to the
      Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the
      Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the
      Program during its execution.
                                         - 11 -



15.    “Public Service Code of Values and Ethics for the Public Service? means the
       Recipient’s code of values and ethics for the public service adopted by the
       presidential decree No. 2008-813 of December 31, 2008.

16.    “SIGFIP? means an Integrated Computer-based Budget Management System
       (Système Intégré de Gestion des Finances Publiques).

17.    “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
       category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of
       Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

       The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
       Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
       in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
       accordingly.

3.     Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
       Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
       Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

4.     Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
       and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.     Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
       above) is modified to read as follows:

               “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

               …       (c)      The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
               under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient
               shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.?

6.     Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
       read as follows:

               “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
                                     - 12 -



            …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
            Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
            reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
            the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
            the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
            Financing.?

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Financing Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the
            Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
            modified to read as follows:

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
            support of which the Financing is made.? All references to “Project?
            throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
            “Program?.
