Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15315
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1707-BA)
JANUARY 31, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Officie
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Kyats (K)
Kyats (K) 8.10 = U SS 1.00 (at negotiations April 1986)
Kyats (K) 5.52   =  US$1.00 (at ICR stage June 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I basket paddy   =  20.9 kg
I kilogram (kg)  =  2.20 pounds
I metric ton (ton) = 1,000 kg = .98 long ton
I meter (m)    =  1.09 yards
I hectare (ha)    =   .47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
Nyanimar: April 1 to March 31
IDA: July I to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS A-ND ACRONYMIS
ADB        -  Asian Development Bank
AFPTC      -  Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation
CC         -  Construction Corporation
EPC        -  Electric Power Corporation
EPEF       -  Export Price Equalization Fund
ERR        -  Economic Rate of Return
FRR        -  Financial Rate of Return
GOM        -  Governrnent of Myanrmar
H1NV       -  High Yielding Varieties
K          -  Kyats
M          -  Nlillion
MiAP T     -  Myanmar Agricultural Produce Trading
MIEB       -  Myanma Economic Bank
MED        -  Milling Engineering Department
MEIC       -  MIyanma Export Import Corporation
PCC        -  Project Coordination Committee
PIU        -  Project Implementation Unit
P1TAC      -  Post-harvest Technology Application Center
RTF        -  Rehabilitation Task Force
SDC        -  Swiss Development Cooperation
SEE        -  State Economic Enterprise
TC         -  Timber Corporation
tpd        -  Tons per day
tph        -  Tons per hour
UNDP       -  United Nations Deveiopment Program
WTP        -  Whole Township Program
GLOSSARY
Broken rice =  grain less than .8 of full kemel length
Head rice   =  full rice (i.e., grain equal to or more than
.8 of full kemel length) plus broken rice as
per specifications
M4illing grade=  percent content of broken in head rice



- iii-                                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1707-BA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...........................................................                                                                                                              iv
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................................v
Introduction ...........................................................v
Project Objectives ............................................................v
Implementation Experience and Results ............................................................v
Future  Operations, and  Key  Lessons  Learned ...........................................................                                                                 vii
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ............................................................I
A. OBJECTIVES ............................................................I
Project Objectives ...........................................................                                                                                               lI
Project Components ............................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .............................................................
Rehabilitation ............................................................3
Reprocessing ............................................................3
Technical Assistance ............................................................3
Training ............................................................4
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .............................................                                                                    4
Rehabilitation ............................................................4
Reprocessing ............................................................5
D.  PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY  ............................................................6
E.  IDA   PERFORMANCE ............................................................6
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ............................................................7
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ............................................................7
Rehabilitation ............................................................7
Reprocessing ............................................................8
Training ............................................................8
H.  FUTURE  OPERATIONS ............................................................9
Rehabilitation ............................................................9
Reprocessing ............................................................9
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ............................................................9
PART 11. STATISTICAL ANNEXES ........................................................... II
APPENDICES ...........................................................                                                                                                          23
MAP IBRD 1826IR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






- iv -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1707-BA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Grain Storage and
Processing Project in Myanmar, for which Credit 1707-BA in the amount of SDR 26.4
million equivalent was approved on May 29, 1986 and made effective on December 15,
1986.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1995. Final disbursement took place on March
20, 1995 but balances of US$458,319.54 and US$104,230.34 (as of January 18, 1996)
need to be refunded in the IDA and Swiss Development Cooperation Special Accounts.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by UNDP and the Government of the Swiss
Confederation (Switzerland) through the Agency of the SDC. Subsequent cancellation of
the remaining balances of the IDA and SDC accounts would be finalized after the special
account refunds have been received.
The ICR was prepared by the staff of EA 1AE of the Region (based on a first draft
prepared by the borrower and consultants) and reviewed by Jeffrey Gutman, Division
Chief. The cofinanciers provided comments that are included as appendices to the ICR.
The Borrower advised by telex, "we have no comments on your Draft Implementation
Completion Report". Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final
supervision/completion mission, June, 1995.






- v -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1707-BA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    A Development Credit Agreement (Credit 1707-BA) was entered into between the
Union of Burma (renamed Myanmar in 1989) and the International Development Association
(IDA) in June, 1986 to finance the Grain Storage and Processing Project. The Government
onlent the credit to the Agricultural and Farm Produce Trading Corporation (AFPTC), the
name of which was changed in 1989 to Myanmar Agricultural Produce Trading (MAPT), as
the implementing agency.
2.    IDA lending to Myanmar began in 1973, and since then 26 Credits totaling US$676
million (net of cancellations) had been made. More than half of IDA assistance, or US$386
million, had been for development of the agricultural sector, reflecting the Government's
prioritization of that sector. The 16 agricultural development projects included the Grain
Storage Project (Cr.1092-BA). approved in 1981, which was intended to help overcome
post-harvest constraints affecting public sector procurement and grain handling. The main
component of that Project was the construction of 100,000 tons of storage facilities for paddy
to be integrated at 20 sites with rice mills financed under separate Asian Development Bank
(ADB) loans and Japanese aid.
Project Objectives
3.    The main objectives of this Grain Storage and Processing Project (Grain Storage II)
were (building on the foundations of the earlier project) to increase the foreign exchange
earnings from the rice sector by improving the quality of export rice, to reduce the projected
national rice milling deficit by increasing capacity and reducing storage losses, and to
establish an institutional capability for a mill rehabilitation program for private sector rice
mills.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The objectives of the project were clear and realistic. The design was conceptually
sound as it incorporated the lessons learnt from implementation of the earlier project. The
project became effective on December 15, 1986. Implementation proceeded smoothly until a
radical change liberalizing grain procurement and trade in August 1987, combined with
political disturbances in mid-1988 brought implementation to a halt. Following liberalization,



- vi -
the role of MAPT in processing and marketing rice decreased significantly, except for exports
which continued to be handled exclusively by MAPT.
5.    As a consequence it was necessary to reduce the scope of the project and the
components involving construction of MAPT rice mills and associated storage were deleted
from the project. The remaining components were (i) rehabilitation of about 120 private rice
mills, (ii) construct a MAPT reprocessing plant, and (iii) technical assistance and training.
6.    The plan was to rehabilitate the 120 mills in three groups of 18, 49 and 53. The first
group was completed in March 1993. The second group was identified and tenders were
invited for the supply and installation of the equipment. But, problems arose in finding a
suitable solution for repayment of the loans by the first group of private mills. As a
consequence all 49 millers in the second group eventually withdrew from the project. The
materials and equipment which were purchased for the second group will be used by MAPT
to renovate older mills and/or sold to any interested private millers. Arrangements for
rehabilitating the third group of 53 mills were suspended.
7.    The renovation of the 18 mills completed under the project can be considered a
technical success as the required technical criteria have been achieved in all cases. However,
serious questions arise about the economic feasibility of these mills unless they are allowed to
export rice and earn foreign exchange on their own account.
8.    The reprocessing plant was completed in February 1995 and has been operating
successfully, producing a milling out-turn of brown rice about 5 percent above average.
9.    The training program was completed successfully but its impact has been
compromised due to departures or transfer of staff.
10.   Project costs amounted to US$26.3 million as against the appraisal estimate of
US$79.9 million. The large shortfall is due to the cancellation of the 6 MAPT rice mills
with associated storage and the reduction in the number of mills rehabilitated from 120 to
only 18. SDR 7.79 million (29.5 % of the IDA credit) was disbursed. US$3.67 million
was disbursed under the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) grant.I The costs of mill
rehabilitation and the rice grading and mixing plant were grossly underestimated. A reduced
UNDP grant of US$1.866 million for Training and Technical Assistance was fully disbursed.
11.   IDA performance throughout the project cycle was satisfactory. A total of 17
missions were undertaken during implementation. Despite the political turmoil and changed
economic environment IDA remained supportive and tried to assist the Borrower in finding
solutions to the problems affecting implementation. There was adequate coordination with
the co-financiers. Borrower performance was generally satisfactory in complying with the
major legal covenants, but the inability of private rice millers to export rice and earn foreign
exchange resulted in the failure of the rehabilitation program.
I  Balances of US$458,319.54 and US$104,230.34 need to be refunded in the IDA and SDC Special Accounts.



- vii -
Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.   Changes in Government policy and the proliferation of small mills and hullers has put
the Myanmar rice industry in a state of disarray. While registered private mills and
government mills are working well below capacity, the Government is planning to construct
more large mills while encouraging operation of the unregistered small mills.
13.   Future operations of the mills which were rehabilitated under the project will be
limited unless means are found to enable millers to repay their loans in a satisfactory manner
and working capital is available either through MAPT or through the Myanmar banking
system, the preferred method. The Reprocessing Plant has been successfully completed. It
has fulfilled its objectives by producing rice out-turns above the average and it has impressed
buyers with the consistency of its output. The Reprocessing Plant will be handed over from
the Project Department to the Handling Department of MAPT for future operation. However,
the long term viability is in doubt due to lack of finance for imported spare parts.
14.   The skills gained by MAPT engineers can be used to renovate older MAPT mills and
to improve their exhaust systems, but a deliberate attempt needs to be made by management
to retain experienced staff and to disseminate their skills within the organization or to
actively promote the development of private sector engineering services.
15.   The major lessons learned from implementation of the project are as follows:
(i)    Since MAPT is a virtual competitor of the private mills in the milling and
marketing of rice, it would have been prudent to select some other agency to
implement and manage the project. This would avoid potential conflicts of
interest and arousal of suspicions or lack of confidence by the private millers,
particularly where sensitive financial information needs to be disclosed.
(ii)   The loans to the private millers should have been on-lent through a proper
financial institution such as the Myanmar Economic Bank so that
rehabilitation loans could be consolidated with working capital loans to
enable the private mills to obtain working capital to operate successfully.
(iii)   Partial market liberalization has distorted market conditions further and has
exacerbated the problems in the sector. Private millers earn no premium for
quality rice through domestic sales and they are not allowed to export to earn
foreign exchange, thus making investment in imported machinery and
equipment unprofitable.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1707-BA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. OBJECTIVES
Project Objectives
1.    The major objectives of the project, to be implemented by Myanma Agricultural
Produce Trading (MAPT) over a nine-year period, were to increase export earnings from
the rice sector, reduce the projected national rice milling deficit, and establish an
institutional capability for a long-term mill rehabilitation program.
2.    Export earnings would be increased through an investment program aimed at
improving the quality and grade composition of milled rice and reducing losses during
grain storage. A reduction in the national milling deficit would be accomplished through
construction of new rice mills and the upgrading and expansion of existing rice mill
capacity. The investment program would support public sector investment and
rehabilitation of private mills. The proposed public-private sector mix recognized that
under Government policy, the public sector would control grain handling for exports
from the level of procurement of paddy to the docks. MAPT needed to upgrade its
export-oriented grain handling infrastructure to perform such control with the best
possible economic result. On the other hand, over 90 percent of MAPT milling needs
were met by private sector mills which were in urgent need of rehabilitation and
modernization. The project area consisted of the Ayeyarwaddy, Yangon and Bago
Divisions, including the Ayeyarwaddy Delta, the major rice surplus area in the country.
Project Components
3.    The project was comprised of five major components, (i) the construction of six
new electrically-powered rice mills by MAPT, each with a capacity of 33,000 tons per
year (tpy); (ii) the rehabilitation of about 120 MAPT-contracted private rice mills, with a
total milling capacity of about 580,000 tpy; (iii) construction of an MAPT grading and
mixing plant in the Yangon port area with a capacity of 74,000 tpy; (iv) construction of
84,000 tons of MAPT permanent storage facilities for paddy, 60,000 tons of which was to
be integrated with the six new rice mills; and (v) the development of technical assistance
services to assist MAPT project implementation. Efforts had been made in the past to
promote private investment in mill rehabilitation. Between 1978 and 1982, MAPT
administered a rehabilitation program under the ADB-financed Rice Processing Industries



-2-
Project, involving about 100 mills. This program was directed at keeping mills running,
and largely financed what should have been normal maintenance. Difficulties and delays
were experienced in program implementation which resulted from insufficient planning
of rehabilitation subprojects and procurement delays caused through numerous individual
tenders and cumbersome MAPT procurement procedures.
4.    Appropriate and early measures involving comprehensive rehabilitation were
needed to sustain private milling capacity and improve grades, more especially since
ongoing and planned new construction of MAPT rice mills were not expected to come
on-stream at a pace sufficient to offset an impending loss of private mill capacity
estimated at 1-2 percent per year. Some 900 mills had been identified provisionally by
MAPT to be in need of rehabilitation so that an efficient long-term program for private
mill rehabilitation was required. A key element of such a program was that millers
should have access not only to credit but also, more importantly, to essential imported
items.
5.    MAPT experienced considerable difficulty in supplying rice for export according
to contracted standards. Price cuts were imposed by buyers of Myanmar rice for failing
to meet specifications which affected over 40 percent of all rice exported. The greater
part of cuts and rejections were attributable to poor milling and excess brokens.
Simultaneously, because of a lack of proper grading, many shipments ended up having a
whole grain content higher than the specified limits. Myanmar therefore lost export
revenue as a result of price cuts and improper grading and also incurred extra costs of
double handling transport and remedial action necessary on the rejected quantities.
6.    Measures to modernize and rehabilitate rice mills would eventually enable better
grade uniformity and quality of rice leaving mills in procurement areas. However,
complementary to such measures, there was a need to enhance the capability at the point
of shipment for regrading, mixing and reconditioning milled rice stored at the export
terminal awaiting shipment. Such a capability, which was to be marketing rather than
production oriented, is valuable, particularly where planning of rice sales and shipment
need to be coordinated with production and transport from a large number of individual
small mills of varied milling standards.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIWES
7.    Project design was conceptually sound as it incorporated the lessons learnt from
implementation of an earlier project (Grain Storage Project -- Cr. 1092-BA). However,
severe economic and political factors intervened which delayed implementation and
frustrated achievement of the original objectives. Most important of all, Government has
changed its paddy procurement policies since 1987, to allow private domestic trading in
rice, thus significantly reducing the role of MAPT in processing and marketing rice,
except for exports which continued to be handled exclusively by MAPT.



-3-
8.    As a consequence of this change in policy items (i) and (iv) involving
construction of six MAPT rice mills and associated storage were deleted from the project.
Construction of item (iii), the rice grading and mixing plant was expanded to include the
milling of brown rice and it then became know as a Reprocessing Plant.
9.    The remaining components of the project were:
(i) rehabilitation of about 120 MAPT-contracted private rice mills;
(ii) construction of the MAPT reprocessing plant; and
(iii) development of technical assistance services to assist MAPT in project
implementation.
Rehabilitation
10.   The objective was to rehabilitate a total of 120 private rice mills in three groups of
18, 49 and 53. Rehabilitation of the first group of 18 mills was completed in March 1993.
The second group of 49 mills was identified and tenders were invited for supply and
installation of the equipment. However, problems arose in finding a suitable solution for
the repayment of loans by the first group. As a consequence, all 49 millers in the second
group withdrew from the project. The materials and equipment which were purchased for
this second group will be used by MAPT to renovate older mills and/or sold to any
interested private millers. Arrangements for rehabilitating the third group of 53 mills
were suspended. Renovation of the 18 mills completed under the project can be
considered a technical success as the required criteria have been achieved in all cases.
However, serious questions arise about the future feasibility of these private mills unless
they are allowed to export rice and earn foreign exchange on their own account.
Reprocessing
11.   The rice reprocessing plant was completed and began operations in February
1995. The plant is well constructed, adequately maintained and properly operated. It has
favorably impressed overseas rice buyers who have visited the plant since completion. At
commissioning output was in excess of 11,000 tons and there has been no rejections
because of the inferior quality. The mill will have a beneficial impact on buyer
confidence and should lessen the market discount usually attached to Myanmar rice.
Technical Assistance
12.   The technical assistance program was successful. The consultants assisted with
mill design, exhaust system development, mill inspections, preparation of bid documents,
evaluation of bids, staff training and general project implementation. They did an
excellent job.



-4-
Training
13.   The training program was partly successful. In-service training was provided to
develop the capability of MAPT staff to implement this and similar projects. Six MAPT
staff went on study tours accompanied by the consultants to inspect rice mills in Australia
and Thailand. Seven MAPT staff also went on short overseas fellowships to Kansas State
University. Two other candidates attended a 2 month rice processing technology course
in China. Nineteen staff members obtained Basic Computer Skills Certificates after
completing a 2-month training course in Yangon. Seventy-eight participants including
rice millers, operators and budget managers of private mills received training in
operation, repair and maintenance of rice mills at the MAPT Training School. Fifty-one
operators of the reprocessing plant were trained by supervisors of the company which
installed the reprocessing plant during installation, test-runs, and commissioning of the
reprocessing plant. However, the consultants felt that further overseas training was
necessary. They attempted to address the problem by providing on-the-job training.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Rehabilitation
14.   Project implementation was delayed because of a serious political upheaval in the
country in 1988. However, the most serious problem affecting implementation was
change in Government policy to allow domestic processing and marketing of rice while at
the same time preventing the private sector from exporting rice to earn foreign exchange
on its own account, particularly to repay the loan which was denominated in foreign
currency.
15.   Prior to decontrol of the paddy and rice trade, MAPT (then called AFPTC)
purchased 4 million tons of paddy annually, part of which was exported. Facilities to be
provided by the project were proposed accordingly. Following decontrol, MAPT was
expected to handle only about 1 million tons of paddy and the proposed 6 MAPT rice
mills and associated storage were therefore deleted from the project. Project costs were
grossly underestimated at appraisal as detailed estimates of the cost of rehabilitation of
private mills and construction of the reprocessing plant were not sufficiently advanced to
enable reasonable cost estimates to be made. Savings from the deleted items
supplemented financing of the remaining items.
16.   The rehabilitation of the private mills became even more important and it was
decided to rehabilitate the proposed 120 private mills in three groups of 18, 49 and 53.
Rehabilitation of the first group of 18 was completed in March 1993 and arrangements
were initiated to rehabilitate the second batch. However, problems arose in finding a
suitable formula for repaying the loans made to millers since the loan was denominated in
US dollars and millers were not allowed to export rice and eam foreign exchange on their
account. The private millers did milling on their own account and contract milling for
MAPT, farmers and traders and were paid in local currency. But an acceptable exchange



-5-
rate could not be found to convert the local currency into US dollars because of the wide
disparity between the official exchange rate for the US dollar and the prevailing market
rate. Government finally agreed that MAPT could grant quotas to private mills to supply
MAPT with rice which MAPT would export on behalf of private millers. MAPT would
then retain 70 percent of the proceeds for loan repayment. The millers, however, had
difficulty in obtaining working capital since MAPT had a lien on their mills and MAPT
did not provide working capital.
17.   To further complicate the issue, subsequent legalization of previously illegal
village mills and hullers have effectively prevented the registered mills from obtaining
sufficient paddy to operate economically. Government is now producing small 5 ton per
day mills for sale and is planning to build new large scale mills whilst the project mills
are operating below 50 per cent capacity.
18.   MAPT is also more actively engaged in processing on its own account thus
reducing the extent to which it relies on the processing by the private mills. Besides all
this, the processing fee MAPT pays to millers is too low for the private mills to operate
profitably.
19.   The millers agree that the mills were rehabilitated satisfactorily, particularly that
the new machines have better adjustment capabilities than the old ones especially with
the inclusion of effective exhaust systems. The mills now have the advantage of being
capable of producing the highest grades of rice but this is considered to be of little benefit
when the mills are not operating.
20.   The size of the debt, reduced opportunities for milling and the inability to earn
foreign exchange to repay the loan have resulted in two mills already being surrendered
to MAPT. Millers are anxious to repay the loans by operating their mills rather than by
liquidation of other assets but so far they are not given the opportunity to do this.
Reprocessing
21.   There were no major problems in constructing the rice reprocessing plant. The
plant is well constructed. It is felt, however, that the design of the reprocessing plant can
be improved in several areas. The outloading area is highly congested and should be
much larger. The ideal solution would be to relocate the bagging bins in another building
separate from the mill and connected by overhead conveyors. Access within the bran
room could be improved by providing a walkway at the rear of the fans. The immature
grain separator is not currently used but will be necessary in the future when paddy stocks
are improved and high quality grain is being exported. Wet polishing (which was
rejected from the original design) should be an essential part of any future plant. Color
sorting machines are not considered appropriate with the level of discoloration present in
the grain supply from yellowing, red streaks, paddy, black and chalky grains as well as
the lack of uniformity of grain size. Introduction of mechanical sewing and handling of
bags will need to be considered as quality of future output improves.



-6-
22.   Output quality can be substantially improved by simply segregating varieties and
grading paddy from the buying centers as well as the output from the mills. A pure seed
program is required for farmers. Spillage of grain, accumulation of by-products and
escaping dust are in excess of desirable limits for a plant of this nature and requires
urgent attention.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
23.   The Rehabilitation Program will not become sustainable until Government is
prepared to allow the private sector mills to export rice and earn foreign exchange on
their own account. Currently these private mills are being strangled at one end by the
small village mills which operate more economically in supplying the domestic market
with low grade rice, and at the other end by MAPT which is processing more extensively
at its own mills. Even when the private mills do custom-milling for MAPT, the fees paid
are not remunerative. When they do custom milling for paddy growers, payment is made
in local currency which does not provide the foreign exchange needed to repay the project
loans; and the difference between the Official Exchange Rate and the Market Rate is so
great that it is not feasible to convert local currency into US dollars to liquidate the loan.
Little wonder that two project mills have already been surrendered to MAPT because they
are unable to operate profitably.
24.   The Reprocessing Plant is certainly sustainable. Government is planning to
duplicate this plant at another site with its own resources. The recalculated Financial
Rate of Return is 17 percent compared with the appraisal estimate of 18 percent.
25.   The technical skills of MAPT staff were greatly enhanced through the
intervention of the consultants who worked very closely with them, through the training
courses offered by the consultants, and through the overseas training courses and study
tours. The consultants feel that individual MAPT staff members now possess the
capability to continue the rehabilitation program without further external assistance but it
would require a revised approach by management to be successful. The greatest fear is
that the skills obtained by MAPT staff will be lost through reassignments and retirement
unless a concerted effort is made by management to use them to maintain the MAPT
mills or assist in rehabilitating private mills.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
26.  IDA performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project
was satisfactory, adequately taking into account the lessons and experience gained from
the preceding project. Unfortunately, it could not foresee the political instability and
changed economic climate which intervened after implementation was initiated.
27.   Bank supervision of the project was satisfactory. As shown in Table 13, 17
missions were undertaken by IDA staff during the nine year implementation period. All
of these missions were undertaken while the technical consultants were in the field.



-7-
There was adequate coordination between the IDA and the Co-financiers. Three missions
were undertaken jointly with staff from the Swiss Development Cooperation. Three
missions were also undertaken jointly with UNDP Headquarters staff and constant
contact was maintained with the UNDP staff in Myanmar.
28.   Despite the political turmoil and the problems arising from the changed economic
climate, IDA remained supportive and tried to assist the Borrower in finding solutions to
the problems affecting implementation. IDA agreed to restructuring of the project to
delete the six MAPT mills and associated storage. The Credit Agreement was amended
in November 1987 to allow importation of petroleum which was in short supply.
29.   The Credit Agreement was again amended in October 1994 to allow a 6-month
extension of the Credit Closing Date. IDA also obtained the concurrence of the Swiss
Development Cooperation on two occasions to reallocate the Swiss Grant to provide
technical assistance for the Reprocessing Plant. IDA staff maintained cordial relations
with project staff throughout the period of project implementation. Unfortunately, IDA
was unable to accede to Government's request to extend credit closing beyond June 30,
1995 or to concur with procurement of additional items of equipment towards the end of
extended closing date of the credit. This created some disappointment for project staff.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.   Borrower performance was generally satisfactory. MAPT project staff were
responsible for implementing the rehabilitation of the private rice mills which entailed
advising the millers on the form of renovations, equipment to be purchased and materials
to be used, tasks for which they had little experience. The success of the rehabilitation
program is largely due to their willingness to learn from and work closely with the
consultants who did not merely advise but literally undertook the physical
implementation of the mill rehabilitation program. The Rice Reprocessing Plant was
constructed by turnkey contract under the oversight of the consultants and MAPT staff.
31.   On balance, the Government satisfactorily complied with the major legal
documents in the DCA except for delays in submitting audit reports which took time to
be translated into English. But the inability of Goverm-nent to devise a suitable
mechanism to allow the private rice millers to export rice and earn foreign exchange
resulted in the failure of the project.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Rehabilitation
32.   The Rehabilitation Program can be considered as only a partial success and is in
real danger of becoming a total failure. Only 18 mills out of the proposed total of 120
were rehabilitated. Although these mills are technically the best in the private sector,
they have done only minimal business since rehabilitation and have little expectation of



-8-
adequate future operation if there is no change in Government policy to allow rice exports
by the private sector. Unless means are found to ensure the operation of these mills on a
sound financial basis there will be little scope for loan repayment and the program will
then collapse.
33.   The widespread authorized use of the small village rice mills and steel hullers
which divert supplies from the registered private mills has exacerbated the problem. As
the acceptance of this service is widespread and growing significantly throughout the
year, it must be assumed that small-mill production levels will remain high for the
foreseeable future.
34.   Two project assisted mills have already been surrendered by their owners as they
were unable to make the first installment of the loan through liquidation of other assets.
The future for the remaining 16 rehabilitated mills appears bleak.
Reprocessing
35.   The Rice Reprocessing Plant has been well constructed and it has achieved all the
technical criteria expected at appraisal. However, a comprehensive maintenance program
is required for the plant to ensure its continued effective operation. This applies not only
to the processing machines but to all aspects of the installation. Already there are chutes
that are leaking grain and dust ducts that have become disconnected. A competent
supervisor or plant engineer is required to patrol each line of the plant daily to ensure that
all such maintenance requirements are attended to.
36.   The plant is also experiencing a number of problems such as: frequent electricity
shutoffs, labor problems, short supply of rice, delivery of mixed varieties with different
milling requirements, bottlenecks in the input and output systems at the weighing and
unloading points, and at transfer from the mill to the ship. All these problems must be
resolved to enable the plant to maintain its true technical and economic potential.
Training
37.   The training program can be considered to be a mixed success as it has shown
some significant results but it has not been as successful as initially anticipated, mainly
due to the original levels of technical training and experience of MAPT rehabilitation task
force (RTF). Most of the staff have now become technically competent to assess, plan
and implement the rehabilitation of the project type of rice mill, but in many cases they
lack the confidence to be able to carry out the work on their own. There was a
considerable degree of dependence on the consultants. Now that the consultants are no
longer available, a system must be devised to increase the level of competence and
confidence of the RTF. The RTF should be reformed, and experienced members should
lead small teams of engineers to rehabilitated mills to use the operation of the mills as
laboratories, and to disseminate their experience in informal training courses.



-9-
Management also needs to provide the necessary incentives and to create an atmosphere
conducive to the development and stimulation of the expertise of the RTF staff.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
Rehabilitation
38.   The future operation of the Rehabilitation Program will consist of the use of
surplus items procured under the contracted program within the MAPT mills and in those
private mills that can afford the cost of renovation.
39.   Millers' loans need to be passed to the Myanmar Economic Bank and be
consolidated with working capital loans to enable them to trade and mill successfully as
MAPT does not have the capability to operate as a financial institution. More
importantly, the private millers need to be allowed to export rice and to earn foreign
exchange on their own account in order to operate successfully.
Reprocessing
40.   The Reprocessing Plant is a technical success. But it needs to be properly
maintained and efficiently operated to be financially and economically viable. The plant
has now been handed over to the Handling Department of MAPT. Government is so
pleased with the construction of the Reprocessing Plant that consideration is being given
to construction of another reprocessing plant at another site. Successful operation of these
plants will greatly enhance the competitiveness of Myanmar rice on the World Market.
41.   With the experience gained from rehabilitation of the private plants and
installation of the reprocessing plant, MAPT engineers are now capable of improving the
efficiency of MAPT rice mills. In particular the exhaust systems of even the most
modem mills can be substantially improved by additions and minor modifications. The
materials and expertise to manufacture the required components are readily available
within the country and the modifications can be made in a very cost effective manner.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
42.   The major lessons learned form implementation of the project are as follows:
(i)   Since MAPT is a virtual competitor of the private mills in the milling and
marketing of rice, it would have been prudent to select some other agency
to implement and manage the project. This would avoid potential conflicts
of interest and arousal of suspicions or lack of confidence by the private
millers, particularly where sensitive financial information needs to be
disclosed.



-10-
(ii)   The loans to the private millers should have been on-lent through a proper
financial institution such as the Myanma Economic Bank so that
rehabilitation loans could be consolidated with working capital loans to
enable the private mills to obtain working capital to operate.
(iii) Partial market liberalization has distorted market conditions further and
has exacerbated the problems in the sector. Private millers earn no
premium for quality rice through domestic sales and they are not allowed
to export to earn foreign exchange, thus making investment in imported
machinery and equipment unprofitable.



-1 1-
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of Objectives    Substantial   Partial   Negligible    Not
Applicable
Macro-economic policies                                  V_=
Sector policies                                           V/
Financial objectives                                     Vw/
Institutional development                                 V
Physical objectives                                       V
Poverty education                                                   V/
Gender concerns                                                      /
Other social objectives           VL
Environmental objectives
Public sector management                                  V
Private sector management                                 V
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability       Likely      Unlikely   Uncertain
C. Bank Performance            Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
Identification                     m3
Preparation assistance             L/
Appraisal                                      /
Supervision



-12-
D. Borrower Performance                   Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation
Implementation                                                 3
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)'
E. Assessment of Outcome                  Highly                                             Highly
Satisfactory      Satisfactory   Deficient   Unsatisfactory
El~~~~V
The Borrower did not allow the private millers to export rice to earn foreign exchange to become enabled to repay the loan
which was denominated in US dollars. This policy was responsible for the failure of the rehabilitation component of the
project.



-13-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title       Purpose          Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
1. Cr. 1092-BA      Improve Government           1981         Completed in 1986
Grain Storage Project  storage facilities at
selected locations
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned         Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                               March, 1983       March 21, 1983
Appraisal                                 January, 1984     March, 1984
! Negotiations                           July, 1984         April 21, 1986
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)    N/A         N/A
Board Presentation                        September, 1984    May 29, 1986
Signing                                  June, 1986         June 11, 1986
Effectiveness                             September, 1986    December 15, 1986
Project Completion                        June 30, 1994     June 30, 1995
Loan Closing                              December 3, 1994  June 30, 1995



-14-
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY87    FY88       FY89    FY90    FY91
Appraisal Estimate         .20      1.60     4.20        8.00      14.20
Actual                    1.25      1.38      1.43       1.43       1.68
Actual as % of Estimate   625.00   86.00    34.00       18.00      12.00
FY92    FY93       FY94       FY95      FY96
Appraisal Estimate       20.40     25.60    28.60       30.00      30.0
Actual                    4.21      9.67    10.49       11.52      11.52
Actual as % of Estimate    21.00   38.00    37.00       38.40      38.40
Date of Final Disbursement2 This date will be determined after overdue refunds are received.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key Operating Indicators
in SAR/President's              Estimated                    Actual
Report
1. Mills Rehabilitated               120                           18
2. New Mill Construction               6
3. Rice Reprocessing Plant              1                            1
4. Storage Facilities                  6
2  A balance of US$458,319.54 needs to be refunded.



-15-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Rice Mill Division No.    Location       Capacity       Capacity     Capacity        Capacity
Before TPD    After TPD   Increase TPD       Increase
08P                    Ayeyrarwaddy      88            108             20             22.7%
08Y                    Yangon            35             36              1              2.9%
14                     Yangon*           50             60             10             20.0%
39                     Yangon            3 1            45             14             45.2%
74                     Bago              25             44             19             76.0%
130                    Bago              27             31              4             14.8%
148                    Bago              25             50            25             100.0%
172                    Yangon            30             49             19            63.3%
175                    Bago              28             30              2              7.1%
177                    Bago              29             48             1 9            65.5%
315                    Ayeyrarwaddy      34             47             13             38.2%
3499                   Ayeyrarwaddy      44             48              4              9.1%
400                    Ayeyrarwaddy      25             48             23             92.0%
| 457                   Bago              20             51             31            155.0%
494                    Ayeyrarwaddy      47             52              5             10.6%0|
495                    Ayeyrarwaddy      42             54             12             28.6%
533                    Bago              30             44             14             46.7%
575                    Ayeyrarwaddy      41             50              9             22.0%
|| TOTAdL:.                             651            895           244              37.5%



-16-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study         at Appraisal/Redefined     Status         Impact of Study
1. Rice Marketing   To identify market         Dropped
practices of competitors,
explore new markets,
examine price
competitiveness, etc..
2. Feasibility Study    Prepare viable proposals  Completed   Not implemented.
on local            for establishment of a  November 1989    Study showed that a
manufacturing of    complete plant to design,                 plant would be under-
milling equipment    plan, fabricate, and                     utilized without
assemble rice processing                 private sector
equipment and                            participation.
machinery.



-17-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)           ActuallLatest Estimate(US$ is I
Local       Foreign     Total        Local    Foreign      Tota'
Item                           Costs        Costs                    Costs     Costs
1. New rice mills                 12.8          11.3        24.1
2. Mill rehabilitation             9.5           6.1         15.6        5.52        7.72       13..2
3. Rice grading and mixing plant    1.1          1.3          2.4        5.58        5.48       11.06(
4. Paddy storage                    9.5          2.2         11.7                    -               _
5. Project implementation and        .3           .1          .4
monitoring
6. Technicalassistanceand            .3          1.3          1.6        .07         1.90
training                                                                              -    _
Total Baseline Costs:             33.5          22.3         55.8       11.17       15.10      20-2 
Physical contingencies              3.4          2.2          5.6
Price contingencies                12.8          5.7         18.5
TOTAL                             49.7          30.2         79.9       11.17       15.10      2 6.2 7



-18-
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    Actual /Latest Estimate (US$M)
Source                      Total                            Total
IDA                                 30.0                          11.53
UNDP                                 2.1                           1.87
Swiss Government                     5.0                           3.67
Government of
Myanmar                             40.5                           9.20
Mill Owners                          2.3                           n.a.
Total                               79.9                          26.27



-19-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project was not re-estimated because the scope of
the project was so drastically changed with the deletion of the 6 MAPT Mills and associated
storage and with the number of private mills being rehabilitated reduced from 120 to 18 that a
comparison with the ERR at appraisal would not be valid.
The re-calculated financial rate of return (ERR) for the reprocessing plant was 17% compared
with the appraisal estimate of 18%. The ERR was not calculated because local costs represented
a small percentage of total costs and the total project output was valued at the border price.
Private millers were unwilling or reluctant to provide reliable data on operating costs because of
the competitive relationship that existed between private millers and MAPT. The future
operation of the private mills is difficult to assess because they are not competitive in milling low
quality rice for the domestic market; so far they are precluded from exporting rice on their own.
They are short of working capital and MAPT is utilizing its own mills more extensively thus
reducing their scope for operation.



-20-
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Myanmar
Grain Storage and Processing Project
Agreement        Schedule Section     Covenant      Present        Description of            Comments
type        status           covenant
DCA               Schedule 4.1          10           C            Borrower to review      Done
paddy grading criteria
DCA                Schedule 4.2         10           C            Borrower to survey mill Done
rehabilitation needs
DCA               Schedule 4.3          10           C            Borrower to establish    Done
staff and organize PIU
DCA               Schedule 4.4          10           C            Borrower to establish    Done
Project Coordinating
Committee
DCA               Schedule 4.5          10           C            Borrower to establish    Done
rehabilitation task force
DCA               Schedule 4.6          10           C            Borrower to prepare     Completed; but millers
standard agreement     not allowed to export rice
between MAPT and       to earn foreign exchange
private millers for    to repay the loan.
rehabilitation sub-loans
DCA               Schedule 4.7          10           C            Borrower to employ      Done
consultants for design
and supervision
DCA               4.01 Section          I            C            Audit accounts/reports   Reports are done
due to IDA not later
than 12 months after
end of each fiscal year   _
Covenant types:
I1. =  Accounts/audits                                  8. = Indigenous people
2  =  Financial performance/revenue generation from     9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                    10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funus             11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                      allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing    12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                  regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                           13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C  =  covenant complied with
CD=  complied with after delay
CP =  complied with partially
NC =  not complied with



-21-
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title      I Describe and comment on lack of compliance
There was full compliance with all applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of            Planned               Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks       US$      Weeks    US$
Through Appraisal      32.4       95,200      32.1   59,300
Appraisal-Board        70.8      166,000      70.7  118,000
Board-                  3.3        9,200       3.3    6,500
Effectiveness
Supervision                      152,300     42.5  118,700
56.1
Completion                        29,700      14.0   36,300
12.0
TOTAL                174.6      451,100     132.1  338,800



-22-
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating3
Stage of          Month/        Number         Days ini        Specialized      Implementation    Development      Typcs of4
Project Cycle         Year           of           Field          Staff Skills         Status          Objectives      Problems
Persons                       Represented
Through Appraisal       6/83          3             2              EC,CEng                  N/R              N/R               N/R
2/84          4            27              Ag, TA,SS,MS,FA
Appraisal through Board   9/84        3             17             EC                       N/R              N/R              N/R
Approval
12/84         1            2               EC                      N/R              N/R               N/R
12/85         1            9               EC                      N/R              N/R               N/R
Board Approval through    10/86        1            10             Ag                        2                l                N/R
Effectiveness
Supervision             9/87          1             10             Ag                        I                I               N/R
5/88          t            8               AE,TA                     I                I               N/R
3/89          1            2               AE,TA                     2                1               N/R
9/89          1            7               AE,TA                     2                2               N/R
1/90          I            5               AE,TA                    2                2                N/R
9/90          1            4               AE,TA                     2                2               N/R
3/91          1            7               AE,TA                     2                2               N/R
7/91          2            5               AE,TA                     2                2               N/R
3/92          2            7               AE,TA                     2                2               N/R
7/92          2            9               AE,TA                     2                2               N/R
11/92         1            6               AE                       2                2                LR
3/93          1            2               AE                        2                2                LR
7/93          1            2               AE                        3                3                LR
11/93         2            5               AE, TA                   3                3                LR
10/94         l            14              AE                       3                3                LR
7/94          1            2               AE,TA                     3LR
Completion              6/95     _     2            2 2            AE, TA                   1 -HU                              LR
Most supervision missions worked on several assignments but did not specify the time spent on each. The number of days
has therefore been estimated allowing for these assignments.
2    CENG = Civil Engineer; EC = Economist; Ag = Agriculturist; FA = Financial Analyst; SS = Storage Specialist; MS =
Milling Specialist; AE = Agricultural Economist; TA = Technical Assistance
3    1 = Problem free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems; HU = Highly Unlikely to achieve
objectives
4    LR = Loan Repayment; N.R - Not Reported



-23-
APPENDICES
1.    Aide Memoire
2.    Financial Analysis
3.    Project Costs (Kyats'OOO)
4.    Project Costs (US$'000)
5.    Comments from Swiss Government
6.    Comments from UNDP



-24-                               Appendix  1
MYANMAR
GRAIN STORAGE II PROJECT (CR. 1707 - BA)
PROJECT CONIPLETION MISSION
JUNE 1995
AIDE ME,MOIRE
I.    Introduction
During the period June 20 -25, Mr. Cuddihy of IDA visited Myannar to carry out the final
supervision of the Grain Storage II Project co-financed by IDA and SDC. Technical advice was
provided by Mr. Barry Wood, engineering consultant. Discussions were held with U Thein Myint,
Managing Director of MAPT, Major Moe Paw. General Manager, U Than Tun Aung, Deputy
General Manager, U Mvint Win, Deputy Project Director, U Than Aung, Assistant General
Mlranager MAPT, the Myanmar Rice Millers' Association and individual rice rnillers and mill
managers. The wrap-up meeting was chaired bv U Theim Aung Lwin, Director General of the
Foreign Economic Relations Department of the MIinistry of National Planning and Economic
Development. Visits were made to private mills No. 39 and 14 and to the MAPT rice reprocessing
plant at Ahlone. This note summarizes findings of the mission. Mr. Cuddihy wishes to thank the
concemed officials and millers for their kind cooperation and courtesies extended.
2.     Status of the Project
The Project is essentially complete and the Credit will be closed on June 30 1995. Of the
US$30 million of IDA funds available under the Credit, about US$12 million will have been used.
Of the US$9 million available from the SDC Grant, about US$4 million will have been used. In
summary, only US$16 million will have been used of the US$39 million of grant and interest-free
foreign exchange loan. The rest will be canceled. Amounts are approximate because of moving
exchange rates and some disbursements remain to be claimed. Outstanding claims yet to be sent to
IDA for payment are for equipment and civil works amounting to about $373,000 and about
$18,000 for consultant services. The shortfall in use of available funds is due to the Govermnent
decision in 1991 not to construct the proposed 6 new MAPT mills because of a policy change in
favor of private milling and to IDA's decision in 1994 not to proceed with the private mill
rehabilitation program beyond 18 mills instead of the planned 120 mills due to millers' inability to
service the incurred debt through improved mill operation.
3.     Rice Reprocessing Plant
The reprocessing plant has been completed and began operations in February this year.
During the mission's visit the plant was reprocessing rice rejected at the point of export. The plant
was seen to be well constructed, adequately maintained and properly operated. The plant will now
be passed to the Handling Departnent. The project office staff are to be congratulated for
successfully fulfilling their responsibilities for this part of the project. The mill will have a
beneficial impact on buyer confidence and should lessen the market discount for Myanmar rice.



-25-
Problems encountered to date are; frequent electricity shutoffs in April/May, short supply of rice
input, mixed varieties with different milling requirements, labor problems, bottlenecks in the input
and output systems such as at the weighing and unloading point, and at the transfer from mill to
ship, among others. This indicates that the mill mav have difficulty reaching close to design
throughput and quality necessary for financial success.
4.     Bau Loaders
The three conveyor lines for loading bags from the storage site to shipside have been
completed. These were not being used during the visit and beans were being carried manually from
the trucks to the ship. On one line a burnt motor was being repaired while it was not at all clear
whv the others were not being used and may be connected to workers' fear of being displaced.
5.     Rehabilitation of Private Mills
Inspections of 2 of the 18 rehabilitated mills were carried out. Mill No.39 was milling
paddv on farrners' own account (Wunza) and had been milling for MAPT and for the miller's own
account. The mill was in good condition and the ne vplant and equipment was being properly
used and maintained. The mill has been operating at well below capacity because of paddy
procurement difficulties. Mill No.14 was being used to clean MAPT beans for export. Indications
were apparent that part of the integrated system built on rehabilitation was not being maintained,
with parts of the exhaust system being disconnected. Rehabilitation of the other 102 mills expected
in the program has been dropped. Some 49 sets of rehabilitation packages were procured before
this decision was finalized, however, and these will be sold off as selected items rather than sets to
miller's on a voluntary basis.
6.     Re avment of Loans for Mill Rehabilitation
Millers are obliged to repay the loans for the imported components in foreign exchange but
do not have direct access to foreign exchange because only Government agencies are pernitted to
export. While the official exchange rate is about Kyats 6/US$ they cannot buy at this rate and
have to buy on the parallel market where the current rate is about Kyats 1001US$ or more. Millers
advise that their Kyat income from milling is not sufficient for them to afford this. In an attempt
to resolve this, Government permitted MAPT to renegotiate the repayment terms to five years
grace and 15 further years for repayment. Interest in Kyats is payable during the grace period,
ending 1997. Millers express anxiety as to whether they can even meet these terms. Prior to
renegotiation, a first payment was made in 1994. To do this, millers were permitted to buy milled
rice from MAPT at the domestic market price. This rice was then exported by MAPT/MEIS on
behalf of the millers. Some 70% of the foreign exchange receipts were used to meet the millers'
payment installment and the balance was retained as foreign exchange in the millers' own accounts.
While this was successful the first time, millers sold assets to meet the purchase of rice from
MAPT and claim they will not be able to repeat this because of the unprofitability of milling.
Conmnercial millers (40 tons/day and up) profits are being squeezed by competition from a rapid
expansion of "backyard" hullers (5 tons/day) recently permitted to operate and by MAPTs own
rnillin activities in MAPT mills and by consignment to private mills at low fixed margins.
Millers' profit largely comes from trading. Millers state that they have exhausted their own funds
through their contibution to the rehabilitation investment and through the first loan repayment rice
purchase. They are unable to gain new loans for operating capital because of the rehabilitation
liens on their mills held by MAPT.



-26-
7.     Recomnmendations
The mission recommends that the millers' loans be passed to the Myaar Economic Bank
and be consolidated with working capital loans that will enable them to trade and mill. This will
allow millers to build up repayment capacity. It is further recommended that export on millers'
account be permitted at time of each installment. For sale of the 49 extra sets of rehabilitaon
equipment, it is recommended that no MAPT finance be considered.
8.     Audits
The audits of the project account is now overdue.
W\ am L. Cuddihy for IDA
, 6 23, 1995
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



RICE REPROCESSING PLANT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
0: inpAXcginiiFAi CNN FLOW STAMSElff
rgmcUOGSUiBmff                 nMOWCT  CMHA.C STATBI? 5IN KYATI a 1A0U00    WUl FHOCT                                                     012M.4 m                                   m                      i                   o          w
WMm 14We.mo                      mwi   MO   NM    low~  "SWI  saw    lowIs   no"61   16661   NMI513 52/    0/    U                                                                  SM        307 W                 MM 3M
UWISTIAEVCOSTS,
TOrA.5W s1UEr                      63*    652.4    63-0*        "0.        1*         Sa         60.0      .oA        10.*       6A        60.0       *0.0       80.0      *0.0       60A        60*       60o        60*       "Is        $SA
OPIRATBCB OTS
P411                                                           60.6       $1.1       61.1      61.1       61.1       61.1      61.1       61.1       1.1       61.1      61.1       11.        91.1      $1.1       61.1      61.1       61.1
VAR*AAM                                                        16.2      630*       643.3     662.3      161.4      162.3     162.3      so23       1613      1623       162.3      5033      1613       6*2.3      162.3     6013       0162
0161W                                                         5176      5451.4    41112.0   *1167 6161 6.1. 61.161    1.161    1.167    1,1.1    1167    16.                                 1.*.       11*.      11*.       16.        11.
TOTAL CPERA6i0 COSTS               60*0     100       600     S103.0     314.6    6*116.4   *1.23.1   S1.233 2   $1233.1  II 233.1   SS Z13.1   61.233.1   $I.23,3.1   *1.233.1   S1.233.1   61.23.3.   *123 1.23 3.1 11.M 1.233.1   S1.234.1
TOTAL COBTS                        1*      324      $0.        1.2       14         664 61.233.1   61230.2  311233.1   11.233.1  61.2331 I    1.233.1   61.233.1 123.              123.      623.       123.         23.     623.       6.33
9SEWMM
FdREION                         solo      600      P0.      611S.I    46010*      91614.4   6131       1.361.1   $1.361.3    $1301.A   $1.30.S   61.361.1   61,301.6   61.301.6   11.3016   6 1.301 0            SI*X 1.61  611.       1.361A
LOCAL                             0A      60*0     60.0       so03       61.4       62.3      13.4       13 4       13.4       13 4      $3.4       13.4       13 4       13.4      $3.4       634        $3 4      $3.4       6.3.4      63.4
OrTHE                           60*0      600      so00       160.      134*5      161.6      162            a     $20 160 12  62 0     16260      162*       1620       6026      16209      118        16202     110         0269      Wa2*
TOTAL IIKYEMJ                     sac       solo     60.0    $113 3      $615.1   61,030.3   $1.417.0   61,411.9   61.417 6   61.411*0   *1.4710   $11471.0   11.47716   $11411.6   61.411 9   61,411.0   81.477.0   $1.471*9   61,471 0   *1.41.9
NETCA0H FLOW  TH PA"GE          (W66)  16202 4)  (*300 0)     612.1    6101.a    61169        6244*6    *230.1    62440       624. 244.6    1244.1    6   244.0 63   44.6    62440  144. a     2448      *344*    1244*       6244.6    6244*       .
REPIOCESOSIG PLAT              PIIOJECTEO CASH FLOW STATEMENT IN KYATSA x .000.00D         I6iTiIOIjT PflOECf
YWAR  16SI12.-owl                116112   196213   116314    199401      1162/      1964/      1967/6    1*6819    1906/0    2DDD/I    21)01/2    2282/2    2D0.314    2D0415        2O16  2    D8/0 *0611  50716     =affl    *6000      2010/I
TOTAL 4W6TMEW COSIS               Soo       600       640*       6002      WI0        600        10.0       60.0      Soo0      6s0 a        0o0      so0        100        10.0       100 a      6S0       so00       60*0       600        6O
aERA11NQ COSTS
FIXED                                                          60.I       so6 I      60.9      so06       60 9       60.9       60.9      so06       6060       *06        s 60       6060      so9        so09       606        60.6      10*
VAIIIASL                                                       164       632.0      623.3      760.6     161.0      6*a.0      $1.61     *1.0       141*       16Sal a     61.0A     161.6     161.0      Sal.6      "is6    $61.0        161
OThER                                          1616~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  *481.  $1610   Small6    * 1.160.1   61.180.7   *1.14617  11.116.?   11,190.1   61.1*91   * 1.140.7   61.1*4.7   *1.1*0.1   *1.116.7   $1.1061   *1161 1.1 
TOTAL EIIATWI0CO0T8               so00      60D       600     6104.2    1626.3    1616.2   61,247.4   61.232 4   *1.252.4   $1.252 4   11.252 4   $1.252.4   61,252.4   *1.252 4   $1.232 4   91.25Z4   $1,232.4   61.2314   *1.252.4   *1.252.4
TOTALCOSTS               600~~~~~~~1  0*    a6   "1W2633                   11.2   61.241.    1,.4    4 1.341.252         2      1252     21,232.4  $11252 4   61,232.4   1122         121    1.34         1.4        11,152.4   11.252.4
FPOSEIso 60                               60 0      so0*     104 5     16239      1*40* A 61,232.5   $1.2520 6  1.2522    * 1.232*   1 1.2326   * 1.2521    1 1.2526   1 1.252*     1.12526   11.2323   $1,232.1   61.2316   61,252.5   $1.252.1
LOCAL                            60*   60 So        60*0      60.3       613        62 1       $3.1       13 1      13.1       13.1       63 1       13.l      * 3.1      13. I      1.3. 1     $3.1      $3.1       $3.1       *3.1      63.1
OTHERI                          60.0      solo      60.0       169 a    83465      6216a      1626      SU2        6820       1 62.9    $82.9      1*26a       629a      1620a     1628        1620a     1629       1620       1629      1619e
TOTAL REVENUE                      solo     6*        60.0    6111.6    1667.7    1629        ISW 1123 $  1,338 6   $138      1M61.33a *   *1,338*   1$1.338.5 61.33866 11333.6   *1.330            5 11.3286    11,3386   11.3388 131  131    * 1.334*   (
NET CASH FLOW V  THOUJT Phalli   60*0        60*D     $00        67.6      $37.4     $63.3      $*1.1      16.1A     Sao. I     pal        168.1I     16s. I    1*.1        0a. I     $6*6I      141        168.      164.I      164.1     6*0.6   C
INCKE6INTAL CASHFLOW              ($11.6  (621.24)  (63004       64*      *03*4      104.6    6193.7    $1136a    $6l*.1    $114.7    11167           15.7 116.  1167     6116.7    $160.1    S154.7    6116.7       1*.1       9116$I.7    slog7.?
6fTIJIN PATE OF RTUAN              16.? % 



-MYANMAR
Grain Storage and Processing Project  II - Credit 1707-BA
Project Costs  ( Kyats  '000
Officiall  New   I           Mill                 'Rice Grading              I Paddy  :Project  : Technical                  .
YEAR   :Exchange: Rice   :Rehabilitation                           and                 :StoragelImp.  and: Assistance                  :      TOTAL
Rate   : Mills                                   Mixing Plant                         :Monitor  :and Training
I         '           , L  :FE  :Local              FE       :Local             FE       : L  :FE  : L  : FE  S Local  :    FE           :Local       S    FE
:1986-87:                        :                        .                                         :                                    :
:1987-88;                               9.85                                                                       73.46  : 1065.09           83.31    1065.09
1988-89,                              15.40                                                  S                    31.98                      47.38          0.00
:1989-90:                   S         32.67  ;                    30.45           '      :                      ' 49.13  , 2676.15  '  112.25  S 2676.15
:1990-91:                         :   52.44                       12.42                                            39.93  1  496.34  ,  104.79  !. 496.34  ,
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~
:1991-92:                         :13120.13  :14671.25  ' 4779.38  : 6318.68                                       88.62  : 2146.00  ;17988.13  123135.93
____________ ___ ______ -  ____ ___
:1992-93:                         :  11061.01  ;19274.05  :11324:37  :21117.18  :                               '158.46  ; 2301.62  :22543.84  :42692.85
--            -   -    -     -    -   -     -    -    -    -     -    -   -     -     -   -    -     -    -   -     ----           -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
:1993-94;,                  I       2519.82  ; 7818.77  : 6420.54  : 1719.04  t    :    :                          16.23  : 3277.52  : 8956.59  :12815.33  S
__   _ _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _    __  ___-_                                                                                                  _      _  _  _  _ _________ 
:1994-95:                   :       3220.04  : 2509.66  : 5352.54  : 4003.27                                               : ,             8572.58  : 6512.93
*    _ _                   -_ _                      __                                                                    _ _ _     __ __ _ _________ 
:1995-96:                           4000.00  : 3236.00  : 5690.00  :  625.00  :    :    :    :                  :          *               9690.00  : 3861.00
 ----------------_              _      _       _       ----__-----                                                                                               --_
*      TOTAL                      :34031.36  :47509.73  :33609.70  :33783.17                  :                 :457.81  :11962.72  :68098.87  :93255.62
-  -_ -_ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_  _- - - _ - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
v-.
_                                                                                                                          vt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Project Costs ( US $ '000
Official:   New    :    Mill                               :Rice  Grading                  : Paddy  ;Project  : Technical
YEAR   Exchange: Rice  :Rehabilit-                                             and                    :Storagel1mp. and: Assistance                                     TOTAL
Rate  : Mills :ation                                      M ixing Plant                              'Monitor :and Training
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-----------------------------------------
L  :FE  :Local                  FE        :Local                 FE           L   FE  ' L  : FE  , Local                  FE        :Local          :     FE
'1986-87:         7.04  '          '      '             e                                                                           : '
:1987-88:         6.70  1                      1.47   :                                                  :                             10.96          158.97   :        12.43         158.96
:1988-89:         6.40                         2.41                                                                          ;...        5.00                            7.41:
:1989-90:         6.73                  :      4.85                             4.52                            :                        7.30  :   397.64               16.67   '   397.64
:1990-91:    6.18                              8.49   :                         2.01   :                              :      :           6.46  I    80.31  :            16.96           80.25
:1991-92:         6.45           :      : 2034.13   : 2274.61   :   740.99   :   979.64                                      :          13.74         332.71         278.86         3586.96  :r
:1992-93:         6.19  :                 1786.92   : 3113.74              1829.46          3411.50  :          :            :       : 25.60          371.83         3641.98         6897.06
:1993-94A         5.82                      432.96   : 1343.43   : 1103.19   :   295.37                                      I       1   2 .79   :   563.15   ; 1538.94    : 2201.94
'1994-95:         5.85                  :   550.43   :   429.00    1   914.96   :   684.32                      :     :     :        ,                              1465.39  : 1113.32
:1995-96:         5.75                      695.65  :   562.78              989.57   :   108.70  :             :     '      :                                       1685.22   :   671.47
--  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
TOTAL             :     :      : 5517.31   : 7723.56   : 5584.70   : 5479.53                                        :          71.85    : 1904.61  :11173.86   :15107.60
x



18/01 '96  Os:03    FAX 031 325 93 57  . I  SDC/ASIA II                                       QlO1
I-    Edg.DepanentfOr aui   Angdageubmiten
D4partameu fid. des aftauq*tne
Diparthn-no fadgaledl  f    d
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TELEFA   FACSIMILE
Anzahl Seien inbduwse Deckbwat                Red  t. 311. Myanmar 3
Nombre de 'a au totaL:                        ___
No. of pages iflduil tfis one:               Dn/DaFocha January 1 6, 1996
Nunueto de naginas incL esa
Absendei'- .ca. :I;udrSenderJRarr e  E mrtnper/Desna AnsiraseedDrcii:
Sans Pet er Maag                             Mr Jeffrey Gutan
SDC / Se.'tion Asia II                       Agri & Environ. op. Div.
3003 Be:_e                                   Ca=try Dept. I
Switzaxl aLnd                                .Tb.e World Bank
Washi  ton DC / tiSA
FaxNo 4-4;. 31 325-9357
FoNo: 00662  318-7896
.-1ieilung/Mo idlMesje.
Zmpleme; ation Completion Report 7Mya=max Grain Storace and Processizg j= Proiect
(Cr. 17GC/ Bk)
Dea 15r. Outman.,
nclog~.. Jwe are sendig- the report and con eats of the cofinancier. We
appool.oL- :or our delayed answer and havinq overstepped  oux Januazy 1';
cozitme- '-.
if you h ,:ve any comnents to our reaction, please advise accordi=qly
Sincerel2y yours                     -AE
Dl~IATE: //  q
H..asa/                                                       ROUTING: \3
Ch.ief, src Section Asia II                                      ASIAFILES (Y)N R6&D
LOG#
cc:  Mp  '. Diethelm
SD-' angko3/Thailand
Fe" Vo. 662-318-7896
DEBI  xYn*doI ire kdg1Mn mnoagtUnud humnitnm.                               M.K3m
OD^  . :-iUmLd.i op d- ad on au dlppenamtotde r1'ai. ?r,mwia
OSA                          .ddaine arao* d            I....              1W~gcAff&&Bui
SDoC  i co DeuwopmemCooempen         '                    _                  b wescm
C50  C .opeanisuidaideoUo                                  _s
1 90 4000O snswz 



16/01 '96 08:.03  FAX 031 325 93 57  SDC/ASIA II             .             002
-31-
II COMPLETI.
GRAIN  STORAGE AND-PROCESSIG  PROJECT
(CREDIT   1707  - BA)
APPENDIX..
REPORT OF TEE  COFINANCIER
A   INTRODUCTION
1.      .   AAgr-ments. On 2nd September, 1986, the Cover*ament
of the Swiss Confederation under an agreement. wiLh the Go7ern-
ment of the.. then Socialist Republic of the Union of 31r-ma
(GOB) made a grant of Sfr- 10 million to assist in fina-icing
the Gr-in Storage and Processi!ag Project. This sum, knowa as
the "'wiss Contribution", together with a credit of SDR 26.4
milliozu from the Internationai Development Association and an
UNDP - ant of US$ 2.1 million provided the foreign financial
component of the project  (Development Credit Agreement Cr.
1707 - BA). The Swiss grant w4s allocated entirely for
New mills, storage and mixing (reprocessing.)
plant:..
machinery, equipment, construe tion material
(Category la)                                       Sfr. 10 mio.
2     .    Joint FinanCing Az.angemnnt. The Swiss Contribution
*  has been.administered by I nL.+un.der a joint financing arr;tnge-
.   ment. in this arrangement, the Swiss Government authorized IDA
to carry out procurement deci6ions against the Swiss Cont: Lbu-
tion and MDA agreed to super4,ise the execution of tne prrnject
*      in ac=ordance with its own standard practices.
B. PRLJET OBLTCTIVES          4
.  - . Proj   ct.                jor objectives of the
pzpof ct, to be Implemented b  the Government-s Myanma Agricul-.
tural Produce Tratng (MAPT), were to increase export earl:ings
from the rice sector, reduce the projected national rice m.ill-
*ing deficit and establish aA institutional capability for a-
.long-rerm mill rehabilitation lprogramme
*  ,, -            ,     {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
..~~~~~*                                9..,-.i'''.;



16/01 96 O-04  FAX 031 325 93 57    SDC/ASIA II                         I0O3
- 32--
a.        -Project Componeni  The project comprised five major
components,  (i) the constru tion of six new electrically-pow-
ered rice mills, each wite;L  capacity, of 33'000 tons per year
(tpy) ; (ii) tihe rehabilitation. of about. 120- MAPT-con.racted
private rice mills, with a total milling capacity of about
580'000 tpy;  (iiI) construc4ion of a MAPT grading and mixing
(reprocessing) plant in the Yangon port area with a capacity
of 74'000 tpy; (iv) construction of 84a0o.0 tons of MAPT perma-
nent storage facilities for paddy, 60'000 tons of which was to.
be integrated with six new. rice mills; and (v) technical as-
sistance services to assist MAPT in project implementatio-a.
.5..       Project Rationale and Assumptions. The financial .and
economrc success of the project was based on the assuirption
that Lnvestments in storage, milling and. grading would reduce.
storage and milling losses,  Improve the quality and -rade
composition of milled rice, improve the export prices anci thus
Myanmar's export earnings. The project design recognized that
under the then prevailing Socialist inspired Government policy
only the public sector was allowed to export grain for which
it would control grain handling from procurement to the export
point
C.  TM;     NTATION EXPERIENCES ANID RESULTS
6.-         Achievement of objectives. The project objec-.ives
had been clear; realistic and the design conceptually sou'id in
relati. a  to  the  originally  prevailing  economic  frame7ork.
Severe economiic and political factors. led to changes ii. the
economic policies o the Government. Most importart of al:, in
1987 it changed:thbe paddy procurement policies to allow pri-
vate domestic trading in rice, thus significantly reducinuf the
role o- MAPT, except for eqprts which continued to be hanLdled
exclusively by MAPT. These c  anges did not really change .the
basic rationale for the pro ct but rendered part of its de-
sign, i.e.. the construction tof six rice mills and the con-
struction of permanent storaqe facilities, for. MAPT obsolete.
Accordingly, the rehabilitation of private mills became 'nore
important  The rebiIitationa   of the first batch of 18 rills
w.as completed in March  1993.  Further rehbailitations were
howeve- frustrated by the problems that arose in circumver_ting
the impact of a Government policy,, preventing the private
sector from exporting rice to learn foreign exchange on it3 own
accounz., particularly - to repay a mill rehabilitation  loan
denominated in foreign currency. - The reprocessing plant was
the only. component that remained essentially unaffected and
was implemented as initially I envisaged. It was completed and
began operations in February L995, about a year behind sche4-
ule.   .       .             -.
7.        33A i& Perfozmzance. IDA flexibly reacted.to the changes
kk.y.        Whok c=wOnes-ntX ehtt had become obsolete; modifying
on demand of MAPT the scope-q 'f the technical assistance, and
securing . additional TA funding  (from Switzerland) . IDA ade-
quately supervised the project and supported its implementa-



-33-
tion- Similarly,  coordinatio:i. with the cofinancier was ade-
quate- However, the cofinanc.er was generally informed rather
late and. thus-had little lead time to participate in impending
supervision missions respectively there was little flexibili-
ty on the part of the bank  (due to connected missions)  to
harmonize dates with the schedule of the cofinancier.
8.         Performance of the Borrower. The performance o- the
borrower was technically satisfactory.
D. SJSTA-IA3ILITY
9.         Reprocessing Plant. The reprocessing plant seems to
be sustainable provided regular operation and maintenance are
executed.
10           Rehabilitation. The rehabilitation Programme will
not become a success unless the Government is prepared to
allow the private sector mills to export rice and earn foreign
exchatiqe on their own account. If this is not the case, more
mills may be surrendered to MAPT, because they are unable to
opera;.e profitably.
11.       Tecbnical Skills of HAPT Staff. Technical skills and
coqLpf?'-encies of MAPT staff were substantially ennhanced.  These
skil_- are likely to erode if not continuously put to goed use
in op:-ation, maintenance and rehabilitation activities.
E. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
12.           Overall ResU2t,  The grant contribution o: the
cofinancier by chance had been allocated to the component that
has a high likelihood to be sustainable. This is however not
reconforting as the overall result of the project, econowical-
ly as well as in terms of quality and capacity promotion in
the private milling sector, remains unsatisfactory.
F. LESSONS LEARND BY THE COFKNNCIER
13.        Importance of Economic Policies. The project c.esign
was in conformity with the then prevailing national economic
policies. It was then believed that the project would still be
econo.-ically valid under different economic parameters. The
cofinancier and the bank thus were insufficiently sensitive to
the distortions that arose -from partial liberalization (with
exports remaining the public sector prerogative and the great
difterence beeween oe-iaL  Wad market ..xcknge rate remai-ning
unchanged respectively increasing further) and the imminent
risks it had for project success. rhanges in economic policies
as they have occurred in Myanmar thus call for project reap-
praisal and continuation only after careful establishment of
new benchmarks ,



Appendix 6
-34-
UNIED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
YANGON, MYANMAR
FAX MESSAGE
FAX NO.: 095-1-92739
INMWRSAT: 873-150-1465
NUMBER OF PAGES (INCLUDING THLS SHEET):
0OAr IC:~     ~~
FIIE:              20-0-21 7TI
MYA/86/008/2                         SA FiLES ('        t,
DATE:              22 December 1995                     LOG #   --
TO:                Mr. Jeffrey Gutman
Chief
Agriculture and Environment Operations
The World Bank
Fax:(202) 477-2.733
FROM:               Siba Kumar Das            7-    !vu
i1j-  Resident Representative                ? /
UNDP, Yangon, Myannar                 -4
SUBJECT:           Implementation Completion Report of the Grain Storage UI Project
(Cr.1707-BA)
This is to acknowledge with thanks the receipt of your fax dated 13/12/95 and the above-
mentioned report.
We have read through the draft and found it to be informative, concise and well-
prcpared. We more or less agree to your ratings- "successful' on "technical assistance' and
"partly successful' on "training"- made under section B of the report. Those were the two
components, in the project funded by tJNDP grant of USS 1.866 million whichi was fully
disbursed.
We are entirely in agreement with you when you say that "the inability of Government
to devrise a suiable mechanism to allow the private rice millers to export rice and earn foreign
exchange resulted in the failure of the project". We hope the lessons from this experience will
be of use to all of us in formulating similar projects in the future.
We look forward to receiving the final version of the report in due course.
With best regards.



IBRD 18261R
Ye s e
\                                X                ~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~PoukkFaung~  TQsun0O
\ _                P ro          m    e                                    Okte.n   >  Tontrobin~~~~~~~~~~~~~To
Ohio.        T-tai,,
Gyoegooii
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M~   M Prdo ng /
\                     \\;               \>~~~~~~                                    ~~ ~        ~ ~~~~~Zgo 90>  Ky..kky;
Po ~ ~  ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    o
\    hb~,g                    KyongnsWogounc              obngauk Hrvw>
eo\ Moonyo                                                                                                               Ny-qb.-gryoue Whweny, hsu
0~~~~
Kyo.r        Kyigg ~                K,vyvgi
Thb                      rgo,pu.~ P,oponO
1-00okylX Xont  
1'  ,hobsric 0-o 
roose                   ins Tnteg              e MTngw
Mya-ngmyo   WOake'.                                                      Kyouktcn
Ngcputow                                                                                 n  S              Complexes
Kyo.k1ot       -      0Kun,,ogvmg
*  Dedoye O                          R                 o
moul-megy- 0
0      Pyopon 0
s                   ~~~~~~Bogole 
L.b.tto C
BURMA
16,                                                                                                              GRAIN STORAGE                                     '
AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Proposed Locations for IntLegrated Milling
and Storage Complexes
PROP05ED PROJECT
R   R   .                                                             *    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Integrated Rice M,11lmg orIJ 5torge Corrplo.es
/NDti   /                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREVIOUS PROJECT
Paddy Storage Conp lses - Credit 1092 - 8A
C,HiNA                                                                                 Roads
'       ) BUPMA                                              ,      _                                        Roilscys
I )         liovdrvo                                                                                           Rivers
,N Th,,,  - [                                                                         Di.trict Boundaries
/   4(4 0FMA     rA             ..ts         m                                                 -         Division or State Boundories
A iFA OFMA.t o_ 2 T~ w~e/oar IrngneInternational Boundornes
Toungro j  1~~5's                                                                                                                                 snevr 15 o
RTI                 o                                                              0       20       40        6C       80       1 00
-   THAILANDn=ecota                                         KlLOMETERS I        I
|    .snvvvv  <  THAILAND      an00i*00  .o0n i0                                              __  __ __  __ __  __ _ __  __ __  __ __  __ _
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
01)    10     20      30    d1      50      60
MAY 1986









IMAGING
Report No:       15315
Type: ICR



