Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
c         /4_.
Report No. 5227-BA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
April 28, 1986
Regional Projects Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may nol otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENY EOUIVALETS
K 1.00      -   US$ 0.12
USS 1.00    -   r 8.10
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 basket paddy      -   20.9 kg
1 kilogram (kg)     -   2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)  -   1,000 kg - .98 long ton
1 meter (a)         -   1.09 yards
1 hectare (ha)      -   2.47 acres
BUlGESE FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to Narch 31
GLOSSARY
Broken rice    -  grain less than .8 of full kernel length
Head rice      -  full rice (i.e. grain equal to or
more than .8 of full kernel length)
plus broken rice as per specifications
Milling grade  =  percent content of broken in head rice
ABBREVIATIODS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     -    Asian Development Bank
AFPTC   -    Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation
CC      -    Construction Corporation
EPC     -    Electric Power Corporation
EPEF    -    Export Price Equalization Fund
ERR     -    Economic Rate of Return
FRR     -    Financial Rate of Return
GOB     -    Government of Burma
HYV     -    High Yielding Varieties
K       -    Kyats
N       -    million
NEB     -    Myanma Economic Bank
IED     -    Milling Engineering Department
MEIC    -   Myanma Export Import Corporation
PCC     -    Project Coordination Committee
PIU     -    Project Implementation Unit
PTAC    -    Post-harvest Technology Application Center
RTF     -    Rehabilitation Task Force
SCF     -    Standard Conversion Factor
SEE     -    State Economic Enterprise
TC      -    Timber Corporation
tpd     -    Tons per day
tph     -    Tons per hour
WrT     -    Whole Township Program



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
GRAIN STORACE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ....................................      1
Role in Economy ............................................      1
Sectoral Developments ......................................      1
New Priorities for AgricuLtural Development ....     ............  2
IDA Involvement ............................................      3
Implementation of Ongoing Bank Project Executed by AFPTC  ...     3
II. GRAIN PROCUREMENT AND DISPOSAL.                                     4
Institutions.                                                    4
Production and Procurement.                                       4
The Export Market.                                                5
Development Strategy.                                             6
Paddy Pricing Policy.                                             7
Procurement Timing.                                               8
Storage and Milling Constraints.                                  9
Handling of Export Rice .11
III. THE PROJECT .12
Objectives .12
The Project Area          ........................   12
Project Components    ..13
Detailed Features    ..13
(a) New Mill Construction .13
(b)  Rehabilitation of Private Mills .14
(c)  Rice Crading and Mixing Plant .17
(d) Paddy Storage .17
(e)  Technical Assistance and Training.                     19
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING .20
Cost Estimates .20
Financing .21
Procurement .23
Disbursements .25
Budgets, Accounts and Audit .25
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Burma
in February/March 1984, comprising Messrs. L. Vidaeus (IDA), G.G. Corbett,
R. Runte and C. Woodruff (Consultants) and a subsequent mission by
Mr. G. Motha (IDA) in December 1985.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Rank authorization.



-ii-
Page No.
V.     PRODUCTION AND MARKETING ...............         ..     ..................    26
MilLing Capacity and Rice Production .................. .          ... .     26
Marketing and Prices ...................             ....................    26
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    ..28
The Agricultural and Farm Produce
Trade Corporation (AFPTC)    .                  .28
Project Organization    ..29
MilL Rehabilitation Program    ..30
Monitoring and Evaluation                ..32
Implementation Schedule ..... .. .                                           32
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS    ..32
AFPTC's Present Financial Structure
and Past Performance ..            .    .     ....... ...33
AFPTC'S Projected Financial Position   .                  .33
Return on AFPTC's Investments    ..35
VIII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                  ....35
Beneficiaries and Benefits             ...                                   36
Economic Analysis                      .....37
Sensitivity Analysis.                      .    .     .    .........         38
Environmental Impact ................................. . ... ..              38
Project Risks ...............         .. .           .......a........... .   39
IX. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS                    ....39



-lll-
Page No.
ANNEXES
1     Project Cost Estimates   ...................................  42
2     Financial Analysis #  ......................................  45
3     Economic Analysis .    .......................................  53
4     Projected Semi-Annual Disbursements ......................  60
5    Allocation of the Credit   .................................  61
6     Mill Rehabilitation rask Force Organization ..............  62
7     ImpLementation Schedule    ..................................  65
8     Selected Documents and Data in the Project File ..........  67
SKETCH:
Proposed Integrated Milling and Storage Complex
Site Layout .............................................  68
CHARTS:
1    Organization of AFPTC   ....................................  69
2    Organization of Planning, Project and
Finance Department of AFPTC   .           .70
MAP No. 18261R:
Proposed Location for Integrated Milling and
Storage Complexes



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma.
Beneficiary:           Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation (AFPTC)
Amount:                SDR 26.4 M (US$30.0 M equivaLent)
Terms:                 Standard
Relending Terms:       The Government would relend the proceeds of IDA
Credit to AFPTC for a term of 20 years including
five year's grace and interest at 8.5Z per annum.
AFPTC relending to mill owners would be for 16
years including one year's grace and interest at
10.5% per annum.
Project Description:  The proposed project is designed to enhance foreign
exchange earnings by improving the quality of export
rice, reducing storage losses, and initiating a
program for rehabilitating private mills.
The project would be implemented over a nine year
period, though main works are expected to be completed
in five years. The construction of six new rice mills
with integrated paddy storage facilities would form
part of AFPTC's continuing efforts to expand and
modernize its own export oriented milling and storage
capacity. A rice grading/mixing plant with a capacity
of 74,000 tons per year would provide AFPTC with an
enhanced capability to regrade and mix rice at the
export terminal and thereby provide greater flexibility
in export marketing. The project includes technical
assistance and long term credit facilities to
rehabilitate about 120 private rice mills. Technical
assistance and training would also strengthen AFPTC
in project implementation and provide formal and
in-service training. Studies are included for
improving rice export marketing and for promoting
local capability in manufacturing milling equipment.
Risks:                 (a)  The project would not have any adverse
environmental effects;



(b) There is a risk of delays in implementation due
to shortages of local materials. Arrangements are made
in the project to minimze this risk; and
(c) AFPTC has surveyed contracted mill owners and
ascertained their willingness to rehabilitate their
aging mills. If later the millers' response is not
satisfactory, AFPTC would need to introduce additional
measures to encourage them to rehabilitate.
Estimated Cost:
------(US$ Million)------
Item                                   Local    Foreign    Total
New Rice Mills                              12.8        11.3      24.1
Mill Rehabilitation                          9.5         6.1      15.6
Rice Grading and Mixing Plant                1.1         1.3       2.4
Paddy Storage                                9.5         2.2      11.7
Project Implementation and Monitoring        0.3         0.1       0.4
Technical Assistance and Training            0.3         1.3       1.6
Base Cost                                   33.5        22.3      55.8
Physical Contingencies                       3.4         2.2       5.6
Price Contingencies                         12.8         5.7      18.5
Total Project Costs                         49.7        30.2      79.9
Taxes and Duties                            14.9           -      14.9
Project Cost net of Taxes and Duties        34.8        30.2      65.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                              10.0        20.0      30.0
Swiss Confederation                 -         5.0       5.0
The Government of Burma          37.8         2.7      40.5
UhNDP                               -         2.1       2.1
Mill Owners                       2.3           -       2.3
TOTAL                     50.1       29.8      79.9
Economic Rate of Return: 49Z
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY          87    88       89      90     91       92   93    94    95
Annual          0.2    1.4      2.6    3.8    6.2    6.2   5.2   3.0   1.4
Cumulative      0.2    1.6      4.2    8.0   14.2   20.4  25.6  28.6  30.0



BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Role in Economy
1.01      Agriculture, including forestry, livestock and fisheries, is the
dominant sector of the Burmese economy. In 1984 it accounted for about 44X of
CDP, 66% of the labor force and over 80% of exports. In addition, agricul-
tural crops, particularly paddy, cotton, jute and sugarcane, support more than
60X of the country's industrial production.
1.02      Rice is Burma's major agricultural and export commodity as well as
a significant source of Government revenue through implicit taxation from
Government controlled pricing and exportation. Paddy is grown principally as
a single, low-land rainfed crop in the monsoon period. About 5 M ha are sown
to paddy annually, representing over 50% of the gross cultivated area. In
1984/85, rice accounted for more than one third of total agricultural output,
and rice and rice products for 37% of the value of all merchandise exports.
Other main crops include sesame, pulses, groundnuts, cotton, tobacco and
cereals other than paddy.
Sectoral Developments
1.03      General.  During the 1960s and early 1970s, value added in agricul-
ture rose at a modest rate of about 1.6% per annum, well below the prevailing
2.2% population growth. Among factors contributing to this unsatisfactory
performance were changes in land policy, insufficient incentives to farmers
and repeated failures of imported high yielding paddy varieties (HYVs) which
proved ill-suited to local conditions. The Government of Burma (GOB), in
response to these developments, introduced a number of measures. First, a
series of policy reforms were undertaken, beginning 1973/74, to improve incen-
tives to farmers and provide for greater flexibility in the farming sector;
i.e. (i) procurement prices were substantially increased; (ii) mandatory
procurement quotas were reduced; (iii) some commodities were decontrolled;
(iv) a major tax and exchange reform was introduced; and (v) GOB invited
foreign assistance on an expanded scale to develop the sector. Second,
emphasis was placed on evolving HYVs suited to local conditions and promoting
their use. These policies proved successful as demonstrated by value added in
agriculture and paddy production growing at average annual rates of 7.5% and
7.0% respectively between 1974/75 and 1984/85.
1.04      Expansion in Paddy Production.  The main cause of the dramatic
growth of Burmese agriculture since the mid-1970s has been GOB's successful
paddy intensification drive, known as the Whole Township Program (WTP),
launched in 1975/76. This program combined improved availability of inputs



-2-
and a greatly expanded and strengthened extension service with institutional
support at the township level. The spread of HYVs to cover 50% of the
country's paddy area has been compared to the "Green Revolution" occurring
elsewhere in Asia. Local factors have contributed to making the process
unique, e.g.  participation of the People's Council in coordinating production
and procurement, selectivity and concentration through a campaign-type
approach, mobilization of the community to provide additional labor and the
provision of consumer goods on a priority basis to project areas to complement
rising incomes. Average yields in townships covered by WTP reached
3.2 tons/ha in 1984/85 compared to 2.4 tons in nonprogram townships resulting
in a national average yield of 2.8 tons/ha, almost 50% over the level prevail-
ing only five years earlier. As a result, Burma has surpassed the average
yields of most developing countries and has reached about half the yield
levels achieved in Japan. Total paddy production jumped from 9.4 M tons in
1977/78 to 14.4 M tons in 1984/85, an increase of over 50%.
1.05      While there is no intention to extend WTP beyond the presently
covered townships, HYVs are expected to spread in other areas. However, after
a period of very rapid growth in paddy production, continued efforts in
spreading HYVs and consolidating yield intensification are expected to result
in a slower growth rate as the additional scope for HYV substitution
diminishes and the projected target of 15.6 M tons by the end of the Fourth
Four-Year Plan (i.e. 1985/86) is not likely to be realized.
New Priorities for Agricultural Development
1.06      Two main elements, agricultural diversification and upgrading of
the quality of export rice, have emerged as priority objectives in GOB's Plan
for agricultural development as well as for the IDA country assistance
strategy. The concentration of exports on agricultural products coupled with
the volatility of international rice prices and the relatively restricted
international rice market argue for export diversification. Accordingly, COB
is seeking neans for: (i) increasing production of selected nonrice crops in
the dry zones through irrigation; (ii) intensifying cropping in wet zones with
short duration rice followed by other crops; and (iii) diverting marginal
cropland in rice production to other crops. However, a comprehensive program
to implement this strategy is yet to be formulated and put in place. The
rapid expansion of paddy production and public sector procurement over the
last decade has resulted in capacity constraints in grain handling, processing
and distribution. These constraints, reviewed in Chapter II, have added not
only to the quantitative losses but are also preventing an improvement of the
quality of Burmese rice on the export market. In recognizing these problems,
accentuated by international rice prices which are depressed since 1982, GOB
has reassessed its rice production and marketing strategy to maintain export
sales and increase revenues. The main elements of the strategy are: (a) to
introduce segregated belts of paddy cultivation specializing in homogeneous
seed varieties. These varieties are of the traditional (locally improved)
type which have lower yields than HYVs but of a quality in high demand for the
export market; and (b) to improve milling grades to the levels demanded in the
international trade. The project is designed to address major elements neces-
sary to support such a strategy.



-3-
IDA Involvement
1.07      IDA lending to Burma began in 1973 and since then 26 Credits totall-
ing US$676 M equivalent (net of cancellations) have been made. More than half
of IDA assistance, or US$386 M, has been for development of the agricultural
sector, reflecting GOB's priority for that sector. The 16 agricultural
development projects, financed by IDA, include low-lift, medium tank and
groundwater irrigation, rubber, livestock, seed development (2), paddy land
development (2), forestry (2), wood industry (2), a major multipurpose dam and
grain storage. Three of the projects have been completed and the 14 ongoing
agricultural projects are progressing satisfactorily. Project Performance
Audit Reports have been completed for two agricultural projects. namely, the
Forestry I Project (Cr.493-BA) and the Irrigation I Project (Cr. 483-B;.). The
Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) consider both projects as successful
with very satisfactory ERRs. The Forestry I PPAR highlighted the positive
experience with decentralization of the administrative system in the Timber
Corporation, and of hiring technical assistance staff through a specialized
forestry consulting company under Forestry fI. However, problems arose with
procurement of equipment, and direct recruitment of technical assistance by
the Timber Corporation resulting in unsatisfactory performance of consultants.
The PPAR on Irriga:ion I highlights the project's good physical achievements,
the large number of direct beneficiaries, and the safeguarding of small farmer
interests by COB during land reform. On the negative side, apparently too
much attention was paid to engineering aspects during supervision, while
agricultural development, utilization of large centralized workshops, and
monitoring and evaluation were not sufficiently attended to. The proposed
project would take such Lessons into account, particularly the needs to
strengthen project monitoring and to supervise the engineering and agricul-
tural aspects.
Implementation of Ongoing Bank Project Executed by AFPTC
1.08      Through the Grain Storage Project (Cr. 1092-BA), approved in 1981,
IDA broadened its assistance ir -he agricultural sector to help overcome
post-harvest constraints affeccing public sector procurement and grain
handling. The main component of this Project is the construction of 100,000
tons of storage facilities for paddy to be integrated at 20 sites with rice
mills financed under separate Asian Development Bank (ADB) loans and Japanese
Aid. Project implementation fell slightly behind schedule initially due to:
(i) delays in recruitment of consultants; (ii) lengthy internal p:ocedures for
procurement of imported construction materials and equipment: and
(iii) recurring shortages of cement and timber. Monitoring of availability of
construction material at project sites has since been improved, and steps were
taken at the interministerial level to allocate supplies of cement and timber.
Audit reports on project accounts have been submitted for each year, except
FY85 which is expected shortly. The construction program is virtually com-
plete and the credit will close by September 30, 1986, one year behind
schedule.



-4-
II. GRAIN PROCUREMENT AND DISPOSAL
Institutions
2.01      Grain handling, processing and distribution in Burma is divided
between the public and private sectors. The Agricultural and Farm Produce
Trade Corporation (AFPTC), reporting to the Ministry of Trade, is responsible
for the procurement from farmers, as well as for processing and distribution
of grain. The Myanma Export-Import Corporation (MEIC), also under the
Ministry of Trade, handles grain export sales. BoLh agencies are part of the
State Economic Enterprise (SEE) system created as part of the broad restruc-
turing of the economy in the 1960s. The SEEs formally achieved financial
autonomy from the Government with the implementation of the Government-issued
"Guidelines for Operating State Economic Enterprises". AFPTC is one of the
largest of more than 55 SEEs currently operating. It employs over 25,000
people. 14,000 of whom are temporary, in procurement depots, rice mills,
remilling and bran processing plants, warehouse complexes, transit depots and
administratioin.
2.02      The rationale for public procurement of paddy stems from the basic
Government policy seeking State control of all major economic activities.
Thus, only the public sector is legally permitted to trade in rice on the
internationaL market and therefore needs to procure the exportable surplus.
Furthermore, it is COB policy to transfer rice from surplus producing areas to
deficit areas and to supply the population in nonfarm sectors at controlled
and subsidized prices. AFPTC, under a compulsory quota system, currently
procures about 25% of the annual paddy crop. In 1984/85 3.6 M tons was so
procured, the balance estimated at 10.7 M tons entered private trade channels
or represented home consumption. A substantial rice market exists outside the
procurement system in the form of legal trade within townships as well as
illicit private trade across township boundaries. Although AFPTC does not
have any direct control over the farming sector, it influences paddy produc-
tion and farmers' handling of paddy by implementing the Covernment's procure-
ment and pricing policies. After procuring paddy, AFPTC processes and stores
some in its own limited - but expanding - facilities. However, it relies on
the private sector for all transport, 90% of milling and 30% of storage.
Production and Procurement
2.03      Over the past eight years, AFPTC annual volume of paddy procurement
has ranged between 2.3 M and 4.3 M tons or 24 to 30% of paddy production.
Since 1978/79, the paddy procured as a proportion of paddy production has
registered a steady decline from 37% to 26% in 1984/85 as shown in the Table
below.



AFPTC
Paddy        Paddy         Domestic         Rice           Proportion
Year        Production   Procurement   Rice Sales /a   Exports /a    Procured (Z)
-  (M  Tons)  ---…--                    …--------------
1977/78         9.5           2.3           n.a.             .7              24
1978/79        10.5           3.9            1.4             .2              37
1979/80        10.4           3.6            1.7            .8               36
1980/81        13.3           4.2           2.0             .7               32
1981/82        14.1           4.3            1.9             .7              31
1982/83        14.3           4.1           2.1             .7               30
1983/84        14.1           4.1            1.8             .8              29
1984/85        14.4           3.7            L.8             .6             26
la Including brokens and bran.
2.04      Annual targets for AFPTC's procurement are set by reference to
estimated quantities of rice required for the public sales program and the
targeted exportable surplus. The Fourth Four-Year Plan calls for procurement
to rise to 4.9 M tons by 1985/86, maintaining a share of 31% of expected
production. Targets are revised in the light of previous attainments and the
size of the expected harvest. They are generally achieved, indicating a high
level of natio al consensus as well as social and political control, consider-
ing that procurement prices are considerably lower than free market prices.
Deterrents to farmers for not delivering their procurement quotas to AFPTC
include control of access to institutional credit, fertilizers, private ..ills
for milling of own consumption needs and ultimately to the land which belongs
to the State.
2.05      The reported sharp increase in paddy production since 1978/79 has
not been accompanied by a commensurate increase in exports. The apparent
domestic per capita grain availability has therefore increased beyond histori-
cal levels of demand. Parallel to production increases, there have been
rising system losses, a fall in milling recovery and a build-up in AFPTC's
stocks of rice. Overestimated paddy yields and illicit rice exports explain
the statistical balance between production and utilization. For the period
1979/80 to 1981/82 the average annual paddy production was 12.6 M tons, of
which 45% was consumed domestically in the form of rice, 34% represented
by-products and weight losses during milling and 12% was lost during handling,
storage and transport, an amount almost double the exported quantity (6X) and
four times the quantity used as seed (3%). Quantitative losses within the
AFPTC sector are estimated at 15%, half of which are believed to occur at the
farm level and half attributable to storage, transport and handling of paddy
and rice from procurement to sale.
The Export Market
2.06      The international rice market is a residual market with trade cur-
rently amounting to 11-12 M tons annually or 4-5% of world rice consumption.
Prior to World War II, Burma was the world's leading rice exporter and
aLthough exports declined steadily annual export sales of rice exceeded
I M tons up to the early 1960s. As paddy production in Burma stagnated and
population grew, r.ce exports declined to less than 100,000 tons in 1973/74.
However, exports of rice and rice products increased to an annual average of



-6-
700,000 tons over the period 1980/81 - 1982/83, equivalent to about 6Z of
world rice exports, as production rose in response to the Whole Township
Program (see para 1.04).
2.07       Burma's recent rice exports are dominated by medium- to low-grade
rice; in 1981182 over 80Z of rice exports consisted of rice with 25% broken
content or above. In contrast, Thailand, now one of the worad's leading rice
exporters, has developed its market position by raising the average quality
and grade of its product and by responding to the changing market demand.
With its present conspicuously low-grade product mix, Burma depends on
low-income markets, where limited purchasing power places a constraint on the
volume of effective demand.
2.08      Over the period 1975 to 1981, international rice prices rose,
re'lecting greater import purchases, especially by Indonesia, and reduced
surpluses in major exporting countries. As import demand declined, and with
export supply being ample, foLlowing two years of good harvests in exporting
countries, prices for Thai rice (5Z broken, the conventional reference com-
modity), dropped from US$483/ton in 1981 to US$293 in 1982. The decline
continued through 1983 and 1984 and the current low price of US$220/ton
reflects the combined effects of several years of relatively good production,
and weak import demand. Prices of Burmese rice on the international market,
now averaging around $180/ton, have traditionally been 15-20Z Lower than those
for Thai rice. The greater part of the price differential, perhaps 65%, is
due to grade composition, i.e. high percentage of brokens in the rice mix.
The balance of 35% has been attributed to inferior quality of rice at a given
grade.
Development Strategy
2.09      GOB's strategy 'ocusses on strengthening public sector procurement
of the exportable grain surplus and the volume required for public sector
domestic rice sales. It centers around the expansion, upgrading and modern-
ization of AFPTC's own facilities for handling of paddy and rice which have
been deteriorating and proven insufficient while procurement levels have been
rising. Since 1974, GOB, with external financial assistance, has been con-
structing improved facilities for grain storage and rice milling. The bulk of
this financing became available only after 1979, and many of the storage and
milling facilities planned to benefit AFPTC are yet to be completed. The
Covernment is committed to continue this program.
2.10      A strategy to improve the value of rice exports through improvement
of grade and quality must recognize constraints at various stages in the grain
handling process. Some of these constraints relate to the upgrading of public
sector grain handling and processing facilities; others concern the Govern-
ment's policies. The main constraints, listed progressively from harvest to
export shipment, are as follows:
(i)   constraints related to production in the form of lack of proper seed
grading, pcor grain uniformity and unpopular seed varieties (2.11);
(ii)   incentives to farmers to deliver premium-grade paddy to AFPTC and
to properly dry and clean the paddy delivered (2.14-15);



-7-
(iii)  peaking of paddy procurement and paddy grading at procurement
centers (2.16);
(iv)   shortage of permanent storage capacity to reduce storage losses
(2.18);
(v)    shortage of milling capacity available to AFPTC for milling
of export quality rice; lack of credit facilities and imported
equipment for private millers to invest in maintenance and
upgrading of mills (2.21-2.26);
(vi)   lack of proper rice grading and mixing facilities at point of
export shipment (2.27).
2.11      The first of the above constraints is being addressed under the IDA
Seeds Development Proiects (Cr. 745-BA and Cr. 1616-BA). The proposed project
would address others, the start having been made under the ongoing Grain
Storage Project (Cr. 1092-BA) and support from other donors.
Paddy Pricing Policy
2.12      Procurement prices for paddy are a part of GOB policy of
country-wide price stabilization and may be changed only with cabinet
approval. The last major changes were between 1972 and 1974, when the prices
for all paddy were increased by about 150Z. It is not possible to say what
role price incentives played in the upsurge of paddy production because the
price change coincided with the ir,croduction of the Whole Township Program
which improved the availability of various inputs, credit and extension serv-
ices (paras 1.03 - 1.04). The general level of procurement prices has been
about 50-70% of free market prices till the early eighties. Free market
prices have been influenced by informal trade across borders and it is
reported that free market prices have declined considerably since project
appraisal in March 1984. Non-price measures which have proven effective have
been aided by the decline in free market prices to achieve procurement tar-
gets, and GCB has no plans to alter its paddy price policy at the present
time.
2.13      Differential Procurement Prices.  Within its general paddy price
policy, GOB allows differentials for varieties and for quality (grade). These
differentials have been adjustd from time to time since the across-the-board
increases between 1972 and 1974. Prices for higher grades were raised in
1977/78 (4-7%) and in 1980/81 (2-12%). In addition, there is a differential
between varieties and in 1980/81, a premium (8-5%) was introduced for "Special
Emata", a variety with strong export demand. The present procurement prices
for principal paddy varieties are shown below in K/100 baskets (US$/ton of
rice within brackets).
Percent of total       Ordinary         Premium I
Paddy variety              procurement          Grade             Grade
Ngasein                       23                900 (53)        1,060 (63)
Emata                         57                955 (56)        1,125 (67)
Special Emata                  4              i,035 (61)        1,220 (72)



-8-
2.14      However, in light of the objective to enhance the export quality of
rice, the concern remains that the procurement price structure, in particular,
the price differentials between varieties and grades, is inadequate to ensure
that AFPTC is able to procure paddy in the face of competition from the free
market. Over the period 1979/80 to 1983/84 less than half a percent of the
paddy procured by AFPTC was classified as premium grade. Procured paddy
continues to have a relatively high foreign matter or immature grain ccntent,
a factor contributing to the discounts applied to export prices.
2.15      This raises a second concern about procurement pricing differen-
tials, i.e. the scheduled price discounts imposed on paddy failing to meet
standards for individual grade specifications. These value cuts, primarily
caused by excessive moisture content, have risen sharply since 1979/80. While
paddy in excess of 18% moisture is rejected, drier paddy is accepted with cuts
of K 5 per 100 baskets for every .5% above the 15Z standard established for
moisture content. Since the reduction in price is less than the costs (weight
loss and handling costs) the farmer would have ta incur in drying the paddy to
the specified standard, farmers have little incentive to properly dry their
paddy. Under the ongoing IDA Grain Storage Project, GOB reviewed its paddy
grading criteria and made recommendations to ensure that farmers have adequate
financial incentives to deliver paddy of better quaLity and storability. The
review and recommendations took account of current practices relating to
discounts applying to moisture levels and foreign matter in paddy above stipu-
lated minimum levels and the current AFPTC costs for drying and cleaning and
recommended that current discounts applying to moisture levels and impurities
should be adjusted to enable AFPTC to cover its current costs of drying paddy
and of cleaning. The recommendations also caiL for an upward adjustment of
current prices for cleaned and adequately dried paddy above specified stand-
ards. The recommendations have as their basic objective the provision of
disincentives as well as incentives to farmers to deliver paddy of better
storability and quality. Following this review AFPTC has indicated that it is
in the process of implementing the recommendations of the review and assuran-
ces were obtained from GOB that based on the recent review GOB would furnish
to the Association the progress in implementation of the recommendations
arising from the review.
Procurement Timing
2.16      Because of the GOB policy to achieve procurement targets as early as
possible after harvest, two thirds of annual paddy purchases are made within a
six-week period, with 25Z accruing over 10 to 15 days. This policy, actively
promoted by locaL authorities, places obvious constraints on AFPTC's procure-
ment operations, contributing to quality losses and inefficient utilization of
grain system facilities. Spreading out the peak in procurement could be
accomplished through contractual mandatory scheduling of quotas and/or price
incentives for deferred quota deliveries. This would reduce pressure on
procurement staff, prevent indiscriminate acceptance of low-quality paddy,
allow for more careful grading procedures (a prerequisite for effectively
providing farmers with adequate incentives for maintaining paddy quality) and
less open piling, with more uniform movement of paddy into covered storage.
Several difficulties might be encountered in implementing a shift in procure-
ment timing, e.g. physical constraints of seasonal areas and weather condi-
tions, costs to be borne by farmers for deferred deliveries, the existing



-9-
policy of early achievement of procurement targets and perhaps, most impor-
tantly that there are limited storage facilities on farms. To overcome
problems during procurement GOB is considering a proposal to allow coopera-
tives as well as AFPTC to procure paddy.
Storage and Milling Constraints
2.17      The subsequent review of storage and milling constraints is set
against the following projections for paddy production, procurement and needs
for additional AFPTC storagc and milling capacity: 1/
Projected
Average
1979/80 - 1981/82   1986/87    1991/92
-----------------M tons----------------
Paddy Production                               12.6            16.0        17.5
Paddy Procurement                               4.1             5.1         5.8
AFPTC Needs for MilLing Capacity:
Deficit Townships                            1.0             1.2         1.8
Surplus Townships                            1.2             1.1         1.0
Net Deficits                                 (.3)            0.04       0.8
Overall National MiLling Deficit
Net Deficit                                  3.0             5.4         6.8
AFPTC Needs for Paddy Storage
Deficit Townships                            0.6             0.8         1.2
Surplus Townships                            0.4             0.3        0.3
Net Deficit                                  0.3             0.5         0.9
2.18      Storage Capacity and Deficits.  Procurement of paddy by AFPTC is
confined to the dry season when paddy is, to a large extent, stored in the
open. By April, with the arrival of the rains, AFPTC's overriding priority is
to store all paddy under cover. Paddy storage requirements are therefore
traditionally determined by assessing the proportion of procured paddy that
remains unmilled by end of March. This proportion averages 55-60%. In prac-
tice, most paddy stores have an annual turnover of one, being filled between
January and April and emptied for milling between May and December. The
average annual turnover in rice stores is three to four. Rice stocks are
arguably too high, resulting in excessive storage periods, consequent
deterioration of rice and extensive remilling needs.
2.19      AFPTC currently has access to about 2.9 M tons of permanent storage
capacity of which about 2 M tons are designated for paddy, 0.6 M tons for rice
and 0.3 M tons for other commodities. About two thirds of the capacity is
owned by AFPTC and the balance hired from private owners. Temporary sheds,
used to fill the gap between permanent storage capacity and the projected
1/ These projections, details of which are in the Project File (Project
Feasibility Study), have been used by AFPTC for project planning purposes.



-10-
volume to be stored, are expensive forms of storage, considering losses and
short structural life. Consequently, AFPTC's storage constructior. program
aims at replacing such structures with more permanent ones. The storage
deficit projections shown above (2.17) take into account the completion of
ongoing storage projects totalling 300,000 tons financed by IDA, ADB and local
funds. AFPTC's permanent paddy storage construction therefore needs to be
expanded to reduce losses and support expanded procurement. Existing
capacities together with ongoing and planned rice storage construction appear
sufficient, except for specific transit storage needs at points of transship-
ment and export.
2.20      Storage Losses.  Given present storage practices and nature of
available storage, quantitative losses presentLy range from an estimated 0.5%
per month in permanent godowns to 1.8% for temporary sheds and 2.2Z in open
pile storage. Similarly, qualitative losses, i.e. percent reductions in value
of rice produced from a weight unit of paddy, are estimated to range between
0.45Z per month for paddy in permanent storage up to 7% in open pile. The
high loss rate for open pile storage is due to excessive suncracks in paddy
exposed alternatively to rapid drying in the sun and increase in moisture from
rain or dew. These loss rates could be reduced only if the construction of
permanent grain storage facilities and rehabilitation of old stores increase
at a pace quicker than that at whi-h AFTPC procurement expands.
2.21      Mill Capacitv and Utilization.  Rice milling is one of the largest
industries in Burma dating back to around 1870. Milling is undertaken by the
AFPTC mills, cooperaLive and private registered mills and handmilled on farms.
Of a total crop of 14 M tons paddy, on average about 3-4 M tons is handmilled
on the farms. Nationally, there is milling capacity of around 10 M tons made
up of 5 M tons of contract mill capacity, a further 2.6 M tons capacity of
these contract mills for milling farmers paddy and 1.0 M tons milling capacity
in cooperative miLls and private registered small mills with the balance
accounted for by unregistered mills and hullers. AFPTC milling currently
accounts for only 2-3% of total milling capacity, and AFPTC relies heavily on
private mills for milling paddy procured from farmers. The project is
expected to increase AFPTC milling capacity from the present 400,000 tons
paddy to about 600,000 tons per annum, while about a further 600,000 tons of
private sector milling capacity is expected to be rehabilitated.
2.22      The milling capacity estimated nationally conceal regional imbalan-
ces which is a reflection of a relatively more rapid growth of lower Burma as
a source of procurement paddy with local demand for milling services outstrip-
ping available milling capacity. For example, in the Irrawaddy Division, the
leading paddy producing area, AFPTC's annual net milling deficit averaging
125,000 tons in recent years is projected to grow to 240,000 tons in 1986/87
and 540,000 tons in 1991/92. Given the expected rising milling deficit, the
major project concentration is in Irrawaddy Division.
2.23      AFPTC and the Private Mills.  All private mills are licensed by
AFPTC, either to mill on contract to AFPTC or to custom mill for farmers or
both. AFPTC has the right to determine the type of license to be issued in
individual cases. In practice, mills contracted by AFPTC are also allowed
to engage in custom milling for farmers, on average for two to three days per
week. However, local authorities have considerable latitude to overide the
AFPTC license provisions, espeoiallv during the peak milling season. The



-11-
AFPTC provides millers with a fixed milling charge which varies by variety and
grade. This milling fee is much lower than the fee the miller receives from
farmers. However, it is the mechanical condition of the mills and not the
differential in milling fees which is the main determinant of milling quality.
Private mills accounting for 95Z of AFPTC's milling needs are old and many are
operating beyond their economic life. Deteriorating pLant conditions limit
their ability to mill higher grade and higher quality rice. Consequently,
rice output from AFPTC's contracted mills consist almost exclusively of rice
with broken content of 35% or above.
2.24      Need for Mill Rehabilitation.  About 75% of private milLs are driven
by steam engines depending on husk-fired boilers. The balance are powered by
electricity or diesel engines. Half of the boilers in these mills are between
45-60 years old and need to be replaced at an average rate of 40 per year,
representing 2% of annual capacity. Since the supply of second-hand boilers
is limited and since mill owners are unable to obtain import permits or for-
eign exchange, mills are forced to operate at reduced steam pressure with
consequent lowering of the mechanical efficiency.
2.25      Efforts have been made in the past to promote private investment in
mill rehabilitation. Between 1978 and 1982, AFPTC administered a rehabilita-
tion program under the ADB-financed Rice Processing Industries Project,
involving about 100 mills. This program was directed at keeping mills run-
ning, and Largely financed what should have been normal maintenance. Dif-
ficulties and delays were experienced in program implementation which resulted
from insufficient planning of rehabilitation subprojects and procurement
delays caused through numerous individual tenders and cumbersome AFPTC
procurement procedures. AFPTC also has in place an on-going rehabilitation
program, but the extent of rehabilitation so far has been limited (para 3.14).
2.26      Appropriate and early measures involving comprehensive rehabilita-
tion are needed to sustain private milling capacity and improve grades, more
especially since ongoing and planned new construction of AFPTC rice mills are
not expected to come on-stream at a pace sufficient to offset an impending
loss of private mill capacity estimated at 1-2% per year. Some 900 mills have
been identified provisionally by AFPTC to be in need of rehabilitation so that
an efficient long-term program for private mill rehabilitation is required. A
key element of such a program is that millers should have access not only to
credit but also, more importantly, to essential imported items.
Handling of Export Rice
2.27      AFPTC experiences considerable difficulty in supplying rice for
export according to contracted standards. Value cuts are imposed by importers
for Burmese rice failing to meet specifications which affect over 40% of all
rice exported. The greater part of cuts and rejections are attributable to
poor milling and excess brokens. Simultaneously, because of a lack of proper
grading, many shipments end up having a whole grain content higher than the
specified limits. Burma therefore loses export revenue as a result of value
cuts and improper grading and also incurs extra costs of double-handling,
transport and remedial action necessary on the rejected quantities. In
1981/82 the total quantity of export rice remilled was equivalent to 25% of
AFPTC's milling capacity thereby diverting a significant part of existing
milling facilities from their optimal use.



-12-
2.28      Measures to modernize and rehabilitate rice mills would eventually
enable better grade uniformity and quality of rice leaving mills in procure-
ment areas. However, compLementary to such measures, there is a need to
enhance the capability at the point of shipment for regrading, mixing and
reconditioning milled rice stored at the export terminal awaiting shipment.
Such a capability, which is marketing rather than production oriented, is
valuable, particularly where planning of rice sales and shipment need to be
coordinated with production and transport from a large number of individual
mills.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01      The major obiectives of the project, to be implemented by AFPTC over
a five to nine year period are to increase export earnings from the rice
sector, reduce the projected national rice milling deficit and establish an
institutional capability for a long-term mill rehabilitation program. Export
earnings would be increased through an investment program aimed at:
(i) improving quality and grade composition of milled rice; and (ii) reducing
losses during grain storage. A reduction in the national milling deficit
would be accomplished through construction of new rice mills and the upgrading
and expansion of existing rice mill capacity. The investment program would
support public sector investment and rehabilitation of private investment.
The proposed public-private sector mix recognizes that under COB policy, the
public sector controls grain handling for exports from the level of procure-
ment of paddy to the docks. AFPTC needs to upgrade its export-oriented grain
handling infrastructure to perform such control with the best possible
economic result. On the other hand, over 90% of AFPTC milling needs are met
by the private sector mills which are in urgent need of rehabilitation and
modernization.
The Project Area
3.02      The project area would consist of the Irrawaddy, Rangoon and Pegu
Divisions, including the Irrawaddy Delta (see Map IBRD No. 18261). Whereas
the mill rehabilitation program would be spread throughout this area, the new
mill and paddy storage construction would mainly be concentrated in the
Southern Irrawaddy Division where current and projected milling deficits are
among the highest in the country. The project area has a population of 12.5 M
or slightly more than one third of Burma's population, and 880,000 farm
families with an average farm size of 4 ha.
3.03      The project area is the major rice surplus area in the country.
Paddy production in the project area in 1984/85 amounted to 8.8 M tons or
about two thirds of national production. Project area procurement, which
amounted to 2.8 M tons in 1984/85, or 76% of national paddy procurement, is
expected to increase to 4.4 M tons in 1991/92 as shown below.



-13-
Paddy Procurement (000 tons)
Actual           Projected
Division                   1984/85      1986/87      1991/92
Irrawaddy                   1,188        1,860        2,177
Rangoon                       512          700          814
Pegu                        1,131        1,405        1,457
Total Project Area          2,831        3,965        4,448
These increases in procurement would require additional milling and storage
facilities, particularly in the Irrawaddy Division.
Project Components
3.04      The project would comprise the following major components:
(i) construction of six new electricaily-powered rice mills by AFPTC,
each with a capacity of 33,000 tons per year (tpy);
(ii)  rehabilitation of about 120 AFPTC-contracted private rice mills,
with a total milling capacity of about 580,000 tpy;
(iii) construction of an AFPTC rice grading and mixing plant in the
Rangoon port area with a capacity of 74,000 tpy;
(iv)  construction of 84,000 tons AFPTC permanent storage facilities for
paddy, 60,000 tons to be integrated with the six new rice mills;
and
(v) technical assistance services to assist AFPTC in project
implementation.
Detailed Features
(a) New Mill Construction
3.05      The construction of six new AFPTC rice mills would form part of
AFPTC's continuing efforts to expand and modernize its own export-oriented
milling capacity and to integrate such capacity with new paddy storage
facilities in areas with a high proportion of export-quality paddy.
3.06      Location.  In the Irrawaddy Division, which has the highest divi-
sional milling deficit in Burma, AFPTC faces a growing shortage of milling
capacity (2.23). About half of the projected deficit of 540,000 tons in
1991/92 is expected to be within the four townships of BogaLe, Moulmeingyun,
Pyapon and Labutta. Given the plans for power grid extensions by 1987/88 all
six mills will be electric powered. The six new project mills with a total
processing capacity of 198,000 tons per annun. would represent about 70Z of
AFPTC's projected milling deficits in these townships in 1991/92. The actual
locations of the six rice mills were based on the following considerations:
(i) location and capacity of existing milling/storage facilities relative to
projected procurement levels in areas with high potential for export paddy
varieties; (ii) minimizing AFPTC's costs for transport; (iii) proximity to
electric power supply; and (iv) easy access to waterway. The six mills would



-14-
be located at Moulmeingyum, Pyapon, Prome, Thegon, Labutta and Paung (IBRD Map
No. 18261).
3.07      Design.  The choice of the proposed mill capacity (33,000 tons per
year) was determined by the milling deficits in the project area and con-
siderations of ecoromies of scale.  The largest of AFPTC's existing mills in
operation in Burma today are around 100 tons per day (tpd).  However, Larger
mills with capacities up to 250 tpd are under construction.  By the time the
project mills are projected to come on stream, AFPTC will have accumulated
several years of experience in operating modern rice milLs (recently gone into
aperation or currently being constructed) of size and design similar to those
of the project mills. The mills with adjacent rice storage would be
integrated with partly mechanized paddy storage in a rice milling-cum-storage
complex capable of handling an annual paddy throughput of 33,000 tons follow-
ing the model established under earlier projects financed by IDA, ADB and
Japanese Aid (see Sketch 1, page 68). The proposed mills would in most
respects follow the conventional design well proven in Burma with an important
exception that rubber roLI shelLers rather than under-runner disc shellers
would be used for husking of paddy. The use of rubber roll shellers, planned
for the AFPTC mills now under construction, would result in higher outturn of
rice and result in less brokens. It would be supported by local manufacturing
of rubber rolls through a factory constructed under a rice processing project,
financed through Japanese Aid, expected to go into operation by mid-1986.
3.08      Buildings for mills and rice stores would be steel frame structures,
of a design which eliminates intermediate building supports and allows
flexibility in arranging the milling plant and in rice storage practices.
Outline design and specifications for superstructures have been prepared.
Detailed design of superstructure would be provided by suppliers. Following
procedures adopted under ongoing AFPTC rice mill construction projects, final
specifications and drawings for substructures would be prepared by the
Construction Corporation (CC), based on the specifications for superstructures
and equipment. Costs of recently completed rice milling-cum-storage complexes
verified by current unit rates for works and materials were used to derive
costs.
(b) Rehabilitation of Private Mills
3.09      Rehabilitation Program.  The project provides for: (i) long-term
credit for financing of private investment in rehabilitation (4.03);
(ii) assistance to mill owners for identifying rehabilitation needs, planning
suitable rehabilitation packages, and installing new milling equipment (6.10);
and (iii) importation of rice milling and ancillary equipment (4.08). AFPTC
would play a key role in all of the above activities and its technical and
administrative capability for management of the program would therefore have
to be strengthened. An institutional and organizational structure would be
set up for the three activities mentioned above to support a long-term program
of private mill rehabilitation which would continue beyond this project
(6.11).
3.10      Rehabilitation Target Group.  Given the need to build up AFPTC's
administrative and technical capability to identify, appraise and supervise
individual mill rehabilitation subprojects, the project would only be able to
support the rehabilitation of a part of the large number of mills currently in



-15-
need of rehabilitation (para 2.26). Consistent with the objective of improv-
ing the value of rice exports, the rehabilitation program under the project
would concentrate on the rehabilitation of mills for processing export-quality
rice for AFPTC and would all be in the project area.
3.11      Tentatively 180 mills were identified by AFPTC as possible can-
didates for rehabilitation. Compared with the size distribution and the
condition of the power source within the entire set of 900 mills contracted by
AFPTC, the proposed list of 180 shows a bias towards the larger mills and
those with boilers in good condition. Subsequently, AFPTC undertook a more
detailed survey of a subset of 80 mills. The survey has itemized the spares,
milling equipment and electrical stores needing replacement on an individual
mill basis. In carrying out this survey, consideration has been given to
mills currently powered by old and inefficient boilers and located close to
current or planned power transmission lines. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained from COB that the survey of the balance 100 mills will be completed
by December 31, 1986.
3.12      As the rehabilitation under the project is to be targetted towards
processing export milling quality, mills to be considered for participation
should: (i) be licensed with AFPTC for milling on contract for AFPTC;
(ii) have the potential for processing export-quality rice as determined
through AFPTC's survey of mills; (iii) be located in areas with a high propor-
tion of export paddy varieties, i.e. with at least 60Z of produced paddy of
the Emata Group; (iv) willing to participate in the rehabilitation program and
intend to remain in the milling industry; (v) have milling capacity of more
than 35 tons per day; and (vi) be operated by authorized persons, and free
from pending legal actions. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
above eligibility criteria will apply for mill rehabilitation.
3.13      AFPTC-contracted mills receive a milling allocation from AFPTC and
receive a fixed milling fee which averages K 36.40 per 100 baskets. AFPTC-
contracted mills also custom mill for farmers for which they receive a much
higher milling fee which averages K 70.00 per 100 baskets. AFPTC-contracted
mills are also in receipt of interest-free seasonal loans from AFPTC to
finance working capital needs and income from AFPTC for godown hire. The
profitability of the milling operations depends on the extent of custom mill-
ing for farmers as milling entirely for AFPTC provides a return which barely
covers running costs. On average, mills which in addition to AFPTC contract
milling also custom mill for farmers for at least 35 days a year are in
receipt of income sufficient to cover not only running costs, but also
depreciation and provide a return to the miller.
3.14      AFPTC's current program to assist in mill rehabilitation is very
limited and could be attributed to lack of planning and unavailability of
foreign exchange to obtain imported materials and equipment. Millers who
undertake rehabilitation are provided incentives of a non-price form. These
include the provision of special allocations of petrol, oil and lubricants,
special allocation of construction materials, building materials and spares on
a priority basis, assurance of a satisfactory and constant supply of paddy to
be milled and opportunity for custom milling, free technical advise on
engineering aspects of rice milling and interest-free advances against mill-
ing.



-16-
3.15      AFPTC has undertaken a survey of 240 mills to elicit information on
the willingness of millowners to undertake rehabilitation, and of their repay-
ment capacity. The survey revealed that 143 millers expressed a willingness
to undertake rehabilitation, given the present milling fees and Lncentives
offered by AFPTC. In view of the willingness of millers to rehabilitate as
shown by the survey, it may not be necessary to provide additional incentives.
However, assurances were obtained at negotiations that a schedule would be
prepared for the mill rehabilitation program, and progress reviewed annually
jointly with IDA.  In particular, at the end of one year after credit effec-
tiveness, if less than 15 loans were processed and approved, COB and IDA would
review and agree on further measures which may be necessary to enthuse private
millers to undertake rehabilitation.
3.16      Although the participation of private mill owners in rehabilitation
cannot be predicted with accuracy, it is estimated that about 120 mills (about
two-thirds of the 180 mills surveyed) with a combined capacity of 580,000 tpy
would be rehabilitated under the project. If the credit allocation for
rehabilitation is not fully utilized the balance will not be reallocated to
other disbursement categories of the IDA credit.
3.17      Technical Description.  The nature and scope of rehabilitation of
mills would be determined with respect to the needs of individuaL mills and
the implementation of the rehabilitation programs would provide for
flexibility in the design of individual rehabilitation packages. It is
expected that approximately 50 mills would undertake major rehabilitation
involving electrification and upgrading of milling section. With major
rehabilitation, a 10X increase in nominal capacity could be expected. It is
expected that approximately 65 mills will undergo minor rehabilitation which
involve upgrading of milling section only. Boiler replacement would be under-
taken in about five to seven mills where distances to power grids would result
in prohibitive costs. The supply of second-hand boilers, released by the
Burma Railways Corporation, is expected to be sufficient to meet the boiler
replacement needs over the project implementation period. In general, minor
rehabilitation would improve the grade of rice produced but would not increase
throughput.
3.18      The following table gives a tentative classification of rehabilita-
tion subprojects:
Number                      Estimated Cost
of Mills      Capacity          per mill
(tpy)       (US$ '000)
Electrification and Upgrading
Milling Section                      50                           210,000
Boiler Replacement and
Upgrading Milling Section             7                           114,000
Upgrading Milling Section only         65                            58,000
Total                               122          580,000



-17-
(c) Rice Grading and Mixing Plant
3.19      The proposed AFPTC rice grading/mixing plant, with an annual
capacity of 74,000 tons, would provide AFPTC with a substantially enhanced
capability to regrade and mix milled rice stored at the export terminaL await-
ing shipment. The plant would serve to reduce rejections and value cuts at
point of shipment hitherto caused by failure to meet importers' specifica-
tions. More importantly, it would allow AFPTC/MEIC greater flexibility in
marketing the country's export surDlus and thereby increase export revenues.
While the plant's primary purpose would be one of regrading and mixing, it
would also have the capability cf reconditioning and recleaning rice stored
over longer periods awaiting shipment. The relatively small investment
required to add such a capability to the plant would help to reduce value
cuts. Although the quality of milled rice is expected to improve as AFPTC's
milling capacity becomes modernized, there would stiLl be a continued need
for reconditioning stored milled rice at the point of shipment. This opera-
tion would be integrated with those of regrading, mixing and packing for
export.
3.20      Design.  To ensure the integration of various operations of prepar-
ing and upgrading milled rice for shipment and provide flexibility in these
operations, the plant would be designed with three processing lines, each
capable of operating independently. The plant building would be a steel
structure and have attached to it a service building with facilities for bran
storage, maintenance ard spares store and laboratory and office facilities.
Detailed design of superstructures would be provided by the supplier. The
Construction Corporation would be responsible for detailed design of founda-
tion, based on suppliers' specifications for superstructures and plant equip-
ment, and for construction. Cost estimates for plant and machinery are based
on a sample of supplier quotations, while works are based on standard unit
rates for labor and materials. Consultants, to be hired by AFPTC, would
assist AFPTC in preparing tender documents for plant equipment and steel
superstructures.
3.21      Location.  The plant would be located within the Rangoon port area
at the Ahlone jetty close to the point of shipment and with year-round access
by road and water. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that immediate
actior would be taken to get possession of the land for this purpose.
(d) Paddy Storage
3.22      Capacity and Operations.  The project would include paddy storage
facilities to meet the requirements of the six new mills. In addition, provi-
sion is also made for godowns at the field procurement depots. The storages
are to be steel godowns, fully mechanized and integrated with the mill, timber
godowns, non-mechanized at the mill site and timber godowns, non-mechanized at
field procurement depots. Storage deficits in townships selected for location
of four of the six mills are projected to between 18,000 and 39,000 tons by
1991/92. Based on an annual paddy throughput of 33,000 tons per mill and on
milling and storage patterns, the peak storage capacity required to support
the operation of a new rice mill is estimated at 21,000 tons occurring by the
end of March. This would be stored at the mill site or at outlying procure-
ment depots, the latter to be transported to the mill after March. The per-
manent storage capacity to be constructed for each of four mills under the



-18-
project is 11,100 tons comprising one steel godown fully mechanized and
integrated with the mill with a capacity of 3,600 tons and three timber
godouns non-mechanized at mill site with a capacity of 2,500 tons each. The
two remaining mills will be provided with only three timber non-mechanized
godowns at the mill site with a capacity of 2,500 tons each. Ten other
non-mechanized timber godowns would be provided for at field procurement
depots. It is estimated that AFPTC's net storage deficit in 1991-92 would be
about 900,000 tons (2.17), and the proposed storage of 84,000 tons would meet
about 11X of this deficit.
3.23      In view of the long and successful experience of bulk storage and
movement of commercial paddy in Burma, the proposed project facilities wnuld
be bulk warehouses. Storage to date has been nonmcchanized without mechanical
precleaning, conveying and aeration. Mechanized stoeage under the ongoing
IDA and ADB Crain Storage Prcjects is under construction and many of these are
now operational. In determining the degree of mechanization of the new
storage, the following factors have been considered: (i) precleaning of
incoming paddy is highly desirable to improve storability and milling
efficiency and necessary for successful aeration; (ii) mechanical conveyance
of paddy to mills is desirable particularly if labor for feeding the mill
during the third (night) shift is to be avoided; and (iii) the value of aera-
tion has still to be proved under Burmese conditions, but should in principle
reduce respiration losses and discoloration. Accordingly, paddy godowns
constructed nearest to mills would be fully mechanized, with precleaning, in-
and out-loading and aeration. Incoming paddy would be precLeaned before
either transfer to the mill, loading into the mechanized godown, or bagging
for manual transfer into remaining paddy godowns. The latter godowns would be
so constructed to permit future mechanization, if warranted.
3.24      The configuration of godown capacity, mechanization and type of
superstructure wouLd be as follows:
Per Mill        Total Project
(tons)
Steel godown, fully mechanized
integrated with each of four mills  1 x 3,600              14,400
Timber godowns, nonmechanized
at each of six mill sites             3 x 2,500           45,000
10 Timber godowns, 2500 tons each
nonmechanized at field procurement
depots                                         -           25,000
Total                            11,100           84,400
The store type and size composition is based on the following considerations:
(i) Prefabricated steel structures offer possibilities for increased
storage height and are particuLarly suitable for flat mechanized
bulk storage;



-19-
(ii)  Timber godowns of 2,500 tons capacity are being constructed
under ongoing storage projects; designs are already prepared and
construction can proceed without delay; and
(iii)  Economies of scale in storage construction and operation under
Burmese conditions are not significant beyond 3,000 to 4,000
tons capacity.
3.25     The limited supply of hardwood (primarily Pyinkado) currently used
for construction of timber godowns has been a major factor restricting the
pace of godown construction under the ongoing IDA Grain Storage Project.
Construction demand for Pyinkado is estimated to exceed supply by a factor of
four and the Timber Corporation (TC) does not expect total annuaL supply of
sawn Pyinkado over the next five years to increase beyond recent levels of
65,000 tons. However, TC has a 6,000 tons/year capacity for impregnating
"Kanyin" sawn wood 1/ and timber availabiLity projected to expand substan-
tially over the next few years as new impregnation plants, either under con-
struction, as in Pegu Division (under the IDA Forestry II Project) or planned,
as in Bassein, come on stream. At negotiations assurances were obtained from
COB that TC would supply a total of about 8,000 tons of timber to meet project
requirements starting in 1986/87.
3.26     Design.  The specifications for the 2,500 ton timber godown would
follow those of the godowns being constructed under the ongoing IDA-supported
grain storage project. The prefabricated steel godown would be a frame build-
ing with three partitions forming four compartments. The technical specifica-
tions of the mechanical handling system for the steel godown would also follow
those of the ongoing IDA project, appropriately adjusted to match the dimen-
sions of the proposed buildings. 2/ Detailed designs and specificatione for
steel superstructures and mechanical handling equipment would be prepared by
AFPTC in consultation with CC and assisted by engineering consultants (3.22).
(e) Technical Assistance and Training
3.27      Consultants for Project Implementation.  There would be 87
man-months of internationally recruited consultants financed under the project
to assist AFPTC in implementing the mill rehabilitation component (40
man-months), rice mill and paddy storage component (32 man-months) and in
post-harvest technology (15 man-months). Under the mill rehabilitation com-
ponent a milling engineering specialist and a financial specialist with exten-
sive experience in planning and implementation of mill rehabilitation programs
would assist AFPTC in: (i) training staff for the mill rehabilitation
program; (ii) guiding and supervising program implementation; and (iii)
procuring milling equipment.
I/  "Kanyin" timber, the availability of which is more plentiful than
"Pyinkado", is chemically treated to make it resistant to termites and
prolong its structural life.
2/  For design and specifications of prefabricated steel structure and equip-
ment specifications, see Project Implementation Volume.



-20-
3.28      Evaluation and Project Studies.  The project would include
8 man-months of internationally recruited consultant services for an evalua-
tion of the rehabilitation program and for an annual review. The purpose of
the annual review is to ensure that millers are undertaking rehabilitation
and to take corrective measures, if necessary, to achieve the target for
rehabilitation. The primary objective of the evaluation would be to assess
the effectiveness of the organizational and ii.stitutional framework estab-
lished for mill rehabilitation and to recommend an action plan for continuing
the rehabilitation program after completion of the project. Provision has
also been made for a feasibility study for local manufacturing of milling
equipment and for an export marketing study. The feasibility study for mill
equipment manufacturing, to be carried out by consultants and Industry Minis-
try No. 1, would aim at preparing a viable proposal for establishing a local
capability of manufacturing milling equipment including boilers for motive
power, to support a long-term effort to maintain, rehabilitate and expand the
milling industry. The export marketing study, to be carried out by consult-
ants and the Ministry of Trade, would serve to develop a marketing strategy
and organization aiming at improving Burma's competitive position on the
international rice market (5.07). Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that TORs for the feasibility study and the export marketing study wou d be
agreed to by March 31, 1987.
3.29      Training.  Overseas training would be provided to 20 officers for
about 3 months each totalling 60 man-months to include: (i) senior executive
staff in the management of paddy procurement and storage centers; (ii) field
staff in the operation of paddy procurement and storage centers and in paddy
grading; and (iii) Post-Harvest Technology Application Center (PTAC) technical
staff in the design and implementation of programs to measure and maintain
paddy and rice quality. Suppliers' representatives would give short
in-service training at the new mill sites in the operation of handling, aera-
tion and milling equipment. Local training would also be provided to mill
rehabilitation task force teams (6.11). AFPTC depot personnel would be
trained at the AFPTC training center in Rangoon. A four-week course on paddy
grading, storage management and pest control and a two-week course on monitor-
ing paddy quality would be given by PTAC staff.
3.30      The Technical. Assistance and Training component would be financed
by UNDP as grant aid, and provided by a competent firm of consultants. Sign-
ing of the agreement between COB and UNDP would be a condition of Credit
Effectiveness.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
4.01      The estimated project cost, including physical and price contingen-
cies, is US$79.9 M of which 38% would be foreign exchange. Taxes and duties
are estimated at US$14.9 M leaving US$65.0 M as total costs net of taxes and
duties. Details of cost estimates, summarized below, are in Annex 1 and also
in the Project Implementation Volume. Base costs are estimated as of March
1986. Physical contingencies for civil works and equipment are estimated at
10%. Price contingencies for local costs are based on an estimated annual
inflation rate of 3.6% in 1984, 8% in 1985, 9% in 1986 and 8% thereafter. For
imported items, an annual international price trend of -0.4% in 1984, 1.8% in



-21-
1985, 7.1% in 1986, 6.8% in 1987, 6.8Z in 1988, 7.0% in 1989 and 6.6% in
subsequent years. Total price contingencies amount to 33% of base costs plus
physical contingencies.
Project Cost Summary
X Total
Project                   (K M)               (US$ M)         Z Foreign  Base
Components:          Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Exchange   Costs
New rice miLLs          104.0   91.9  195.9   12.8  11.3    24.1    47         43
Mill rehabilitation      76.8   49.5  126.3    9.5   6.1    15.6    39         28
Rice grading and
mixing plant            8.8   10.2   19.0    1.1   1.3       2.4    54        4
Paddy storage            76.6   17.8   94.4    9.5   2.2    11.7    19         21
Project implementation
and monitoring          2.4      .8    3.2      .3    .1      .4    23        1
Technical assistance
and training            3.1   10.2   13.3       .3   1.3     1.6    77        3
Total base costs        271.7  180.4  452.1   33.5  22.3    55.8    40        100
Fhysical contingencies  27.1   18.0   45.1    3.4   2.2        5.6    40       10
Price contingencies    103.4   45.9  149.4   12.8   5.7    18.5    31          33
Total costs incl.
duties and taxes      402.2  244.3  646.5   49.7  30.2    79.9    38        143
Duties and taxes        120.7       -  120.7   14.9      -    14.9
Total costs excluding
duties and taxes      281.5  244.3  525.8   34.8  30.2    65.0
Financing
4.02      The financing of project costs would be as follows:
(USS M Equiv) Swiss
Project Component      Mill Owners      GOB     UNDP    Government   IDA   Total
New mills, storage
and mixing plant          -          33.2       -         5.5        16.0   54.7
Mill rehabilitation       2.3           6.8        -          -        14.0   23.1
Technical assistance        -             -     2.1           -           -    2.1
Total                 2.3          40.5 /a  2.1         5.0       30.0   79.9
/a Includes the equivalent of US$14.9 H for duties and taxes.
The IDA Credit of US$30.0 M equivalent would finance foreign exchange costs
(excluding technical assistance and training) of about US$22.0 M. The Swiss
Government would provide a grant of Swiss Francs 10 M to also finance foreign
exchange costs. The UNDP would contribute the equivalent of US$2.1 M. Equity



-22-
contributions by private mill owners would amount to US$2.3 M. AFPTC, because
of its projected financial performance, is not expected to be able to con-
tribute from self-generated funds. The IDA contribution of about US$8.0 M to
finance local costs represents 23% of local costs excluding duties and taxes.
The IDA financing ratio would be about 46% of project costs net of duties and
taxes. The remaining local costs would be financed by GOB contributions.
4.03      The US$30.0 M IDA credit would be on-lent in its entirety by GOB to
AFPTC for a period of 20 years with a grace period of five years, considered
appropriate in view of the timing of project revenues. GOB would bear the
foreign exchange risks. GOB's on-lending rate to AFPTC would be 8.5Z. AFPTC
wouLd on-lend to millers US$20.8 M equivalent for mill rehabilitation for a
period of 16 years with a grace period of one year to finance up to 90% of
milL rehabilitation costs at an interest rate of 10.5% per annum. Myanma
Economic Bank (MEB) would facilitate the loan disbursements to millers by
availing o' its network of branches to reach millers under arrangements
between AFPTC and MEB. AFPTC will be responsible for loan processing includ-
ing appraisal of loans and recoveries and would receive a spread of 2%, which
is adequate considering: (i) the expected number of loans and the average size
of loan (122 loans averaging US$120,000 each); and (ii) the simplicity in
administration and supervision of loans.
4.04      Incremental working capital associated with operating project mills,
storage and rice grading/mixing plant, and processing of paddy through
rehabilitated mills are estimated at US$15.8 M over the five-year project
implementation period. It would be financed through short-term loans from
(HEB). Working capital needs of AFPTC would continue to grow even beyond the
project since project facilities are not projected to be at full development
until 1992/93. By that time, AFPTC's projected incremental cash flow from
operations would be sufficient to partly meet the financing needs of incremen-
tal working capital.



-23-
Procurement 1/
4.05      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Method /a
Local
Project Element                      ICB  Contract /b  Other  N.A. /c  Total
AFPTC new mills, storage, and
and mixing pLant:
a.  Civil works                        -    28.0         6.2      -        34.2
-    (3.6)          -      _        (3.6)
b.  Machinery, equipment and         17.7    -            -       -        L7.7
imported construction
materials /d                    (12.2)   -            -       -       (12.2)
Private mill rehabilitation:
a. Machinery, equipment and            9.0    -            -      -         9.0
imported material                (9.0)   -            -       -        (9.0)
b.  Civil works, local goods and              -         15.1      -        15.1
materials
(5.1)...         ...... _  (5.1)
Technical assistance and              -       -          2.1      .2        2.3
training                                -                -       -          -
Project implementation and            -       -           -      1.7        1.7
incremental operating costs         -       -           -        -          -
Total                                26.7  28.0         23.4    1.7        79.9
(21.2) (3.6)        (5.1)     -      (30.0)
/a  Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by the IDA
Credit.
/b  Force account or contract with Government Corporations.
7T  Procurement procedures not applicable.
7i  Swiss Contribution of 10 N Swiss Francs for this item (approximately
US$5.5 M).
4.06      Civil Works.  Civil works financed under the project costing
US$49.3 M include US$34.2 M for construction of AFPTC's mill and storage
buildings and US$15.1 M for works to be undertaken under the mill rehabilita-
tion program. The Construction Corporation (CC), a State Economic Enterprise,
1/ Unless indicated otherwise, the values quoted are inclusive of physical
and price contingencies as well as duties and taxes.



-24-
is the only contractor with sufficient experience in carrying out scattered
works in rural areas, and familiar with the complex rules and regulations
Therefore, Construction Corporation would undertake civil works. The work
would therefore be carried out by CC under contractual arrangements similar to
those applied under the ongoing IDA Grain Storage Project. This work would
include the procurement of about 8,000 tons of local timber from TC at an
estimated cost of US$5.2 M. Given CCs responsibility for storage construction
and its capability for transporting and handling sawn timber it would assume
the responsibility for scheduling, collecting and transporting individual
orders of timber. Arrangements for such procurement need to be strengthened,
as compared to the procedures followed under the ongoing IDA project, through
appropriate agreements between AFPTC, CC and TC. The Electric Power Corpora-
tion (EPC) would be responsible for connecting electric power supply to new
mills and rehabilitated mills that would be electrified. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations from COB that appropriate arrangements between
AFPTC, CC and TC would be made for supply and transport of sawn timber sup-
plies to construction sites in accordance with the storage construction
schedule, and between AFPTC and EPC for the supply of electric power to new
and rehabilitated mills.
4.07      AFPTC wouLd be responsible for the procurement of imported construc-
tion material for project buildings (4.08) and for the installation of milling
and mechanical handling equipment in new mills and godowns. Civil works for
the rehabilitation program would include electrical power connections from
rehabilitated mills to main transmission lines. For minor civil works under
mill rehabilitation subprojects, mill owners would arrange for construction
through individual contracts awarded to local contractors.
4.08      Equipment and Imported Construction Material.  ICB in accordance
with IDA guidelines would be used to procure milling, mechanical handling,
aeration and precleaning equipment, prefabricated steel buildings and other
imported items. Equipment for mill rehabilitation would, following initial
mill surveys, be grouped in suitable bidding packages with one contract for
each package. All ICB procurement for equipment and imported construction
materials estimated to cost US$100,000 or more would be subject to IDA's prior
review, and covers over 80Z of machinery and equipment. Items costing less
than US$10,000 would be purchased under local procedures which are acceptable
to the Association.
4.09    Technical Assistance.  Consultants to assist AFPTC in project
implementation (87 man-months) and to evaluate the impact of the mill
rehabilitation program (8 man-months) would be engaged by GOB under UNDP
guidelines (3.30). The total cost for these services has been estimated at
about US$2.1 M. Contracts with expatriate firms for the export marketing
study and the feasibility study for local manufacturing of milling equipment
would be entered into at an estimated cost of about US$100,000 each.



-25-
Disbursements
4.10      Disbursements from the IDA Credit would be made at:
(a) 11 against local expenditures for civil works, pertain.ng
to AFPTC new mills, paddy storage and rice grading/mixing
plant including site development, buiLdings, and
power supply;
(b)  100Z against foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment
and construction materials; and
(c) 100% of directly imported equipment and 40% of civil works, local
goods and materials against the private mill rehabilitation.
Disbursements for civil works carried out by AFPTC, CC, TC and EPC own work
force (force account) and for small civiL works and supply contracts costing
less than the equivalent of US$10,000 each would be made against statements of
expenditures with the documentation retained by AFPTC and made available for
IDA review on request. Disbursements under all contracts costing the equiv-
alent of US$10,000 or more would be fully documented.
4.11      AFPTC plans to complete the project in five years.  However, the
standard disbursement profile for crop processing and storage projects in the
region shows disbursements extending to 10 years. The profile for all
IBRD/IDA loans and credits to Burma shows disbursements spread over 8.5 years.
Disbursement at the end of five and a half years of the current Grain Storage
Project is approximately 75% of the credit. It is projected that disburse-
ments under the proposed project would be completed over a period of eight and
a half years (Annex 4 and 5). If AFPTC is able to complete the works in five
years, the total costs are expected to be significantly reduced because of
lower prices.
Budgets, Accounts and Audit
4.12      AFPTC, like all GOB departments and corporations, is required to
submit an annual budget to GOB for approval. Implementation of development
projects is subject to budgeted expenditures and the budget revision process
is time constuming. Careful monitoring of annual project budgets is therefore
required. An assurance was obtained that by August 31 of each year the draft
project budget and implementation plan for the ensuing fiscal year would be
sent to IDA for review.
4.13      All GOB agencies maintain accounts according to procedures and forms
established by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. The Central Audit and
Inspection Office, acting on behalf of the Council of People's Inspectors,
is responsible for auditing Government agency accounts and is acceptable to
IDA as an independent auditor for this project. Assurances were obtained from
GOB during negotiations that: (i) AFPTC would maintain separate accounts for
the project; (ii) these accounts, including statement of expenditures used as
documentation for purposes of IDA reimbursement, would be audited annually in
accordance with sound auditing principles by the Director General, Central
Audit and Inspection Office; (iii) copies of the annual project accounts would
be sent within nine months after the end of the fiscal year, followed by



-26-
certified copies of the audited accounts and auditor's report within twelve
months of the end of each fiscal year.
V.  PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
Milling Capacity and Rice Production
5.01      The proposed investments are not expected to have a direct impact on
paddy production in the project area.  However, since they would improve the
milling capacity and quality available to AFPTC, there would be an impact on
the quantity of paddy handled by AFPTC and on the volume of rice and rice
products.  Increments in the volume of paddy handled by AFPTC would be offset
by changes of equivalent magnitudes in the non-AFPTC sector.  AFPTC's
projected annual rice production and sales for 1991/92, i.e. at fuLl develop-
ment of project facilities, are shown below.
With      Without
Project    Project    Incremental
Nominal milling capacity (tpd)            34,468     33,594           874
Paddy throughput (1,000 tons)              4,686      4,495           191
Production of rice and rice
products: (1,000 tons)
Head rice, < 15% broken content            841         330         511
Head rice, > 15% broken content          1,915      2,388         (443)
Brokens                                    333        278           55
Bran                                       338        282           56
Total rice and rice products             3,429      3,278           151
5.02      The additional milling capacity of about 900 tpd available to AFPTC
due to project investments and a projected increase in effective utilization
_f rehabilitated mills would result in an annual increment of 191,000 tons of
paddy handled by AFPTC. AFPTC would, therefore, be able to expand its paddy
procurement by over 4% compared to the "without project" situation. This
would reduce the national milling deficit now left to be handled through
hullers and handmilling. While the projected incremental production of AFPTC
is relatively small, the production of higher grade rice, i.e. rice with
broken content of 15% or less, would more than double. This increase would
result primarily from the rehabilitation of milling capacity contracted by
AFPTC.
Marketing and Prices
5.03      AFPTC's future rice sales would depend on COB's policy on the public
sales program for rice, and developments on the world rice market including
the ability of Burmese rice to compete on this market. It is expected that
AFPTC's future domestic rice sales will continue along a growth trend to meet
an increasing nonfarm population. For purposes of project analysis the domes-
tic sales program is projected to grow by 1% per year under the assumption of
domestic rice prices remaining at their current levels. This rate is con-
sidered to be in line with current AFPTC policy but below average growth rates
since 1978/19 (2.03).



-27-
5.04      World trade in rice has been forecast to increase from the current
level of 11-12 M tons to about 16-17 M tons in 1995 (averaging 4% growth
annually), with growing importance of African importers and decreasing impor-
tance of Asian importers. The outlook for the remainder of the decade is for
a recovery of prices to levels more in line with historical relationships
between rice and wheat. In the intermediate period, weather-related supply
shocks could cause real prices to rise rapidly. However, price variability
generally is expected to be less pronounced as the nature of the rice market
is changing to accommodate increased substitution of wheat for rice. Over the
longer term, real prices are projected to continue on a gradually declining
trend. The projected price of US$333 (constant 1984 dolLars) for Thai 5%
broken rice in 1990 is consistenc with such a trend.
5.05      For purposes of project -nalysis AFTC's prices for rice products
sold on the domestic market are assumed to remain at their current levels.
The export prices for Burmese rice are related to the projected prices for
Thai rice (5% broken) using average discounts incurred in recent years,
resulting in a projected increase in the export price of Burmese 5% broken
rice from US$188 in 1985/86 to US$307 (constant 1984 dollars) in 1990/91. The
price recovery is projected to be slower over the next few years than towards
the end of the decade. Real prices after 1990/91 are assumed to hold at their
1990/91 level throughout the period of analysis, i.e. to 2012. It may be
expected that export prices for rice of a given milling grade would be higher
under the "with project" scenario than under the "without project" scenario,
since the quaLity of export rice as measured by factors other than grade would
increase as a result of the project. This differential impact has not been
considered due to difficulties of quantification. The project would result
in an increase in the supply of high grade rice and a decrease in the supply
of low grade rice on the international rice market (5.06). This may put some
downward pressure on export prices for rice products in the former category
and an upward pressure on prices for rice in the latter category. The
likelihood and magnitude of such price development under the "with project"
scenario cannot be quantified and have therefore not been included in the
price projections used. Projected export prices for Burmese rice products are
therefore the same under the "with project" scenario as under the "without
project" scenario. Further details on export price projections, summarized in
the table below showing FOB prices in current values (constant in brackets),
are in Annex 3.
1985/86         1987/88         1990/91
…---- (USS ITon) --------------
Thai, 5% broken            216 (206)       304 (237)       494 (335)
Burmese, 5% broken         198 (188)       278 (217)       452 (307)
Burmese, 35% broken        145 (138)       204 (159)       331 (224)
5.06      AFPTC Sales of Rice and Rice Products.  Based on projected expan-
sions of AFPTC's available milling capacity and its domestic rice sales the
supply of rice and rice products available for exports would rise to
1.16 M tons in 1991/92 as shown below.



-28-
Annual                Projected 1991/92
Average 1980/81         With    Without   Incre-
AFPTC Rice Sales                 to 1982/83            Project  Project   mental
-----M tons----        ----------H tons---------
Export                             0.71                 1.16      1.00    0.16
(Head rice, high grade) /a         (0.10)               (0.84)    (0.33)  (0.51)
(.51)
Domestic                            2.02                2.27      2.27       -
Total                               2.73                3.43      3.27    0.16
/a  Rice with broken contents of 15% or less.
This projected increase in exports is equivalent to an average annual growth
of 8% or about twice the expected growth rate in total world rice exports.
Whereas the incremental exports of rice and rice products attributable to the
project would be relatively small, estimated at 160,000 tons annually, there
would be a substantial increase of 510,000 tons in exports of higher grade
rice compared to the "without project" situation.
5.07      Export Marketing Study.  The above export projections assume that
AFPTC and MEIC would be successful in capturing an increased share of the
world market for rice and in particular of the market segments for higher
grade rice. To support efforts in this direction, the project would provide
for a grain export marketing study carried out by the Ministry of Trade with
the assistance of international consultants. The study would: (i) assist GOB
in developing an export marketing strategy for rice, and possibly also for
other grains, designed to support expanded rice exports and an improved image
and competitive position of Burmese rice, particularly with respect to higher
grades; and (ii) review the existing organizational relationships between
AFPTC and MEIC, to ensure adequate synchronization between the functions of
export sales planning and shipment on the one hand and the functions of mill-
ing, storage, movement and preparation of rice for export on the other hand.
Assurances were obtained that TORs for the studies will be agreed to by March
31, 1987.
VI. ORCANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
The Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation (AFPTC)
6.01      AFPTC would have the principal responsibility for project implemen-
tation. AFPTC is headed by a Managing Director and controlled by a Board of
Management (Chart 1). It includes 13 regional divisions which in turn are
subdivided into 20 Consolidated Township Offices and 155 Township Offices.
The functional departments, headed by General Managers include: Planning,
Projects and Finance (PPF), Procurement and Sales I (paddy/rice), Procurement
and Sales II (other commodities), Milling Engineering (MED), Transport and
Handling, and Administration.



-29-
6.02      A management study, funded under an ADB project, has recently been
completed, and proposals for organizational changes of AFPTC are being con-
sidered. The findings and recommendations of this study are expected to be
incorporated in the final proposals for reorganization of AFPTC. The creation
of a separate Projects Department is being considered. This has been prompted
by the recent expansion in AFPTC's investment projects and the need to boost
staff resources available for project implementation and management.
Presently, individual projects are supervised by a Deputy General Manager
(PPF) through Project Directors and Project Managers. Staff are generally
transferred to project management units, taken away from their normal duties
in other departments. This process has in turn resulted in a drain of
qualified staff frem functional departments, notably MED.
6.03      The proposed project would be the largest single project so far
undertaken by AFPTC. It represents, howevcr, to a large extent, a continua-
tion of recent or ongoing investment programs. Planning, procurement, con-
struction and operation of proposed new mills and storage facilities would
benefit from experience accumuLated by AFETC and CC over the last ten years.
Since most ongoing projects would be completed or near completion by che end
of the current fiscal year, AFPTC staff and resources would become available
for the proposed project.
Project Organization
6.04      Project Management.  AFPTC, as executing agency, would have the
responsibility for implementing the new mill and storage construction, the
grading/mixing plant construction and the mill rehabilitation program. It
would also plan and implement project-related training programs, monitoring
and reporting as well as operate project mills and storage facilities once
completed. To execute these responsibilities, a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) headed by a Project Director would be established to function under the
Deputy General Manager (DGB) for Projects within PPF (Chart 2). PIU would be
organized in four main sections: a Mill Rehabilitation Task Force, a Storage
and Mill Construction Section, a Programming Section, and a Monitoring and
Evaluation Section. The establishment of PIU, including the appointment of a
suitably qualified Project Director, would be a condition of Credit
Effectiveness. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that suitably
qualified Section Heads for PIU would be appointed no later than
December 31, 1986.
6.05      The Mill Rehabilitation Task Force (RTF) would be responsible for
implementing all aspects of the mill rehabilitation program. It would be
headed by a Deputy Project Director and consist of an Engineering Cell, a
Financial Control Cell and a Field Cell containing three rehabilitation teams.
The milling engineering and financial specialists provided under the project
would be attached to RTF (6.10).
6.06      The Storage and Mill Construction Section (SMS), to be headed by a
Project Manager, would be responsible for implementing the construction of
storage, mills and grading/mixing plant including: preparation of tender
documents and evaluation ot bids for procurement of machinery and equipment
and steel superstructures, contracting with CC for the construction of project
works, and installation of machinery and equipment. The project consultants



-30-
for structural engineering, milling engineering and mechani-
cal/electric engineering would assist in the above responsibilities.
6.07      The Programming Section, to be headed by a Programming Officer,
would be responsible for project budgeting, administrative aspects of procure-
ment, storage and transport of machinery and equipment. In the past, Project
Implementation Units have relied on AFPTC's Administration Department for
technical assistance in procurement matters. In view of the increased scale
of project onerations and considering the diversification of procurement
needs, PIU uould require a full-time procurement officer attached to this
section. The Monitoring and Evaluation Section headed by a Monitoring Officer
would have responsibilities as indicated below (6.15).
6.08      The Construction Corporation (CC)  would be assigned specific
responsibilities to prepare detaiLed design for substructures of prefabricated
steel godowns and buildings for rice mills and the grading and mixing plant,
and under contract with AFPTC carry out the construction of these facilities.
CC is executing similar responsibilities under ongoing rice mill and grain
storage construction projects and has the technical and managerial skills to
undertake these responsibilities. The envisaged civil works contract package
would involve less than 10% of the Corporation's annual work load. Similar to
arrangements under the ongoing IDA Grain Storage Project, a Project Coor-
dinator would be assigned the responsibility for liaison between CC and AFPTC
and for coordinating all aspects of the civil works construction. At nego-
tiations an assurance was obtained from GOB that a Project Coordinator within
CC would be nominated before December 31, 1986.
6.09      The Project Coordination Committee.  In order to ensure smooth
implementation, a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would be established.
PCC would be headed by the Deputy Minister of Trade and include as members
representatives from the Ministries of Planning and Finance, and Agriculture
and Forests, Construction Corporation, Timber Corporation, Electric Power
Corporation and other concerned Government agencies. There would also be a
full-time officer to assist the Project Director, when found necessary. A
similar committee established under the ongoing Grain Storage Project has not
been effective in taking timely and appropriate action to mitigate against
project implementation constraints, due primarily to inadequate reporting by
the Project Implementation Unit on critical issues concerning project
implementation. Under the proposed project, PCC would therefore issue clear
instructions to PIU concerning format, contents and frequency of progress
reports on project implementation. At negotiations an assurance was obtained
that the PCC would be established and a full-time official appointed, when
found necessary, to assist the Project Director.
Mill Rehabilitation Program
6.10      The mill rehabilitation program would invelve AFOTC in technical and
financial appraisal of individual subprojects, financing of individual sub-
projects and loan administration, procurement and distribution of mill
machinery and equipment, supervision of rehabilitation work, and monitoring
the performance of rehabilitated mills. These functions are not new to AFPTC.
MED is annually surveying contracted mills. AFPTC has experience in procuring
spare parts for private mills and in providing long-term finance for renova-
tion of mills (2.25). On a continuing basis, it is providing short-term



-31-
financing to mill owners and maintaining current accounts for over 900 mills.
Through its field organization, AFPTC administers thousands of short-term
production contracts against which mill hire fee payments are regularly made.
However, because of the nature and larger scale of the proposed rehabilitation
program AFPTC's technical and administrative capacities for management of the
program need to be strengthened. The special Rehabilitation Task Force (RTF)
to be established would be equipped to cope with this new demand.
6.11      AFPTC presently does not have sufficient trained technical staff
either at headquarters or in the field to perform the functions of RTF. Addi-
tional staff, principaLly in the areas of mechanical engineering, must first
be recruited and trained for the tasks envisaged. A job-oriented training
program in mechanical and electrical engineering and financial control would
be conducted by AFPTC for 20 to 30 officers spread over a period of four to
six months. The consultants to be attached to RTF would assist AFPTC in
designing and implementing such a training program. The responsibilities,
organization and staffing of RTF are outlined in Annex 6. An assurance was
obtained from GOB during negotiations that all RTF personnel would be
recruited as required. PIU would forward to IDA for review and comment a
training program for RTF staff and a detailed work program for RTF by May 31,
1987.
6.12      The loans would be made to the private millers by AFPTC who would
administer the onlending of project funds to private millers (4.03). Upon
PIU's approval of financing for individual subprojects, a loan would be made
to the miller. The responsibility for administering loans and their repayment
would be in AFPTC's Finance Department. Loan repayments by mill owners would
be a simple administrative arrangement through which periodic recoveries of
principal and interest payments would be made against payments due to millers
for services contracted by AFPTC.
6.13      The relationship between AFPTC and mill owners who obtain long-term
financing for mill rehabilitation would be governed by agreement between the
two parties which would cover the period of the loan (16 years) and fully
specify the undertakings by both parties with respect to the following:
(i) implementation of rehabilitation works including preparation of
specifications of equipment, engineering design and drawings,
supply of necessary equipment and materials at mill sites,
installation of equipment, installation of power supply and
distribution system;
(ii) minimum quantities of paddy to be supplied to the mill over the
duration of the agreement (mill owners would continue to receive
individual quantities of paddy for milling through separate
short-term contracts currently used between AFPTC and the mill
owner governing specific volumes of paddy to be milled at
specified grades);
(iii) terms and conditions of the loan;
(iv) milling charges to be paid for each grade of rice and variety
of paddy milled; and



-32-
(v) quality standard to be met.
6.14      The agreement would, in addition, set forth the penalties to be
imposed in the event of noncompliance by either party, covering matters such
as faulty design or inadequate performance of machinery/equipment supplied and
installed by AFPTC, failure by AFPTC to deliver minimum amount of paddy,
failure by miller to meet milling standard or rice grades specified in
short-term contracts. An assurance was obtained from COB at negotiations that
the draft form of agreement to be entered into between private millers and
AFPTC acceptable to IDA, would be finalized and approved by GOB by
October 31, 1986.
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.15      Project monitoring and evaLuation would be the responsibility of the
Monitoring Section (MS) within PIU, which would: (i) plan and implement, in
consultation with SMS, a program for monitoring construction of project works,
including the on-site availability of construction materials such as cement,
timber and steel; (ii) plan and implement, in consultation with RTF, a program
for monitoring the milL rehabilitation program and evaluate the technical and
financial performance of mills before and after rehabilitation;
(iii) undertake an annual review of the mill rehabilitation program and make
recommendations for improved project performance; (iv) report regularly to PCC
and IDA on progress and constraints in project implementation, and recommend
appropriate action to overcome such constraints; and (v) prepare a project
completion report within six months of the closing date of the Credit. In
carrying out part (ii) above MS would be assisted by the milling engineering
and financial control specialists attached to RTF.
Implementation Schedule
6.16      AFPTC have scheduled completion of the project after five years,
i.e. by mid-1992, assuming project start-up by October 1986 (see Implementa-
tion Schedule in Annex 7). During the first project year AFPTC would complete
tendering procedures and contract awards for imported equipment and construc-
tion materials, establish the Rehabilitation Task Force and upon appraisal of
an initial batch of mill rehabilitation subprojects prepare tender documents
for imported equipment for rehabilitation. Project civil works would start in
the *second project year with the exception of paddy storage construction which
would start during the first year.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
7.01      AFPTC, in performing its role of procuring and processing grain for
domestic sales and exports, is projected to incur operating losses, and
experience cash flow problems over the next four years, i.e. up to 1990/91.
These problems would result from continued depressed international rice
prices, fixed domestic prices for rice, rising unit costs in AFPTC's rice
handling, heavy taxation of AFPTC's export earnings and a continued though
modest growth in AFPTC's domestic rice sales. Such deficits would occur with
or without the project. Starting 1988/89, the project would enhance the
export value of Burmese rice, thereby positively impacting on AFPTC's net



-33-
income. The major source of increased export values would be from improved
quality of rice to be produced in the rehabilitated mills.
AFPTC's Present Financial Structure and Past Performance
7.02      A summary of AFPTC's historical financial status and performance
is presented in Annex 2, Table 1. Since AFPTC in the mid-1970's formally
achieved financial autonomy from the Government (2.01) much of the original
GOB equity capital has been reduced through current account adjustments.
Substantial loan repayments to GOB have reduced long-term debt despite new
borrowings by AFPTC to finance development projects, and AFPTC's long-term
debt to equity ratio has ranged between 5:1 and 3:1 over the last five. Over
the same period, short-term debt, principally operating loans from MEB, has
risen steadily as the need for working capital has increased with expanded
paddy procurement and consequent growth in inventories. A high inventory
level is, for practical purposes, unavoidable since Burma effectively has only
one crop of paddy, 90% of which is procured in the last quarter of AFPTC's
fiscal year.
7.03      AFPTC has historically suffered operating losses in its handling of
paddy/rice for the domestic market. Despite the substantial domestic sales
price increases granted by GOB over the period 1972/73 to 1977/78, the cost of
rice handled by AFPTC on the domestic market exceeded sales revenues. Since
1978/79, the negative margin has grown, reaching K 144/ton (US$17) in 1982/83
as unit costs rose while domestic rice prices remained fixed. With the volume
of domestic sales of rice and rice products growing at an average annual rate
of over 10%, losses on domestic rice handling reached a record high of K 310 M
(US$38.3 H) in 1982/83. The surplus generated from favorable export market
conditions during 1979/80 to 1981/82 was sufficient to offset losses on domes-
tic rice sales and allow some net profit to result. However, in 1982/83, as
export prices fell by one third and the volume exported remained unchanged,
AFPTC's results from paddy/rice handling again turned negative to K 87 M
(US$10 M). Overall net income remained positive only because of contributions
from AFPTC's profitable performance in the "other grains" sector, but furthb.
declining prices on export sales and reduced export volumes after 1984/85
resulted in net income turning negative.
7.04      Under GOB's policy to freeze domestic rice prices, AFPTC's financial
viability will continue to be dependent on profits generated from export sal-s
with which to subsidize growing losses that would result from handling and
processing grain for the domestic market. This growing financial strain wou;-l
be aggravated if GOB maintains a policy of increasing the volume of AFPTC's
domestic rice sales in response to, for example, population growth.
AFPTC's Projected Financial Position
7.05      Projections of AFPTC's financial performance over a 20-year period
starting 1985/86 (Annex 2) are based on several important assumptions. First,
financial results from operations other than paddy/rice are projected to
remain at current levels, thereby isolating the impact of AFPTC's performance
in the paddy/rice sector on AFPTC's overall financial position. Second,
domestic rice prices are assumed fixed at current levels. Third, the volume
of rice and rice products is assumed to grow at an average annual rate of 1%,



-34-
a substantial reduction compared to recent growth rates of 10%. This assump-
tion reflects a situation in which GOB would decide to curtail growth in
AFPTC's dooestic rice sales and to increasingly emphasize the use of available
milling capacity for processing of rice for export. Fourth, given the above
assumptions and the available milling capacity, it is assumed that Burma would
be successful in marketing the resulting supplies of rice available for export
on the international rice market. Finally, AFPTC's unit costs of grain han-
dling and p-ocessing (except procurement prices and basic milling hire char-
ges) are assumed to continue to grow at recent average annual rates of 2.5%.
7.06      "Without Project" Situation.  Since international rice prices are
projected to rise only slowly from present depressed levels and AFPTC's
procurement capability will continue to be effectiveLy constrained by avail-
able milling and storage capacity, the projected profits from exports wiLl be
far short of the growing losses on domestic rice sales. Annual losses are
projected to peak at K 360 M (US$78 H) in 1986/87. These losses could be
reduced to the extent of any increase in profits from AFPTC's sale of grain
other than rice. Even after 1989/90, with projected rising export prices for
rice and additional rice milling capacity AFPTC's financial performance is not
projected to improve markedly and the net cash flow from all of its operations
is likely to remain negative till 1990/91 with losses till 1989/90.
7.07      If AFPTC's domestic sales price for rice is not increased, a cash
infusion from GOB of about K 500-600 H(US$62-74 M) each year will be required
over the period 1985/86 to 1987/88 with a declining sum till 1990/91 to help
cover AFPTC's projected overall operating losses and debt service obligations
(Annex 2, Table 3). During the same period, AFPTC would pay to GOB increasing
amounts each year as contributions to the Export Price Equalization Fund
(EPEF) as a mandatory levy on proceeds of export sales of rice. These projec-
tions illustrate what is a generally growing financial dilemma for SEEs in
Burma. Prolonged freezes on prices of products handled by SEEs prevent them
from recovering gradually rising costs, necessitating the drawing down of
reserves and increasing borrowings to cover operating losses. A recent Bank
review concludes that improvements in the performance of SEEs are dependent on
major price increases similar to those introduced in conjunction with the
"1975 Guidelines". 1/
7.08      "With Project" Situation.  Revenues under the project would not
start flowing until 1989/90, and, therefore, would not ameliorate AFPTC's
deteriorating financial results from its paddy/rice handling operations.
However, from 1988/89 project benefits would help improve AFPTC's financial
performance as compared to the "without project" case. Net cash flow from
operations turn positive beginning 1991192 and profits appear in 1989/90.
Over the period 1989/90 through 2002/03, it is projected that the project
would increase AFPTC's income by an average of K 115 M (US$13.3 M) per year
(Annex 2, Table 4).
1/ See IBRD, Burma: Policies and Prospects for Economi.c Adjustments and
Growth, January 1984.



-35-
Return on AFPTC's Investments
7.09      AFPTC's investments under the project would include capital
investments, incremental working capital, technical assistance and project
implementation costs. The financial rate of return (FRR) on total invest-
ments, based on incremental benefit and cost streams projected at constant
1984 prices, is estimated at 26% before taxes, i.e. income tax (State
Contribution) and contribution to the Export Price Equalization Fund (EPEF),
and 18% after taxes (Annex 2). Returns on investments in individual project
components are shown below:
FRR
Before State and
Component                 EPEF Contributions      After taxes
Mill rehabilitation                       46                 19
New rice mills and storage                16                  6
Rice grading/mixing plant                 18                 10
Total project                             26                 18
7.10      Since AFPTC would be operating the new rice mills and paddy storage
facilities as integrated milling-cum-storage complexes serving the export
sector, the return has been computed on AFPTC's combined investments in mill-
ing and storage. For the mill rehabilitation component, AFPTC's investment
costs include the costs for establishing and operating the Rehabilitation Task
Force and incremental working capital but exclude the costs of physical
investments in rehabilitation. Incremental operating costs include AFPTC's
costs for procuring, handling and processing incremental quantities of paddy
milled by rehabilitated mills and rice distribution costs.  The estimated FRR
an AFPTC's investments in mill rehabilitation assumes under the "without
project" scenario that the total contracted milling capacity available to
AFPTC remains constant over time, i.e. that losses in capacity of presently
contracted mills would be offset by AFPTC hiring additional capacity. In the
event that AFPTC would not be able to offset such losses, the FRR on mill
rehabilitation would be higher than the 19% indicated above. The FRR for the
private mill rehabilitation component for the millers as distinct from AFPTC,
averages 15% for the three types of rehabilitation packages.
VIII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
8.01      Given the projected reduced growth in paddy production, development
objectives for the paddy/rice subsector are shifting towards maximizing
economic values and export earnings by means of quality improvements. A
strategy addressing such objectives needs to consider two main elements:
(i) mitigating the constraints on public sector procurement and grain hand-
ling operations caused by inadequate milling capacity and grain storage; and
(ii) encouraging farmers, millers and other private parties engaged in the
sector to make investments which would lead to improvements in grain quality.
The project design reflects both of these strategies. On the one hand, it
would supplement ongoing efforts to increase and upgrade AFPTC's own milling



-36-
and storage capacities, enabling it to expand procurement while reducing
losses. On the other hand, the project would assist private millers to invest
in rehabilitation, thereby preventing milling capacity losses and improving
rice grade ard quality.
8.02      The project provides the opportunity to:  (i) continue its assis-
tance to GOB for strengthening AFPTC's operations, particularly those related
to quality improvements for rice exports; and (ii) extend much needed finan-
cial resources for the sustenance and upgrading of private rice mills. In
terms of institution building the project would provide technical assistance
to enhance AFPTC's project implementation and planning capability,
particularly as it reLates to the organizational framework needed for a
long-term mill rehabilitation program.
Beneficiaries and Benefits
8.03      The direct beneficiaries of the project would be:  (i) AFPTC through
incremental earnings from all project investments; (ii) private mill owners
through incremental milling income; and (iii) GOB through increased revenues
from taxation of AFPTC and private millers, and foreign exchange earnings.
8.04      The principal economic benefits of the project would stem from:
(i) increases in the volume of paddy milled in the AFPTC sector through
increased capacity; (ii) improved quality and grade of rice milled and
exported; and (iii) reduced paddy storage losses. Increases in the volume of
paddy milled by the AFPTC sector would set free milling capacity elsewhere
and, at the margin, reduce the need for handmiliing. The incremental annual
paddy throughput in the AFPTC sector at full development, projected at 191,000
tons would have a total economic value of US$34.6 M as compared to US$25.9 M
in the handmilling sector. The differential, resulting from higher recovery
of head rice and milling grade (i.e. lower broken contents) in the AFPTC
sector, is thus projected to be US$8.7 M of which the bulk (US$7.3 M) would be
generated through the new AFPTC rice mills and the balance through
rehabilitated mills.
8.05      The second source of benefits would result from rehabilitated mills
being able ts turn from milling of low grade rice to higher grade rice for
exports. The economic value of paddy would rise as projected gains in export
price would outweigh expected losses in rice recovery. The annual paddy
throughput of rehabilitated private mills at full development is projected at
1,100,000 tons of which 59,000 tons would be incremental to the project. The
remaining 1,041,000 tons valued at an incremental economic value of US$11.5
per ton would yield total annual incremental economic benefits from rice grade
improvements of US$12.0 M.
8.06      Improvements in the quality and grade of rice exported would also
be achieved througn the use of the rice grading and mixing plant to take
advantage of changing market circumstances thus significantly enhancing export
values. Furthermore, the plant would be capable of reconditioning rice prior
to shipment thus freeing conventional milling capacity and reducing the over-
all mill capacity shortage. The economic benefits of the plant have been
measured as the incremental value associated with regrading milled head rice
of 152 broken contents into head rice containing 5% brokens, segregating
brokens for separate sale. At the projected throughput (74,000 tons)



-37-
incremental economic benefits from this operation would be US$2.5 M per year.
These benefits would be additional to those generated by investments in new
and rehabilitated mills.
8.07      The third major source of economic benefits would be reduced paddy
storage losses. Srorage losses under the project have been compared with
those in a situation where the new mills (or contracted private mills in the
absence of project mills) would be served by a combination of temporary
storage and open pile storage according to existing AFPTC practice. Projected
storage losses reflect: (i) paddy movements in and out of sr'Jrage in accord-
ance with the projected operationaL schedule of the new mills; (ii) prevailing
patterns of paddy procurement and paddy storage and transport from outlying
depots; and (iii) the use of proposed precleaning and aeration equipment.
Storage losses mean foregone export revenues at the margin and the evaluation
of losses is therefore based on projected export prices for Burmese rice
appropriately adjusted to consider costs incurred between the point of sale
and the point of loss. The annual value of storage loss reductions at full
development have been projected at US$3.6 M of which about two thirds would be
attributable to reduced qualitative losses and one third to quantitative
losses.
8.08      Foreign Exchange and Government Revenues.  At full project develop-
ment Burma would earn about US$60 M per year in incremental foreign exchange
resulting from both an increase in export volume and an improvement in rice
quality. This represents a 16% increase over the rice export earnings
projected in the absence of the project. The Government would derive higher
revenue in the form of incremental cont-'butions to the Export Price Equaliza-
tion Fund, State Contribution (income tax) and turnover taxes to be paid by
AFPTC, and income taxes from private millers. The combined annual total of
these incremental contributions to Government revenue are estimated at US$20 M
(K 165 M).
Economic Analysis
8.09      The estimated economic rates of return (ERRs) on project invest-
ments, including technical assistance and project implementation costs, are as
follows:
Percent of
Component                        Project Cost      ERR (Z)
New rice mills                        42               52
Paddy storage                         22               2)
Mill rehabilitation                   29               97
Rice grading/mixing plant              4               54
Total project /a                     100               49
/a ERR estimated as weighted average of ERRs for indivi-
dual project components.
8.10      The difference between the estimated overall ERR of 49% and the
estimated FRR of 26% on AFPTC's total investments under the project (7.09) is



-38-
mainly due to a substantial duties and taxes component in project investments
(18x), and AFPTC's export revenues being heavily taxed through EPEF contribu-
tions. On the other hand, the estimated FRR on AFPTC's investments does not
reflect the impact of incremental paddy throughput in the AFPTC sector on the
non-AFPTC sector which is captured by the ERR.
Sensitivity Analysis
8.11      Estimates of cost and benefit streams unavoidably involve uncertain-
ties affecting ERRs as well as FRRs on project investments made by AFPTC and
private millers. Switching value analysis shows, hoi.ever, ERRs for invest-
ments in individual project components to be relatively insensitive to changes
in benefits, costs and start-up delays (Annex 3, Table 3). 1/ As the bulk of
the incremental economic benefits are generated by an upgrading in the quality
of export rice, the benefits are not overLy sensitive to a change in the
overall export price level. The price differentials between grades are
assumed to retain the same proportionate spreads, irrespective of the overall
level of export prices. A recovery in international rice prices slower than
projected would therefore not jeopardize the economic viability of project
investments and pose a serious economic project risk.
8.12      The financial viability of AFPTC's investments shows greater sen-
sitivity to changes in export prices and operating costs than to changes in
investment costs (Annex 2, Table 7), particularly in the case of mill
rehabilitation. AFPTC's overall project investments would, however, remain
viable even if export prices were to drop by 80% compared to projections, and
a reduction in export prices of 10% would still allow for a FRR on AFPTC's
investments in mill rehabilitation equal to 12%, the rate assumed to be the
financial opportunity cost of capital (after taxes). A slower than projected
recovery of international rice prices wouLd, therefore, not pose a serious
risk to the financial viability of AFPTC's project investments. However, it
would reduce AFPTC's ability to cover operating losses incurred on domestic
sales from net earnings from exports and the projected deficits in AFPTC's
cash flow (7.07) would increase. A survey by AFPTC of the willingness of
millers to participate in the rehabilitation scheme shows that over 140
millers had expressed an interest. However, if in implementation of the
scheme, the response is not satisfactory, AFPTC would propose additional
measures to encourage millers to participate in the scheme.
Environmental Impact
8.13      The project is not expected to have any detrimental impact on the
environment. However, disposal of husks from paddy may become a problem at
new or rehabilitated mills not driven by husk-fired boilers. In these cases
arrangements would be made for transport from site and use of husk in neigh-
boring industrial power generation or household fuel consumption. The design
of new mills and storage facilities would take into consideration the World
1/ Switching value is the percentage change in the specified stream (benefit
or cost) that reduces the net present value of the investment to zero at a
specified discount rate.



-39-
Bank guidelines on dust emissions, as well as on occupational safety and
health conditions in grain handling, storage, milling and processing. The
rehabilitation of existing mills would through installation of ventiLation and
dust collecting system reduce occupational hazards related to respiratory
effects as well as skin and eye effects.
Project Risks
8.14      The proposed project has no major risks:
(a)   The project would have no adverse environmental effects;
(b)   There is a risk of delays in implementation due to shortages of
local material. Arrangements are made in the project to minimize
this risk; and
(c)   AFPTC has surveyed contracted mill owners and ascertained their
willingness to rehabilitate their aging mills. If later the
millers' response is not satisfactory, AFPTC would need to introduce
additional measures to encourage them to rehabilitate.
IX. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During Negotiations assurances were obtained that GOB will:
(a) Ft :nish to IDA the progress in implementation of the recommendations
arising from the review of the paddy grading criteria (2.15);
(b) operate the six new proposed rice mills electrically and locate
these at Moulmeingyum, Pyapon, Prome, Thegon, Labutta and Paung
(3.06);
tc) through AFPTC complete a survey of the rehabilitation needs of the
balance of 100 mills out of the 180 mills and present the results to
IDA by December 31, 1986 (3.11);
(d) introduce the eligibility criteria for mill rehabilitation as in
(3.12);
(e) review the progress under the mill rehabilitation scheme annually
with IDA, with the first such review one year after credit effec-
tiveness. If less than 15 loans were processed and approved, GOB
and IDA would jointly review and agree on further measures which may
be necessary to encourage private millers to undertake rehabilita-
tion (3.15);
(f) site the Rice Grading and Mixing Plant at the Ahlone Jetty within
Rangoon Harbor and take immediate action to acquire or Lease land
for the purpose (3.21);
(g) cause TC to supply about 8,000 tons of sawn timber to meet the
projected schedule for godown construction and make appropriate
arrangements between CC and TC for the supply and transport of sawn



-40-
timber supplies to project construction sites and for EPC to supply
electric power to new and rehabilitated mills (3.25, 4.06);
(h)  ensure that the Terms of Reference for the feasibility study for
local manufacturing of milling equipment and a grain export market
study are prepared and cleared with IDA by March 31, 1987 (3.28,
5.07);
(i) submit to IDA by August 31 of each year a draft project budget and
implementation plan for the ensuing fiscal year (4.12);
(j) cause AFPTC to (i) maintain separate accounts for the project;
(ii) maintain project accounts including statements of expenditure
used as documentation for reimbursement audited annually in accord-
ance with sound auditing principles by the Director Ceneral, Central
Audit and Inspection Office; (iii) send certified copies of audited
accounts to IDA within twelve months after the end of the fiscal
year; and (iv) submit a separate opinion to IDA along with the
Auditors Report (4.13);
(k) implement the on-lending terms from GOB to AFPTC and AFPTC to
private millers as set out in Para 4.03;
(-) appoint suitably qualified heads of Project Implementation Unit by
December 31, 1986 (6.04);
Cm) ensure that a Project Coordinator within the Construction Corpora-
tion is nominated by December 31, 1986 (6,08);
(n)  establish a Project Coordination Committee to ensure smooth
implementation of the project with Terms of Reference and membership
agreed with IDA and an experienced and qualified official appointed
as a full-time officer to assist the Project Director, when found
necessary (6.09);
(o) establish a Hill Rehabilitation Task Force (RTF) and recruit key
personnel including field staff. PIU would forward to IDA a train-
ing program for RTF staff and a detailed Work Program for RTF
(6.11); and
(p) prepare a draft standard agreement between AFPTC and private
millers, acceptable to IDA by October 31, 1986 (6.14)



-41-
9.02      Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a)  The signing of an agreement between GOB and UNDP (3.30);
(b) the establishment of a Project Implementation Unit and the appoint-
ment of a suitably qualified Project Director, acceptable to IDA
(6.04); and
(c) execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOB and AFPTC.
9.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 26.4 M (US$30.0 M) on standard IDA terms.



GRAIN STORAGI AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Prolmet gom.nmnts Iy Year
(i '000)
BUae Costa                                 Total
1         2          3         4         5                    (Us$ '000)
A.  New Rice Hills                        15,589.6  113,773.7  24,057.0  22,037.5  20,488.8    195,946.6   24,190.9
3.  Hill Rehabilitation                          -   31,586.5  56,843.3  35,102.7   2,818.4    126,351.0   15,598.9
C.  Rice Grading and Mixing Plant                -   11,458.1   2,890.3   3,224.3   1,456.2      19,028.8    2,349.2
D.  Paddz Storage
1.  Mechanized Storage                      -   20,734.0   4,919.2   4,575.2   3,175.8       33,404.2    4,124.0
2.  Non-Mechanized Storage            4,234.6   17,139.3  23,344.3  13,329.6   3,009.3       61,057.1    7,537.9
Subtotal Paddy Storage                    4,234.6   37,873.3  28,263.5  17,904.7   6,185.1       94,461.2   11,661.9
S.  Project Implementation and             1,565.1      456.9     456.9     456.9     456.9       3,392.6      418.8
Monitoring
F.  Technical Assistance and Training      6,562.7    3,620.4   1,476.7     516.7   1,033.4      13,209.8    1,630.8
Total Baseline Costs                      27,952.0  198,768.9 113,987.7  79,242.8  32,438.6    452,390.0   55,850.6
Physical Contingencies                2,795.2   19,876.9  11,398.8   7,924.3   3,243.9       45,239.0    5,585.1
Price Contingencies                   4,603.2   45,285.4  42,280.9  38,173.1  19,010.6    149,353.2   18,438.7
Total Project Costs                       35,350.4  263,931.2 167,667.3 125,340.1  54,693.1    646,982,2   79,874.3
..ma .........  .....mmmmmm. ..mm.mmm. .mmmmmmmm .. .   mmmu l
Taxes                                 3,616.5   60,596.0  27,472.5  20,269.4   8,704.3    120,658.6   14,896.1  I
Foreign Exchange                      10,412.1  114,664.2  51,569.2  45,457.9  22,375.5    244,478.9   30,182.6   ^ j
_-  -----_-__-_-__-____-__-_-_______-__-___-_____-___-_________-____________________________________________________________ -



IK s4) II '40)                                          1 Tutu
Z S ff.lJ hg
Low     r.nia    TWal       Lwal  FeNimn  Toal   £.i.           Cats
1. IINESTW COSTS
A. CIVIL O                                                   "S3315s  17,.   116164.7  12.137,  21196.2 14333.?           IS       26
to P1ffAI STEEL STIPTS                                       22.5  1M.4M   3U73   3,233.7 1,4.2  4,96.0                   34       9
C. EOID N    S MCHIIR                                         340.  U.319. 1464.202.   6U349.6 10,926.4 177731o           61       32
3.   MDILITATION                                             7&OZ,l 49,524*, 12&15140  948,447 6,114.2 15,593.            39      23
Total 1NVEfSMN  COSTS                                          256,334.7 169.31.2 42^6s.53  31,706.0 20M. 52,0t.             40      *4
II  KClNW  COSTS
A. lN  ENWM. nRTIS COSTS - AMC
1. PUCT   I.LENATION
PROCIC JILUEIffATION M   MITITrmIu UNIT                  M554               M 155.4    113.0     -   113e0          -        0
REWILITATION TASK FOI                                  1W173.4      51.9  123.J3   145.5    &64    151.9            4        0
Sub-Total FROECT IUWLENTATIOIN                            2,133.9     51.9  2,15.7    26.4         6.4   269.3         2        0
2. O!ITION M ANSI  NE      f FhCT STOW  M           LS KWS3            3.3 10,371.6  1,221.6   121.4 1.340             9        2
!bhTotal INCINWMAL W TIN  MIMlS - AFPC                      122.o 1p2 03       130M.3  1465.1   127.1 112.9               I       3
3. TECHSICAL ASSISTANCU M IAINDO
1. COIOlTKIT SEltJICES                                    2#.1  OH3.037  114513,0    14.2  1,73.3  1,421.5            76       3
2. TSUINI                                                  215.4  1,4e.6  I,66.         29.1    10.3   20194          6        0
hih-Total T1CAL ALSSITM NO 1W133                             3s635  101543  132M.          M.2  lp253.  1, U1Ol          77       3
Tokll EICUN     COSTs                                           1564.6  1,l1i3.   264,24.1  1.2.3  1.31,4  3,243.7           4        6
TotW  36.1  COSTS                                               7e193l 110473.7 432#3,0  M3203  2120.3 55,35.6               *       100
imilcal Cntilnkaih                                           2V191.  11,647.1- 4529.0   31574.0  2.M@    5d5 l             40      10
Prile.  onti s                                               1im        49612 149t34.2  129764,4 56742 13431.7             31      33
loWI nECI COSTn                                                 462.5032 24,473.19 6462.2 49"61.8 30112,6 9674.3             N       143
-    -                 -~~~~R02m  -   -            -s
Jmnuan 10, 1"9  16117



GRAIN STORAGE AND ROCISSIEJ PIROECT
Sumurl Account by Prolect Counonent
(1 '000)
Paddy Storae
Rice Grading                lon-        Project       Technical               Physical
New         Kill         and Nixing  flechaniaed Mechanized Iuplmentation  Asesitance                Contingenies
Rice MlflsRehablitatio   .. ZLnt           Steagg&   _ft2AR__ andNonltorin  and Training  Totl 
1.  Invoatunt Costs
A. Civil Works                            43,662.1                -      3,853.0      7,528.5   61,057.1              -              -  116,104.7 10.0 11,610.5
S. Prefab Steel Structures                26,004.9                -      1,353.2    12,299.2                    -                    -   39,657.3 10.0  3,965.7
C. Equipment and Machinery               119,177.8                -     12,385.2    11,233.1            -       1,206.8              -  1",002.9 10.0 14,400.3
D. Rehabilitation                                 -      126L351.0             -             -          -             -              -JL   12 635.1
Total Inveatuent Cost.                        188,849.0       126,351.0      17,591.3    31,060.7   61,057.1        1,206.8              -  426,115.8 10.0 42,611.6
11. Recurrent Cost.
A. Incremantal Oeratina Costs - APYC
1. Project IODlementation
Proj. I ple. and Nonitoring Utnit          -               -             -            -           -         955.4              -      955.4 10.0      95.5
Rehabilitation Task lorce                  -               -             -         -              -       1,230.3              -    130.310.0    123.0
Sub-Total Project Iuplementation               -             -        -                  -           -       2,185.7                   2,185.7 10.0    218.6
2. Operation and Maintenance of
Project Storage and Mill.          7_096.6               -       1.437.5      2343.4            -                                10_5 -  - .JZLi6 MA.  A,0L7.
Sub-Total Increwental Operating
Coats - AIPTC                         7,096.6                -      1,437.5      2,343.4                   2,1...7              -   13,064.3 10.0  1,306.4
b. Techniael Auesistance and Trainina
1. Consultant Service.                                         -            -            --  -        -                   11,513.8   11,513.8 10.0  1,151.4
2. Training                             1_6___                                                                                         1, -  1 6  1 696.0 10. 169.6
Sub-Total Technical Assistance
and Traiuing                                                                                                             13-2_9 8 -    -   -  -  .20&   13209.8 10.0  1,321.0
Total Recurrent Cost.                           7,096.6               -       1,437.5      2,343.4           -      2,185.7       13,209.8   26,274.1 10.0  2,627.4
Total Bueline Costs                           195,946.6       126,351.0      19;028.8    33,404.2   61,057.1        3,392.6       13,209.6  452,390.0 10.0 45,239.0
Physical Contingencies                       19,594.7        12,635.1       1,902.9     3,340.4    6,105.7          339.3        1,321.0   45,239.0  0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies                         5.7S.0fi4       47.585.3        5.542.7    0L0311.3   25,051.4        18             2719 1.49353.2  9.1  ,7Z7.6
Total Project Costs                           272,597.6       186,571.4      26,474.4    47,055.9   92,214.2        4,818.1       17,250.6  646,962.2  9.1 58,816.6
Taxes                                        60,746.4        29,669.0       5,794.2    11,258.1   12,586.3          435.7          148.9  120,6i8.6  9.1 10,969.0
Foreip Excabnge                            123,245.0        69,560.6       13,628.4    19,131.0    5,028.4          935.6       12,930.0  244,475.9  9.1 22,225.4



-45-
ANNEX 2
Table 1
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
AFPTC - Summary of Historical Financial Performance 1/
(Kyats iillions)
1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83
Income and Cash Flow
Revenues               2,187    1,572       2,711      2,884     2,990      3,001
Expenditures           2.026    1.528       2.463      2.547     2.613      2.967
Income                   161       44         248        337       377         34
Cash Flow Before
Debt Service           133       42         198        253       287         60
Debt Service              48        48         68         58        58         77
Net Cash Flow             85        (6)       130        195       229        (17)
Balance Sheet
Cash                     597        305       305        404       293        395
Other Current Assets  2,057      1,886      2,725      3,051     3,341      3,288
Current Liabilities      314       905        973      1.197     1.373      1.512
Net Current Assets    2,340       1,286     2,057      2,258     2,261      2,171
Long Term Debt           496       473        460        445       438        608
Owners' Equity         1,958     1,692      1,842      2,102     2,193      2,197
Ratios
Net Income:  Sales CZ)  5.9         2.2       6.3        7.8       8.5        0.8
Debt Service Coverage   2.8         0.9       2.9        4.4       4.9        0.8
Long-Term Debt: Equity 20:80      22:78      20:80      17:83     17:83      22:78
Current Ratio            8.4        2.4       3.2        2.9       2.6        2.4
1/ Historical Income Statement, Balance Sheet and Sources and Applications
of Funds Statements are in Project Implementation Volume.



inu
MAIN lTsoAC  An PUDROCU3I3  PAoMc
trotected Ianco   Statemt fea  tPSC 19O9IU to 2002103 - iitboot Proet.
(1Sate Nlilliecs,
(Current pricee tbrough 1989/90, constant 1989/90 prLeas thereafter)
AJITC 7ia..I T...
1965)66  19U6/61  19718   12U1821969I9   1990191  1 1991         1991/3  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996197   1997/9b  1299199  1999/00  2000/01  2001/02  2002/03
Revenue frm Sales of tiee troduete
- Export lilal
-       sales                         911    1,015    1,617    2,257    2.793    2,659    2,659    2,059    2,659    2,659    2,659    2,659          2,859    2,659    2,859    2,659    2,659    2,259
lose      eontributious               146       244      399       591      756      794       794      794       794      794      794       794       794      794      794       794      794      794
- les turnover txese                     U         53       62       n1    7.J 3          1  72    7        2  72        72        72       72       _72           _172      1172     72_       72      .72
n t male.                               715       736    1,156    1,595    1,964    1,993    1,93    1,993    1,993    1,993    1,993    1,993          1,993    1,993    1,993    1,993    1,993    1,99
- Domestic sales
- sruel sales                         1,629    1,647    1,U66    1,664    1.903    1,922    1,922    1,922    1,922    1,922    1,922    1,922          1.922    1,922    1,922    1,922   1922    1,921
- loes turnover taxes                    91    . 2          93    93           Os       i6       i4        i6       A6       i6         96       96       sib       9*    .         ...      ...a       as
- net sales                           L7        15       J17t     iM 19       M      IJ26    IA26    LJ2           Iii    Liii       Iii    IAi    JA26    JJs.    IJ2              Liii   Liii    Liii
- lubtotal let Sales of Site Products   2,452    2,473    2,926    3,365    3,722    3,619    3,819    3,619    3,519    3,819    3.819    3,619           3,619    3,619    3,819    3,619    3,819    3,619
O .     .             *  ..a           a       _on      _n       ..o       o        o.__.  .on          ._        ._        a        m_       _s       nan     . _a_.__
Other Revenues
- Sles of Otber Products                  530       330      330       330      330       330      330       330      330      330       330      330       330      330       330      330      330       330
-nterest                                             -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -        -                   _        _         _        _  
-Other                                       25       25        26       27       27        27       27        27       27       27        27       27        27       27        27       27       27        27
- Lee Tormar TaSa                         --a      --a1         18      1s         18                          is 6i 6i 6i                          is     --I                --6l        is        is       la0 1 
- Sbtatal Otber lIe,eues                    337      338      336       339      339       339      339       339      339      339       339      339       339      339       339               339       339
Total let lamenuus                        2,789    2,611    3,266    3,715    4,102    4,149        ,149    4,149    4,149    4.149    4,149    4,149      4,149    4,149    4         4,4      4,149    4,149
Coat of Coods Sold                        2,572    2,656    2,769    i,696    2,945    2,947    2,947    2,947    2,947    2,947    2,947    2,947         2,947    2,947    2,947    2,947    2,947    2,947
Operattel Coste
- Distribution ead sales "Sees              243      297      315       335      347       147      347      347       347      347       347      347       347      347       347      347      347       347
-"Frt Ipeues                                 49       54       60        66       71        69       69        69       69       69        69       69        69       69        69       69       69        69
- Abinitration Ktxpnes                      104      109      116       124      129       129      129       129      129      129       129      129       129      129       129      129      129       129
- Interest gxp=$ee
-Operatieg los                             75       79       63        89       93        94       94       94        94       94       94        94        94       94        94      94        94         4
-btesl. l tfiauced loans                   35       36       37        35       33        31       26        26       23       20        16       15        13       10         7        5        4         3
- Other lon  term lose                 .431  5 .J         ..           so1   50 ...i1.   ..,21.   -        -         -        -          -       -         -        -        -         -        -           -
-subtotal interet                         153      166      172       174      167       145      122      120       117      114       112      109       106      104       101       99       96        97
- Depreciation                              146      157      164       165      166       167      1I6       170      171      171       124      101        73       26        20       14       14        14
_          .       __;9     _.6      __.;    __.;    .....        __.;     ._78      ,7       __. 2    __.7o      _.67     _.62      _.Gl    __                   _
Total  "editures                          3,309        3,442    3,597    3,762    3,,24    3,04    3,762    3,761    3,700 3,776    3,727    3,702         3,672    3,624                                 3,604
_n       _.        __.c    __.    _.           eo.    u._.         o.    __.    .on            eo        _*          _       n      _          a        a_
tne  Sefre State Costribution              (520)    (631)    (331)    1 47)    (276)    (345)    (367)    (366)    (369)    (371)    (422)    4472)    (476)    (52)    (536)    (545)    (546)    (545)  e
state Coutribeties                            -                 26       94      141       156      163       163      163      164       179      167       196      210       213      216      216       216
_ea _    __   .eon ..Us.  a    a__  n .__ .                           .        .        n _ .                    .__  .__ a-20-5  - -                          -_32
let Incoe                                  (520)    (631)    (357)    (141)    (1.7)    (169       (204)    (205)    (204)    (207)    (243)    2609)    (262)    (315)    (323)    (329)    (330)    (329   F11



ftreeCtd CaaO fla1 Ltatmat            IT  16151?  to 2002103 - lit      t Pral.ct
(Currat prisce tbroub 1959190. coutaut 1979/90 prical tharemaft.)
ArmI Diuteat Yar-
1 fIUS/U   1956157  16671U   I,ule   icielee  199041 1191122  1942133  1194106 19312          5  lIgSgl    10i9     10     5  1     0l  l9el0o 1000101 20       01102  1002101
C8b fre  Oparattons
oet lea..                               (t20)    (631)    (357)    (141)    (l37)    (189)    (204)    (205)    (206)   (t07)    (24)    (N6O)    (252)    (315)    (323)    (315)    (330)    (319)
- Ureelatlo                                145       157       1e4       165       166     1U7        16       170       171       171      124       101        75        25       20        14        14        14
- leereeee 1. Accounts Payable           ,...4j    .....j   *....JL    .11._                     -    -                  -           -        -        -         -1  S              -1               -7          3
Total ftro  Operation                     (342)    (465)    (11)    t 37)    (309)    (356)    (372            (37517)1377    l7;)    i7)    (361)               357)       43)     343)      343)    M3A)    i3)
ababilluttlo lea  Paymete                       -        -         -         -                  -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -
Capital ?ende 1L
equity                                     536       639       419      360       191       114         -         -         -        _         _         _         _         _         _                  -         -
OperatLa  lease                             74        G5       104       114       32          5        -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -
-Long Toc. belt
ekcd TM  1ebt
- Other etersally ftamied lers             21         19        46
- Otear locally finaueed loam.           ..l          771    .
- 3.4t.te  Loag Tere Debt                .           106                   ---
Total Capitat Vrid                        119f       613       60        474      229       121
-.      _                               S_         .     a.       a...         .      .._                 __                  .  
Total sret  of rmd.                        743)    7(345)    (42;)    (171)    (536)    (417)    (372)    (317             t3 (37    (375)    (357)    (361)    (357)          3)    (343)    (343)    (344)    (343)
APUICATIONS 01 POfM
Fixed AsLarts
- Otcnd KM  Proj ect                           -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -__ -                        -       -            -        -         -         -        -       -
-TTeal Ftted Asat                            59 -   117           92        12        12        12       12        23        12        12        12       12        23        12        12        12       12        23
Accomate ea elvabl                             72       s0       120       140        72        11
lIaruterieg                                  102        s0       135       119        11         I        _         _         _        _         _         _         _         _         _         _        _         _
Repaymmat of Debt
-Operative Learn                                        -         -                       -         -         -              -             -         -         -         -              -         -        -         -
- las Teo Debt
-S.4 IM less                                                                    -        -         -         -         -             -         -         -              -         -         -        -         -
-bterually fisaaeed  loa                    17                  26        35        35       35        33        4a a5               45 44  U                48   46         6        4         40       21        i2
-Otbe ocal ft II finaC*4 los..          ---aI                         __...M  .m  ....L.  41      ...-              -    -      .-.        .-      - 1            =.    -=-             
-Tottel hpyat of Dbt                          64        71        60       231       436      4          3         48        45        45       As        48        4a         5        45        40       2I        22
b"a. to frivata Nilra                          -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -        -         -          -        -         -         - 
Total Ali cation of land.                    U43       347       426       531       53       477        47        71        60        60       60        60         71       so        60        52       34        45
_ _-                                        _       n      _-            _    _          _.           _ .   _                           __- a-- 
Not Cash Flo                              (    -)    (  -)    (  -)    (  -)    (  -)    (  -)    (3231    (304)    (317)    (115)    (101)    (301)              (226)    (283)    (23)    (291)    (310)    (2901   u
I  60 iCOOeelee of foods to cover peJejetad  bertdall is eet carn  flew.



fall                nocusimno
Poipatied luau Utatmamt for AM11 1985184 to 1002/03 - vith ball.et
(Kyoto ItiliocM)
(Currnt prices tbroeea 1967/90, constaut 179U/90 prices thbreatter)
Itlsslo1s1f71|1               9as    sr    loglul            | 1491112  11624r""Tor   se4 Isf-l               1§s/§    itillis  lIfe/ fq 4416   lowldi  2OOIVe  200,UOJ
&e.e Ifrem  Wae$ of lice Products
- Sot gales
- gross sales                              911    1,013    1,617    2,303    2,588    3,160    3,202    3,202    3,202    3,202    3,202    3,202    3,202    3,202    3,202    3,202    3,202    3,202
- loee IRM  eoetributicia                  14       244       399       596       746       Ul        6997      S97      697       897       857       897       *97       *97       897       697       697      897
- loea  turncove  taxes                  --        __        __U                          _.         --            i         l       JJ                                     Al       .
- set sale.                                715       718    1,15o    1,63       2,022    2,194    2,219    2,219    2,219    2,219    2,219    2,219    2,219    2,219    2,219    1,19    2,219    2,219
- Daestle lsles
- grocs  0les                           1,829    1,847      1,846    1,884    1,903    1,921    1,922    1,922    1,922    1,921    1,922    192               1,921    1,922    1,922    1,922    1,922    1,922
- les  tutwor tugs                       __a       _*        _1        .4        .41      __Al    --A         .1         . .   .16    .4               4        .41t      . 6    .4          .         .41        __
n et "l 1s737    175f Li                                    1,1     1 I7Lt       1i31     LM        ILi       1ii2    LIMI    Li            LL£    IA2          1i2i    Lil L26     15 1       .02 102 Li i Li
- Sbtotal Iht Salso of lice Peducto   2,452    2,473    2,928    3,425    3,830    4,020    4,045    4,045    4,045    4,045    4,045    4,045    4,045    4,045    4,045    4,045    4,045    4,045
*   ._  _a          _*_--    *.fSS                          SSUa                            S          n     sn        -         *a          -_        *         -        -
Other invoueeo
- sales of Other Products                     330       330       330       330       330       330       330       330       330       330       330       330       330      330       330       330       330       33     
-  nteret                                       -         4        10        18        19        i8        16        is        13        12        10         9         7         6         4        3         I         -
- Otber                                        25        25        26        27        2        7     27        27  27 21                         27 227               27        27        27       27        27        27
- Less Tommover Taxes                                                                                                          in14 . 1 41 1 4 4 4           is.1 .1 .1-4                         .1 -1                4
-  ebtotal Other Rewnues                       337141346                       737                        3                   353       35        3         348       347                                    3 2  3    33
_              -_  _     _.       _-                 an __  ..s                        . _-n           Sas __  _as                              -             
Total not Ueywsee                           2,709    2,814    3,276    3,762    4,169    4,397    4,401    4,399    4,398    4,396    4,695    4,393    4,392    4,390    4,389    4,367    4,13                     4,384
Cost of Goods sold                          2,572    2,656    2,769    2,906    3,00          3,M00    3,101    3,101    3,101    3,101    3,101    3,101    3,101    3,101    3,101    3,101    3,101    3,101
Operatig Costs
- Dstrlbutloe &ad sales &Wu*s                 283       297       315       336       353       360       362       362       362       362       362       362       362      362       361       362       362       362
-""Iottkpe es                                  49        54        60        69        74        77        78        76        76        78        78        78        78        76        75       75        76        76
- hdm astrotiom leopers.                      104       109       116       124       131       134       134       134       134       134       134       134       £34       134      134       134       134       134
- Interest Enpeuses
-Opereti lIla                                75        79        83        at        94        96       100       100       100       100      100       100        to0      l00       100       100 000             100
- btenallfiuuaed loass                       35        4         52        57        61        59        54        S0        45        41       36        31         27       13        IS        14        10         I
- Other l*M tern loous                        'i                                     so    ..             1                          - '  "                                                     -
-htote l istereet                          154       176       191       204       205       107       159       2         IU        141      136        132      117       122       118       114       110      1
Deprlcltleo                                149       169 "     "         "   165   18        169       190       192       193       194       146       113        95       49        30        19        16        14
Total bapdlterea                            3,311    3,442    3,633    3,6126    3,959    4,027    4,025    4,018    4,014    4,011    3,959    3,931    3,899    3,864                 3,124    3,909    3,802    3,7"
*n _s                   _ .       _n.      ___         _         _         - __      a. _.                   _             iS          f 
lecow Before State Cootrit tie              (522)    (64)   (3U57)         (44)      130       350 35 76           3U1       364       345      436       462        493      5342      S5        576       584        36      r.
State Costribution                                                 AS                  355      19"       206       210       210       211       226       234       243       250       265      269       270       271
let lscoe                                    (521)    (648)    (315)    (19)           75       157       166       171       174       174       110       211       250       284      300       309       314       315    ala



CAIO 3SOUC D IEocusIo4 nontJcs
Prpioetod Cash Play1. It.e.st te, unC  19I85 26 te 2002101 - Vlth Proltet
(,Y.,. T1hIUua .     1
(Cutteot prices tbhroub 1959190, tonstant 1989J90 prices tbaTealter)
19851S6  1988187  19871/8  19U899  1946190  1990191  1291192   1992193 1;93194  1994195  1985196  1927/96  1998/99  1999100  200101  2001102  II
frea Operations
uc.e.                                 (522)    (648)    (375)    (129)          75       157       168       171       174       174       210       250       284       300       309       314
priedation                               149       169       181       18s       1s8       IP%       190       192       19)       194       146        93        49        30        1t        16
.rease in Accounts Payable                10         9        12        15      .11,                             -         -         -         -            -_        -                  -    - 
tel *ft   Opretlouse                    (363)    (470)    (182)         71       274       153       360       363       367       3168      356       345       333       330       328       330
ilitation Loen Paysant                      -         -         2         6        11        13        13        13        13       13        13         13        13       13        13        13
teI hads 1L
city                           572       601       445       346       295       291         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
stating Leans                              39        38       1I8      138        94        59          5        -         -         -         -          -        -         -         -         -
3 Tom Debt
ncend IDA losn                            10       101       69        80         30         -
3tbor externally  Ilnoead loans          251        29        46
ttber lotally financed loans -e         A         __U         78       4          19       -           -       _-                    -         -         -    _ -            _         _ 
ubtotal long Term Debt                 .4U         278       .J.      2J8         5        -                -         -         -      _     _           _         _         _         _
tel Capital Funds                      1,214       917       766       612       439       350          5        -         -         -              -         _    _         _         _
k sources of lund                        851       447        584      6,9        724      716       378       376       380       381       369       358       346       343       341       343
I Aslet.
Ind ID  Project                            17       141        59        51        29         -         -        _         _         2         -         -         -         2         -         -
ir Project                                       __96  _117          --- 1        12       1 2                                   _2 _S   12          __2 21    _1           12       _12        12
eal Viaed Assets                         613       259       151        62        41        12        12        23        i2        14        12        23        12        14        12        12
into Receivable                           72         7       164       179       14         68         9         -
stores                                    102        80       135      141        74        69          1        -
FYdt of Debt
srating Loan                               -          -         -         -         -        -          -        -         -         -         -          _         _         _        _ 
kg Tor Debt
lecAnd  D  losn                            -         -         -         -         -        19       1i         19        19        19        19        19        29        19        19        1i
zt:rnally fiunced loans                    19        26        26        35        35       35         35       48        48        46        48        48        48        48        40        22
Ither locally financed loan.              45      -4-5        54    .=           407 5....AnZ.   .412 .4      .-                             -                 -         --2
tal epaymnt of Debt                       64        71        so       22U       442       567       146        67        67        67        67        67        67        67        60        41
s to Frivate Millner                       -        30        54        78        21         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         _         _         _
-.   .   .. .....  ....._.                                 ..                ..          ...... -.n.  -. f   _.n   ..__ -,   _.  _uS  _,,_.u
L Application of hado                    851       447       564      689        724      716        168        90        79       81        79        90        79        81        72        53
…-                   -        ---  S -n-  ---  fil  -u-7    *S- _---  __*  -                                           u6ns    u   --    -- 
lamb  low                                   -         -         _         _         _         _       220      286       301       300       290       268                 26767               190
iG Lnfuseon of tfds to co*er projected sborctfall in  wa ceab flow.



mmm~
Ptromted. lemmas I         rt foLA     16216 ei 2*0 5 -  i6  s  ,4at
(Celtveet prices tbreeg  1959/90, aesteet 198919   prICes thereater)
19851n   it.sola  19117     loulat  191-112       olu   1"1102  10i"16;1§"4i1X/^_sl7  1"7114  i|ln/- 1"91D0  2eo010   M01102
lets
395      395       395      395       395       395      505       691    1,192    1,492    1,782    2,047    S,35    2,502    2,544   351S3    5,522
Receivables                      6U3      690    1,054    1,233    1,379    1,447    1,456    1,456    1,456    1,45           1,456    1,456    1,45      1 1,45    1,456    1,456    1,45
Lea                            32 L0I2  Liui  Liui 2                   42k  LA11  3412   131 L L1    3412   3412   Lla    L2                                 4    L            Lil   341
reat Assts                     3,"8    3,995    4,294    4,515    4,555    4,970    5,190    5,475    5,777    I,077    5,37    5,552    5,910    7,167    7,449    7,716    *,007
Ie Lomas                           -       30   bl            153      152       150      237      124   112            9U                 74   * 1           4U        36        23       10
2,218    2,4??    2,515    2,I90    2,732    2,743    2,755    2,776    2,790    2,605    2,615    2,626    2,651    2,542    2,67             2,6119    2,901
wistfoo                        _M@  _8 _U    113   1322 1M 511 1M 701 2t  0g  2M   Lai  L.% 2M 550  *   u
Issts                        LiuG IM    UO    1.41 1a3   0XU   S5 L0   7 JAM   _M    7  U 
4                      5,527    5,734    5,055    6,323    5,405    5,352    5,381    6,485    5,593    5,700    5,641    7,004    7,165    7,403    7,535    7,644    6,155
*.- *     u.       *-     - *---*_ --__*.  _.s  S...    ***        *..   -*           U.u.      *__*               -- -* --                              -
billtles
Payable                          251      260       272       264      297       304      306       305       305      305       306      306       306       305      306       306      306
LOCJo                        1,510    1,546    1,657      1,,14    2,9       1,957    1,972    1,972    1,972    1,972    1,972    1,972    1,972    1,972    1,972    1,972    1,972
_q  *m  Oebt                    _4 71                0                  3J        54        54      61       6L          67       51        67       67         L                           41 *0  *1
rest Liabilities               I,025    1,679    P.028    2,1235    2,240    2,325    2,332    2,345    2,345    2,345    2,345    2,545    2,345    2,345    2,345    2,336    2,319
lebt
r FLeusced Loes.
205 looo                          10       III      161       261      292       272      253       233       214      194       175      1 5       135       117       97        75       50
=emioe                           736      739       759       724      G59       555      620       572       524      476       426      360       333       265      237       197      175
cA eoansI&=   LL 1.il0  1112 12  Ul                                                     - -             -         -                                     -                  -
1,756    2563    2,076    1,977    I,555    1,019          672       eos      738       i71       603      Slo       470       403      335       27S      2)}
sat Poertis                   .4        __1      .__.       ._1 0 .1          . 4    .3              67        67    . 7         A7        67        67       A7        67           ..    AL
Tom Debt                       1,692    1,892    1,995    1,942    2,550         964      612       735       672      605       536      471       403       336      260       215      192
it OCpitel                     1,640    2,249    2,692    3,035    3,330    3,621    3,621    3,521    3,621    3,021    3,621    3,621           3,621    3,621    3,621    3,521    3,621
itl                              371      371       371      371       371       371      371       371       371      371       371      371       371       371      371       371      371
larelig                       .1         -M      (LAW2)  (La.)  (IJIQ)   -ox)    Jaw)   J )   J(Il)    liii)    --UV)    .121                       441     23k    1403k    LiuA        LW
iity                          2,010    1,963    2,031    2,246    2,5-   3,053    3,231    3,402    3,576    3,750    3,960    4,266              4,4      4,722    5,022    5,331    TFPFS
-_ t*-*  * _...    *i _                .e _..    6.3._.    ;:;I    *.            3 .     .. ._           *5  *4                       * _
litie  and Mquity             5,527    5,734    5,055    5,323    5,405    5352    5,362    5,465    6,593    5,70    5,641    7,04               7,216     7,403    7535    7,584    6,154



-51-
ANNEX 2
Table 7
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Summar of Financial ALnalysis of AFPTC Investments
Switching Values, Z Change Ii
commuonent          Base FRR 0    Exowrt Price  Ofer&tint Costs   Investment Costs
New mills and storage
complexes                 6               -21               42                 68
Mill rehabilitation         19               -9                11                76
Rice grading/mixing
plant                    10              -104             >100                >100
Total investments          18               -80             >100                >100
jJ Percent change at 12Z OCC.
2/ After taxes.



-52-
ANNEX 3
Page 1
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The economic analysis of project investments is summarized in paras
8.03-8.10 of the main report. The framework for the analysis including its
key assumptions is outlined in this note. Results are summarized in Table 1.
Details are in the Project Implementation Volume.
2.        Basis for Valuation of Costs and Benefits.  Economic costs and
benefits have been calculated at estimated border prices. For calculating
the economic value of non-traded goods a Standard Conversion Factor of .8 was
applied on financial costs net of taxes. Unskilled labor is valued at its
opportunity cost, taken as the weighted average market wage rate adjusted by
SCF. This gives an average adult male wage rate of K 6.6 per day, close to
the ruling minimum wage rate. Skilled labor is priced at its prevailing
market rate. Economic prices for traded items are based on international
trade prices, FOB or CIF basis as appropriate, minus or plus transport and
handling costs.
3.        Burma is expected to remain a net rice exporter over the period
of analysis (25 years). Project outputs, i.e. rice and rice products are
valued on the basis of projected FOB prices for Burmese rice (see Tables 2
and 3 and Section 5.05 in main text). Economic prices for rice and rice
products are assumed to be the same in the "with" and "without project"
situations.
4.        The opportunity cost of capital for Burma has been estimated to be
1OX per annum.
New Mills
5.        At present, about a quarter of the country's paddy crop is milled
by hand hullers on the farm or by unregistered small mechanized hullers. The
investment in new AFPTC milling capacity would free more of the conventional
milling capacity for milling of farmers' paddy.  At the margin, this would
reduce the need for handmilling on the farm. A comparison of the costs and x
product outturn of handmilling with those of new mills is therefore the
appropriate basis for an economic valuation of new mill investment.
Incremental project benefits from new mill investment are equal to the
economic value of rice products processed by new mills less the economic
value of rice products generated from an equivalent amount of paddy when



-53-
ANNEX 3
Page 2
handmilled. Incremental costs are equal to investment costs, AFPTC's
implementation costs for the new mill component, including technical assis-
tance costs, and incremental operating costs. In calculating the latter, the
milling costs in the handmilling sector are assumed to be zero, recognizing
that although handmilling is time consuming, the family labor used may have
low opportunity cost.
6.        Mills would be located in areas with high proportions of export
paddy varieties and would process all but 20% of annual paddy throughput for
the export market with a target milling grade of 5% broken. One fifth of the
paddy would not be suited for milling export quality paddy because of paddy
variety, seed grade or inferior quality and would be milled at 35Z grade for
the domestic market. Yields of head rice and by-products for new mills and
in handmilling per ton of paddy would be as shown in Table 4.
Mill Rebabilitation
7.        In the absence of rehabilitation, millers would lack the technical
capability andlor incentives to mill paddy at higher grades and would, there-
fore, continue present practice to mill rice with 35% broken content. Mills
currently with poor boilers would cease operations after five years as mill
owners would be unable to find or finance replacement boilers or electrifica-
tion. In the 'with project" situation mills would be secured with continued
power supply either through electrification or boiler replacement. Elec-
trified mills would be able to produce head rice of higher grades than 35%
broken without loss in paddy throughput. Mills relying on steam engines
would continue to face losses in paddy throughput at higher milling grades
due to insufficient power available for husking section as power requirements
for whitening section increases for higher milling grades.
8.        The measurement of incremental economic benefits from rehabilita-
tion takes into account:
Ci) increased economic value of output of rice and rice products per
ton of paddy due to the enhanced technical ability of mills
to process paddy at higher milling grades, i.e. lower broken
contents;
(ii) incremental changes in paddy throughput following changes in
nominal capacity, down time and grade of rice produced; and
(iii)  prevention of future losses of milling capacity.
9.        Analysis suggests that the net present value (NPV) of investments
in smaller mills are maximized when rehabilitated mills are operated at 15Z
milling grade. For larger mills, NPV is maximized at milling grades 5 to
15%. It is assumed, therefore, that all rehabilitated mills would be
operated at 15% milling grade.
10.       Incremental paddy throughput in rehabilitated mills would, in the
absence of rehabilitation, be milled in the handmilling sector. Thus, the
'without project" benefits include the economic value of paddy when hand-
milled, using yields per ton of paddy as shown in Table 4 and the economic



-54-
ANNEX 3
Page  3
value as indicated in Table 2 (Footnote 2).  "With project" benefits are
therefore measured as the economic value of rice products generated by the
anount of paddy milled following rehabilitation. "Without project" benefits
are calculated as the economic value of rice products generated by the amount
of paddy that would have been handled by mills in the absence of rehabilita-
tion plus the value of rice products that vould have been generated by the
incremental quantity of paddy if handmilled.
11.       Incremental economic costs of rehabilitation is the sum of:
Ci) the economic costs of investment in rehabilitation, including installa-
tion and AFPTC's costs of implementing the rehabilitation program; (ii) the
value of foregone output during the period of mill shut down for installation
work; and (iii) incremental operating costs. The latter would rise substan-
tially in cases vhen mills would be electrified.
Rice Gradins and Mixing Plant
12.       The incremental economic benefits of investments in the plant have
been measured as the incremental economic value associated with regrading and
mixing for export sale already milled rice to higher grades, i.e. lower
broken contents and segregating brokens for separate sale. Speci'ically, it
is assumed that the plant would upgrade rice of 15Z broken content coming
from rehabilitated mills to head rice containing 5% broken. As a result, the
economic value per ton of rice would increase. Other benefits -lot quantified
in the analysis include: (i) use of plant for reconditioning of rice prior
to shipment, resulting in freeing conventional milling capacity otherwise
used for remilling of rice and reduced export value cuts; (ii) preventing
shipments of rice having a higher whole grain content than that strictly
required by specifications; and (iii) reducing costs associated with double
handling, transport and remedial action necessary for rice that, in the
absence of the grading/mixing plant, would have been rejected at point of
shipment.
Paddy Storafe
13.       Investments in permanent paddy storage facilities to serve new
mills would reduce quantitative and qualitative storage losses of paddy.
Total annual losses in the "with project" situation are projected on the
basis of: Ci) estimated monthly storage losses for paddy in the types of
storage proposed under the project (items D and E in Table 5); and
(ii) esti-mated storage ton-months by type of storage (item B). Estimated
monthly storage loss rates are based on experience and test results from
Burma as well as from other countries having similar climatic conditions.
Losses do not include handling and spillage during godown loading and empty-
ing, but refer to time dependent losses only. Estimated storage ton-months
have been calculated on the basis of paddy movements in and out of storage in
accordance with the expected operational schedule of the new mills and
prevailing patterns of AFPTC paddy procurement, storage and transport.
14.       Projections of storage losses in the "Without project" situation
assume that new mills or contracted private mills in the absence of new mill
construction, would be served by a combination of open pile storage and
temporary storage sheds following current AFPTC practices. Total nmber of



-55-
AMNS 3
Page 4
storage ton-months are assumed the same as under the "with project" situa-
tion. Monthly loss rates vould be as indicated in Table 5.
15.       Incremental economic costs would include: (i) incremental invest-
ment costs (temporary storage structures vould have to be replaced every
second year under the "without project" situation); (ii) AFPTC's project
implementation costs (including technical assistance); and (iii) incremental
operating costs. Incremental operating cost increases caused by maintenauce
and operations of equipment in storage godowns are more or less offset by
incremental reduction in costs for maintaining buildings (temporary storage
structures need extensive annual repairs) except during years of major equip-
ment overhaul.
Seiparabilitv of Net Benefits of Individual Project Cowonents
16.       The ERRRs for individual project components shown in Table I have
been estimated by relating benefits incremental to each of the project com-
ponents to corresponding incremental investment and operating costs. In the
estimation of incremental benefits overlapping across components has been
minimized. Specifically, it may be noted in the case of the rice grad-
ing/mixing plant that incremental benefits refer to the enhanced value of
rice generated of grading/mizxing of rice already processed through
rehabilitated mills and are therefore additional to the incremental benefits
attributable to the upgrading of rice brought about by the investments in
mill rehabilitation (see also paras. 8.04-8.07). Given separability of
project net benefits the overall ERR on project investments has been
estimated as an average of the ERRs for individual project components,
weighted with respect to shares of investment costs of individual project
components in total project investment coats.



-56-
ANNE= 3
Table 1
BURKA
GRkIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Suumarv of Ecoiomic Analvsis of Proiect Investments
Stitchina Values % Chafne 1/       Sensitivity Analysis
Base             Operating   Investment   1 Year lag in Benefits
ERR Z  Benefits    CosLt$     _ Costs              ERR Z
Component
New rice mills                52      - 82       > 100        > 100                36
Paddy storage                 25      - 67       > 100        > 100                22
Mill rehabilitation 2         97      - 85       > 100        > 100                61
Rice grading/mixing           54       -84       > 100        > 100                47
plant
jj Percent change in benefit or cost stream relative to appraised value which
reduces the rate of return to 102, the opportunity cost of capital.
21 Average return for 15 rehabilitation cases weighted with respect to
economic investment costs (see Project Implementation Volume).



-57-
Table 2
BURMNA
GRAIN STORAGE AID PROCESSING PROJECT
Economic Value of Rice and Paddy
Read Rice
35Z      15X     5%     Excess
K/Tons of Rice                                  Broken   Broken  Broken   Brokens  Bran
1. Projected export price 1990/91 (F.O.B.
Rangoon) in 1984 constant dollars .!        1,814    1,717    2,487   1,191      567
2. Less HEIC costs (11)                            18       22       25       12       6
3.  Basis for aualitv evaluation of rice        1,796    2,149    12,462  1,179      561
4. Less relevant rice distribution costs
and overheads (export expenses,
forwarding to Rangoon, handling and
storage)                                     136       136      136     136      136
5.  Ex-mill value of rice/rice products 2/    1,660    2,013    2,236   1,043        425
l/Ton of Paddy
6. Paddy equivalent (mill recoveries of
62.5, for 51 broken and 66.51 for 35Z
broken and allowing for 3% rice losses)   1,006               1,500
7. Add value of excess brokens and bran            51                97
8. Less milling, packing and related
paddy handling costs from point of
loss                                          99                 99
9. Basis for valuation of quantitative
paddy losses                                 958              1,498
10. Basis for valuation of qualitative
paddy losses - paddy equivalent of (3)    1,194               1,539
/j See Annex 3, Table 3.
;2/ Used with reference to rice milled at new project mills and mills
rehabilitated under the project. The economic value of paddy milled
through the handmilling sector (used for the without project analysis)
has been calculated on the basis of ;,rojected export prices for rice
and rice products less MEIC costs and relevant rice distribution costs
as indicated above and assuming the following product mix per ton of
paddy as shown in Annex 3, Table 4.



-58-
ANNEX 3
Table 3
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
EzDort (FOB) Price Projections for Rice and Rice Products
Constant Dollars (Current N.llars within Parentheses) jj
Item:                  1985/86   1986/87   ,.j87188   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91
Thai, 5% broken             206        194       237        284        331       335
(216)     (218)      (304)     (388)      (473)      (494)
BurLese ;/ 5% broken        188        178       217        260        302       307
(198)     (200)      (278)     (355)      (433)      (452)
10% broken      175        165        201       241        281        285
(184)     (185)      (258)     (330)      (402)      (420)
15'  broken     165        155        190       227        265       268
(273)     (174)      (243)     (310)      (378)      (395)
25Z broken      150        142        173       207        242        245
(158)     (159)      (222)     (283)      (345)      (361)
352 broken       138       130        159        190       222        224
(145)     (146)      (204)     (260)      (317)      (331)
Brokens           91        85        104       125        146        147
(95)      (96)      (134)     (171)      (208)      (217)
Bran             56         59         62        64         67         70
(69)      (69)       (79)      (90)      (101)      (112)
jI  Based on IBRD January 1986 price projections for 1986, 1987, 1986 and 1990
for Thai 52 broken rice, with constant 1984 dollar prices derived by
applying Manufacturing Unit Value Index for Exports from Developed to
Developing Countries.
3j Derived by applying following discounts for Burmese bead rice relative
to reference price of Thai 5% broken: 5% broken - 8.5%, 10% broken - 15Z,
15Z broken - 20%, 25: broken - 27Z and 35% broken -- 33%, brokens - 562.
Discounts have been calculated based on price data for Burmese rice
products supplied by the Myamua Export-Import Corporation.



-59-
ANMEX 3
Table 4
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Projected Outturn on Paddy (1gs Rroduct Per ton iaddv) jj
MILL CATEGORY
Rehabilitated   Rehabilitated                      Hand
Steam Mills    Electric Mills    New Mills 31  Milligg
Existing        Grade           Grade            Grade
Mills 21    35%    15       35%   15Z        35%      E       35
Item
'ead Rice                649        646    553       646   553        665    625       550
Brokens                   39         39    107        39   122         25     50       100
Bran                      60         60      85       60    70         55    100       100
Cow Bran                  20         20      20       20    20          -      -         -
Total                765        765    765       765   765        745    775       750
Ij  Yields at rice mill, excluding paddy losses before milling and rice losses
after milling.
3] AFPTC and hired private mills.
O   Includes AFPTC mills currently under construction and proposed project mills.



-60-
ANNEX 4
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Projected Semi-Annual Disbursements
(Us$ M)
IDA Fiscal Year/Semester          During Semester               Cumulative
FY 87           2nd                  0.2                         0.2
1Y 88           1st                  0.6                         0.8
2nd                  0.8                         1.6
1Y 89           lot                  1.2                         2.8
2nd                  1.4                        4.2
FY 90           1st                  1.8                         6.0
2nd                  2.0                        8.0
17 91           let                  3.0                        11.0
2nd                  3.2                        14.2
FY 92           1st                  3.2                        17.4
2nd                  3.0                        20.4
1Y 93           1st                  3.0                        23.4
2nd                  2.2                       25.6
1Y 94           lot                  2.0                        27.6
2nd                  1.0                        28.6
FY95            1st                  0.7                        29.3
2nd                  0.7                       30.0



-61-
ANNEX 5
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Allocation of the Credit
(US$ M)
Amount
Category                      Allocated            % Financed
1. AFPTC new mills, storage,
and mixing plant
(a) Civil works                    3.6          11%
(b) Equipment, vehicles, and      12.2         IOOZ of foreign expenditures
imported construction                      IOOZ of local expenditures
items                                      (ex-factory costs)
2. Rehabilitation of Private Mills    9.0          lOOZ of foreign expenditures
5.1         40Z of local expenditures
3.  Unallocated                         0.1
Total                        30.0
_.-r



-62-
ANNEX 6
Page 1
BUM
GBAIN STROAGE ADD PROCESSING PROJECT
Mill Rehabilitation Tesk Force Okanization
1. Orxanization and Staffi-nE
1.1  The Rehabilitation Task Force (RTF) would bL respousible for
inplementing all aspects of the mill rehabilitation program except
the administration of loan repayment which would be handled by
AFPTC's Finunce Department. The RTF vould be one of the sections
in the Project Implementation Unit and would be headed by a Deputy
Project Director. To execute its responsibilities, RTF would be
organized into a Field Cell, an Engineering Cell and a Financial
Control Cell (Chart 2).
1.2 The Field Cell. The Field Cell would consist of three Field Teams,
oue in each of the Irrawaddy, Rangoon and ?egu Divisions. Field
Teams headed by an experienced milling engineer from AFPTC
would report directly to the Deputy Project Director while
operating out of AEPTC divisional headquarters. Team members
would include two assistant engineers (one in mechanical
engineering, one in electrical engineering), plus a member trained
to undertake financial evaluation of mill performance according to
guidelines prepared by the Financial Control Cell. The teams ould
be equipped under the project with the necessary transport
(4-wheel drive vehicles, speed boats) as well as with office
and draving equipment. The members of the Field Teams should be
assigned full time to the RTF and should not be performing any of
the regular duties of the Milling Departmeut's engineering units in
the field.
1.3  The Euaineering Cell should be headed by a senior milling engineer
from AFPTC's Milling Department to be assisted by two assistant
engineers (mechanical and electric) and draughts men. The Cell, to
be located in AFPTC headquarters in Rangoon, would be provided with
the necessary office and drawing equipment.
1.4 The Financial Control Cell would be headed by an officer seconded
from APPTC's Finance Department and staffed with accountants to help
evaluate subproject proposals and set up loan accounts.



-63-
ANNE= 6
Page 2
2. Responsibilities
2.1 Field Teams. The main responsibilities of the field teams would be
to:
(i)  survey individual mill rehabilitation and subprojects;
(ii)  collect, compile and evaluate financial data regarding
status and performance of mills; together with will
owners prepare subproject proposals to be submitted to
Rehabilitation Task Force (RTF) Headquarters;
(iii) based on subproject proposals approved by RTF Headquarters,
negotiate final rehabilitation package and conditions with
sill owners and administer signing of contracts and
agreenents;
(iv)  organize delivery of mill machinery and equipment to
individual mills and supervise installation of same in
the mills; and
.v)  evaluate technical and financal performance of rehabilitated
mills.
2.2  The Engineering Cell's principal responsibilities would be to:
Ci)  provide technical guidance and back-up to field teams;
(ii)  appraise and approve individual subproject proposals
submitted by field teams;
(iii) prepare final specifications for equipment, basic engineering
desi&n, drawings and circuit diagrams for iudividual
subprojects;
(iv)  prepare tendex documents for procuxement of imported milling
machinery and equipment and evaluate bids received; and
(v)  together with the [onitoring and Evaluation Section of PIt
design and implement a system for monitoring the technical
performance of rehabilitated mills.
2.3 The Financial Control Cell's main responsibilities would be to:
(i) provide technical guidance and back-up to field tears;



-64-
ANNEX 6
Page 3
(ii) appraise individual subprojects submitted by field teams;
(iii) establish, in consultation with AFPTC's Financial Department, a
system for establishing loan accounts for each subproject; and
(iv) together with the Monitoring and Evaluation Section of PIU
design and implement a system for monitoring the financial
performance of rehabilitated mills.



-65-
ANNEX 7
Page 1
SURMA
GRAJN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Impsnwalon Schedul
slvb.         2nd fW         &d YeV,       4t bar         BIt, m         Sb 
ldC        _Yc |cei AC a7                                          I1I s         ie| W           19ieee        ie       |
_ -4    1    3 2  _    1                        2 3- _  11213    4  -2  3 341   2  3  £
&O   MA Ms&s    OSG E                                                      -, f        I   O
A MUShSIELD0V                      _                             /,   -md o'Tto -t-Szv
1. FtalcndUStSWcNon               _                                                   ,o
3, Reoto &o .K lwi.                                                      . D              __        -_       _       . 
I PXaIDbitr Awrtd cnilacts
6. Rnatlan& of   Tern D-dgn             -      -
Con|Ioctwnt CC
& !m*cW & Dah d E SUuqO -- 
9s bonamctAanconmtsf
I&1. futiNcrflInd Equoawif  Defl&
ClcCtVmb   cc                                                                                                    if
8. htmflbmg&n deSay So Equpmet                                                                                      -
3. Cotcruftnfa CCjn Urs'4                                                                                           -
6. Ewdian oftSsveSuuclwmss
Z,o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~'
I. FInSflonS Sb Sulectlai~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~zl
3I Piactional S" Tmpndw MeDoaism/
a cCSactSh cc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
&  oAkq&Dlw dscIan SceSvuSa
7. CcnswctIan~ ldgFua.                                                                                              -,
11 PcaSllnon dEouwonats
1a Clepafin& fleTurOanes
A SbDuveIapmentIW-u
5 E%t.ShI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~% fl.    contact~~~~~~~od Bx*262



-66-
ANNEX 7
WJRMA                                                 Page 2
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
h                   Schedule (continued)
~MI  caImgor9                                             Igo6             na9              4990            4991             499
4  |123£  1  24h 1 23        234                                         234             23
_   _    2   3   _  e    2   3 a _          2   3   4    1  2o  3   4    _    2    3  A      2    3   4
1k1 J tt _ tS, _ _ _ _'                                        _    -       _      -,                 4'             -,
A ELIUSHMTOPTASCCI d&                             - -                               - -               , _,
FIBD $30L                                                                     - -
* E%vkxff      5 ri at ROd Towni                                   t             if                                t                 4'W  t
*t.CoInuNh                              _  _._|
1T.aia*igt$S1     vm                                               4' _f _' _tt      o     /      ,S,1X                              ,
I kilanuSachAV  Da     of'                        4       I        4',           '4'E               t               4'          I     '
A1 Pocuwnnofcal M        a4                                   I            3 r ,f          U     '4 
1 H         T R,pm MR, F|urKbrrL Rootst                                         t &   R o m
& 2Lo &"& calnho4 _  _                                                           -, L             -                 4'               f
£-CONSLIMCSEgWtES                                                                                     lo,t-t    '      '
1. APPOWSmWitafit                                      4'            ifl,                               4'             -
I h%Charkx*%U1ngfnghw-25.,pif
2. npTcmSrRin  & vIatkxdvf SI,                     '               4                    Jlop'-
1. Boo  -L-   -   -                                                                                    &  mk- 
2 Apmbft Su&, MOV Emionem~~~~t                                                                       i
C IRAN44G ~  ~        ~        ~        4                              -     1'                         u4
Deg LoalTt                                                                                                         4'n            #4g'gog Mt  V
ft  I        '4'   I-          -,    U           4'  a ~~~~~~~VoW af-262



-67-
ANNEX 8
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Proiect File
I.   Proiect Implementation Volume
1.      Detailed Project Cost Estimates
2.      Details of Economic and Financial Analysis
3.      Design and Specifications for Project Civil Works and Equipment
4.      Draft Terms of Reference for Consultant Services
II. Reports
1.      Carl Bro International A/S Consulting Engineers and Planners,
"Burma Grain Storage and Processing Project", August 1983
(Project Feasibility Study)
2.      World Bank, "Staff Appraisal Report, Burma Grain Storage Project".
November 1980



-68-
SKETCH 1
BURMA
GRAIN SrORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECr
Proposed integraed Milling and Storage Complex
Sle Lcayout (150 tpd Rice Mill and 13,600 T Paddy Storage)
E~~~~~~~~~~~J~~~~E
~~D1N                       _  :-*__ __ .__ _ _
0RICEMLLE               Rlt:EGODO     !l
TRWNFER CONV. - _
_IMBER PADDY GOOMOWrI
I  I    nTMMBPPADDY ^ GOO
TIMBER PADDYGODOWN
FENCNG=D
ITIMBER PADDY GODCYWN-I
AREA FOR STORAGE EXIENSON
WATCHIMEN S4ED =I
S=4ws 1:10O0(OnOdgirnol)
Waol Bonk-26237



GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF AFPTC
Agriculture and Farm Produca Trading Corporation
Managing Diroctor
board ot Managemern 
_                  r,_-Procut_mnt   _   Procurem                         I I   _   _rI
Planning. Prolects     eVd Sales             anes Det i            ilng      II        Hndiwm           diitrto 
Ofilce of          inspeclion                                           d  iar               tptmnI ||PxrlMilling                                  a|nd Harndlinig         Administration
andFiane  opwmtt         SlimDet.11Department                                       I      I
Board ol          Department                                          Deparnmnt            (Paddv RIal)     i Maiz, Pulse             Dept.               p.M.t                Dept
Managiemntni                                                                                    G.M              & OthenlfsG  
!  G M      .       ~~~~G.M.             m G                  G.M         |        G.M                G M.
l  r I ,,  I  '~~~~~I1L
Irrawaddy         Pegu          Rangoon          Mon            Arakan         Sagaing         Mandalay         ma gw           Kechin       Tonaarim           Karen           Shen           Kvish
Division       Division        Division      STate             Division       Diviiion        Oivision        Division          state          State           Sta;a           Stata           State
Consoiidaled    Consolidated |  ConSolidaled                                   Consoidatd f    ConsolidatAd    Consolidated
| Township  | | Township  | | Township  |                                                                                                                     T     hTownship  |  rTownhp    |Township
(6)             (5)-           ( §    1}  1 1    {3)                           ( 1   1  121 7                                                                 ((22 ( I                        (2)
( 26)     1       (271             It?)    (1 8)                  ( 1   2)       (  20)          ( 1  6)  (1121                   (  4)   (1 2)                  (  2)           (  2)           ( 21
Paddy          Pulses Beans and    Riea Mill Owned  i    Remitling          Rice Miii|    Rice Eran                                  R Rice Bean    i     a                 Storage 
|  BuyingDepot   |Other BuyingO epot     byAFPTC      |      Piant       | Privately Owned  |   Basic Unit     |      Oil Mill    |5IanolOweOiMll Standardization Plan1  rIIho   S4
(802)              'I124)              (48)       |        (6)              (B)                                     (19)               1341                                   281
Note 1/ No Office in Chin State      G.M. General Manager            -  ' Departmeints Involved In Project                                                                                      W1
World iBank -19940



-70-
CHART 2
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Organization of Planning, Protect and Fnance Depatment of AFPTC
Planning. Praect& Rnance Delt.
G.M.
Planning                               Piaject                               Rrionce
DGM                                   DGM                                    DGM
I   I           r           -l--                      n                     I~~---
*Preoronmrn;    | |    erentation         F Poject lmplrintoton Unit          l                 Ranning
AGM           Units Other Projects      ProlqectDirctr(PIj)                             ,        -
Mill Rehabiltticon        Stawe & Mill
Tosk hbrce          Constiuction Section          StionEE1lu MonioSeing &
D: r Ppect Director      Proact Managr 
I                                                               .
Engneenng Cell         Constructo Units
I   Engineer(Mech-)
Ast. Engree            Mechanics
Draughtrnen            Sthrsk               _|
I  _______________      co wsB udget                                                          I
I   Rnancial Contrl 
CEil                                            Stores
Field Cell                                     T              Insporthon
Moanoger
Rehabilitation Team                      Legend 
Enin~eer (Moh.                          GM   =General Manager
I   Asst. Eng. (Mlechr)                      DGM  =DesMtv General Manager
j        Fn,Assta En to (Elct-|                  AGM  -Assitnt General Manager
I     Financial Control                                                                           1
I                 11                    r----i  Organizationl Unit                              I
hvolved in Protect
World Bank-26427



IBRD 18261R
t     8                       M~~~~~~~~~A  A iG    W   E                            
X \~~~~~~. ,,,-- .i .\,\,
/                             M A       5      W N->s /'f°5Ml   
t   (t{;9 - > ,    ¼.                         .2                                          1?
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   P               'No
A t A K   daN V - _  >  >             ,                rouno tn
4;9~~~~~~~S~an                            ;    (xThegon ,;.\
hvs \   <   ;<$i   \^,igun  \    \              Kyoukiy P
1 \ : ~~~~~Kvon9g                      Donung tjP ,_   f
,, \   \              ;7   V         T~~~~~~vGob-gouk                          ) 
_                                                                  V.
0 9 S s oK&y v   Ko
>>            ~          ~~~~~Insg               L- toodon t4lvt  
> ( t~~~~~~~~~~odsme                       l       m a >o ddy  t,  
A r  F             Kan.            'an             r     Lo    K                                            Kb
A ~ ~        ~          ~         ~        ~          A}
.. Thobq,zng                   YOU90 kKo-e 2     {no n F n7           w          /KbG
Ngopulo.;v.iti'o -;*O  . --.--..-:-
r    ~~- ~~~ g  /''   MowmewlwurO  o  --~~~~~ .J                      k1a.,,,a 
0~~~~~~~~~~~
.  LobBla O - - - / ' ' v. O : 
! . .;/' Z?C;, ' ~, S N zBURM A
-IO.~§-/?.=16^-                                     ~                                                    'YGRAIN STORAGE1°
e  ,-  '.:,,,'.  , ''   ,. -ANt) PROCESSING PROJECT
_  'j  Ir=-rProposed LOcatiOI1S fOr Integrated Milling
- - I = ~~~~~~and StOrage COmPleXeS
PROPOSEL) PRCIJECT
_nu .                                        *.d ~                  Da/Intonrd Rice Milling and Swo/o CoDp
INqDIfA                                                                                         PR P_ROJECT
z  /      ,    ~~~CmiNA                                                                 A     Poddy Stcogoe Compfos - Cr"ti 1092 - BA
B ! URMA                                                                                        Oo9
t\J ar>at, > jf-;t-- __.__ Disbtc ~~~~~Dno foundarmts
-fA or, da     T6fl.addv _                    ~NIntroion\l Boundaries
C ~ ~    ~          ~          ~          ~         ~          ~N
orew  s  .  . S ~~~~~~r__-_*_*_ O hf sw GU.hk                                               1'iO C
tSA      ENGA ..                                            Danubu \PAN^,___KLOMEOERS N1                  I
A ,     -                          I - -                      0      10    20    30 K0    50    60
,A.'o< .. M r ' @' ~~~~~9,5.
MAY 1( 96a



