Do_ument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
c9. ;)>v7-6/7
Report-No. P-4305-BA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 26.4 MILLION
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
April 30, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
K 1.00     =   US$ 0.12
K 8.10     =   US$ 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 basket paddy       =   20.9 kg
1 kilogram (kg)      =   2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)        1,000 kg = .98 long ton
1 meter (m)          =   1.09 yards
1 hectare (ha)       =   2.47 acres
BURMESE FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
GLOSSARY
Broken rice    =  grain less than .8 of full kernel length
Head rice      =  full rice (i.e. grain equal to or
more than .8 of full kernel length)
plus broken rice as per specifications
Milling grade  =  percent content of broken in head rice
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
AFPTC     -    Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation
cc        -    Construction Corporation
EPC       -    Electric Power Corporation
EPEF      -    Export Price Equalization Fund
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
FRR       -    Financial Rate of Return
HYV       -    High Yielding Varieties
K         -    Kyats
M         -    Million
MEB       -    Myanma Economic Bank
MED       -    Milling Engineering Department
MEIC      -    Myanma Export Import Corporation
PCC       -    Project Coordination Committee
PIU       -    Project Implementation Unit
PTAC      -    Pont-harvest Technology Application Center
RTF       -    Rehabilitation Task Force
SCF       -    Standard Conversion Factor
SEE       -    State Economic Enterprise
TC        -    Timber Corporation
tph       -    Tons per hour
tpy       -    Tons per year
WTP       -    Whole Township Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       The Socialist RepubLic of the Union of Burma.
Beneficiary:    Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation (AFPTC).
Amount:         SDR 26.4 M (US$30 M equivalent).
Terms:          Standard.
Relending       The Government would relend the proceeds of IDA Credit to
Terms:        AFPTC for a term of 20 years including 5 years' grace and
interest at 8.5Z per annum. AFPTC relending to mill owners
would be for 16 years incLuding one year's grace and interest
at 10.5Z per annum.
Project         The proposed project is designed to enhance foreign exchange
Description:  earnings by improving the quality of export rice, reducing
storage losses, and initiating a program for rehabilitating
private mills.
The project would be implemented over a 9 year period, though
main works are expected to be completed in 5 years. The
construction of six new rice mills with integrated paddy
storage facilities would form part of AFPTC's continuing
efforts to expand and modernize its own export oriented
milling and storage capacity.  A rice grading/mixing plant
with a capacity of 74,000 tons per year would provide AFPTC
with an enhanced capability to regrade and mix rice at the
export terminal and thereby provide greater flexibility in
export marketing. The project includes technical assistance
and long term credit faciLities to rehabilitate about 120
private rice mills. Technical assistance and training would
also strengthen AFPTC in project implementation and provide
formal and in-service training. Studies are included for
improving rice export marketing and for promoting local
capability in manufacturing milling equipment.
Risks:          (a) The project would not have any adverse environmental
effects;
(b) There is a risk of de !s in implementation due to
shortages of local mater s. Arrangements are made in the
project to minimize thiF isk; and
(c) AFPTC has surveyed contracted mill owners and ascertained
their willingness to rehabilitate their aging mills. If
This documnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciVients only in the performance
or their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise bc disclosed without World Bank authorization.



later the millers' response is not satisfactory, AFPTC would
need to introduce additional measures to encourage them to
rehabiliate.
Estimated Cost:
Item                                    Local   Foreign   Total
---(USS Million)----
New Rice Mills                                    12.8     11.3      24.1
Rice Grading and Mixing Plant                     1.1       1.3       2.4
Paddy Storage                                     9.5       2.2      11.7
Hill Rehabilitation                               9.5       6.1      15.6
Technical Assistance and Training                 0.3       1.3       1.6
Project Implementation and Monitoring             0.3       0.1       0.4
Base Costs                                       33.5      22.3      55.8
Physical Contingencies                            3.4       2.2       5.6
Price Contingencies                              12.8       5.7      18.4
Total Project Costs                              49.7      30.2      79.9
Taxes and Duties                                 14.9         -      14.9
Project Costs (Net of Taxes and Duties)          34.8      30.2      65.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                                              10.0      20.0      30.0
Swiss Government                                   -        5.0       5.0
The Government of Burma                          37.8       2.7      40.5
UNDP                                               -        2.1       2.1
Hill Owners                                       2.3        -        2.3
TOTAL                                            50.1      29.8      79.9
Economic Rate of Return:   49X
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY       87      88     89     90      91     92      93     94      95
Annual      0.2      1.4    2.6    3.8    6.2    6.2    5.2    3.0    1.4
Cumulative  0.2      1.6    4.2    8.0   14.2   20.4   25.6   28.6   30.0
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 5227-BA dated April 28, 1986.
Map: IBRD 18261R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TEE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Development Credit to the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma for
Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 26.4 million (US$30 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to help finance the proposed Grain Storage and Processing
Project. The Swiss Government would grant Swiss Francs 10 million
(US$5.5 million equivalent) for the public sector component. UNDP would
provide US$2.1 million equivalent for technical assistance and training.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The latest economic report entitled, "Burma:  Policies and Prospects
for Economic Adjustment and Growth" (Report No. 4814-BA, dated November 18,
1985) was distributed to the Executive Directors on December 5, 1985 and its
findings are included in this section. Country data are presented in
Annex I.
3.      The present leadership of Burma assumed the responsibilities of
government in 1962, and vested authority in a revolutionary council.
Thereafter, a Constitution was adopted in a nationwide referendum in December
1973, creating the Pyithu Hluttaw (People's Assembly) with supreme executive,
legislative, and judicial authority. The Burma Socialist Program Party
(BSPP) was confirmed as the only authorized political party. The
Governmentt s guiding philosophy, stated in a 1962 document entitled "The
Burmese Way to Socialism" reflects a combination of traditional BuDrmese
values and socialist doctrine. Despite the political stability of Burma's
leadership, insurgency has been a problem in large tracts of the country.
4.      The Government's economic development strategy is summarized in the
Twenty-Year Plan adopted in 1972. The Government's main economic objectives
are to foster economic growth within the context of a socialist system, to
enhance economic strength and self-sufficiency through transformation from
an agricultural to an agriculture-based industrial society, to eliminate
unemployment, and to reduce income disparities.
5.      The publication of the Twenty-Year Plan was followed by a wide range
of reforms and policy changes, the most important of which was the introduc-
tion in 1976 of of which tax measures, accompanied by a round of price and
tariff increases, helped restore the country's public finance to a sounder
basis. To encourage the state sector to operate more efficiently, the
Government also introduced in 1974 a new financial system for the State
Economic Enterprises (SEEs) and authorized greater managerial authority and
work incentives for them.



-2-
6.      In the area of agriculture, the Government launched in the mid-1970s
a successful intensification program for paddy (the Whole Township Extension
Program). Now extended to 50Z of total paddy-sown land, the program has
combined increased availability of inputs (improved seeds and fertilizers),
and a greatly expanded and strengthened extension service, with skillfully
orchestrated institutional and political support at the township level which
has resulted in substantial gains in yields and production.
7.      In part as a result of these measures, and in part as a result
of generally favorable weather conditions, improving terms of trade and
increased flows of concessional foreign aid, Burma made impressive
economic progress during its Second and Third Four Year Plan periods
(1974/75-1981/82). Real gross domestic product (GDP) grew by an annual
average of 6% during the 1974/75-1981/82 period, compared with 2.7% in the
previous decade. Gross fixed capital formation increased as a share of GDP
from 10% in 1974/75 to 20% in 1981/82; the share of domestic savings in GDP
similarly increased from 11% to 17% over the same period. Significant
improvements in the Government's budgetary position also occurred during this
period, allowing the Government to reduce its dependence on borrowings from
the domestic banking system. This, in turn, contributed to a reduction in
the rate of inflation.
8.      However, as Burma entered into the Fourth Four-Year Plan period in
1982/83, the previously optimistic outlook on the economy was altered by an
abrupt deterioration in the country's balance of payments and financial
accounts. The external current account deficit as a share of GDP, which had
been relatively modest, widened from 4% in 1980/81 to 6.4% in 1981/82 and to
9.1% in 1982/83; the overall payments balance worsened from a surplus of
US$63 million in 1980/81 to a deficit of US$158 million in 1982/83. The
major factors accounting for this downturn were a combination of rising
foreign exchange allocations for imports, a decline in export earnings, led
by falling world market prices (especially for rice) and stagnating volumes,
and a fall in receipts of official grants. While import volumes had been
growing faster than export volumes since the mid-1970s, to support rapidly
expanding public sector investments, the resource gap did not widen sig-
nificantly until 1982/83 because of favorable export prices in earlier years.
9.      The abrupt deterioration in the balance of payments was accompanied
by an increase in the overall budget deficit which rose from 9% of GDP in
1980/81 to 11% in 1982/83. To a certain extent the balance of payments and
budgetary developments were related, as about one quarter of the increase in
the fiscal deficit was accounted for by the reduced profits on exports.
However, the basic cause was an inelastic tax system, public sector pricing
policies and rising capital outlays. Though a good part of the deficit was
financed by foreign loans and grants, borrowings from the domestic banking
system also increased steadily.
10.     Faced with a tight budgetary situation and a severe shortage of
foreign exchange, the Government's immediate concern was stabilization. In
1983/84, imports had to be reduced sharply to prevent a further drawdown of
reserves. Capital expenditures by the SEEs were curtailed through rephasing
and consolidation of their investment programs. On the other hand, no new
revenue initiatives were taken. As a result of these cutbacks and some
improvement in export earnings the external current account deficit was
reduced to less than 4% of GDP and the overall fiscal deficit to 8.5% of GDP.



-3-
Data for 1984/85 indicate that the current account deficit has been held to
about 4.5% of GDP while the overall fiscal deficit has risen to 12% of GDP
due to a decline in the share of both tax revenues and the SEEs contribution
to the budget relative to GDP; almost all this increase was financed by
domestic bank borrowing. Notwithstanding these financial developments,
increases in real output have continued at about 5-6% per annum. However,
reflecting in part reduced allocations for imports, and heavy reliance on
the banking system to finance budget deficits, inflation has begun to rise.
11.     In the longer run, the Government's most important objective should
be to achieve high real GDP growth while maintaining internal and external
financial stability. New and wide-ranging initiatives need to be taken in
the area of domestic resource mobilization to enable the Government to main-
tain the level of public expenditures compatible with high growth without
rapid increases in domestic bank credit. Moreover, if Burma is to sustain
high GDP growth, the initiatives for stepping up domestic resource mobi-
lization would need to be supported by equally ambitious undertakings to
increase export earnings. Agricultural products now make up 80% of Burma's
merchandise exports, with rice accounting for as much as 50Z of total
agricultural exports. Given this export concentration and some uncertainty
about Burma's future rice export earnings, the Government's medium-to-longer
term objective should be to generate larger exportable surpluses of crops
other than rice and teak to help broaden the country's export base.
Recognizing this, the Government has in recent years, shifted the focus of
its agricultural strategy away from paddy to expanding the production of
other crops. In the shorter term, however, the Burmese economy is expected
to continue to rely heavily on rice and teak. Priority should be given to
upgrading the quality of rice and improving the handling and distribution of
teak, both for export.
12.     Burma's debt service ratio (including IMP repurchases) increased from
35% in the 1980/81 to 45% in 1984/85, due primarily to a substantial increase
in the latter part of 1970s in loans from private financial institutions and
suppliers' credits. By March 1985, Burma's external public debt, disbursed
and outstanding, was approximately US$2.2 billizn. The prospects for exports
over the medium-term are not favorable. According to World Bank price
projections, Burma's terms of trade will improve only gradually over the next
five years. To contain the country's already high debt service burden, it
is essential that, in addition to an aggressive export expansion, external
assistance continue to be on concessionary terms.
13.     Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a rela-
tively healthy and literate population. The crucial issue is the quality
with which these resources will be managed and developed. The Bank continues
to discuss with the Government its external assistance requirements and
measures for further improvements in economic management which would help
Burma realize its promising potential for economic development. Discussions
on these topics are carried on jointly with other donors and the IMF during
the Burma Aid Group meetings which the World Bank has organized at the
Government's request. The first meeting of the Group was held on
November 30, 1976, in Tokyo; and there have been five subsequent meetings,
with indications of increasing donor support each year. The last meeting
was held on January 14, 1986 in Tokyo.



-4-
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
14.     Burma became a member of IBRD in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in 1962.
Between 1956 and 1961, IBRD made three loans, totalling about US$33 million,
for the transport sector: one loan helped finance the Port of Rangoon's
reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities and procurement of
cargo-handling and port equipment, and two loans helped finance reconstruc-
tion and dieselization of the railways.
15.     No lending was requested between 1962 and 1972.  IDA lending resumed
in 1973, and since then, 27 credits and three loans totalling about US$693
million equivalent (net of cancellations) have been made. About 55Z of this
assistance was for 16 projects in the agriculture sector: provision for
irrigation pumps, two rubber rehabilitation projects, livestock development,
two seed development projects, two paddyland development projects, grain
storage, two forestry projects, two wood industries projects, the Kinda Dam
multipurpose project, a tank irrigation project, and a groundwater irrigation
project. About 19% of IDA assistance supported rehabilitation of the tran-
sport sector through six projects, namely inland water transport, railways,
two port projects, a road construction project and a timber distribution
project. The remaining 26% of IDA assistance was for two projects in the
telecommunications sector (8Z), one project in the mining sector (about 2%),
a power project (12%), and a textile-finishing plant project (4%). Seven
credits have been fully disbursed. Initially disbursements were slow, but
performance has improved considerably as government agencies, such as the
Irrigation Department, have become more familiar with IDA procedures.
In general, IDA-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily.
Annex II contains a summary statement of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits as of
March 31, 1986. IFC has made no investments in Burma.
16.     In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge
of some economic sectors and a lack of adequately prepared projects. Through
ongoing projects and sector work, IDA has developed more detailed knowledge
of many sectors. UNDP has provided about US$10 million equivalent in
technical assistance through three Umbrella Projects, for which IDA is the
executing agency. This technical assistance has developed a project pipeline
suitable for external financing in priority sectors, such as agriculture,
transport, power, and industry. Several IDA-supported projects, namely seed
development, rubber rehabilitation, power transmission, construction
industry, third port, and groundwater irrigation, were prepared under these
Umbrella Projects. Furthermore, IDA plans to continue its technical assis-
tance on a project-by-project basis to help strengthen Burmese project
preparation and implementation capabilities, as well as administrative and
managerial skills of Burmese personnel through in-service and overseas
training.
17.     IDA's country assistance strategy seeks to address Burma's immediate
economic development constraints (paragraphs 8-13) and has the following
objectives: (a) to help improve foreign earnings by supporting economically
viable export promotion and import substitution activities, improving produc-
tion of export commodities, currently teak and rice, and developing other
crops for export; (b) to help enhance Government's ability to mobilize
domestic resources; and (c) to assist in modernizing and strengthening
important institutions, especially in sectors in which IDA is involved.



-5-
18.     Burma's expanding international economic links have contributed to a
growing appreciation of the broader role that IDA can play in providing
assistance to the development effort and that agreement in principle can be
reached with the Government on the strategic objectives of IDA assistance.
Accordingly, IDA would selectively support projects in those sectors where
there has been a preparedness to engage in policy and institutional-building
discussions and a demonstrated willingness to implement necessary reforms and
address, increasingly, macroeconomic issues. On this basis, IDA would con-
tinue to support agricultural development and seek participation in new areas
or sectors e.g., energy, industry, and human resources development.
19.     In this context, IDA assistance, particularly to the agriculture and
energy sectors, will emphasize broadening of the country's export base
through progra=s for diversifying agricultural production and developing and
exploiting more efficiently the newly found and existing gas and oil
resources. Sector work on crop diversification and the energy assessment
study would provide the basis for initiating long-term development strategy
accompanied by policy and institutional strengthening and upgrading of tech-
nology and technical manpower. Projects under preparation include
rehabilitation of old irrigation works in rice producing areas and
groundwater and tank irrigation projects to rehabilitate and expand priority
irrigation systems for long term non-rice crop diversification program.
Other projects include improvements in infrastructure and development of gas
and power, industrial rehabilitation, telecommunications and ports, with
emphasis on rehabilitating and maximizing utilization of existing facilities.
Studies are being undertaken to improve timber transport, for river training
to improve navigation and flow of goods over Irrawaddy and Chindwin rivers,
of selected industrial sub-sectors to identify policy, operational and
institutional weaknesses.
20.    The World Bank currently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 1% of its debt service. In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20% and its share in the debt service to about 2-3%.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
21.     Agriculture, including forestry, livestock and fisheries, is the
dominant sector of the Burmese economy. In 1984 it accounted for about 44%
of GDP, 66% of the labor force and over 80% of exports. In addition,
agricultural crops, particularly paddy, cotton, jute and sugarcane, support
more than 60% of the country's industrial production.
22.     Rice is Burma's major agricultural and export commodity as well as
a significant source of Government revenue through implicit taxation from
Government controlled pricing and exportation. Paddy is grown principally as
a single, low-land rainfed crop in the monsoon period. About 5 M ha are sown
to paddy annually, representing over 50% of the gross cultivated area. In
1984/85, rice accounted for more than one third of total agricultural output,
and rice and rice products for 37% of the value of all merchandise exports.
Other main crops include sesame, pulses, groundnuts, industrial crops such as
jute and cotton and cereals other than paddy.



-6-
23.     During the 1960s and early 1970s, value added in agriculture rose
at a modest rate of about 1.6% per annum, well below the prevailing 2.22
population growth. Among factors contributing to this unsatisfactory perfor-
mance were changes in land policy, insufficient incentives to farmers and
failures of imported high yielding paddy varieties (HYVs) which proved ill-
suited to local conditions. The Government, in response to these
developments, introduced a series of policy reforms beginning 1973/74, to
improve incentives to farmers and evolve HYVs suited to local conditions and
promote their use. These policies proved successful as demonstrated by value
added in agriculture and paddy production growing at average annual rates of
7.5% and 7.0 respectively between 1974/75 and 1984/85.
Expansion in Paddy Production
24.     The dramatic growth of Burmese agriculture since the mid-1970s has
been through a successful paddy intensification drive, under the Whole
Township Program (WTP), launched in 1975/76. This program combined improved
availability of inputs and a greatly expanded and strengthened extension
service with institutional support at the township level. The spread of HYVs
to cover 50% of the country's paddy area has been compared to the "Green
Revolution" occurring elsewhere in Asia. Local factors have contributed to
making the process unique, e.g. participation of the People's Council in
coordinating production and procurement, selectivity and concentration
through a campaign-type approach, mobilization of the community to provide
additional labor and the provision of consumer goods on a priority basis to
project areas to complement rising incomes. As a result, Burma has surpassed
the average yields of most developing countries and has reached about half
the yield levels achieved in Japan. Total paddy production jumped from 9.4 M
tons in 1977/78 to 14.4 M tons in 1984/85, an increase of over 50%.
New Priorities for Agricultural Development
25.     Agricultural diversification and upgrading of the quality of export
rice have emerged as priority objectives in the Government's Plan for
agricultural development as well as for the Bank's country assistance
strategy. The sharp decline in world market price for rice and resultant
decline in Government revenues have confronted Burma with the need to reas-
sess its rice production and marketing strategy in order to maintain export
values and increase revenues. The main elements of the strategy are (a) to
introduce segregated belts of paddy cultivation, specializing in homogeneous
seed varieties. These varieties have been locally improved and, while yields
are lower than HYVs, the rice quality is in high demand in the export market;
and (b) to improve milling grades to the level demanded in the international
trade. To promote export diversification, the Government is seeking to
increase production of selected non-rice crops in dry zones through multiple
cropping and diversion of marginal land on rice to other crops; and to inten-
sify cropping in the wetter, rice producing areas with short duration crops
followed by other crops. However, until such time as the experimental tech-
nology packages take root, institutional support is developed and financing
requirements are met through a comprehensive program, Burma is expected to
continue to rely heavily on rice. The rapid expansion of paddy production
and public sector procurement over the last decade have resulted in capacity
constraints in grain handling, storage, processing and distribution under-
taken by the Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation (AFPTC). In
order to address these constraints, the Government has sought support from



-7-
the People's Republic of China, the Government of Japan, the Asian
Development Bank and IDA (FY81 Grain Storage Project, Credit 1092-BA).
Principal Constraints
26.     The sharp decline in world market price for rice has confronted Burma
with the need to reassess its rice storage and processing with a view to
reducing inefficiencies and increasing export revenues. Burma experiences
several difficulties in supplying rice for export according to contract
standards. Value cuts are imposed by importers for Burmese rice failing to
meet specifications which affect over 40% of all rice exported, the greater
part of such cuts being due to poor milling and excess brokens. The
Government loses export revenue as a result of value cuts, improper grading
and also incurs extra expenditure on double handling and transport costs.
27.     The Government recognizes that, to enhance the value of rice exports
through improvement of grade and quality, it must address the constraints at
various stages in the grain handling process. Some of these constraints are
(a) lack of proper seed grading, poor grain uniformity and unpopular seed
varieties; (b) current paddy procurement practices; (c) farmer apathy to
properly dry and clean the paddy delivered, and paddy grading at procurement
centers; (d) shortage of permanent storage capacity to reduce storage losses;
(e) lack of proper rice grading and mixing facilities at point of export
shipment; (f) deficiencies in milling capacity available to AFPTC for milling
of export quality rice; and (g) need for institutional strengthening.
Constraints under (a) above are being addressed under IDA financed Seeds
Projects (Credit 745-BA and Credit 1616-BA).   The proposed project would
address others, the start having been made under Credit 1092-BA and support
from other donors.
28.     Paddy Price Policy.  Procurement prices for paddy are a part of the
_overnment's policy of country-wide price 3tabilization and may be changed
only with Cabinet approval. The last major change was in 1972/174 when the
price for all paddy was increased by about 150Z. It is not possible to say
what role price incentives played in the upsurge of paddy production because
the price change coincided with the introduction of the Whole Township
Program which improved the availability of inputs of all sorts, credit and
extension. Across-the-board increase in 1972/74 was followed by raising of
prices for higher grades in 1977/78 (4-7%) and in 1980/81 (2-12%). In
addition, there is a differential between varieties and, in 1980/81, a
premium (8.5%) was introduced for "Special Emata," a variety with strong
export demand. Until the substantial fall in international prices, the
general level of procurement prices had been about 50-70% of free market
prices but procurement targets were achieved by non-price measures which have
proven effective, and the Government has no plans to alter its paddy price
policy.
29.     Paddy Procurement Quality.  Although private paddy transactions are
still strictly regulated, state controls on the sale, purchase, and transport
of milled rice within townships were abolished in May 1973, thereby
legitimizing limited local free market trading in rice. In 1984/85, out of
the national production of 14.4 million tons, AFPTC procured 3.7 million tons
of paddy (about 26%). This procured paddy converts into about 2.4 million
tons of rice of which 0.6 million or 4Z of paddy production was exported and
1.8 million tons sold in deficit areas by AFPTC. The balance 74% of paddy



-8-
production was traded by farmers in free market at higher prices, consumed at
home, retained for seed or lost in storage. Because of the current practice
of procuring a set quota of paddy from each farmer and not a percentage of
the premium grade and quality paddy grown on each farm, AFPTC procured paddy
continues to have a relatively high foreign or immature grain content, a
factor contributing to discounts on export prices. To enhance the export
quality of rice with the 1984/85 harvest, the Government is changing its
procurement policy of set quotas, obtaining a larger proportion of premium
grade paddy from farmers growing such paddy and compensating farmers
appropriately.
30.     Paddy Grading.  AFPTC imposes price discounts on paddy delivered by
farmers failing to meet standards within individual grade specifications.
While paddy in excess of 182 moisture is rejected, paddy is accepted with
cuts of Kyats (K) 5 per 100 baskets for every 0.5% above the 15Z standard
established for moisture content. Since the reduction in price is less than
the costs (weight loss through drying and cleaning and handling costs) the
farmer would have to incur to meet the specified standard, farmers have
little incentive to properly dry and clean their paddy. In accordance with
Section 3.09 of Credit 1092-BA, AFPTC has recommended that current discounts
applying to moisture levels and impurities should be adjusted to enable AFPTC
to cover its current costs of drying and cleaning paddy, and that there
should be an upward adjustment of current prices to farmers delivering paddy
of acceptable quality. The Government has begun implementation of these
recoomenaations while fully cognizant of the practical difficulties faced by
farmers in properly drying and cleaning of paddy such as, shortage of on-farm
labor and storage, weather conditions, preparation for next crop, and need
for cash. The results of such implementation and the experience gained would
be furnished to the Association.
31.     Procurement Cycle.  In order to avoid qualitative and quantitative
on-farm losses, to assist farmers in post-harvest activities and to achieve
procurement targets as early as possible after harvest, AFPTC makes two-
thirds of annual paddy purchases within a six-week period, with 25Z accruing
over 10 to 15 days. Such procurement places obvious constraints on AFPTC's
operations, contributing to quality Losses and inefficient utilization of
facilities. Spreading out the peak in procurement would involve, inter alia,
farmers having to invest in temporary storage capacity. In fact, several
difficulties might be encountered in implementing a shift in procurement
timing, e.g., physical constraints of seasonal areas, weather conditions,
serious shortage of at-farm storage, and costs to be borne by farmers for
deferred deliveries. In order, therefore, to reduce pressure on procurement
staff, prevent acceptance of low quality paddy, allow for more careful grad-
ing procedures and less open piling, with more uniform movement of paddy into
covered storage, the Government would augment AFPTC's procurement capacity by
using the countrywide network of cooperatives to also procure and grade
paddy.
32.     Storage.  Burma has a net deficit of 500,000 tons of permanent
storage for paddy which is estimated to double by 1991/92. The estimated
storage deficit takes into account the completion of ongoing storage projects
totalling 300,000 tons financed by IDA, ADB and local funds. Quantitative
storage losses range from an estimated 0.5% per month in permanent storages
to 1.8% per month in temporary storage and 2.2Z in open storages.
Qualitative losses range from 0.45Z per month in permanent storages to 7% in



-9-
open pile. There is an urgent need to construct additional permanent storage
structures in order to reduce post harvest losses and quality deterioration
(see para. 42).
33.     Hilling.  The current national rice milling deficit is about 3.0M
tons or a fifth of paddy pt-oduction and such deficit is estimated to increase
substantially by 1991/92. On-going and planned mill construction projects
financed by external sources will add 28 new mills by end of 1986 but this is
expected to meet only a small percentage of this deficit. Private mills,
which account for over 90X of national mill capacity, are old and require
rehabilitation. About 1,000 private mills are on contract to AFPTC, of which
about 750 are steam fired. There is an urgent need for upgrading vital mill
machinery including replacement of boilers or electrification. In 1978, the
Government introduced a comprehensive mill rehabilitation program which was
later financed by ADB. However, the program registered mixed results and
needs further strengthening.
Implementation of Ongoing Project
34.     The IDA-financed Grain Storage Project (Credit 1092-BA), signed in
June 1981, was the first effort to reduce paddy storage losses, improve rice
transportation, and reduce paddy quality deterioration thereby helping to
reduce marketing costs, and increase rice export volume and prices. These
activities were regarded as first phase efforts to address the constraints
(except seeds quality) in para 27 and the project's emphasis on training and
technical assistance was to pave the way for an expanded program in the
future. Despite a slow start and initial problems related to delays in
procurement and shortages of domestic materials, mainly cement and timber,
grain storage construction has made good progress. The broader project
objectives as well as physical targets have largely been achieved. Important
lessons learnt are the need for very close coordination between government
agencies responsible for supply of inputs such as timber and cement and for
transport of goods to the project sites. Difficulties were also encountered
in moving equipment from Rangoon port to project sites. When such coordina-
tion was ensured through a coordinating committee, backed by adequate
monitoring, project implementation proceeded smoothly. Adequate provision is
made under the proposed project for such coordination. Credit 1092-BA will
close in September 1986, one year behind schedule. There have not been any
project performance audit reports of agricultural projects by the Bank's
Operation Evaluation Department.
Rationale fcr IDA Involvement
35.     The project provides the opportunity for IDA to: (i) continue its
assistance to the Government for strengthening AFPTC's operations, par-
ticularly those related to quality improvements for rice exports; and
(ii) extend much needed financial resources for upgrading private rice mills.
From a macro-economic point of view, the proposed project is consistent with
IDA's strategy to assist in improving the country's export performance and
domestic resource mobilization. In terms of institution building the project
would provide technical assistance to enhance AFPTC's project implementation
and planning capability, particularly as it relates to the organizational
framework needed for a long-term mill rehabilitation program.



-10-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.     The proposed project was prepared by consultants and appraised in
March 1984. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Burma Grain Storage and
Processing Project" (Report No. 5227-BA dated April 28, 1986) is being dis-
tributed separately to Executive Directors. A timetable of key events relat-
ing to the project and special conditions are given in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. from April 21-25, 1986.  The
Burmese delegation was led by H.E. U Khin Maung Gyi, Minister of Trade.
Project Objectives
37.     Given the planned reduced rate of growth in paddy production,
development objectives for the paddy/rice subsector are shifting towards
maximizing value added and export earnings by means of quality improvements.
A strategy addressing such objectives needs to consider two main elements:
(i) mitigating the constraints on public sector procurement and grain
handling operations caused by inadequate milling capacity and grain storage;
and (ii) encouraging millers to make investments which would lead to improve-
ments in grain quality. The project supports both of these strategies. On
the one hand, it would supplement ongoing efforts to increase and upgrade
AFPTC's own milling and storage capacities, enabling it to expand procurement
while reducing losses. On the other, the project would assist private
millers to invest in rehabilitation, thereby preventing milling capacity
losses and improving rice grade and quality.
38.     The objective of the project to increase rice export earnings would
be accomplished by upgrading export oriented grain handling infrastructure to
improve the quality and grade composition of milled rice, reducing losses
during storage and establishing the required institutional capability to
reduce the national milling deficit through construction of new and upgrading
of old private rice mills.
Project Description
39.     The project, expected to be implemented over 9 years, would comprise
(a) construction of six electrically powered rice mills, each with a capacity
of 33,000 tons per year (tpy) and associated storage (84,000 tons);
(b) construction of a rice grading and mixing plant in the Rangoon port area
with a capacity of 74,000 tpy; (c) rehabilitation of about 120 AFPTC con-
tracted rice mills with a total milling capacity of 580,000 tpy; and
(d) technical assistance and training to assist AFPTC in project
implementation.
The Project Area
40.     The project area would encompass the Irrawaddy, Rangoon and Pegu
Divisions, including the Irrawaddy Delta. The mill rehabilitation program
would be spread throughout this area. The new mill and paddy storage con-
struction would be concentrated in the Southern Irrawaddy Division where
current and projected milling deficits are among the highest in the country.
The project area is the major rice surplus area where paddy production in
1984/85 amounted to 8.8 M tons or about two thirds of national production.
Project area paddy procurement, which amounted to 2.8 K tons in 1984/85, or
77% of national paddy procurement, is expected to increase to 4.4 K tons in



-11-
1991/92. The project area has a population of 12.5 M or slightly more than
one third of Burma's population, and 880,000 farm families with an average
farm size of 4 ha.
New Mill Construction
41.     The construction of six rice mills would expand and modernize AFPTC's
ezport-oriented milling capacity and integrate such capacity with new paddy
storage facilities in areas growing a high proportion of export quality
paddy. The new mills with an annual processing capacity of 198,000 tons
would represent about 70Z of AFPTC's estimated milling deficits in the
project area. Given the plans for power grid extensions by 1987/88, all six
mills will be electric powered. The choice of the proposed mill capacity of
33,000 tpy was determined by the milling deficits in the project area and
considerations of economies of scale. The largest of AFPTC's existing mills
in operation in Burma today are around 22,000 tpy. However, larger mills
with capacities up to 55,000 tpy are under construction. By the time the
project mills come on stream, AFPTC would have accumulated several years of
experience in operating large modern rice mills of similar design. The mills
with adjacent rice storage would be integrated with partly mechanized paddy
storage in rice milling-cum-storage complex capable of handling an annual
paddy throughput of 33,000 tons following the model established under earlier
projects financed by IDA, ADB and Japan. The new mills would be located at
Maulmeingyun, Pyapon, Thegon, Prome, Labutta and Paung.
Grading and Mixing Plant and Storage
42.    The proposed rice grading/mixing plant located in Rangoon port area,
with an annual capacity of 74,000 tons and designed with three processing
lines, would provide AFPTC with a substantially enhanced capability to
regrade and mix milled rice stored at the export terminal awaiting shipment.
The plant is designed to recondition and reclean rice stored over longer
periods. The plant would serve to reduce rejections and value cuts at point
of shipment hitherto caused by failure to meet specifications. More
importantly, it would allow AFPTC greater flexibility in marketing the
country's export surplus and thereby increase export revenues. The proposed
paddy storage facilities would meet the requirements of the six new mills and
include godowns at the field procurement depots. At four of the project
mills, 11,100 tons of storage would be provided comprising a mechanized,
prefabricated steel store with a capacity of 3,600 tons and three timber
godowns of 2,500 tons each. The remaining two mills would have only three
timber godowns of the same design; ten more of them would be built at key
procurement depots throughout the project area.
Rehabilitation of AFPTC Contracted Mills
43.     To upgrade AFPTC contracted milling capacity for export rice, the
project provides for: (a) assistance to mill owners for identifying
rehabilitation needs, planning suitable rehabilitation packages, and install-
ing materials and equipment; (b) import of rice milling and ancillary
equipment; and (c) long-term credit facilities to mill owners for financing
rehabilitation. The project would help strengthen AFPTC's administrative and
technical capability to identify, appraise and supervise individual mill
rehabilitation subprojects. The general considerations for selecting mills
for rehabilitation would be that such mills: (i) be licensed for milling on



-12-
contract with AFPTC and the owner willing to rehabilitate and remain in
milling industry; (ii) have the potential for processing export quality rice
with a milling capacity of not less than 35 tons per day; (iii) be located
in areas growing a high proportion of export paddy varieties; and (iv) be
free of legal encumberances and be operated by authorized persons.
44.     AFPTC contracted mills are allotted a milling quota by AFPTC for
about 26Z of paddy production it procures for exports and local sales and for
which the millers receive a fee which averages K 36.40 per 100 baskets.
These mills also custom mill for farmers and traders for which they charge a
much higher milling fee averaging K 70.00 per 100 baskets. The profitability
of these mills depends on the volume of custom milling, because if they
milled entirely for AFPTC the return would barely cover running costs. It is
estimated that these mills would require at least 35 days of custom milling
in order to generate sufficient income to cover running costs, depreciation
and a return. The actual number of days of custom milling done by millers is
much higher. Nevertheless, because of the variation between mills in custom
milling, it may be necessary to ensure that millers have sufficient incentive
to rehabilitate their mills. Such incentives could take the form of price or
non-price incentives, the latter are expected to include adequate AFPTC
milling quota and opportunity for custom milling, special bonus for
performance, advance interest-free payment of estimated annual milling fees,
interest-free seasonal loans to finance working capital needs, payments for
storage, partial recession of heavy import duties and taxes on rehabilitation
equipment and designation of participating mills as 'program mills' to
qualify for priority allocation of spare parts, fuel, transport, consumer
goods, etc. AFPTC undertook a survey of 240 mill owners to determine their
willingness to undertake rehabilitation, their need for loan funds, repayment
capacity etc. The survey has established that there is genuine interest on
the part of 143 millers to undertake rehabilitation. In view of this, while
it may not be necessary for AFPTC to provide additional incentives, in order
to maintain the interest shown by millers AFPTC would need to be responsive
to their special needs.
45.     A schedule for the mill rehabilitation program covering 120 mills,
with a combined capacity of about 5,300 tons per day, would be prepared and
progress reviewed annually with IDA. While progress may be slow in the
beginning, it is expected that loan processing and approval for at least 15
mills would be completed in the first year after credit effectiveness.
Nevertheless, if such progress was not made, the Government and IDA would
review the reasons for such lack of response and agree on further measures
which may be necessary to enthuse private millers to undertake
rehabilitation. In another concurrent survey, rehabilitation needs, equip-
ment and materials, on an individual mill basis, have been identified for 80
contracted mills. About 100 mills are yet to be surveyed. The result of
this survey would be furnished to IDA by December 31, 1986.
46.     AFPTC would finance individual rehabilitation subprojects, appraise
and administer such loans to participating mill owners, and would enter into
agreement with the millers to cover project financing, i.e., loan term,
including repayment conditions, collateral, etc. These functions are not new
to AFPTC. Under is rehabilitation program, AFPTC has provided short- to
long-term financing to mill owners and currently maintains accounts for over
900 mills.  Myanma Economic Bank (MEB) would provide the necessary banking
facilities to (a) maintain individual mill accounts under an overall AFPTC



-13-
account; (b) advance local funds loans to AFPTC in the individual mill
accounts; and (c) collect repayment due on behalf of AFPTC. This arrangement
is satisfactory as MEB's branches spread countrywide would be easily acces-
sible to mill owners.
47.     The relationship between AFPTC and participating mill owners would be
governed by an agreement specifying the following undertakings:
(a) implementation of rehabilitation works including preparation of
specifications of equipment, engineering design and drawings, supply of
necessary equipment and materials at mill sites, installation of equipment.
power supply and distribution system; (b) minimum quantities of paddy to be
supplied by AFPTC to rehabilitated mills over the duration of the agreement
over and above provisions under current contracts; (c) quality milling stand-
ard to be met; (d) milling charges to be paid for each grade of rice and
variety of paddy milled; (e) loan administration; and (f) penalties to be
imposed in the event of noncompliance by either party, covering matters such
as faulty design or inadequate performance of machinery/equipment supplied
and installed by AFPTC, failure by AFPTC to deliver minimum amount of paddy,
failure by miller to meet milling standards or rice grades. A draft standard
agreement, acceptable to IDA, between AFPTC and the millers would be final-
ized by October 31, 1986.
Technical Assistance and Training
48.     There would be 87 man-months of internationally recruited consultants
financed by UNDP to assist AFPTC in implementing rice mill and paddy storage,
post-harvest technology and the mill rehabilitation components. Under the
mill rehabilitation component a milling engineering specialist and a finan-
cial specialist with extensive experience in planning and implementation of
mill rehabilitation programs would assist AFPTC in: (i) training staff for
the mill rehabilitation program; (ii) guiding and supervising program
implementation; and (iii) procuring milling equipment. Consultants would
also (a) assess the effectiveness of the organizational and institutional
framework established for mill rehabilitation and recommend an action plan
for continuing the rehabilitation program after completion of the project;
and (b) undertake an annual review to ensure that millers are participating
and recomend measures, if necessary, to achieve targets set.
49.     The project provides for (a) a feasibility study with the aim to
prepare a viable proposal for establishing a local capability of manufactur-
ing milling equipment inclutding boilers for motive power; and (b) an export
marketing study which would serve to develop innovative marketing and financ-
ing arrangements which are necessary to secure a better foothold in the
international rice market. Terms of reference for these studies would be
agreed with IDA by March 31, 1987. Overseas training would be provided to 20
officers for about 3 months each in the management and operation of paddy
procurement and storage centers. Suppliers' representatives would give short
in-service training at the new mill sites in handling operations, aeration
and milling equipment. Local training would also be provided to task force
teams established under mill rehabilitation. The technical assistance and
training component would be financed by UNDP under an agreement signed
between the Government and UNDP. Terms of Reference for consultants would be
agreed and the Government would appoint consultants for mills construction,
storage and mill rehabilitation components by December 31, 1986.



-14-
Organization and Implementation
S.     AFPTC would have the principal responsibility for project
implementation. AFPTC is a State Economic Enterprise headed by a Managing
Director under a Board of Management. Out of about 2.5 million tons of rice
converted from paddy it procures from farmers, AFPTC exports about 1/3rd and
sells 2/3rd on regulated prices in deficit areas.  With weakening export
prices and high government tax on export earnings, AFPTC's financial position
continues to be weak and since 1984/85, with depressed world grain prices,
has suffered a net loss on its overall operations. The proposed project is
an extension of recent or ongoing investment programs being implemented by
AFPTC. Planning, procurement, construction and operation of proposed new
mills and storage facilities would benefit from experience accumulated by
AFPTC and the Construction Corporation over the last ten years.
Project Implementation Unit
51.     A Project Implementation Unit (PIU), headed by a Project Director,
would be established and organized in four main sections: Storage and Kill
Construction, Programming, Mill Rehabilitation and Monitoring and Evaluation.
The establishment of PIU, including the appointment of a suitably qualified
Project Director, acceptable to IDA, would be made in time for Credit
effectiveness. AFPTC would appoint suitably qualified Section Heads for PIU
by December 31, 1986.
52.     The Storage and Mill Construction Section, with assistance of con-
sultants for structural engineering, milling engineering and
mechanical/electric engineering, would implement the construction of storage,
mills and grading/mixing plant, including contracting with CC for the con-
struction of project works, and installation of machinery and equipment. The
Programming Section would be responsible for project budgeting, administra-
tive aspects of procurement, storage and transport of machinery and
equipment.
53.    The Mill Rehabilitation Unit, with a Rehabilitation Task Force (RTF),
would be responsible for implementing all aspects of the mill rehabilitation
program with the assistance of the milling engineering and financial
consultants. It would consist of an Engineering Cell, a Financial Control
Cell and a Field Cell containing three rehabilitation teams. Key RTF person-
nel would be recruited as required. RTF's work program and program of train-
ing of staff would be forwarded to IDA by May 31, 1987.
54.    Monitoring and Evaluation. The Monitoring Section (MS) would estab-
lish a program for monitoring (a) construction of project works, including
the on-site availability of construction materials such as cement, timber and
steel; (b) mill rehabilitation program and evaluate the technical and finan-
cial performance of mills before and after rehabilitation and make recommen-
dations for improved project performance. MS would report regularly to the
Project Director, the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) (para 56) and IDA
on progress and constraints in project implementation, and recommend
appropriate action to overcome such constraints.



-15-.
Implementation - Other Agencies
55.     The Construction Corporation (CC) would prepare detailed design for
substructures of prefabricated steel godowns and buildings for rice mills and
the grading and mixing plants, and under contract with AFPTC carry out the
construction of these facilities. CC is executing similar works under ongo-
ing rice mill and grain storage construction projects and has the requisite
technical and managerial skills. The Covernment would ensure that the Timber
Corporation (TC) would supply about 8000 tons of sawn timber to meet the
projected schedule for storage construction and Electric Power Corporation
(EPC) would provide the projects power needs in time. Appropriate arrange-
ments in this regard would be made between AFPTC, CC, TC, EPC as well as with
MEB for banking facilities for mill rehabilitation.
Project Coordination
56.     The Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would be established, under
terms acceptable to IDA to ensure proper coordination and implementation of
the project. PCC would be headed by the Deputy Minister of Trade and include
as members representatives from the Ministries of Planning and Finance and
Agriculture and Forests, CC, TC, EPC and other concerned Government agencies.
Cost Estimates
57.    The project costs, including physical and price contingencies and
taxes and duties (US$14.9 million) are estimated at US$79.9 million, of which
US$30.2 million would be foreign exchange. Physical contingencies for civil
works and equipment are estimated at 10%. Price contingencies for local
costs are based on inflation rates of 9Z in 1986 and 8Z thereafter. For
imported items, an annual international price trend of 7.1Z in 1986, 6.8Z
in 1987, 6.8% in 1988, 7.0% in 1989 and 6.6Z thereafter has been applied.
Total price contingencies amount to 33X of base costs plus physical
contingencies.
58.     The proposed IDA Credit of US$30.0 million would finance foreign
exchange costs, excluding technical assistance and training, and US$8.3
million representing 23% of local costs, excluding duties and taxes. The
financing ratio would be about 37.5Z of project costs net of duties and
taxes. The Swiss contribution of Swiss Francs 10 million would finance
foreign cost of the equipment under the public sector component of the
project. UNDP would contribute US$2.1 million for technical assistance and
training. Balance of local costs including duties and taxes would be
financed by the Government. Equity contributions by mill owners to the tune
of 10% of rehabilitation costs would amount to US$2.3 million.
59.     Under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and AFPTC,
the IDA Credit would be relent to AFPTC for a period of 20 years with five
years of grace and interest at 8.5% per annum. These terms are considered
appropriate in view of the timing of project revenues and reflect current
international rates on financing of government corporations in Burma. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risks. For the mill rehabilita-
tion component, US$20.8 million equivalent would be relent by AFPTC to the
private millers in the form of rehabilitation equipment and local funds for
civil works and erection. The standard agreement between AFPTC and millers
would provide a loan term not exceeding 16 years, with one year's grace and



-16-
interest at 10.5Z per annum to finance up to 90Z of the mill rehabilitation
costs.
Procurement
60.     ICB, in accordance with IDA guidelines, would be used to procure
milling, mechanical handling, aeration and precleaning equipment, prefabri-
cated steel buildings and other imported items. Equipment for mill
rehabilitation would, following initial mill surveys, be grouped in suitable
bidding packages with one contract for each package. All ICB procurement for
equipment and imported construction materials estimated to cost US$100,000 or
more would be subject to IDA's prior review. Items not costing more than
US$10,000 could be purchased by local procedures which are acceptable to the
Association.
61.    -Civil works and erection financed under the project costing US$49.3
million includes US$34.2 million for construction of AFPTC's mills and
storage buildings and US$15.1 million for works and erection to be undertaken
under the mill rehabilitation program. Construction work for AFPTC's mill
and storage buildings would not be suitable for international competitive
bidding. CC is the only agency with sufficient construction experience in
the project area. The work would therefore be carried out by CC under con-
tractual arrangements similar to those under the ongoing IDA Grain Storage
Project. This work would include the procurement of about 8,000 tons of
local timber from TC at an estimated cost of US$5.2 million.



-17-
62.     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Methods /a
Local
Project Element (Being Revised)           ICB   Contract /b Other   N.A. /c  Total
--------US$ M- ---
A. AFPTC New Mills, Storage and
Mixing Plants:
(i) Civil Works                         -    28.0          6.2     -        34.2
-    (3.6)          -      -        (3.6)
(ii) Machinery, Equipment and          17.7    -            -      -        17.7
Imported Construction
Materials /d                     (12.2)   -            -      -       (12.2)
B. Mill Rehabilitation
(i) Kachinery, Equipment and            9.0    -            -      -         9.0
Imported Material                  (9.0)   -            -      -        (9.0)
(ii) Civil Works, Goods and Material   -        -          15.1     -        15.1
_      _          (5.1)    -        (5.1)
C. Technical Assistance and                -      -           2.1    0.2        2.3
Training
D. Project Implementation and.
Incremental Operating Costs            -      -            -     1.6        1.6
Total                                  26.7  28.0         23.4    1.8       79.9
(21.2) (3.6)        (5.1)    -       (30.0)
/a  Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
7b Force account or contract with Government Corporations.
7i Procurement procedures not applicable.
7T Swiss contribution of Swiss Francs 10 million for this item.
Disbursements
63.     Disbursements from the IDA Credit would be made at:
(a) 11% against local expenditures for civil works, including locally
procured timber, pertaining to AFPTC new mills, paddy storage and
rice grading/mixing plant including site development, buildings and
power supply;
(b) 100X against foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
vehicles and construction materials; and
(c) 100% of directly imported equipment and 40X of local expenditures
against the private mill rehabilitation.



-18-
Disbursements on civil works carried out by AFPTC, CC, TC and EPC own work
force (force account) and for small civil works and supply contracts costing
less than US$10,000 equivalent each would be made against statements of
expenditures with the documentation retained by AFPTC and made avaiLable for
IDA review on request. Disbursements under all contracts costing the equiv-
alent of US$10,000 or more would be fully documented.
Benefits and Justification
64.     At full project development Burma would earn about US$60 million
equivalent per year in incremental foreign exchange, resulting from both an
increase in export volume and improvement in rice quality. This represents a
16Z increase over the rice export earnings projected in the absence of the
project. The Government would derive higher revenue in the form of incremen-
tal contributions to the Export Price Equalization Fund, state contribution
(income tax) and turn over taxes paid and income taxes from private millers.
The combined annual total of these incremental contributions is estimated at
about US$20 million equivalent.
65.     The principal economic benefits of the project would stem from:
{i) increases in the volume of paddy milled in AFPTC operations through added
and improved utilization of capacity; (ii) improved quality and grade of rice
milled and exported; and (iii) reduced paddy storage losses. The incremental
annual paddy throughput in the AFPTC operations at full development,
estimated at 191,000 tons with higher recovery of head rice is projected to
generate US$8.7 million equivalent incremental economic benefits.
66.     Another source of benefit results from rehabilitated mills being able
to turn from milling of low grade rice to higher grade rice for exports. The
economic value of paddy would rise as projected gains in export price would
outweigh expected losses in rice recovery. The total annual incremental
economic benefits from rice grade improvements is estimated at US$12.0 mil-
lion equivalent.
67.     Improvements in the quality and grade of rice exported would also be
achieved through the use of the rice grading and mixing plant to take
advantage of changing market circumstances thus significantly enhancing
export values. At the projected throughput (74,000 tons) incremental
economic benefits from this operation would be US$2.5 million equivalent per
year. These benefits would be additional to those generated by investments
in new and rehabilitated mills.
68.     The third major source of economic benefits would be reduced paddy
storage losses. The annual value of storage loss reductions at full develop-
ment are projected at US$3.6 million equivalent of which about two thirds
would be attributable to reduced qualitative losses and one third to quan-
titative losses.
69.     The project has an ERR of 49%.  Switching value analysis shows,
however, ERRs for investments in individual project components to be rela-
tively insensitive to changes in benefits, costs and start-up delays. As the
bulk of the incremental economic benefits are generated by an upgrading in
the quality of export rice, the benefits are not overly sensitive to a change
in the overall export price level. The price differential between grades are



-19-
assumed to retain the same proportionate spreads, irrespective of the overall
level of export prices. A recovery in international rice prices slower than
projected would, therefore, not jeopardize the economic viability of project
investments or pose a serious economic project risk.
Project Risks
70.     The proposed project would have no adverse environmental effect.
However, the following aspects of project implementation and operation would
receive special attention:
(a) Construction of rice mills, grading and mixing plant and mixing plant
and storages could be delayed due to the lack of construction
material, particularly cement and timber. The government has assured
adequate and timely supplies;
(b) There is a limited number of trained staff to operate and maintain
the rice mills and grading and mixing plant. Necessary technical
assistance and training has been provided under this project, which
would help ensure the proper operation and maintenance of plant and
equipment; and
(c) AFPTC has surveyed contracted mill owners and ascertained their
willingness to rehabilitate their aging mills. If later the millers'
response is not satisfactory, AFPTC would need to introduce addi-
tional measures to encourage them to rehabiliate.
PART V- BECOMKENDATION
71.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recomend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 7, 1986



-20-                                   ANX I
Pae 1 of 6
TAB LB I
M                     -SOCIAL IIDtCATO  DATAS
MR"s                                umnuuucu noun cuzzcam AVEBMEBS) la
IOST                    Cuss  macw  RETDIATi a
m t           IIIICINS,          LOW 1165            MDCLI 1160
usnsu97tbtk      ASIA   sACmC         ABUA & PACIFIC
JA CoTsD sQ. no
TOTAL                             676.6      676.6      676.6
ACltCULURAL                       106.0      1OB.O       10o*
W  Po CAT  (u)   .                     ..         ..       180.0             278.3                   1011.1
_m    OMMNm  Cw=A
CKILOcANS OF OIL EQUIVALENT        41.0       50.0       59.0              285.7                   56.6
POPULAnION.I,-IZAI CtOOSANDS)  21780.0    27137.0    35492.0
URBA  POPLATION CZ OP TOTAL)       19.3       224.       21.9               22.3                    35.9
POPULATIO  PDJECIOIS
POPLATION IS TA 2000 CHILL)                            53.0
STsIfONA   POPULATION CHILL)                           115.0
POPULATIO  HEIrUII                                       1.9
POPULATIoN DENSIT
PER Sq. Km.                      32.2       *0.1       52.5              173.8                   386.9
PE SQ. 3I. ACRt. LAND           209.4      251.2       333.2             353.3                  1591.2
POPULATION A     STUCTURE (Z)
0-14 TtES                       38.2       *0.3       41.2               36.3                    38.2
15-64 2fS                        59.1       56.3       56.9              59.4                     57.7
65 AND ABO                        2.6        3.3        3.7                4.3                     3.5
POPULATIOII COWT RATE (S)
TOTAL                             1.9        2.2         2.1               2.0                     2.3
URaAN                             3.7        3.9         3.9               6.1                     *.1
CRIIDE 5RS  RA7 (PE  T30S)         42.9       40.1       37.6               27.5                    30.1
CRUMD  CAZR RATE (PER SilWS)       21.0       16.8        IZ.5              10.2                     9.4
GROSS IRPoUCTOIO  BAZE              2.8        2.1        2.6             - 1.7                      1.9
FAHILY PLA LJC
ATOS. A           Cl US)
USERS   0! OF MADRCD WHE)                     .5.0 /IC                     9.4                    56.5
POWD AM mwno
IUDE OF FOOD P. P  CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     100.0      101.0      111.0              115.6                   124.6
MrR CAPITA SUPPLY OFP
CALORIES Ct Or REQUIXEUUITS)     66.0       96.0       122.0             106.3                   115.7
PROTEI15 CCRAIS PER DAY)         47.0       56.0       73.0               60.1                     .. .3
OF WHICH AMAL AND PULSE         11.0       12.0        12.0 /d           14.4                    14.1
cHIL (ACES 1-4) DEATO RATE          3.8       18.2        11.0               7.3                     7.2
HEfALS
LIFE EXPCC. AT SIR  (TEARS)        43.8       48.8       56.9              60.5                     60.6
INFANt 0R1r. RATE (PER TmOS)      ISI.O      128.0       93.0              69.2                     64.9
ACCZSS TO SAFE vAu ClS)
TOTAL                             ..        18.0       21.0 /c           ".2                      46.0
URJ3M                             ..        35.0       38.0 7            77.2                     57.6
RUIAL                             ..        13.0        L5.0 7;g         36.6                     37.1
ACCESS To EwRrA DISPOSAL
SZ or POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        35.0       21.0 Ic             7.8                    50.1
URBAN                            5..         5.0       38.0 7            28.8                     52.9
RL                                ..        32.0        ts.0 7            5.5                     44.7
POPULATION PER PEYSICIN         15560.0    6830.0      4680.0 /a          3318.0                  7751.7
POP. PER NURSIS PERSON           6520.0 If  7410.0     4170.0 We         4690.7                   2464.8
POP. PER IOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1520.0     1180.0      1100.0 /d         1039.2                  1112.1
URB                             330.0 /f   350.0       370.0 7i          299.1                   651.4
RURAL                             ''     15300.0     7160.0 77         602B.2                   2596.9
ADHISSIONS PE IHSPL IED             ..        36.0        ..               52.3                     41.1
AVERAGE SIZE Of HOUSEOWLD
TOTAL                             4.6        ..
mm        ~..                        ..         .                  ..
RtAL.                                  .
AVERSE NO. OF PERSONS/BOON
TOTAL                             ..         ..
DRBAN                                                 ..                ..
RURAL                             ..         ..
PERCIrTACE OF PCULIIS WIM ELECr.
TOrAL                             ..         ..
RM                                ..         ..
RURAL                             ..         ..



ANNEX I
1Pge 2 of 6
T ^ * L    in A^
anes Mg          -( cmu vms) 
on                          MT UCNS UTUMM b
iwab        1970iL                    ASIA a PACIFIC         ASrA 6 PACIFIC
A33031 lKOLUOllT RATOI
IRWMYJ   OTAL                      56.0          7.0 o.                        92.6                      100.7
A-                      61.0        92.0         67.0              103.5                      104.4
13MLE                   52.0        83.0         61.0               79.3                       97.2
SCOIDIDT  IOTAL                     10.0        21.0        200a                31.3                      47.3
MALit                   13.0        26.0        22.0                40.8                       50.6
MNALK                    7.0         17.0   U     8.0               21.9                       44.3
VOCATIONAL CX 01 UCCOND )             0.5          0.8         1.4 1              3.2                       18.4
PUIZL-UACHER RATO
PRIMARY                            42.0         47.0        4J-0 /              38.0                      30.4
ECOIWAIT                           40.0         32.0        31.0                17.4                      22.2
P1S*JC.K CARS/TWOUSAN PC1             0.8          1.1         1.2 ZI             0.9                       10-1
RADIO RaCKIVERS/70UUAMD P0?           5.3         14.7        23.1               129.J                     172.9
TV RaCIcrzlahtIOUSA1D 0                ..          ..          0-1                19.S                      58.5
mVWAIE  (1"DAIL  c18
)DW) CIROULATIO
P1   T11OSAD POSULATION              11.3        15.3        14.4                25.7                      65.3
CRIONI  FNIDAL AIY1DANC/CAPTTA       6.0  b       7.8 j       ..                 6.0                        3.
TOTAL LUBOR FORC  (M30WS)          10404.0     11635.0     14066.0
FINALZ CPIRCIT)                    40.1         36.9        35.4                33.2                      33.6
AMRICULZUU (PERCEN1)                ..         69.9        67.1               69.6                       52.2
*INUSrSY  CRIcENT)                  ..           6.0         9.8                15.8                      17.9
1*UICISDCIIO  RATE Z(RCENT)
TOTAL                              47.8         42.9        39.1                41.9                      38.9
MLEC                              J58.0         54.7        51.3                53.6                      50.8
pIanAL                             37.8         31.3        28.1               29.1                       26.8
EcoONInC DEPIN T RT  IO              0.9          1.0         1.1                 1.0                       1.1
PCINT OF PRIVATE INCON
RECKEIVEr 
NIGECST 5SO0 00SSEWLD8              14.6 /1      ..          ..
HICUST    20S0O 0  USoUMl          44.7 fl      40.0 /       .                   ..                       48.O
LO5913 200 Or  D86.S   /            6. *.0 1                  :                  ..                        6.4
LOWST 401 OF EOJSBODM               16.5        21.0         ..                  ..                       15.5
LEVEL CU JSC=  7CVZTI CATITCA
1Nm                                  ..          ..         94.0 /d           133.9
RomL                                 ..          ..         6S.0 7            111.6                      151.9
ESTIrUtED 3 LATIVE PCVERTY
LEVEL CUBS Psi CAPA
Uvisa                                ..          ..         50.0 /d              ..                      177.9
lDRAL                                ..          ..         36.0 r             61.7                      164.7
Z8T(ATDO OP. 3ZLOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY DICO LEVEL CZ)
UmBA                                ..           ..         40.0               43.8                       23.5
mmRAL                                ..          ..         40.0               51.7                       37.8
NoT AVAILABL
NOT AIPLICABLZ
N OTS T  
/a   The Sru  averaw e for each indicator are populaton-welghted *rltbmottc umne.  Coerag  of countrils
*moug the indicator. depend. on ava$lability of data  nd I not unifor .
lb   unless otherlme noted, 'Data for 1960" refer to eny yer between 1959 sed 1961; "Data for 1970" betwen
1969 ad 1971; end data for "Noet Recent S tlmte" betwee  1981 and 1983.
e   196W0; /d 1977; /a 1979;  /f 1962;   L 1978;  Lh 1964;  11 1972; iJ  195e. Rangoon only.
JN. 1985



ANNEX I
-22-                                         r WTof 6
DEKFlmMONS OF SOCAL INDICATORS
Noete Although the dam amre dmnwfrom sou    gnweryjudpd the mou authoritaidve and reliable it should also be Doted tha they may not be inuemmtionally
compasmbe bemuwe i the lac ek standardized deinitions and conepts used by dilerent countriua in colkecting the data. The data ame nonehels usefl Io
ducribe ordems of msWnlude indiate trend, and dbuwteuir certan major differenea betwen eou sme.
The reference groups are i I I them coumry group of the subject country and 12) a county group with somewhat higher ave*ge inome than the country
group o the subject ountry (eacep ror High lncome Oil Expote -r pou where -Middle Income North Africa and Middle Ea"' is choben because otstronger
u clocuhura Anititil. In the rerence group data the average are population weighted arithmetic mean tar each indicator and hown only when mtjoriiy
or the counies in a smup has dat for thst indkaor. Sie the coverage ofcountres mong the dindtoriwdepndapn othe aailabiUty ordata and is not unetorm.
caudon muot be exemied in relating avera   aofne indiator to another. These averags are only useful in compring the value ofo ne indicator at a time among
the countqy and refrence groups
AREA (thousand sq.kmn.)                                          Crude Abt Rare (per rusand)-Nurumber of live births in the year
Tree-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of naid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                        CGude Deh Rate (per thr-aud)-Numnber of deaths in the year
_gEstimurel.-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pennanently for crops. pastures market and kitchen garde ns or to  Grx Repodcre RAwe-Average number of daughters a woman
ie falow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her nornal reproductive period if she experiences
present ap-pecific ferility mtes usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960.1970. and 1983.
market pries. calculated by sme conversion method as World       Fany Planng-Accepors, Anna (rousaodsj-Annual on-
Bank Ad  (1981-83 basis). 1983 data.                             ber of acceptors ofbirch-control devices under auspices ot national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite, .      m* PhmiV-lJss (pece  of markied   men)-The percen-
petroleum. natural ps and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are prActicing or
tcity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                       of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although ror
some countries contraceptivc usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groups.
Tota- P1p93atia. Mid-Year (thaudJ-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.      FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Urban Pbpuation (perent of tol)-Ratio of urban to wtal            ndx ofFood Prowduto Per Capita (1969-71 - 109)-Index of per
dier_npt definitionsJ of urban areas may afecto ompar-  capita annual production of all food commodities Production
populaton; differcnt definitions of urban arem may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.      incude primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugpr
P.pulton Aoectiom                                                which are edible and contain nutrients te.g. coffee and tea are
Population an year 2000-The projection of population for 2000,    xcluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil sxeds.
made for each economny separatdy. Starting with information on   vegetables fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 198I. thcse p  _        on national avcrage producer price weights. 1961-65. 1979. aDd
were projected at fivc-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.              Per Capta Siup efCalries (percen ofrequirm          ptsj-Comput-
Stationary populautiols one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from caloric equivalent of net food supplies availabic in countrv
tauity rates have not changed ovcr a long period. whilc agespeusfc  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fility rates have simultaneously remained at replaenment levd    tion. imports less exports and changes in stock. Net supplies
(tet reproduction rate - 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constnt and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also   food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constnt. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
sizc was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  agc and sex distribution ofpopulation. and allowing In percent for
rate to replacement level.                                       waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Poppla:ion fomentuen-ls the tendency for population growth to    Per Caia Sl -y of Proerin (grants per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the tine that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Rcquirements for all countries established b6 USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimatc stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year z. given the assumption that fertility remainc at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 gramns of animal protein as an
Pbpation D raty                                                  avcrage for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total ara; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita Prtein Supply Foro  Aninma and Puse-Protein suppl)
Per sqkm. agrnsdural land-Computed as above for agricultural     of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Popuatieu Age Structure (Percenti-Children (0-14 years). work-   CiW (ages 1-4) Death Rare (per thsusnd),Number ofdeaths of
ing age (I5-64 years). and retired (65 years and overj as perCentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Pepulatiom Growth Rate (percent)-trotul---Annual growth races of  from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970483.     HEALTH
Populatien  Growth Raw (percent -urban-Annual growth rates       Life Expectany at irth (yearsj-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. !Lnd 19703 data.       infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortalit% for all people



-23-                                        ANNEX I
-23-                                        % g a         ' - 
rage 4 of 6
at thw d    of of its birth wre to say the me trougout its lif;  Pqpf-wache Ratio - prbmary, ed scondry-Total studat en-w
1960, 1970 and 1913 datL                                      rolled In pdinuy an   econday lves divided by numbers of
hom1Marta    Am (Jpr tahouadj-Number of inats who die  tach  In the correponding evel.
bertoe reacing o  yar of ag per thouand live births in a given
yar; 1960, 1970 and 1913 dM                                    COdM ION
Ace  to SO* War  (PA Wm  );f                   Wh i d            ozieqerC   (PM Cmead pbr-aI-Passenger can com-
tail-Number or people (to   ura  ind rural) with reuonale     prim motor can rsting ies than eiht persons: excludes ambul-
accers to saef water su*y (Inclutatd surfc  watn or           ances, hearses and militay vehics.
untuted but untaUIat1d w_aYter stuch a that fIm Prctod        Rloa  Recees (ipr thouadpap6hidl).-AIl tye  of receiver
bordeho, spns snd saitauy wls) u peruaiges otfdeir mrpee-     for rdio boadcats to geneal public per thousand of population;
tive popultions In an urban ar  a pubic fountai or stadpost   ecuds ucensed recver in countes and in year when
ocated not more hn 200 mee  from a houe may be conered        registation of rdio uts was in efect; dat for recent yeas may
as beng vida reasonable aom  of that hOU#e. In mral ar        not be compamble since most counties abolished licensing.
r.asonabe access would imply that the houseife or members of the
household do no hae to spend a diproportionate part or the Aay  to geralp  per thoussn     po n;e            or broul cst
in fewling the Aisaily's wate needs                           to BP"   u&  e tbousnt populcion; exclude unlicensd TV
f o Echinkghefami Dls    wd waerrece veo)                 I     rsc in countries  and in year when reistrtion of TV se was
Acces to EawsaDispoal (ercen of p   ats-wal,aim, in effect
ad rurd--Number of people (total, urban, and rural) seved by  in efic
ectreln disposl a peretgs of their respective populations.         po   C          (pr hsp fb           -ws the aver-
Exacret diposl my include the collecion and disposal, with or  age ciculitaon of deily genral intee  newspapar." ddined as a
without treatment, of human ecr:ea and waste-water by water-  peoc  pubition devoted primariy to recording  eneal news.
borne sytm  or the use of pit prii an similar installtions.   k     ts condred to be 'daily" if it appes at let four times a week.
Popultl pe Phyuidw-IPbpu1uion divided by number of prac-      Chow   Amwl Auteauhnce per Capit per Yedr-uased on the
tisingphyscias quaified from amedical hool at university level,  number of tickts sold during the year. includinl admissions to
A_platio per Nasla P1 4c-opulation divided by number of       drive-in cnanea and mobile units
practicing mae and female graduate nurses, asisnt nurses,     LUOR FORCE
practical nurses and nuring auxiliaries.
Poputon peMrHoital Red-ta,  rin, and 0     rrbpulation        Tot La   Force (thouandsj-Economically active persons, in-
(total, ub    and rDual) divided by tbeir respective number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in pubLic and prvate, geeal and dspahd  students. etc.. covering population of mil ages Definitions in
hosptal and rebilitation cente. Hospits are estxablment       various counties are not comparble; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
permaently staffed by at least one physcian Establishments pM-  Fak (perauj-Feaniale labor force as percentage of total labor
king prncipaly custodial cre ame not induded. Runt' hospitals  force.
however inude health and medical centers not prmnendy sffed   Agktuw (percexQ-Labor force in fanng. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurs  nidwUife etc)  and fishing as perentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
Whih offer in-patient accomnodato and provide a lImited range  data.
Of nmdical facites                                            fAwd      (percentj-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Adadga ionsper Hospital Aed-Total number of admissions to or  facturing and electricity. water and ps as percentage of total labor
dischargesfrom hospitals divided by the number of beds. .     force; 1960,1970 and 1980 data
tip icooaw ar  percentD-oral, mk, adfemak-Paricipation
HOUSING                                                       or actidty rates aremputed as totaL male, and female labor force
Averag Sie of Hoshod (rtm per h=mA*Med-rotl, whe,            as percentages of totaL male and fewale population of all ages
. od -A household consis of a group of individuals who shae   respectvel, 1960, 1970. and 1983 dataL These are based on ILO's
iving quarters and their main meas. A boarder or lodgr may or  partcipation ates rlecting age-sex structu  ofthe population, and
May not be included in the hosehold for statistical purpoes.  long tine trend. A few esfimates are from national sources
ApeVeg N'amaer of Pawn pe Aoof-4oeal uba. and rural-          Ecbeom     Depedency Rati-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of pesons per roon in all urban, and rural     65 and overn to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelling  respectively Dwelings exclude
non-permanent structues and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRmL-ON
Perceanage of Dwexp wit Eletidi-total. urba, and maal-        Perce,aW  of Toral Dtkposablncom  (boh in cahb and hind)-
Conventional dwelings with elctricity in Gving quarers as percen-  Acruing to pecentdle groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respecdvely,        hold incone.
EDUCATION                                                     PovEarY TARGET GROUPS
A4bfte EaroMmat Ratios                                        The following estimates are very approximnate measures of poverty
Pmiawy sdhoo - total. male and femak-Gross total, male and    levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female erolment of all agos at the primary levl as percentages of  EiintedAhslat Poerty income Lewed (113per capiwal-urbJa
respcive primary school-ag populations While many countries   and rural-Absolute poverty inwome level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do noL The  below which a minimal nutritionaliy adequate diet plus essential
dfferences in country pracies in the ages and duation of school  non-food requrements is not affordable.
are refcted in dhe raios givenL For some countres with universal  Esnred Redlae PFbvet Ioe Lerd (3U$S per cpiipr)-auhan
education, gross euroglmn  may exd 100 prcent since some      and url-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's stadard primary-school  avaage per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjusument for higher cost of
Saoy schoo - tol male and fmake-Computed as above:    livin in urban areas
seondary education requis ar last four years of approv, pri-  Esr"'i Poplaton Jeow Absoue Poverty Intcom  Levd (per-
may instrucion. provides general. vocationaL or teadcbr training  con)-wban end rural- lecent of population (urban and rural
instrucions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of ag: correspond-  who are absolute poor.
ence ourss are gerally exchuded.
Vocatroal Eiro n (perct of sAondryj-Vocational institu-                 Comparative Analysis and Data Division
dons include tehnical, industriaL or odier programs which operaxe     Economic Analysis and Projecions Department
independendy or as departments of seondary institutions.                              June 1985



Pfl
476.5U q km         2 36. .1l1Ls (134)                                52 put  t km
nte of Crawth  2.0s (fram ISM  to 1305)          107 pw aq In at frabla laud
Crude Dirth Date (pe  'ON).             37.2                  P*ulatia pa phyailcia             4,550
Crud. Dea  Date (put t   ).             13.6                  Paplatim put Kopitl Das           1.407
JsaLa Mortality (par tOO tin binohu       .
INCOINE USTEMaTIM (19721                                      DIITUTO          tS umin   t197S)
of natio nal Lcm, htiheat quintilu:   40                      2  "md by tap 142 of neuo            42
la"t qeiutile s      6                  I   ud by smleat 622 f amatas   26
SD  TO lip"^S HAD  8/                                         MOE  O manicrn (377)
2 of pcplatiea - arbs:                  30.0                  2 at paplatios                      4.6
rural:                13.0
Total:                17.0
Caltriu intake aa   of rd qairamsatu:     106                 "alt litUrc7 ratts                   *n
Per capita protdieta atha (arm. par day):  59                 Prlnaup osbool *u.relaatt  g:S6
Cinu  NAInAlL P5CC  D3 "115                                nIlL NAYS    cn  ts13(. contur uric..
CG  at ltbet Prie.            6.357    100.0                    5.7            4.0         5.3
CGroe Capital *orsoein        1.176     18.5                  214             22.0        -1.6
Crouu National Daiss            37      14.6                   16.3           19.A        12.1
FoeiGn Daing A/                 250      3.9                   48.7           24.5       -26.0
Napurta d Coods, s446.A   7.1                                   7.0           4.7          1.
7aporta of GoodC, DiD           4".5  11.0                     26.9           9.3         -9.2
ar, etarn icm. 
Xamcnmnr  n mFr
Lwi)s -L                    ulf  S..                 D
-rilcalture          30 3,0   46.0                       3.0      46.3            318
ladueay AJ/                       14    12.6             1.4      10.3            5sg
Dervices/Trade a                   3       L            SAl Cl  M21    /          11l
TOTAL                     6Jfl7  100.0             14.9    100.0             427
Public  litter               Datei. Cevarmat
zn              E,tm             Ell      {    es 
Cerrant Dacita        -.693 8/                      16.1 S/          7,061          13.1
eCrrant {tpsaturaa                   7,237          13.7             7.215          13.A
Coirtut Duplas                       1.306           2.4              -134           0.2
Capital btpauituruu                  3.047          14.39 fj         2.254           4.2
Orarall Paicit                       6.535          12.1             2.131           4.0
-teml deaiata.ce (groo)              2,604           4.8
.   C-iDIT  -  mIen1I                                        LU.      1.        iS        13        .3      1
(Kyata aillim aetatasiLg at                         lr.    INtr.      ltr.    Imr.        mar.     lWr.     ltr.
egd t Varied)
tOp aMd Quaai Hmuy                                6,017     9.413    11,213    13,135   14.797   17.107   19.711
Doau Cradit to Public hteor                       7.19%    6. 9       10 0.65    13.47    15,713    18.086   21.902
Daub Credit to Private Succor                     1,728    1.453      1.451     1.749    1.687    2.043    2,170
(larceucage or InOe b_berb)
JIM" and qaai aay aus 1    CDa                     25.2      27.2       29.0     30.7      31.5      34.2   32.5
CT Average Coumer Price ladn at larom.
t197S - 100)                                    104.1    107.2      107.5    112.0    116.3    12.0   129.7 z/
Percetage Cbeng  LA
Cosu.mr Price Ru'   at Dae4on. Jamal Averagei    5.6        0.4        0.3      5.3       5.7       4.8      6.7 kJ
Saak Cradit to Public gtetr, trcblltrcb           9.8      25.0       21.1     23.9      16.5      15.1    21.1
Baok Crdit to Private Dactor, zcb/"trcb           1.3      -4.3      -0.1        5.9     -.35      21.1      6.2
0Al data for PM  (1913-6) ae ruLed utuatas of the Covment of Dana.
/ Defined as the balauce of goods and son-factor earvices accent.
L'   ldtea  iveatck. fishery, aS featr.
acleela miu& par, ad  cmtnctLca.
j/  l7uad. vorbwr uot elau re specifiad.
8/ luclaas currut surplua/dtfieit ad public cwporatioau.
V   luluds capital apeaituarc  of public corpoatioa.
8/ Averagu JamJ/n  195.
h  Cbhge in finrt hiaf of 7er.
nt available



ANNE!X I
Pa   6 of 6
-25-
AUCZ OF PAYNENT3                                                            IERCHANDISE EXPORTS (FY85)
13       F fl85                                                        5 Million s
(USS million)
Fxports CNGFW)                         423.4    453.5    448.4                Rice and Rice lroductas              156        39.1
Imports (cNFs)                         949.7    669.6    699.5                Teak                                 104        26.1
Rectrce Balance                       -526.3  -216.1   -251.1                 Pulues and Beans                      30         7.5
Base Metals and Ores                  30        7.5
Net Factor Income                      -44.7    -63.6    -63.0                Animal Feedstuff                       7         1.8
Net Current Trendaer                    23.7     47.2      23.4               All Other Cnmodities                  72        1.J0
Current Account Balance               -547.3  -232.5  -290.7                        TOTAL                          399       100.0
Official Grant Aid                      77.6     65.8      75.6             EXTERNAL DEBT. March 31. 1985
Net HILT Loans (DRS)                   324.3    177.3    186.0                                                        US$ Million
Disbursements                        423.7    303.2    309.9
Repayments                            99.4    125.9    123.9                Outstanding and Disbursed                 2,227.4
Short-ter  Capital                       0.7     -0.4       0.0
Outstanding, including
Other Medium & Long Ter Capital 1/ -13.0          8.3    -17.2                  Undisbursed                             3,288.3
Overall Balance                       -157.7     18.5   -46.3
cross Reserves (end-March)              78.9    114.9      54.5
Net Reserves (end-March)                 1.5     20.0   -26.4               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR FY1985                   .
Ratio of debt service to exports of           42.4
goods and services (excluding IW)
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1982 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 - K 8.51                                                           IBRD/IDA LENDING  September 30. 1985 (US$ Million)
USS1.00  - C 7.78
IBRD       IDA
1983 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 - K 8.51                                                             Outstanding and Disbursed             -        394.3
US$1.00  - K 8.22
Undisbursed                           -       299.2
1984 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 - K 8.51                                                             Outstanding. including
US$1.00  - 1 8.75                                                                Undisbursed                        -        6933.5
As of October 15. 1985
SDR 1.00 - K 8.51
USS 1.00 - K 8.01
gJ Includes errors and missions.
not available
South Asia Programs Department
Division A
October 15, 1985



-26-
ANNEX II
STATUS OF IBRD/IrA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
STATEMENT OF IBRD LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1986)
US$ Million
Loan or                                              Amount (less cancellation)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose            IBRD    IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and ten credits fully disbursed           33.12  160.11       --
835      1978   Burma   Paddyland Development II   -       34.5       14.38
879      1978   Burma  Rubber Rebabilitation         -      4.5        0.40
949      1979   Burma   Forestry II                  -     35.0       11.68
958      1979   Burma   Telecommunications II        -     35.0        4.11
1031      1980   Burm    Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam       -     90.0       18.97
1092 bI   1981   Burma  Grain Storage                 -     23.0        5.02
1114 b/   1981   Burma   Wood Industries I            -     32.0        4.39
1245 b/   1982   Burma   Power I                      -     80.0       40.64
1253 bl   1982   Burma   Construction Industry I    -       20.0        6.87
1315 bt   1983   Burma   Tank Irrigation              -     19.0       12.73
1372 b/   1983   Burma   Third Port Project           -     50.0       51.46
1381 b/   1983   Burma   Groundwater Project I        -     14.0       14.02
1385 b    1 1983   Burma  Rubber Rehabilitation II   -       9.0        8.69
1425 b/   1984   Burma   Textile Finishing Plant    -       29.7       30.99
1444 b/   1984   Burma   Wood Industries II           -     25.0       25.77
1615 c/   1985   Burma  Timber Distribution           -     17.75      20.49
1616 c/   1985   Burma   Seed Development II          -     14.50      16.65
Total                                     33.12  693.06    287.26
of which has been repaid               33.12    1.99
Total now outstanding                       -    691.07
Amount sold                      2.74
of which has been repaid       2.74      -
Total now held by IBRD & IDA a/             -    691.07
Total Undisbursed                                           287.26
a/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
b/  IDA Sixth Replenishment Credits.
ci  IDA Seventh Replenishment Credits.
Items (b) and (c) show principal amounts in US dollars equivalent at
date of negotiations as shown in the President's Reports, and
undisbursed amounts shown in US dollars equivalent at the rate of
exchange for the SDR on March 31, 1986.



-27-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BURKA
SECOND CRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time Taken by the Country to Prepare the Project:
One year
(b) Agencies Preparing the Project:
Consultants and AFPTC
(c) Date of First Presentation to the Association:
June, 1983
(d) Date of Departure of Appraisal Mission:
February, 1984
(e) Date of Completion of Negotiations:
April, 1986
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:
September, 1986
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None



-28-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)  Signing of an agreement between the Government and UNDP for
technical assistance and training (para 49);
(b) Establishing PIU and appointing a qualified Project
Director (para 51); and
(c) Execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and AFPTC (para 59).
B. Other Conditions
(a) The Government would furnish to IDA the results of implementation
of the recommendations on the paddy grading criteria (para 30);
(b) AFPTC would undertake a survey of the rehabilitation needs of the
balance 100 mills (out of the 180 mills) and furnish the results
to IDA by December 31, 1986 (para 45);
(c) By December 31, 1986, the Government would appoint consultants
for mills construction, storage and mill rehabilitation (para 49);
Cd) The terms of reference for the feasibility study for local
manufacturing of milling equipment and a grain export marketing
study would be prepared and cleared by IDA by March 31, 1987
(para 49);
(e) Suitably qualified heads of PIU sections would be appointed by
December 31, 1986 (para 51);
(f) A Mill Rehabilitation Task Force (RTF) would be established and
key personnel recruited by November 30, 1986. A detailed work
program and a program for training of RTF staff would be furnished
to IDA by March 31, 1987 (para 53);
(g) AFPTC would make appropriate arrangements with MEB, TC, CC and EPC
for undertaking their respective responsibilities under the project
(para 55); and
(h) PCC would be established, under terms acceptable to IDA, by
October 31, 1986 (para 56).



