Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
c4Z  Z / SC) -r
Report No. 8334-HAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PILOT PROJECT
APRIL 30, 1990
Africa Region
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Agricultural Sector Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclowed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           Malagasy Francs (FMG)
USS 1.00         =      FMG 1620
rMG 1,000               US$ 0.62
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 are (a)                         0.0247 acres
1 hectare (ha)                    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)            G     0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)          0.39 square mile
1 kilogram (kg)                   2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                       0.26 US gallon
0.22 Imperial gallon
1 tonne (t)                       2,204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BAF       c    Administrative Bureau (Bureau Administratif et
Financier)
CCCE      -    French Development Fund (Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique)
CS             Field Supervisor (Chef de Secteur)
CIRVA     -    Agricultural Extension District (Circonscription
de la Vulgarisation Agricole)
DVA       -    Directorate for Agricultural Extension (Direction                         L
de la Vulgarisation Agricole)
EIP       -    Production Intensification Agency (Entreprise de
l'Intensification Agricole)
FOFIFA    =    National Center for Applied Research for Rural
Development.
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IFAD      =    International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
MINAGRI   -    Ministry of Agriculture and Land Use (Ministere
de la Production Agricole et du Patrimoine
Foncier)
MPAEF     -    Ministry of Livestock and Forestry (Ministere ee
la Production Animale et des Eaux et Forets)
MRSTD     =    Ministry of Scientific and Technologic l Research
for Development (Ministere de la Recherche
Scientifique et Technologique pour le
Developpement)
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
NARP           National Agricultural Research PrJect
NGO       e    Non-Governmental Organization
PPF       =    Project Preparation Facility
SOMALAC   =    Regional Development Authority for the Lac
Alaotra Region
SPVA      =    Provincial Agricultural Extension Service
(Service Provincial de Vulgarisation Agricole)
T&F       =    Subject Matter Specialist (Technicien Formateur)
T&V            Training and Visit
VA        '    Extension Agent (Vulgarisateur Agricole)
Fiscal Year
Government of Madagascar        January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PILOT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SURIMARY                        .....  iii
I.   INTRODUCTION                      .. .................................................. 1
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   Main Features. ........................................              1.=
B.   Government Policy for Agriculture ......................... .        2
C.   Government Institutions in Agriculture                 .      .       3
D.  Bank Group Involvement in Agriculture                   . .    3
E. IDA Strategy for Agriculture                        .        .            4
F.  The Initial Pilot Activities                      ... 4
III. THE PROJECT
A.   General .          .      ...............................................   6
1.   Project Objectives ..................................  .       6
2.  Summary Project Description                   . . . 6
B.   Detailed Features .        .     ........................................ 7
1.   Extension Services .         . .................................. 7
2.   Training .............................................. 8
3.   Research .............................................. 9
4.  Monitoring and Evaluation                    . . .   10
5.  Financial Management System                   ...  10
6. Studies                            ... 11
7. Management Strengthening                     . . .   11
C.  Project Costs and Financing                     ....  12
1.   Cost Estimates     .       ...................................... 12
2. Financing Arrangements                      . . .   13
3.  Impact on Government Budget                   ...  14
D.  Procurement and Disbursement                     ....  15
1.   Procurement .         . ........................................ 15
2.   Disbursements .         . ...................................... 17
E.   Accounts, Audits and Reporting Procedures                .    .     18
1.   Budgeting and Reporting Procedures               .      .      18
2.   Accounts and Audits              .      .      .............. 18
This report is based on findings of an IDA mission which visited Madagascar
in September 1989 comprising of Messrs. Charles Ameur (Mission Leader),
Thomas Bredero, Dirk Prevoo and CW.is Ward (IDA); Alfredo Benites and Andre
Rasolo (Consultants)
This document has a restrictwd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
F.   Project Management ........  ........................... 18
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS
As  Benefits.*** ....o ..*19
B.   Risks ro.mental Imac...... ..... .0.....  ... .     0 ....... 019
C.  EnvironmentalImat2
D.   Impact on Women.           ..........             .         20
E.  Economic Rate of Return.... . ...... ........... a ........ 20
V    AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER, CONDITIONS AND
RECOMMENDATION ................. .               ..... 20
ANNEXES
1.  Organization Chart of MINAGRI
2.   Organization Chart DVA
3.   Disbursement Profile
4.   Economic Analysis
5.   Economic Farmgate Prices
6.   Documents in Project Files
MAP:     IBRD No. 21993, Madagascar: Agricultural Extension Pilot Project



MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PILOT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Botrower:      Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Amount:        US$ 3.68 million
Terms:         Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Agricultural Production and Land Use;
participating farmers
Prolect
Description: The project would constitute a three-year pilot phase of a
long-term development effort to increase the efficiency of
the agricultural extension services in Madagascar. It is
part of a long-term strategy aiming at sustainable
agricultural development through modernization of
agricultural practices, environmental measures and population
policies. The project would put particular emphasis on
replicability and financial sustainability. More
specifically, it would help:
(i) reorganize and strengthen the extension services in 5 of
the country's 23 CIRVAs (CIRVAs of Ambatondrazaka,
Antananarivo, Miarinarivo, Moramanga and Amparafaravolo);
(ii) provide systematic in-service training for project staff
at all levels; (iii) focus adaptive research on validation
and diffusion of economically and environmentally sound
technology; (iv) strengthen the monitoring and evaluation
capability at both the central and regional levels; (v)
strengthen financial management; (vi) improve organizational
and managerial capacity of the DVA; and (vii) make funds
available for studies, an in-depth review of the project and
alternative approaches to extension at the end of year 2, and
the preparation of a follow-up project that would draw on the
results of the project review. Part of the study program is
intended to look expressly for ways to reduce the cost of
extension to the Government through: (i) involving the
private sector and NGOs more forcefully; (ii) seeking for
ways to reduce costs at the DVA, e.g. by reducing excess
personnel; and (iii) reviewing the possibility of cost
recovery mechanisms. Also, both MINAGRI and IDA would
carefully monitor the project's actual costs.
Benefits and
Risks:        In the short-term the main benefits would be the achievement
of improved efficiency and higher effectiveness of the DVA



- iv -
extension service. Lriteria for measuring such achievements
would be (a) increased collaboration between DVA &nd FOFIFA,
,b) a greater knowledge of farmers' demands and concerns by
extension age%ts, and (c) the elaboration and implementation
of measures to streamline the organization. In the long-
term, the project would improve farmers' productivity,
increase incomes for the rural population, increase food
security, and would be a main tool in stemming environrmntal
degradation.
The risks include those usually associated with extension
projects: (a) inadequate and/or untimely provisi&a of
budgetary resources by Government; (b) staff of low
compe- ance; (c) the possible inability of extension and
research services to produce messages which farmers value in
the short run; (d) slower than expected adoption rates by
farmers of the recommended technical advice; and (e) poor
inter-agency coordination. To minimize these risks emphasis
will be put on strengthening financial and management
capabilities at both the central and CIRVA levels;
reinforcing links between extension and research;
preparati(  of annual work programs and related budgets; and
an in-depth review of the project with emphasis on impact,
sustainability and replicability at the end of year two. The
adequate provision of counterpart funds will be reviewed
annually in the framework of the Public Expenditure Program.
In addition, a Bank staff member has been assigned to the
Resident Mission to specifically advise on project
implementation.



Estimated Project Costs:
In current million US$ Equivalent
Local     Foreign   Total
Investment Costs:              2.66       0.99       3.65
Recurrent Costs:               0.94       0.01       0.95
Base Costs                     3.60       1.00       4.60
Physical Contingencies         0.10       0.03       0.13
Price Contingencies            0.59       0.09       0.68
Total Project Costs            4.29       1.12       5.41
of which Taxes                                       0.81
Financing Plan
Government                     0.92 million           20% 1/
IDA                            3.68 million           80% 2/
Total                          4.60 million          100%
Taxes                          0.81 million
Grand Total                    5.41 million
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
FY89      FY90      !FY91      FY92       FY93
-US$-------------US$ million---------------
Annual 21            0.55       0.90      1.03       0.80      0.40
Cumulative           0.55       1.45      2.48       3.28      3.68
Economic Rate of Return:  17%
Map:     Madagascar:  Agricultural Extension Pilot Project, IBRD No. 21993
Charts: Organigramme of the MINAGRI
Organigramme of the DVA
1/   Excluding taxes and duties estimated at US$ 0.81 million.
2/   Including advances totalling US$1,000,000 from the Project
Preparation Facility.



MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PILOT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Madagascar has requested IDA's assistance to
improve the operation of its agricultural extension services. It is part
of Government's long-term strategy to achieve sustainable agricultural
development by addressing a nexus of inter-related problems (agricultural
modernization, demographic pressures and environmental decline). A
Government's analysis of the performance of the agricultural sector over
the early 1980s revealed that production and productivity were declining
steadily while population was growing at a 32 annual rate, leading to
unsustainable farming practices and environmental degradation. Management
weakness, lack of suitable messages to address farmers' problems and
constraints, ineffective links with research, irrigated rice in the
highlands receiving high priority in terms of research and inputs to the
detriment of other crops, excess staff, lack of mobility, and inadequate
operating funds characterized extension. As a result, the Ministry of
Agriculture's extension personnel was poorly trained, unsupervised, ill-
equipped, and insufficiently motivated and had lost most of its credibility
with farmers. By contrast, a few region specific operations backed by
outcide financing and technical assistance had in the past shown good
results. Meanwhile, there had never been any particular effort by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Land Use (MINAGRI) to harmonize and coordinate
the various approaches to extension nationwide along a clearly defined
strategy.
1.02      In October 1987, MINAGRI's extension service (DVA) with IDA's
technical assistance initiated pilot activities in the three extension
districts (CIRVAs) of Antananarivo, Miarinarivo, and Moramanga, to test
ways to improve extension. Funds were provided by IDA through a US$750,000
PPF (P486-0). Despite delays during implementation, the pilot activities
generated encouragiag results at the field level and helped verify some of
the work methods and norms that could be replicated on a larger scale. The
present project would therefore further test the main ongoing activities
while including 2 additional CIRVAs, at Government's request. It would be
executed over three years, at a cost of US$5.3 million, to be financed by
Government and IDA.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Main Features
2.01      Agriculture is the leading contributor to Madagascar's economy
as it employs 85% of the population of 11 million and accounts for more
than 80% of export earnings. Due to its climatic diversity both tropical
and temperate crops can be grown. Most of the estimated 1.5 million farm



families have smallholdings rarely exceeding 5 ha of land, and are
generally engaged in subsistence farming. More than half the total
cultivated area is under rice, the country's main staple, which accounts
for 30X of agricultural production value. Annual paddy production is
estimated at 2.2 million tons with an average yield of 1.8 ton per ha.
Most of the rice is under some form of water management.  Otb.r important
foodcrops are tubers (cassava, sweet potato and taro) and maize.
Production from the beef cattle herd ranks second in value terms (16% of
production value). Industrial crops (sugar and cotton) as well as edible
oil crops (groundnut, coconut and oil palm) account for 7% of production
value.  A small group of export crops (coffee, cloves, vanilla and pe.per)
account for 15% of production, but 60-7u% of export earnings.
2.02      Agriculture has generally performed poorly in the 1975-87 period
with growth rates well below population growth, which is reflected in a
continuous decline of per capita income. The main reason for this poor
performance has been the Government's interventionist policies in pricing
and marketing, as well as high export taxes, while at the same time
allowing its services to the sector (extension, research and irrigation
maintenance) to decline in quality and coverage. Thus, the country's main
export, coffee, declined in both quality and quantity, ard Madagascar
became a major importer of rice and edible oils during this period.
Furthermaore, expansion of agricultural lands to compensate for stagnatir.g
yields and population pressures has caused wide-spread deforestation and
resulted in accelerated environmental degradation (erosion, siltation of
irrigation systems and loss of bio-diversity).
B.   Government policy for Agriculture
2.03      Faced with this situation, thc Government has made a series c:
policy changes in recent years that have much improved the macro-economic
environment in which the sector operates. Under a series of sectoral and
macro-edjustment operations, the Government realigned the exchange rate and
liberalized foreign exchange allocations for imports, removed import
controls, liberalized exports, and began the restructuring of the
parastatal sector, including certain public enterprises engaged in
agricultural production, processing and trade. Although this adjustment
process is not yet completed, notably ir. parastatal restructuring, the
beneficial effects of the measures taken are already becoming apparent.
Rice production, buoyed by good weather and higher producer prices (due to
increased competition) has increased to levels needing only marginal
imports, and coffee exports have expanded. In 1989, agricultural
production Is estimated to have grown well in excess of population growth
for the first time in 15 years.
2.04      Parallel to efforts to reduce Government's role in agricultural
production, marketing, pricing and trade, steps are being taken to improve
the efficiency of its research and extension services. Similarly in
irrigation, the objectives are to reduce the Government's concentration on
large irrigation schemes through autonomous parastatal agencies, and to
focus more on reinforcing re-habilitation and maintenance capabilities in
smaller traditional irrigation areas, which comprise 90% of Madagascar's
irrigated lands. An Environmental Action Plan (EAP) has beeu developed by
the Government with assistance from IDA and other international donors, and



-3-
the World Wildlife Fund. A credit for an Environment Program to fund the
implementation of the first five years of the EAP was approved by the
Executive Directors on April 17, 1990. There will be couslderable synergy
between this Program and the proposed project in the areas of soil
conservation and watershed management.
C. Government Institutions in Agriculture
2.05      rhree ministries are involved in the agricultural sector:
Agriculture and Land Use (MINAGRI), Livestock and Forestry (MPAEF), and
Scientific Research (MRSTD). MINAGRI and MPAEF are both responsible for
extension, each in their respective areas. The agricultural research
institute (FOFIFA) is under MRSTD. Until the mid-70s, both research and
extension benefitted from strong financial and tec$,nical bilateral French
aid. When this support was reduced in 1974, combined with the subsequent
erosion of Government's financial capacity to fund salaries, maintenance
and other operational costs, the ability of these services to fulfill their
roles declined sharply. Furthermore, their responsibilities were diluted
by the creation of numerous autonomous project agencies, each with its own
extension service and research components that were usually more crop-
specific in orientation (e.g. in rice, coffee and cotton). Some of these
autonomous agencies are presently in the process of, or are being studied
for, reintegration into the Ministries.
D.   Bank Group Irvolvement in Agriculture
2.06      Since 1969, IDA has supported 20 projects in the agricultural
sector, for a total of US$ 240.6 million. Most of the early projects were
area specific development or enclave type operations and had large
financial and management autonomy from the Government's own services. The
projec  . r.?letion reports and PPARs available for this generation of
projects ':dicate that their overall performance was disappointing,
primarily because of the interventionist policies of the Government.
2.07      The first project to address an entire sub-sector on a national
scale was the Cotton Development Project (Cr. 1433-MAG), approved in 1983.
Around the same time, IDA started to support the agricultural institutions
through the Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project (Cr.
1249-MAG; 1982) and its follow-up, the Second Agricultural Institutions
Development Project (Cr. 1709-MAG; 1986).  Sub-sector investment lending
continued with the 1985 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1589-MAG),
the 1987 Second Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1804-MAG), the 1988
Forests Management and Protection Project (Cr. 1878-MAG), and the 1989
National Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 2041-MAG).
2.08      The adjustment process in the sector was started through the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1691-HAG), wh.ich supported the
liberalization of rice marketing through the suppression of the monopsony
of state rice marketing agencies and the liberalization of the edible oils
and agricultural inputs markets. In 1988, IDA financed the Public Sector
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1941-MAG), which sought to remove administrative
obstacles and controls over the export trade. including the elimination of
state trading monopolies for traditional export crops, and the
restructuring and/or elimination of sector public enterprises.



- 4-
E.   IDA Strategy for Agriculture
2.09      IDA's strategy in the sector has two main themes:  (i)
continuation of the macro-economic and sectoral adjustment proce(s; and
(ii)  a sectoral investment program fo-ussing on food security, llvestocs
development, irrigation, agricultural extension and research, and
environmental protection.  Operations in aach of these areas are presentloy
ongoing or under preparation.
F.   The Initial Pilot Activities
2.10      In October 1987, a Bank mission visited Madagascar at the
invitation of the Governmerf to identify an agricultural extension project.
Subsequently, a PPF in the amount of US$750,000 was approved in May of 1988
and, in September 1988 a staff member of the Bank was assigned to the World
Bank's Regional Mission in Madagascar, to advise the Directorate for
Agricultural Extension (DVA) on the implementation of the various
activities.  The latter included reorganizing DVA's extension services,
training staff at all levels, strengthening the links with research and
initiating appropriate monitoring and evaluation (M&E) routines. The
strategy adopted takes Madagascar's specific conditions 4nto account by,
inter alia:  (i) dealing with groups of farmers instead of with contact
farmers; (ii) gradually suppressing the supervisors' level (CS), as is
already the case in the IFAD financed Highland Rice Project (IFAD Cr. 118-
HAG) ; and (iii) taking advantage of the high literacy rate of 60-80Z in
rural communities in part of the project area by investigating the possible
use of pamphlets and radio broadcasts as a means of reaching more farmers
while reduc.ng the number of Vi;StS.
2.11      During project preparation, it became apparent that a national
project was premature in light of the organizational, managerial, technical
and financial problems plagueing the DVA. Moreover, further testing was
required of the adaptability, replicability and sustainability of the
proposed extension strategy in the Malagasy context, which included several
donor and IDA (Cr. 1337-MAG) financed projects each with its separate
extension structures. It was therefore decided in consultation with the
Government that the project would serve as a pilot operation to build up
experience and improve the capability of the DVA. A follow-up project
would only be considered if warranted by the project review at the end of
year 2 (para 3.42).
2.12      Due to a variety of reasons, including extensive procurement
delays of much needed equipment, cumbersome procedures in obtaining day-
to-day operational funds, and late reussignment of staff, the pilot
activities did not take off in earnest until April 1989. However, definite
improvements are now visible in both work organization and management.
Maps and programs of visits are currently used by most agents. Working
with groups of farmers has become the dominant vehicle of extension as
opposed to the earlier used method of visits to individuals. Ability tests
were taken by all field staff in the three pilot CIRVAs in February 1989.
Based on the results of these tests, bi-monthly training sessions of
extension agents have been instituted and are adhered to. Monthly
workshops for Subject Matter Specialists (Techniciens Formateurs or TF)



with the participation of research are becoming more regular. Area
specific technical messages, covering land preparation, fertilization,
planting material and planting methods, weeding and plant protection were
extended to farmers for irrigated rice, cassava, maize, potatoes,
groundnuts, wheat and a few vegetables. In order to continue progress, the
CIRVAs stressed the need for additional technical training of extension
staff in soil and water management, and in watershed pittection methods.
They also bighlighted the importance of closer links with research,
especially in areas of testing and plant protection.
2.13      According to surveys conducted by the M&E unit of the DVA in
1988 and during the first half of 1989, there were some 225,800 farmers and
397 extension agents (VA) in the three CIRVAs considered. Some 10 to 15%
of the farmers were reached by extension agents (VA) with ratios varying
between 25 and 195 farmers per VA. The latter spent 7 days per fortnight
in the field visiting an average of two groups of farmers per day. These
groups numbered on average 10 to 12 farmers, with attendance varying
significantly during the cropping season with lows of 2 to 5 participants.
It was estimated that some 50% of the farmers organized in groups and 35%
of the not yet organized farmers were aware of the VAs work program.
During the 1988/89 season, 6,194 small adoption plots were implemented by
farmers. The main on-season crops for which technical recommendations were
extended to farmers included rice, maize, groundnuts and in sowe areas
cassava. The messages extended emphasized the need to produce more and
better quality composts, the selection of seed and planting material,
cultural practices and anti-erosion measures. The M&E unit was unable to
record sufficient yield results to be meaningful, due to a lack of means.
While in the field, in September 1989, the mission observed that where the
technical messages had been properly implemented, marked improvements in
winter season crops (wheat, potatoes and vegetables) were visible.
2.14      Field extension personnel has shown a high degree of commitment
despite field allowances not having been paid for over a year. This was
the result of a dispute between the DVA and the Ministry of Finance, over
the level of field allowances. The latter were finally paid in November
1989 retroactively to April 1988. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that adequate field allowances (compatible with the PEP) would be
paid for DVA staff needed for project execution 31 and that the
corresponding budgetary allocations would be made. To smoothen the
transition period it was also agreed that incremental field allowances
would be financed by IDA on a decreasing basis (100% in 1990 and 50% in
1991), with Government providing full funding in 1992. A second factor
affecting field staff performance is delayed payment of salaries to
contractual extension workers 4/ during the first 2-3 mon .s of the year,
just before the April planting season starts. As a result extension
activities during this part of the year suffer. MINAGRI agreed at
negotiations, to take the necessary steps to ensure that funds are
3/   Extension personnel outside of the project will not yet receive an
increase in the level of flild allowances, because they have only
very limited access to transportation and lack adequate training.
4!   This affects over half of all the VAs.



- 6 -
available, either as part of the government funded accounts, or as a
revolving fund, from which these salaries can be paid during the first
quarter of the year.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   General
1.   Proiect Obiectives
3.01       The project would serve as a pilot to test an extension
strategy with particular emphasis on the specificity of the Malagasy
context, sustainability in light of the country's current economical
constraints, and possible future replicability nationwide. The project
would therefore initiate the process of working out and implementing a
viable long-term action plan for agricultural extension. The project would
strengthen Government extension services, promote general principles of
sound field management to ensure efficient and cost effective extension and
harmonize the various approaches adopted by other dor.ors and non-
governmental organizations. The strengthening of Government extension
services would mainly entail improvir staff competence through regular
training, gradually decreasing the overall number of personnel whenever
warranted, keeping lean teams of competent staff at the MINAGRI and,
involving the provincial levels (SPVA) in the development process. The
harmonizing of the various approaches to extension would not be synonymous
with standardisation. Rather, it should provide the opportunity to select
the most cost effective approaches as results become avAilable, on the
basis of an in-depth evaluation to be carried out at the end of year 2
(para 3.42).
2.   Summary Project Description
3.02      The project would be implemented over a three year period and
would include:
(i) reorganizing and strengthening MINAGRI's agricultural extension
services at the DVA level and in the CIRVAs of Ambatondrazaka,
Antananarivo, Miarinarivo, I-loramanga and Amparafaravola;
(ii) systematic in-service training of all project extension staff;
(iii) improving the links between extension and research through
adaptive research and on-farm trials, with the active
participation of farmers;
(iv) strengthening the M&E capacity at both the DVA and the CIRVA
level;
(v) introducing improved financial management for the DVA and the
CIRVAs;
(vi) strengthening the organization and management capacity of the
DVA; and,



- 7 -
(vii) providing for several specific studies, an in-depth review of
the project at the end of year 2, and for the preparation of a
follow-up project.
B. Detailed Features
1.   Extension Services
3.03      The project would continue to improve the organization and
increase the efficiency of DVA's extension services in the three CIRVAs
covered by the pilot actions started in 1988. The CIRVA of Ambatondrazaka
(Lac Alaotra area), which has already made progress in improving its
extension services alonZ similar principles of extension as the above three
CIRVAs through funding from other sources, would be included in the
project. At the request of Government, a yet to be created CIRVA
(Amparafaravola), would be added to the project. The Government plans to
create this CIRVA within a year as part of the restructuring of the SOMALAC
parastatal. The present staff of the extension services of SOMALAC would
be transferred to the new CIRVA. A number of issues would need to be
resolved prior to the inclusion of this CIRVA in the project, especially as
to personnel levels, the readjustment of salaries and allowances, and task
allocations. Specific studies have been commissioned to address these
problems and IDA and CCCE are working in close collaboration in this
matter. It would be a condition of disbursement that (i) the studies have
been concluded; (ii) Government and IDA have agreed on the recommendations;
(iii) the CIRVA of Amparafaravola has been created; and the Government
funded account has been established (para 3.25).
3.04      The present coverage ranges from 25-195 farmers per VA.  An
indicative ratio of 1 VA per 200 to 250 farmers would be aimed at from
project inception. The ratio would be area specific and adapted during the
project taking into account such parameters as population densities,
settlement patterns, types of farming, road conditions, and communication
facilities. The overall percentage of farmers visited would increase
during the project from 15% to about 40%, without modifying the current
number of VAs. It is thus expected that the total number of farmers
directly re&ched by extension would be about 125,000, and an undetermined
number through spill-over effects. As to the supervisors (CS) the present
ratio of 1 CS per 2 or 3 VAs in some areas is unacceptably high and would
be reduced to at least 1 CS per 7 to 10 VAs. In areas where it would not
be possible to modify this ratio because of geog-:aphic conditions (low
population density, poor road network, etc.), the CS would also perform
part-time extension activities.  Finally, there are currently some 30
Subject Matter Specialists (TF) mainly in the fields of general agriculture
and plant protection, in the five CIRVAs considered. The total number of
TFs which is oni the high side would not be increased during this three-
year phase. Instead, there is a definite need to up-grade their levels cf
competence and to specialize them in fields of priority to farmers, i.e.
vegetable and tree crops production, and anti-erosion and watershed
management. They would also be used in the on-farm trials program which
require close supervision by technical personnel. As the TFs become more
competent, their average number -Br CIRVA would need to decrease in
subsequent project phases. This could be achieved through transfers to
other CIRVAs, that are in need of trained TFs.



- 8 -
3.05      Sixteen low-cost guesthouses would be build in the CIRVAs for
the purpose of training (para 3.08) and to facilitate supervision *y
headquarters and CIRVA staff. They will relieve the burden caused by
inadequate lodging facilities in rural areas.
3.06      Unqualified field staff is a major problem affecting the cost-
effectiveness and credibility of the extension service. Following the
second competency test (December 1989), a plan for the gradual retirement
or redeployment of unqualified staff is being developed by Government for
submission to IDA. The submission would also include proposals on filling
vacancies resulting from this exercise with qualified and competent staff.
Agreement between Government and IDA on this plan would b;. a condition of
credit effectiveness.
2.   Training
3.07       Insufficient training z.i staff remains one of extension's main
weaknesses. This is a major issue which can be traced back to the country's
inadequate agricultural education system currently under review. It is
essenzial that extension staff be better qualified. The project would
therefore provide training to all staff. Training for field personnel
would be essentially practical and have strong emphasis on technical
knowledge, communications skills, feedback responsibilities and the ability
to diagnose farmers problems, constraints and aspirations. The various
training needs would be determined on the basis of updated job
descriptions, profiles, performance and ability tests. Provision has been
made for short-term consultancies by a local Human Resources Specialist.
The latter would contribute to the updating of staff job descriptions, and
advise on career development and incentives and, together with the DVA
training department, would check the content of the various training
sessions and refresher courses as well as the objectives of seminars and
study tours, to ensure they properly address the staff training
requirements. The training department would also examine the potential for
multi-media support to the extension service.
3.08       Training would consist mainly of: (a) bimonthly one-day-
sessions for the VAs conducted by the TFs; (b) monthly workshops for the
TFs led by Research and/or any source of knowledge including the University
and the private sector; and (c) refresher courses and special training
sessions for field staff at all levels. To minimize costs, seminars would
be reduced in number and duration and, visits overseas would be the
exception. The project would also provide for the training of the
accountants, monitoring and evaluation agents, and staff involved in
adaptive research. Details of the training component are in Working Paper
1. The project would finance: (i) the rehabilitation and/or construction
of three training centers to be equipped with audio-visual and office
equipment; (ii) training rooms as part of small sector offices; (iii) guest
houses; and (iv) incremental operating costs.



-9-
3.   Research
3.09      The project would put particular emphasis on strengthening the
current informal and weak links between extension and research. This comes
at a time when a first seven year phase National Agricultural Research
Project (NARP), co-financed by IDA, is being launched. Besides addressing
the specific aspects of Research, NARP would improve the linkages with
agricultural extension through: (a) joint field diagnosis; (b)
participation of researchers in the training of TFs during monthly
workshops; and (c) implementation of on-farm trials jointly with extension.
;.10      Adaptive research programs would be prepared and discussed
annually by the regional research-extension committees to be set-up under
NARP. The specifics of these programs would be derived from joint field
diagnosis by research, extension and farmers. Adaptive research would be
confined to on-faLm trials and designed to adjust general recommendations
from applied research to different farm situations including: (a) cropping
sequences and mixes; (b) level of farmers' skills, and (c) farmers'
resources and land tenure status. The main contribution of the adaptive
research programs would be to provide farmers with alternatives to choose
from.
3.11      The proposed project would provide funding for short-term
adaptive research programs by FOFIFA in collaboration with the extension
services in the project area. The programs would concentrate on specific
areas of concern to farmers and where a definite impact on production and
yields can be expected. In addition, particular attention would be gi7en
to the loss of soil fertility, soil degradation and to watershed
management. The project would have a major effect through better trained
staff regularly advising the rural communities on environmental issues.
In this respect there is a variety of aspects for which techniques would be
developed including: anti-erosion measures such as alley cropping, contour
ploughing and planting, zero tilling, crop rotations, the use of compost
and of manure, cultural practices for tanety 5/ and for bottomland, and the
use of agricultural tools and equipment to enhance labor efficiency. Basic
animal husbandry and agro-forestry would also be sources of recommendations
on the assumption that extension would have a multi-disciplinary approach.
This important aspect would require careful attention during the pilot so
as to reach a common understanding with the MPAEF. Details of the research
component are in Working Paper No. 2.
3.12      The recommendations to be extended in 1990 have been selected
with extensive participation of farmers and technical support by FOFIFA.
They are closely related to farmers requests for advice on watershed
management, erosion control, the growing of off-season crops, and to
demands for training on Farmers Associations type of activities including
seed production and marketing.
3.13      Funding for the short-term adaptive research program would,
under contract with FOFIFA, be limited to the purchase of farm inputs since
the researchers salaries, allowances and vehic7es are provided for by the
5/   Hillside lands, usually of poor quality, surrounding bottomlands.



- 10 -
National Agricultural Research Project. The DVA and FOFIFA entering into
an agreement for short-term adaptive research, acceptable to IDA, would be
a condition of credit effectiveness. Given the fact that FOFIFA does not
have the staff capacity to fully participate in the adaptive research
component, implementation as well as the collecting of most data would be
the responsability of the extension service. FOFIFA would limit itself to
preparing protocols and, together with the DVA, interpret and analyze
resulcs.  The efficiency of this arrangement would be assessed as part of
the annual renewal of the agreement. Similarly, the efficiency and the
appropriateness of the adaptive research program and the on-farm trials
would be assessed during the in-depth review at the end of year 2 (para
3.42).
4.   Monitoring and Evaluation
3.14      The monitoring and evaluation division of the DVA would be
strengthened to provide the director of the DVA and the heads of the CIRVAs
with timely information on the effectiveness of the extension service with
emphasis on monitoring project progress.  The present M&E system comprises
a central unit within the DVA and regional units at the CIRVA level. The
project would provide for 6 man-months of technical assistance and training
of key staff in order to assist the central unit in standardizing concepts,
harmonizing actions, supporting the steff of the regional units, and
supervising and analyzing the final results. It would be key to
determining the project's impact and the future role of extension. In this
respect, the feedback from farmers would be an important factor in
determining the performance of field extension agents and the
appropriateness of the technical messages. From project inception, the
central unit, with the assistance of the consultant, would define the type,
amount, purpose and timing of data and information to be collected. It
would also organize -raining for staff in the regional M&E units and
provide support to these units. Furthermore, it would be responsible for
continuity in the collection of data series requiring extended time
periods. Details of the M&E component are in Technical Paper No. 3.
5.   Financial Management System
3.15      The Administrative Bureau (BAF) within the DVA is responsible
for financial and personnel management. The section responsible for
financial management, however, is staffed with employees that functionally
belong to other divisions within the DVA and work only part-time for the
BAF. Furthermore, in the absence of a head of the fir.ancial section, the
Director of the DVA must also act as head of the BAF. Under the project
the BAF would be reorganized and a full-time head with staff would be
assigned.  The latter would be a condition of effectiveness.  Local
technical assistance would be provided by a management specialist to aid in
the definition of the role and management of the central BAF at the DVA and
the BAFs at the CIRVA level. Further technical assistance would be
provided periodically by a financial specialist, who would assist the
central BAF and the project CIRVAs in defining accounting and procurement
procedures and strengthening local capabilities for increased financial
autonomy in the five project CIRVAs. The financial specialist would also
participate in the quarterly supervision of the BAFs at the project CIRVAs.



- 11 -
3.16      The BAF at the DVA would be equipped with a micro computer and
receive several man-months of training each year in the use of this
computer and standard software. The computer would be used to aitomate
accounting procedures and to allow for improved management information.
6.   Studies
3.17      The project would provide for a study fund (US$ 400,000) to
finance several studies to be carried out. in conjunction with the
preparation of a follow-up phase. Without presetting the exact studies to
be launched, the following topics could be envisaged: (i) the phased
transfer of extension responsibilities from parastatal regional authorities
and autonomous projects to the DVA; (ii) future role of the Provincial
Agricultural Extension Services (SPVA); (iii) the effect of land tenure on
the adoption rate of technology by farmers; (iv) women's role in
agriculture and how to increase their participation to the development of
the agricultural sector; (v) farmer groups in the sociological context of
Madagascar and their possible involvement in various support services to
agriculture; and (vi) farmer awareness of pesticides risks and origin of
supplies. In addition, one or more studies would be undertaken to assess
the feasibility of alternative means of financing (including cost recovery
mechanisms) and providing extension (private sector and/or NGOs).
Specifically environmental studies would be carried out under the
Environment I Project.
3.18      Following the studies on alternative means of financing and
providing extension, the project would provide up to US$100,000 for a test
program.
3.19      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that terms of
Reference, cost estimates and arrangements for executing the studies would
be prepared by DVA and submitted to IDA for approval.
7.   Management Strengthening
3.20      Strengthening management within the DVA is a necessity.  DVA's
director has several functions and many tasks to attend to, and would need
a deputy, with a clear definition of responsibilities, to oversee the
operation of the extension system in the 5 project CIRVAs. A project
coordinator has been selected and agreement was reached during negotiations
on his terms of reference. There is also a need to arrive at a better
delineation of responsibilities between the central divisions and a clearer
tasl. description for each of them. The Human Resources Specialist (para
3.07) would assist the Director in this task.
3.21      Similarly, strengthening of management at the CIRVA of
Antananarivo is vital, if extension service quality is to be improved.
This CIRVA covers a vast area, which cannot be adequately managed by a
CIRVA head alone. A deputy to the head of the CIRVA would therefore be
nominated who would supervise the implementation of the project in outlying
areas.



- 12 -
3.22      With the above arrangements, and with the identification and
action program on unqualified staff (para 3.06), DVA management would be
able to carry out the pilot project. However, as part of the preparation
of the follow-up project on National Extension, othez organizational issues
will have to be considered, such as the decentralization of the DVA, the
role of the SPVAs, the role of regional authorities with separate extension
responsibilities, and the issue of redundant personnel. These issues
cannot be adequately addressed now as their solutions depend to a large
extent on the results of the pilot project. Studies to examine these
issues are, however, funded under the proposed project (para 3.17)
C.   Proiect Costs and Financing
1.   Cost Estimates
3.23      The costs total US$5.41 million over a three year period and
include taxes and contingencies. The foreign exchange component is 46% and
taxes and duties are 16% of project cost. Base costs were calculated using
prices and exchange rates in effect at appraisal in September 1989. Taxes
and duties have been applied on all costs at prevailing rates.
Physical contingencies have been applied at the following rates:
Civil works    10%
Agricultural   10%
and office
supplies
Price contingencies have been applied at the following rates:
1989      1990      1991       1992
Local           9.5        8.5       8.0        7.0
Foreign         3.6        4.3       4.3        4.3
Costs are summarized in Table 3.1 below.  The full detailed cost
tables are in Working Paper 4.



- 13 -
Table 3.1:   Proiect Costs 6/
(USS '666)                   X Total
-------…-…------- X Foreign  Base
Local   Foreign  Total    Exchange    Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
________________
A. CIVIL WORKS                                695     174      se8          2ax      19X
B. EQUIPMENT
AUDIO VISUAL                               14      18       27          47X       1X
FURNITURE                                  89       -       89           eX       2X
TRANSPORTATION                            864     322      688          47X      15X
ACRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT                     46      a6       75          4ax       2X
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                           511    386       878          42X      19X
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/STUDIES
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                      876       -      876           ex       8x
STUDIES AND TEST                         s56        -      s66           ex      llX
Sub-Total TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT/STUDIES         876       -      876           6x      191
D. TRAINING AND DUCUMENTATION
__________________________
TRAINING                                 16      156      866          5X        7X
DOCUMENTATION                              18      21       89          U3X       1X
Sub-Tot l TRAINING AND DOCUMENTATION          232      82      814          561       71
E. UNSPECIFIED INVESTMENTS
(AMPARA. AND AMBATON.)
AMPARAFARAVOLA                            171     114      285          40X       8X
AMBATONDRAZAKA                            248     162      406          46x       9x
414     276      890          461      15X
Totel IINVESTMENT COSTS                        2,684     986    ,6560          27X      79X
II. RECURRENT COST4
A. SALARIES                                 409       -      409           eX      9s
B. OFFICE SUPPLIES                           93       -       98           ex       2X
C. AGRICULTURAL SUPPLIES                     73      18      8s           1SX       2X
0. TREATMENT PRODUCTS                         a       1        4          86x       ex
E. OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE               886       -      8s6           6x       ex
-- - -  - -_- - - -  - ---- -- -- - --  _- -- ---
Total RECURRENT COSTS                            987      14      951           1X      211
Total BASELINE COSTS                           8,602     999   4,601           22X     16s6
Physical Contingencies                        104      26      18a          26X       as
Price Contingencies                           586      92      678          14X      15X
Total PROJECT COSTS                            4,292   1,118    5,409          21X     1181
2.     FinancinR ArranRements.
3.24        Financing of the Project's costs would be shared between the
Government of Madagascar and IDA. The proposed IDA Credit of US$3.68
million would finance 80% of project costs net of taxes, including the cost
6/    Inclusive of US$ 0.81 million for taxes and duties.



- 14-
of civil works, equipment, vehicles, studies and technical assistance, net
of duties and taxes. The Government contribution of US$1.7 million would
finance the remaining project costs, i.e., all operating costs of the
project (with the exception of spare parts), and taxes and duties. The
financing plan for project costs, including taxes and duties, is presented
below:
Table 3.2:  Project Financing
FMG            US$        z
millions
Government     1,513           0.92        20
IDA            6,045           3.68       80
Total          7,558           4.60       100
Taxes          1,330           0.81
Grand total    8,888           5.41
A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US$750,000 was approved in
May 1988 to finance start-up costs of the project. A supplemental PPF in
the amount of US$250,000 was approved in March 1990.
3.25      At negotiations, assurances were obtained on the establishment
of an account, funded by C-overnment from local sources, controlled by the
DVA. The decision whether to establish these accounts as treasury accounts
or bank accounts is presently being reviewed. The Government contribution
to the project, i.e., taxes and duties on procurement of IDA financed goods
and services, and the operating cost of the project, would be paid from
this account. Salaries of contractual workers could also be paid from this
account during the first quarter of the year (para 2.14), although the
modalities of such an approach would need to be reviewed. Assurances to
that effect were obtained at negotiations. Replenishment of the account
would take place trimesterially and the amount would be based on the annual
work programs and corresponding budgets. In addition, agreement was
reached at negotiations on the establishment of small accounts benefitting
the five project CIRVAs. Payments from these accounts would be made for
the purchase of small agricultural inputs and for emergency repair and
maintenance services. A first payment into these accounts would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
3.   Itapact on Government Budget
3.26      The present DVA and MINAGRI budgets from local and external
sources are shown in Table 3.3 below. The proposad project has estimated
incremental recurrent costs of US$1.059 million over a three year period.
This represents an incremental Government contribution to DVA's budget of
FMG 906 million per annum for three years. Although this amounts to 18.3%
of DVA's locally funded budget, it is only 2.5% of the locally financed
MINAGRI budget. After termination of the project, the average annual
Government contribution to the DVA would have to increase an additional 10%
to finance the replacement of vehicles and equipment.



- 15 -
Table 3.3: Government Budget and Prolect Financing.
(in millions FMG)
Average
1990-92         Annual
1989       Additional       Increase
Local      External       Total      Financing         (Local)
MINAGRI       37,773      109,345      147,118         948              2.5%
DVA            5,190       14,086       19,276         948             18.3%
3.27      The proposed project is expected to directly benefit some
125,000 farm families and an unknown r.umber through spillover effects. The
incremental cost per beneficiary farm family, excluding one-time
investments at the DVA for consultants, studies, etc., is therefore
approximately US$7.80. Although high, the incremental costs per
beneficiary compare favorably with those of the Lac Alaotra Rice
Intensification Project (IDA Cr. 1337-MAG), co-financed by IDA, the CCCE
and FAC, and the IFAD financed Highland Rice Project (IFAD Cr. 113-MAG).
These projects have costs per beneficiary ranging from US$13 to US$65. 7/
Part of the study program is intended to look expressly for ways to further
reduce the cost of extension to the Government. This could be achieved
through: (i) involving the private sector and/or NGOs more forcefully;
(ii) seeking for ways to reduce costs in the DVA, e.g. by reducing excess
personnel; and (iii) reviewing the possibility of cost recovery mechanisms
(para 3.17-3.18). Moreover, during project review at the end of year 2,
emphasis will be put on ways to reduce future costs. Finally, both MINAGRI
and IDA would monitor very carefully the project's actual costs.
3.28       As a condition of credit effectivenss, the DVA would submit to
IDA for approval its 1990 budget and work program. Agreement was reached
at negotiations that the DVA would submit to IDA for approval its budget
and work program no later than September 30 of the preceding year, starting
in 1990. The sufficient allocation of funding for the project has been
verified through the Public Expenditures Program (PEP) review. In
subsequent years these reviews would continue to monitor the adequacy of
budget allocations for the project.
D.   Procurement and Disbursements
1.   Procurement
3.29      The procurement system in place is highly centralized.  All
requests for procurement have to move from the originating level in the
CIRVA to the DVA through a time-consuming circuit, which is prone to
7/   A broad range is given since it is not possible to estimate exactly
the number of beneficiaries of these projects. Costs are higher,
primarily because of use of expatriate technical assistance for
training and management, as well as lower farmers to extension agents
ratios.



- 16 -
blockage. Procurement of standard items such as office supplies,
fertilizer, or pesticides, can take several months. Procurement for items
that require international bidding can take over a year. The project would
address these problems by providing training in procurement and planning as
part of the strengthening of the BAF at the DVA (para 3.15), and by the
creation of a Special Advance Accotnt (Caisse dtAvance) for the DVA (para
3.36), and government funded accounts for the DVA and the five project
CIRVAs (para 3.25). The latter would enable the 5 CIRVAs to procure
specific items locally. Agreement has been reached at negotiations on the
establishment of the Special Advance Account and the government funded
accounts. The establishments of these accounts, with the exception of the
account for the CIRVA of Amparafaravola, would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. Establishment of the government funded account for the
CIRVA of Amparafaravola would be a condition of disbursement for project
expenditures for this CIRVA. Taxes and duties on IDA financed prcturement
would be paid from the Government funded account (para 3.25).
3.30      Procurement procedures are summarized below in Table 3.4.  All
civil works (USS 1,179,300) would be procured under Local Competitive
Bidding. Considering the small size of the individual building contracts
and the dispersion of the sites (16) over a wide geographic area,
international competitive bidding would not be viable. Procurement of such
construction works will be divided into lots, and would allow bidding for
one, several or all of the lots. IDA would review: (i) the bidding
documents, and bid award and advertising procedures; and (ii) the bid
evaluation and proposed contracts prior to contract award.  The LCB
procedures will be subjected to conditions previously agreed upon with the                j
Government concerning registration of bidders, public bid opening and local
preference.
3.31      For vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles, lots estimated to cost
over US$100,000 would be subject to ICB (US$ 942,500).  IDA would review
bid documents, bid award and advertlsing procedures, and draft contracts
and bid evaluations prior to contract award.
3.32      Small or specialized goods or services estimated to cost less
than US$25,000, will be procured by local or international shopping,
requiring at least three written quotations, except in the case of sole
suppliers, where direct procurement will be permitted. IDA review of
procurement procedures will be required for each case of a sole supplier.



- 17 -
TAble S.4: r2fmfl.t Methoda f/
ICe      LC9       LS   Other     Total
Civ II Vork. 1.9 I.8
(.0)              (0.~~~~~~~~~~~9)
Vehicle, iotorcyclea and      0.7                                0.7
bicyce                      (0.8)                              (0.6)
Equipment                                        0.2             0.2
(.2)           (0.2)
Conaultancien. Studie.
Tralning and Docuentation                            2.1        2.1
(1.I      (1.8)
Project operating Costs                                .1        1.1
(.4)     (0.4)
Total                         0.7      1.8       0.2  8.2        5.4
(0.8)    (.0)      (.2)  (2.2)     (8.7) 2/
3.33     Recruitment of technical assistance, consultants and auditors to
be financed by IDA will follow IDA guidelines.
3.34     The DVA will detail proposed procurement and procurement methods
in its annual work program, for IDA review and approval. Bank prior review
is expected to cover all civil works, and vehicles, motorcycles and
bicycles procurement and about 50X of all other procurement. The threshold
value for prior review will be US$100,000.
2.  Disbursements
3.35     The expected disbursement profile is given in Table 3.5 below.
Disbursements by category are included in Annex 3. All disbursements would
be net of taxes and duties, which would be financed from the Government
fund (pars 3.25).
Table 3.5: Estimated IDA Disbursements.
FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93
Annual        0.55 0.90 0.95 0.80 0.40
Cumulative    0.55 1.45 2.40 3.20 3.60
3.36     The Government has opened a Special Account in foreign exchange
with a commercial bank in the name of the Central Bank. IDA has advanced
US$100,000 in the Special Account, funded from the PPF. The ceiling of the
Special Account will be increased to US$250,000 after project
effectiveness. A Special Advance Account (Caisse d'Avance) would be
established for use by the DVA. This account would have sufficient funds
to cover four months of eligible expenditures. The amount to be advanced
to the DVA will not exceed US$50,000. Expenditures on single items under
US$25,000, expenditures on local technical assistance, and all operating
and training costs will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures.
Establishment of the Special Advance Account would be a condition of
effectiveness.
8/  Figures in brackets indicate IDA financing.
91  Totals will not add up due to rounding.



- 18 -
E.   Accounts, Audits and Reporting Procedures
1.   BudxetinR and Reporting Procedures
3.37      The MINAGRI's present budget system is adequate, and follows the
system of Program Budgets ('Budgets de programme'), which was developed
with technical assistance financed by Cr. 1709-MAG. This budget system
allows to match expenditures by source of financing with the achievement of
quantifiable objectives (e.g. training of M&E agents). As such, the budget
system allows regular monitoring of program achievements. Under the
project, the CIRVAs would be required to produce quarterly financial and
progress reports based on the budget system.
3.38      In order to strengthen budgeting procedures and accountability
at the DVA, the BAF will be strengthened through periodic technizal
assistance to strengthen procurement and financial management procedures
(para 3.15-3.16).
3.39      Assurances were obtained at negotiations, that each year,
starting in 1990, the DVA will prepare a work program and corresponding
budget, and submit these to IDA for approval no later than September 30 of
the previous year. These work plans would include extension targets and
procurement needs for the next year. The submission of a work program and
corresponding budget for 1990 would be a condition of effectiveness.
2.   Accounts and Audits
3.43      The DVAs accounting and finarcial reporting system will be
strengthened and automated under the project (para 3.16). The audit for
expenditures under the PPF has not yet been undertaken. The sa.isfactory
certification of PPF expenditures to end 1989 will be a condition for
effectiveness. This audit should also focus on the appropriateness of
procurement procedures followed. The DVA will maintain separate accounts
for expenditures under the project and prepare year-end financial
statements, which will be audited by external auditors and submitted to IDA
before June 30 of the following year, together with the audit report and
management letter. The accounts will be based on the Program Budget
reports with annexed statements on assets and liabilities. The auditors
would also certify statements of expenditures and use of the Special
Account and the Special Advance Account. Assurances on adherence to these
accounting and auditing procedur !s were obtained at negotiations. The
costs of the audits during the project period will be financed from the
credit. All audits will be undertaken by auditors acceptable to IDA, in
conformity with IDA guidelines.
F.   Project Management
3.41      The project would be implemented by the DVA.  Direct
responsibility would be with its senior personnel, the Director DVA and the
Project Coordinator, who would be in charge of day-to-day project
management. During his absence, the Director DVA will delegate full
responsibility for project implementation to the Project Coordinator.



- 19 -
3.42      MINAGRI would undertake an in-depth review of the project, which
would take place at the end of implementation year 2. The review would
explicitly include other donors active in extension in Madagascar. It
would: (i) assess first results by focussing on evidence of actual changes
ln the organization and performance of the extension setvices; (ii) analyze
results in terms of actual investment and recurrent costs; (iii) share
experience on concepts .nd strategies; (iv) examine alternative approaches
to extension based on regional potentialities and farmers technical level;
(v) suggest options as to the evolution of extension over time; and (vi)
seek ways to reduce project costs and ensure sustainability. Although
short, the period under review would allow to assess the impact of
management, and to a lesser degree adaptive research on the efficiency of
extension. It would, however, not allow for a proper assessment of
adoption rates by farmers. A successful review requires the data needed to
assess the quality and impact of the extension system, and their collection
as early as possible. The M&E unit in the DVA would be charged with this
responsibili.y (para 3.14). At negotiations agreement was reached on the
principles and scope of the review. Preparation of the follow-up project
would be contingent on the results derived from the in-depth review.
3.43      An opdated version of the in-depth review woult serve as a
Project Completion Report to be submitted by Government no later than six
mionths E "er the Project closing date.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Benefits
4.01      In the short-term the main benefits would be the achievement of
improved efficiency and higher effectiveness of the DVA extension service.
Criteria for measuring such achievements would be (a) increased
collaboration between DVA and FOFIFA, (b) a greater knowledge of farmers'
demands and concerns by extension agents, and (c) the elaboration and
implementation of measures to streamline the organization. In the long-
term, the project would improve farmers' productivity, increase incomes for
the rural population, increase food security, and would be a main tool in
stemming environmental decline.
B.   Risks
4.02      The risks include those usually associated with extension
projects: (a) inadequate andlor untimely provision of budgetary resources
by Government; (b) staff of low competence; (c) the possible inability of
extension and research services to produce mes.iages which farmers value in
the short run; (d) slower than expected adoption rates by farmers of the
recommended technical advice; and, (e) poor inter-agency coordination. To
minimize these risks emphasis will be put on strengthening financial and
management capabilities at both the central and CIRVA levels; reinforcing
links between extension and research; preparation of annual work programs
and related budgets; and an in-depth review of the project with emphasis on
impact, sustainability and replicability at the end of year two. The
adequate provision of counterpart funds will be re'iewed annually in the



- 20 -
framework of the Public Expenditure Program. In addition, a Bank staff
member has been assigned to the Resident Mission to specifically advise on
project implementation.
C.   Environmental Impact
4.03      The project is expected to have a strong positive environmental
impact through the conveyance of environmentally sensitive txtension
messages to the rural communities. There is a wide variety of available
fatming techniques, including crop rotations, continuous land cover, agro-
forestry, anti-erosion measures, alley-cropping and contour planting, zero
tilling, composting, and proper use of pesticides and chemical fertilizers,
that the extensi. n service would focus on in its work with farmers' groups.
D.   Impact on Women
4.04      There is no apparent gender problem in the sociological context                IL
of Madagascar. As a matter of fact, a woman is h-ad of the CIRVA of
Antananarivo which is the country's most densily populated CIRVA as well as
one of the largest in size. Also the number of women at the departmental
level of the MIITAGRI is high when compared to most countries in neighboring
Africa.   However, there are only 8 female extension agents at the field
level, out of the approximately 500 extension workers in the 5 project
CIRVAs. About 12% of farms in the project area are headed by women. The
project would provide funds for a study (para 3.17) to be carried out by a
local sociologist, to investigate how to improve women's integration into
extension service activities, including recommendations as to the need for
and the feasibility of increasing the proportion of female extension
agents. It would also study the degree to which the needs of women as
farmers are being met under the proposed extension pilot.
E.   Economic Rate of Return.
4.05      Because of the short duration of the project and its pilot
nature, the effects on increased production would still be small. Even so,
the project is expected to increase participating farmers incomes on
average by a minimum of US$31 per ha based on proven yield increases.
Conservative assumptions, such as a maximum adoption rate of 25X and
applying improved technologies, result in an estimated economic rate of
return of 17 percent. Analysis of the switching values shows that the
results of the project are relatively impervious to changes in the adoption
rate, but would be sensitive to changes in costs and benefits, and delays
caused by organizational weakneeses. The detailed background tables are in
Annex 5 and 6.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER,
CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      Assurances obtained at negotiations:
i.   assurances on accounting and auditing arrangements satisfactory
to IDA (para 3.40);
ii. scope and implementation of an in-depth review of the project at
the end of implementation year 2 (para 3.42);



- 21 -
iii. establishment of government funded accounts for the DVA and the
five project CIRVAs (para 3.25);
iv.  Borrower will take all nece_sary measures to ensure that
adequate field allowances are paid to DVA staff needed for
project execution and make the necessary budget allocations
therefor (para 2.14);
v.   terms of reference, cost estimates and arrangements for
executing the studies would be prepared by DVA and submitted to
IDA for approval (para 3.19);
vi.  DVA would submit to IDA for approval its budget and work
program, no later than September 30 of the preceding year (para
3.39); and
vii. MINAGRI agreed to take the necessary measures to ensure that
funds are available from which the salaries of contractual
workers would be paid during the first quarter of each year
(para 2.14).
5.02      Conditions of project effectiveness:
1.   satisfactory audit of the 1989 accounts (para 3.40);
ii.  Government has submitted to IDA for approval a plan to address
the problem of unqualified staff and attracting more qualified
staff (para 3.06);
iii. Special Advance Account to be opened for the DVA (para 3.36);
iv.  Government funded accounts to be opened for the DVA and the
CIRVAs of Antananarivo, Ambatondrazaka, Miarinarivo and
Moramanga, and first deposit made (para 3.25);
v.   DVA and FOFIFA to enter into agreement for cooperation in
short-term adaptive research (para 3.13);
vi.  designation of a full-time head of the BAF with staff (para
3.15);
vii. DVAs 1990 annual work program and corresponding budget has been
submitted to IDA for approval (para 3.39, condition already
met).
5.03      Conditions of disbursement for the to be created CIRVA of
Amparafaravola would be:
i.   Studies have been concluded to review the problems related to
the restructuring of the extension services of the parastatal
SOMALAC (para 3.03);
ii. Government and IDA have agreed on recommendations to be
undertaken for the restructuring of the extension services of
the parastatal SOMALAC (para 3.03);
iii. The CIRVA of Amparafaravola has been created (para 3.03); and
iv.  Government funded account to be opened for the CIRVA of
Amparafaravola (para 3.25).
5.05      With the indicated assurances and conditions the proposed
project would be suitable for a Credit on standard terms, with 40 years
maturity, of US$3.68 million (SDR 2.8 million) equivalent to the Government
of Madagascar.



MINISTERE Of L- PRODUCTION AGNICOLEE 
ET DU PATIIIIOINE FOUCIE 1 "81
Si M I A. Alf
Rmo_g Ag-*           knt_ Z  I                            1* et
et   i_ AS__ 10                                                             SeM SS
S_m       Sir                                                              fir7       Oueusp l  P    
de Am Fo o   ad                                             .                    o
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                              I .   _  S__e    I
Is       hfSwI   I ~~~ ~~~~~~~~-                            I 6*
lt _ | I 4~~~~~~swvwo   ss -          |      I|Sfv c s s wA I
|~~~~~~~~~~SA    e  t a Vs  {IM 
do I#Pp                                            Moom                               Sol
serv"~~~~~~~~~~~~~ do                          .            I
,~~~~~~~~~~~f r4ko                            Aq  s*P l,rv4ftno, 
ev  ll       l~~~~~~~~ Ipl_VA  1111Cr  ltAA)le_
lnl_fS¢~~~~~~~~~~~~T III  A)z IUIPlb-oII                          geV         11



DIRECTION DE LA VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
|DIRECTEUR|
Servce dA.p'nbmie      Sorvki  de la          Sevice du Suivi         Sevic da ie            Burea
at de Im               Farnmti4n at de        et de I'Evmlumtin       Protection             Admweiauutlf
Vugarimation           Is   ts i              die to Vui*Mi6eUmw Vdgitm                      et Fi ewwier
(SA.V)                 (S.F.D)               (S.S.E.V)               (S.P.V)                 (B.A_F)
l.pectiw P.S.
doe Citum              Fmati lstioti                                  et        l              Permml
vigtale
StnwcturatilmTauem                                                    Avertiesemnet            FAKb
du M.uhW Ruwmd        lbtmmInterumlispw                               Agricol
#A
opmetinnidleSupport                     (tuds                  Pyt.ww i
Pd9    psSpicnfsmPhtpmce
Rechwrchem             Duwnaincalammitf
D6voloppemmont                                                       Publiqueu



ANNEX 3
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PILOT PROJECT
IDA Disbursement Profile
(in US$)
Cumulative    Cumulative as
IDA FY    Semester      Disbursements    Disbursements   2 of Credit
89            1         200,000            200,000           5.4
2         350,000            550,C00          14.9
90           3          500,000          1,050,000          28.5
4         400,000          1,450,000          39.4
91           5          515,000          1,965,000          53.4
6         515,000          2,480,000          67.4
92           7          400,000          2,880,000          78.3
8         400,000          3,280,000          89.1
93           9          200,000          3,480,000          94.6
10        200,000          3,680,000         100.0
Disbursements by Categorv
Amount of
IDA Financing
(SDR)             X
Disbursement Category:
I.    Civil Works
(other than Category III)   490,000   80% of expenditures
II.   Vehicles, motorcycles,
bicycles, spare parts and
equipment (other than
Category III)                360,000  100% of expenditures
III.  (a) Civil works for the CIRVA
of Amparafaravola            50,000   80Z of expenditures
(b) vehicles, motorcycles,
bicycles, spare parts and
equipment                   150,000  100% of expenditures
IV.   Consultancies, studies,
training and documentation  510,000  100% of expenditures
V.    Field allowances during:
(a)  1990                        60,000  100% of expenditures
(b)  1991                        60,000   50% of expenditures
VI.   Refunding of PPF                 760,000
VII.    Unallocated                    360,000
Total:                               2,800,000



ANNX 4
Page 1 of 6
Partilci- Increwental   Total              Incrementsl  Totsl
pation   Benefits  Incremental  Project    Cost   Incremntal   Not
Year Surface   Rate      per Ha.   Benefite       Cost      per He.    Cost    lonefits
1990  271,300        2        158     854,869  2,600,600         127  2,889,229 (1,884,870)
1991  271,800        5        168   2,187,147  2,00,006          127  8,723,072 (1,585,925)
1992  271,800       10        158   4,274,296  1,860,000         127  4,746,144   (471,849)
1998  271,300       15        158   6,411,442  1,00,000          127 6,169,216    242,226
1994  271,300       20        158   8,548,689  1,00,0W           127  7,892,288    656,301
1995  271,300       25        158  10,886,787  1,600,600         127  9,615,360  1,070,377
196  271,300        25        158  10,695,787  1,066,60          127  9,615,886  1,070,877
1997  271,300       25        158  10,e6S,787  1,000,600         127  9,615,860  1,070,877
1998  271,300       26        158  10,685,787  1,000,600         127  9,816,860  1,070,877
1999  271,300       25        158  16,686,787  1,000,000         127  9,615,860  1,070,877
2000  271,800       25        158  10,685,787  1,000,00          127  9,615,386  1,070,877
2001  271,300       26        158  10,685,787  1,606,600         127  9,615,360  1,070,377
2002  271,300       26        158  10,686,787  1,000,661         127  9,615,360  1,070,377
2003  271,806       25        1568  16,685,787  1,000,00         127  9,615,860  1,0706377
2004  271,300       25        158  16,685,787  1,000,666         127  9,615,860  1,076,877
2005  271,360       26        158  10,685,787  1,006,060         127  9,615,80  1,070,877
2006  271,800       25        158  10,685,787  1,006,006         127  9,615,360  1,070,87
2007  271,300       26        158  10,685,787  1,000,0W          127  9,615,860  1,070,877
2008  271,800       25        158  10,685,737  1,0W,000          127  9,615,880  1,070,377
2009  271,800       25        158  10,685,787  1,60O,60G         127  9,616,880  1,070,877
Total                                  182,512,380 22,300,006                        18,062,088
Economic Rate of Return          17.63X
iPV at 10X discount rate     2,296,80
Switching Values:
Incremental Costs                   +4
Incremental Benefits                -4
Participation Rate                 -18
For the Economic Rate of Return Caleulation, It was  ossume  that (1)  106X of all benefits
would accrue to tho project, (2) participation rate would be held at a mxioum of 25X;
(3) that production mixes would not be significantly altered as a result of the project; and
(4) that the prmanent Incremental cost of the project would be related to replacement of
equipment and vehicles.



FARM MDEL I (PADDY OROUIN RICE)       Traditional Method                                      Improved Method          Incrmental
-----------------------                                                      Cost and Production
Unit                                         Method I              Method 1I       ------------------------
Inputs              Unit      Cost      Quantity    Cost                 Quantity    Cost   quantity    Cost       Method I  Method II
Manure               Kg.       10,00          1.7    16,687                    B.a    38,833      8.8    83,333       16,687      16,867
Seds                 Kg.          288       125.1    a6,6eo                  125.6    36,00    125.6    86,000             e           o
Fungicide/
Insecticide       Kg.        8,80           .0          a                   6.1       am8       6.1       380         88s         389
NPlt                 Kg.         a8           0..          a                  20.0      7,60    866.6   114,000        7,666     114,001
Ure                  Kg.          a88         6.6          6                   8.6      8,840     6.6     24,760       8,048      24,700
Pesticides             l.       1,            e           o.0  6              6.6        s66     9.6        60          s6e         600
Labor                Day        1,666       204.0   204,600                  240.0   240,000   240.0   240,660        36,00       36,0a
Total                                                266,867                          319,85             447,913      64,187     192,247
Production            T.      026,180         2.9   652,820                    2.4   782,784      3.8   976,480    188,464    826,160
Incose (FMC)                                         396,653                         462,931             630,6B7      66,277     133,913
(US8)                                             248                             289                 332          41          84
FARM MODEL Il (WHEAT off-season)                                                              Increanta
Traditional Method               Improved Method        Cost and
Unit   -----------------------                       -    - Froduction
Inputs              Unit      Cost      Quantity    Cost                 Quantity    Cost    ---------
Manure               Kg.       160,6          1.7    18,067                    8.8    38,333   16,667
Seed                 Kg.          5600      15U.6    76,86                   160.0    76,666        0
Boracine             Kg.        1,300         6.6          a                  10.0    13,666   13,000
NPK                  Kg.          gee       200.6    78,000                  400.0   162,000   76,060
Uree                 Kg.          g86        60.0    19,60                   166.0    38,606  119,00
Pesticides             1.        1,600        6.6          6                               0        0
Labor                Day        1,066       138.0   136,080                  189.8   180,606  60,60
Total                                                318,667                          491,338  174,667
Production             T.      867,206        1.5   560,8e6                    2.6   918,666  367,206
Income (FMG)                                         234,183                         426,667  192,538                                       'El
(USM)                                             148                             267      120                                        0
H~~~~~~~~~~~o



FARM MODEL III (POTATOES off-season)                                                          Inemental
Traditional Method               Improved MLthod        Cost and
Unit   -----------------------           .======roduction
Inputs              Unit      Cost      Quantity    Cost                 Quantity    Cost   ----------
Manure               Kg.        13600         1.7    16,667                    8.8    88 ,883   16e7
Seeds                 Kg.         26      2,006.6   41010,6                2,000 .    400,00@       a
Dithan.              Kg.        8,809         9.0          0                  16.9    88, 60   38,906
NPK                   Kg.         ao          0.0          0                 600.0    1W,M  190,06
Urge                 Kg.          880         e.o          o                  66.0    19,66   190606
Pesticide              1.        1,l o.e                   0                    .*0        *        6
Labor                Day        1,6         171.0   171,116                  248.0   24B,000  72,060
Tot I                                                697,667                         919,838  881,667
Production             T.      seem          12.9   8009,ea                   26.9  1,260,001 66,6011
_ -----                         ---------  _------
Income  (FMG)                                         12,838                         881,887  819,388
(US$)                                               e                             207      20e
FARM MODEL IV (CAE8AGE off-season)
Incremental
Traditional Method               Improved Method        Cost and
Unit   -----------------------                                  roduct;on
Inputs              Unit      Cost      Quantity    Cost                 Quantity    Coat   --- -----
Manure               Kg.        1,669         8.8    83,838                   19.9   111,800    66,667
Seeds                Kg.       20,00          6.6   169,600 9.e    ;: 'G                            O
Dithane              Kg.        8,8aw         e.o          9                  19.6    88 w,e  83,6
NPK                  Kg.          8se         9.6          9                 666.9   228,e9   226,61
Ur**                 Kg.          880         o.e          o                 200.0    76,169   70,910
Pesticides            I.        1,eo0         e.e          o.e                             e        o
Labor                Day        1,600       149.0   140,006                  227.0   227,000  87,000
Total                                                838,888                          624,600  490,667
Production            T.      116,66          6.9   669,69e                   16.0  1,66l,es 6  9906096                                    OF 
Inco  (FMU)                                          826,667                         826,000 499,8a3
(US3)                                             204                             518      812                                      0



FARM MODEL V (CORN/intenstfication of tansty)
Incremntal
Traditional Method               Improved Method       Cost and
Unit   ------------------- ---                                  roduction
Inputs              Unit      Cost      Quantity    Cost                quantity    Cost   ---
Manure               Kg.       19,U8          1.7    16,867                   2.6    26,000   8,aaa
Seds                 Kg.          120        20.8      2,406                 28.6      2,460       e
Fungiclde/           Kg.        8,800        060          0                   060         76       76
Insecticide
NPK                  Kg.          ass       200.0    76,886                 800.6   114,0088 86,88
Uroe                 Kg.          88         60.      19o886                 768    28,600   95600
Pesticides            l.       I1m            06          a 6                                      a
Labor                Day        l,m"        148.0    1840,08                220.6   220,600   80O0,.
Total                                                264,867                         88,976  la6,069
Production            T.      258,800         1.1   2765,08                   2.6   866,688  8765.8.
Income (FMO)                                         2e,983                          280024  289,091
(USi) 18                                                                         la      149
FARM MODEL VI (PLUVIAL OR=83 RICE/intenaltication of tanety)
Inrenental
Traditional Method               Improved MethWd        Cost and
Unit   -----------------------            _                     roductton
Inputs              Unit    :oat        quantity    Cost                Qusatity    Cost   --
Manure               Kg.       108,811        1.7    16,667                   2.6    26,68      8,883
Seed                 Kg.          288       120 0     88,686                100.0    28,006 (686)
Fungieide/           Kg.        8,888         63          6                   6.1        a88      as8
Insecticide
NPII                 Kg.          88          8.8         e                 286.0    76,08   76,986
Ures                 Kg.          as8         8.8         6                  58.6    19,804    19,e68
Pesticides             .        1,88          0           8                                    0                       05
Labor                Day        1,000       1408.    1408,0                 2108.    210,000  78,868
Total                                                65,267                          148,388  98,113                                      0
Production            T.       26,1680        0.9   293,544                   1.8   687,088 298,644
Income (FVG)                                        243,277                          438,700  196,431
(USS)                                            162                              274     122
_I                          U'



FARM MODEL VII (GREEN BEANS/intensitfication of toanety)
Incremental
Traditional Method               Improved Method        Cost and
Unit   -----------------------                                  roduction
Inputs              Unit      Cost      Quantity     Cost                Quantity     Cost   -----
Manure               Kg.       19O00          1.7    186087                    2.5    25,660    8,338
Seodb                Kg.          280       199.0    26,009                  100.0    28,009         a
Fungic1d./           Kg.        8,69e         e. O                             0.1        asa    a8e
Insecticide
NPK                  Kg.          a8n         0.0          0                 809.0   114,906  114,000
Uree                 Kg.          SW          6.0          6                  76.0    28,600  26,690
Pesticides             1.       l,9.          e.a          o                                o        0
Labor                Day        1,000       150.0   159 ,99                  210.0   210,090  6,6006
Total                                                 44,667                          195,880  161,213
Production            T.      aw69,           0.7   420,60e                    1.2   720,000 89009,9
Income (FPC)                                         8765,88                          624,120 148,787
. (US$)                                              236                             828       98
FARM MODEL VIII (GROUNDNUTS/intenslf1cation of tanety)
Incremental
Traditional Method               Improved Method        Cost and
Unit   -----------------------                                  rduction
Inputs              Unit      Cost      Quantity    Cost                 Quantity     Cost   ----------
Vanure               Kg.        l000          1.7    18,687                    2.6    26,900    8,833
Seeds                Kg.          e0        156J.0    909,9                  160.0    909,606 
Fungicide/           Kg.        7,8WO         o.9                               .1        88so    a8o
Insecticide
NPK                  Kg.           89         0.0          0                 869.9   114,000  114,969
Uree                 Kg.          880         6.0          19                 75.6    26,506  28,56
Pesticides             I.       1,696         9.9          0                                0        0
Labor                bay        1,006       175.6   175,069                  189.0   180,69      6,500
Tote I                                               196,667                          267,860  161,218              
Production            T.      609,106         0.7   420,006                    1.2   720,000 386,000                                           x
Income (FPG)                                         818,833                          482,120  148,787                                      o
(USS)                                             196                             289       ea
-         U                           II I



Incr e~ntal Cost per ha:
Main Season            Off Season
Weighted              Weighted
Incremental                     Iner"ntal             Inremiental
Cost                             Cost                  Cost         Total
Ruzler..              (fPG)                 Weight   (USI)        Weight   (US8)
Rice                 84,187                   0.62         21       0.00          0         21
potatoes            69006e                    0.w6          0       e.08         u          as
Cabbae              490,667                   0.00          0       0.03          9          9
W_et                174,667                   -.do                  e.08          9          9
Tanety
Potatoes            650,600                   0.04         16       6.06          0         16
Green Beans         161,21J                   0.07          7       0.*0          0          7
Croundnuta          161,218                   0.15         14       6.06          0         14
Corn                186,09                    0.22         19       9.06          0         19
Total                                         1.0          77       0.19         60        127
Incrementa  Income per ha:
Main Season           Oft Season
e = z _----_ _----------    ----------
Weighted              Weighted
Incremental                     Incremental           Incremental
Incooe                           Income                 Income      Total
Rizieree              (FM3)                 Weight      (US$)     Weight      (US$)
==
Rice                180,484                   0.52         42       6.06          O         42
Potatoes           8aww                       o.e0          0       0.08         17         17
Cabbage             990,R00                   0.00                  G."8         19         19
Wheat               867,200                   0.0          a       0.08         18         18
T n ty
Potatoes            888,667                   0.04          8       S0.0          6          8
Creen Beans         80*,066                   O.07         18       6.0           O         18
Groundnut           800,606                   0 15         28       0.06          O         28                                                *i
Corn                875,6,6                   0.22         52       0.0           e         62 
Total                                         1.06        148       0.19         58        197
Notes:   Production weight. are based on prsent production mixes in the pilot CIRVAs.
All Incrmontal production is due to Improved production methods that emphasize better seds,
liited use of insecticides and chemicals to combat plant dieoses, as well as improved soit
fertilization with imanure and chemical fertilizers
I



ANNEX 5
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PILOT PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICE CALCULATION
WHTE RICE                                                      WHEAT
Price/ton FC8 Bangkok                                          Pricefton FOB U.S. Gult Ports
July 1984-June 1985                217                         July 1984-Jun. 1968                    148
July 198S-June 1988                18                          July 1985-June 1986                    129
July 1986-June 1987                188                         July 1988-June 1987                    110
July 1987-Jun. 1988                220                         July 1987-June 198                     124
February 1988-Februcry 1989        271                         February 1988-February 1989            168
Bas, price FOS Bangkok             281                         CIF Tamtavc (US3)                      213
Insurance and Freight               76                         Store  and Handling                     17e
=-                         Transportation Tamatave-
CIF Tamatave (USS)                 88J                            Antenanarivo:                        26
Storage and Handling                20 9                       Price KO0AMA Antananarivo
Transportation Tmatave-                                                            (US3)              266
Antananarivos                    20                                             (FMU)          498,000
Price Antananarivo (US$)            a"                         Transporttion farm
(FMG)      655,e09                            KOSAMA and collection
foes                                 26
Transport A processing                                                                                 ---
factory-Antananarivo            18W s                       Fargat. price per ton (USS)            230
(PUG)      867, 200
Transport exploitation               2
vero usino
Frais de collect et                  2
d'approch.
Ferugate price per ton (USW)       984
(FUG)   826,160
e Exclusiv, of taxes and duties.
so Includ1.a approximately 89O loss of weight due to processing
I



ANNEX 6
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PILOT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS                                          Code No.
1.   Progra-ie de Developpement Agricole sur les                D25021
Hauts-Plateaux; Rapport d'Evaluation No 0134-MG;
Septembre 1988.
2.   Rapport de Suivi-Evaluation de la Vulgarisation            D33378
dans lea trois CIRVAs pilotes (campagne 1988-89);
3.   Etude de la restructuration.  Diagnostic de 1'EIP;         D22816
Octobre 1988.
4.   Cultures Pluviales au Lac Alaotra.  Acquis de la           D33379
Recherche-Developpement et diffusion de
1'innovation; Juillet 1989.
B.   STAFF WORKING PAPERS
Technical Papers
1.   Training (Design and Needs)
2.   Relationship Research-Extension
3.   Monitoring and Evaluation
4.   Costs and Financing



IBRD 21993R
MADAGASCAR                                          Antairanana
Pilol Project CIRVAs    AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION                                            4
ODR Il Project Area (IFAD)             PILOT   PROJECT
Paved Roads 
Allweof h  Poods                                                  NOSYt SEobe '
Non-permonent Roads                                                 H.I.lI Oe
Railroads
RIvers                                                                    ,                          I
*/\ &      ANTSIRANAN,
4     Airports
6      Notionel Capitol                                                                   oIonbr          J  4'
F forilony (Province) Copitols                                       AnY.ohIW  4'                    4- 'ro" 
Foritany 8oundolies                                                                                        AntaIa\°
-   -    I.:srnofior.al Boundcoi is
Mohoaonga  ..                                                ,
\ ( Bo~Sew                   \    s   ;,,.,,.    . i
AAl.vi                                                Q s)               )                                        P"
Sog°M(oo                      e            oryn                        \2Mnnono,o
/                A,nbolobsm'v °     -\,                               
/  Mo.volonoso-.an     4'              QAiTOMASM NA
t     !          tE        ~ ~ /  4-rrbod4otwo
And,,an.*            ~~~~Fs.oaerne Ats,nenene
M m.ra                       tondr: ,       CIR,1 VA APt5ATC4NrAZAY.A
-*         :,eo" o AND AMPAPAIARAUOJA
-   '   A<>+*(  anrororerbffl ;    2   1' Toomosino
s_OAn  oro  /   AN *TAN             ,Ambi; ramer   - ---             -    CIRVA ANTANANARVO
CIRVA MIARINARIVO -
-    IRVA MORAYANGA
)     \            ~~~~~Antsrar                      /Mono
Morondovo d    m                  boadw       _.*r                          IOf F          so      o      o
Snwo.\    1/  /erge 
Telioroi                                                    VAmb gaihemohaoo
To     Cy L IARAnto                                                             T
Mofomb   <ordo"o                  0       3 _/m6.v o
OA^ko=obp              FI                            soekf
8.k,1e e00bei                         1°Vobzoeno 0ILOMnlS O         so    100    I°   20,0
.V*"w ,s n, me eo^drozo<Foreilererq                                     x         MIIZS O        50 .IO0
Tolior                       "_            iBd/
g. IIOrO        \                       /      is     OM d         n    do              ZAI!SLE TANZANIA
s4, ek "enokel o                    * /.e              At.                                          4 nO.OkOS
Me -s oe n.e aye rr..' M, >.I                                                                                    ;                        A,
weiwaorl oi n   ,mbosr<*r f t4Ar                                              MAS.,awo
Smnlenne'        t Sem Cnne'                                             Toolonoro an
oi't" rr      "' '                                          AIIboyelbez                                  SOUTH 
V.  emm oA.'                                                                                          AFRICA i
oxn(            -i                                                                        o                   tAZILANO
FEBRUARY 1990



