Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19075
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3436-IN)
May 20, 1999
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =       Indian Rupee (Rs)
Rs. 1.0 =       100 Paise
At Appraisal: April 1990   Rs 13.6  =    US$ 1.00
At Closing Date: June 1999 Rs 39.8  =    US$ 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilovolt (kV)          = 1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt ampere (kVA)   = 1,000 volts-amperes (VA)
1 Kilowatt-hour (kWh)    = 1,000 watt-hours
I Megawatt-hour (MWh)    = 1,000 kilowatt-hours
I Gigawatt-hour (GWh)    = 1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB               -                Asian Development Bank
APSEB             -                Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board
CEA               -                Central Electricity Authority
DEA               -                Department of Economnic Affairs
DPL               -                Durgapur Project Limited
EAMU              -                Environmental Assessment and Monitoring Unit
EMCAT             -                Energy Management, Consulting and Training
GEB               -                Gujarat Electricity Board
GOI               -                Government of India
HSEB              -                Haryana State Electricity Board
IBRD              -                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB               -                International Competitive Bidding
IPP               -                Independent Power Projects
KSEB              -                Kerala State Electricity Board
MPSEB             -                Madhya Pradesh State Electricity Board
NCB               -                National Competitive Bidding
OFAP              -                Operational and Financial Action Plan
OPS               -                Operational Policy Statement
PIF               -                Pre-Investment Fund
PFC               -                Power Finance Corporation
PPA               -                Power Purchase Agreement
PSEB              -                Punjab State Electricity Board
RBI               -                Reserve Bank of India
RFP               -                Request for Proposal
RFQ               -                Request for Qualifications
ROR               -                Rate of Return
RSEB              -                Rajasthan State Electricity Board
SEB               -                State Electricity Board
SGC               -                State Generating Corporation
T&D               -                Transmission & Distribution
TA                -                Technuical Assistance
TNEB              -                Tamnil Nadu State Electricity Board
UPSEB             -                Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board
USAID             -                United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Vice President:                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:              Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:                Alastair J. McKechnie
Country Sector Team Leader:   Kari Nyman
Task Leader:                   Magdalena V. Manzo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3436-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                            Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .................................................. i-v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives ..........................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives .......3..................................3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .........................................5
D. Project Sustainability ..........................................9
E. Bank Performance .........................................                                     I ()
F. Borrower Performance ..........................................11
G. Assessment of Outcome ......2................................... 1
H. Future Operation ......................................... 12
I. Key Lessons Learned ......2................................... I 
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .15
Table 3: Project Timetable .16
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                       .      16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .16
Table 7A: Studies Included in Project ..........................................                   17
Table 7B: Studies Included in Project ..........................................                   17
Table 8A: Project Costs .......................................... 18
Table 8B: Project Financing ..........................................                             18
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits .......................................... 18
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .......................................... 19
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Policy Statement .......................................... 2 1
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................                 24
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .......................................... 24
Appendix A: Aide Memoire of the ICR Mission ..........................................             25
Appendix B: I. Borrower's Evaluation Report .........                ................................. 33
II. Borrower's Operational Plan ..........................................           48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3436-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Power Utilities Efficiency
Improvement Project in India, for which Loan 3436-IN in the amount of US$ 265 million equivalent
was approved on January 28, 1992 and made effective on March 18. 1992.
The Loan was closed on June 30, 1998 compared to the original closing date of December 31,
1997. Upon mutual agreement between the Government of India (GOI) and the Bank, US$ 25
million was canceled on February 18, 1997, and another US$ 25 million was canceled on March 26,
1998. Final disbursement took place on December 3, 1998, at which time a balance of US$ 6.8
million was canceled. Parallel cofinancing for the project was provided by the United States Agency.
for International Development (USAID).
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Magdalena Manzo (Task Leader) and Ms.Vikki Ziff (Projects
Assistant) of the Energy Sector Unit, South Asia Region (SASEG). It was reviewed by Mr. Kari
Nyman, India Energy Team Leader and endorsed by Mr. Alastair McKeclhnie, Manager, SASEG.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision and completion mission
in July 1998. It is based on material in the project file as well as on discussions with officials of the
Power Finance Corporation (PFC), the project implementing agency, and with some of PFC's
beneficiary clients. PFC contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing statistical data,
commenting on the mission's aide memoire and draft ICR, as well as through preparation of its own
evaluation of the project's execution.



INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3436-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluationi Sunmiary
Introduction
1.     The Power Utilities E'fficienicy Improvemenit P'roject was desigiled to h1elp address several
areas of inefficiencies in India's power sector whicih were identilied in a sector study conidticted by
the Bank in 1989. These areas were: (i) investimienits in transimiissioni and distributionl (T&I)) lagged
investments in generation capacity; (ii) SE13 operationis were  characterized by poor mainiteniatice.
inadequate controls, poor communication  and monitorinig systems, lack ol' trained staff. and
unsatisfactory billing and collection systems; (iii) performance ol' genieraltinig plants in India was
below standards; (iv) environmental operating conditions of many thermal plants were substandard;
and (v) the quality of project preparation needed considerable improveiienit.
2.     The Project was also designed to help improve the finianlcial performance of' the sector.
Specifically, it was envisaged that by extending financinig throughi tile Plower Finanice Corporation
(PFC) based on a set of lending criteria, financial discipline and comiimercial priniciples would be
instilled among the borrowing SEBs. The Bank's involvement in the project was viewed as part of a
continuing effort to support institutional improvement at the SEB level. It was thetn perceived that
lending through PFC  would expand the Bank's impact in the sector by having access to mole SEliBs
in India, as opposed to direct lending by the Bank to a limited number of SE13s. More importantly.
since PFC's lending operations with the SEBs would be on a frequent and contilillilng basis, PfC hal(d
the advantage of a close and regular contact with the SEBs, thus providinig a better potenitiatl l'or
enforcing lending conditionalities.
Project Objectives and Description
3.     The principal objectives of the project were to: (a) support the Government's efl'forts to make
PFC a viable and effective instrument for effecting improvements in the power sector; (b) strengthen
the operations of the beneficiary SEBs by lending only to those willing to undeltake acceptable
reform programs; (c) foster better use of existing power facilities by reducinig constraints in thie
transmission and distribution (T&D) systems; (d) mitigate the adverse environmental impact of
thermal plants in operation by providing adequate anti-pollution and monitoring  f'acilities; and (e)
improve the preparation of power projects and promote the development of the local conisultinig
industry by funding pre-investment studies and engineering for power projects.
4.     The project financed the following areas of activities: (a) the expansion and strengthlcnilig of'
T&D networks; (b) environmental upgrading of power plants; (c) engineering studies for system
renovations; (d) strengthening of operations and management of SEBs; (e) institutional strengthening
of PFC; and (f) creation of a Pre-Investment Fund (PIF).



ii
Implementation Experience and Results
5.     The project's development objectives were only partially achieved.  Specifically, the
objective of raising the overall financial and operating performance of participating SEBs was not
achieved. On the other hand, the project resulted in the expansion of PFC's financial lending
operations, in removing T&D bottlenecks to the grids, improving environmental management of
power facilities, and in increasing the SEBs' institutional capacity in selected areas of utility
management, project planning as well as in its dealings with private independent power producers
(IPPs).
6.     The financial and operational difficulties continued to be faced by India's power sector are
evidenced by its continued heavy reliance on subsidy support from the states, persistent power supply
shortages, and high systems and revenue losses. The expectation that the project would result in the
financial strengthening of SEB operations, leading to overall improvement of the power sector,
proved to be unrealistic. Just as earlier conditioned Bank assistance to SEBs failed to improve the
SEBs' operational and financial performance, Bank lending through PFC did not result in
commercialization of the SEBs' operations. The Bank has since recognized that such improvements
are difficult to achieve in the absence of a comprehensive restructuring of India's power sector, one
involving independent regulation, unbundling of services, entry of competition and expansion of
ownership base. Moreover, the project did not duly take into account the extent to which state
subsidies for the power industry would exacerbate tariff distortions as well as account for a growing
part of state fiscal deficits.
7.     The project was, however, more successful in achieving its other development as well as
physical objectives. Investments in T&D are expected to result in better utilization of power
facilities, which would reduce technical losses, irnprove system load factors, and reduce power
outages and frequency drops in areas affected. Out of 52 investment schemes, 40 are completed and
the remaining are over 75% completed.
8.     Against the appraisal estimate of US$ 640 million, the resulting total project cost was US$
580 million. Of the total Loan value of US$ 265 million, US$ 25 million was canceled on February
19, 1997, and another US$ 25 million was canceled on March 26, 1998. Both cancellations were
largely due to project savings arising from the depreciation of the Indian Rupee and from lower
contract prices. The cancellation in 1998 was also partly due to the dropping out of some sub-
projects, and delays in completion of some PIF-funded activities.
9.     Significant delays in procurement actions were experienced in the initial stage of the project
due to the protracted period taken for the Bank anad PFC to reach agreement on the commercial
provisions of the tender documents. Implementation delays were also experienced due to changes in
the pipeline of sub-projects after loan approval. These delays resulted in deferment of some
implementation milestones set at time of appraisal, and in disbursement lags. The closing date of the
Loan was extended by six months to June 30, 1998. Disbursements were completed on December 3,
1998. In total, US$ 208.2 million was disbursed, leaving a balance of US$ 6.8 million which was
canceled.
10.    Of the factors affecting project implementation, those subject to state government control
included: (i) lack of managerial autonomy given to the SEBs; (ii) reluctance to pursue tariff reforms
and delayed payment to SEBs of revenue subsidies; and (iii) failure to honor, in a timely manner,
state government guarantee extended to PFC upon default by the SEB in its loan repayment.



iii
1I.   Factors which were subject to PFC's control included: (i) The application of lending criteria
including requiring sub-borrowers of the Loan to agree to implement Operational and Financial
Action Plans (OFAP). The OFAPs called for improvements in tariff generation. cost accounting and
control, establishment of audit and management information systems; metering, billing and
collection, and T&D planning, among others. (ii) The enforcement by PFC of its Operational Policy
Statement (OPS) which embodied credit evaluation principles, profitability targets, capital adequacy
and other prudential norms. Compliance to the OPS was generally satisfactory, although deviations
from provisions on borrower exposure limit and non-rescheduling of loan repayments subsequently
occurred. (iii) Monitoring of sub-project implementation including compliance by sub-borrowers
with Bank procurement procedures.
12.    Factors generally subject to sub-borrowers' control included: (i) uneven attention given to
implementation of various activities agreed under the OFAPs which resulted in delayed achievement
of some OFAP targets; (ii) lack of counterpart funds which adversely affected payments to
contractors and their timely reimbursement by PFC; (iii) inadequate project accounting systems; and
(iv) weak project management and institutional capacity to efficiently handle erection and
commissioning work.
13.    Bank performance during project preparation and implementation was satisfactory. The
Bank team gave due attention to adoption by PFC of appropriate prudential norms and credit
evaluation principles in its day-to-day operations. However, while the lending approach taken was at-
that time in direct response to the Government's strategy for introducing financial and operational
reforms in the SEBs, on hindsight, the reform measures designed into the OFAP instruments proved
to be inadequate and unsustainable. Bank lending strategy has since recognized that in order to effect
more lasting improvements in the power sector, a more sweeping package of reforms than those
embodied in the OFAPs was called for.
14.   Borrower performance was satisfactory throughout the project.  Commitment by PFC
management to the project's development objectives was demonstrated at the outset in the
formulation of a comprehensive OPS and associated operating guidelines and procedures. Extensive
staff efforts and funding support were devoted to assist borrowing SEBs in formulating their OFAPs.
Good project reporting was maintained over the five-year period. Supervision and monitoring
activities involved over 200 visits to sub-borrowers, not to mention business meetings at PFC
headquarters.
15.   In terms of overall developmental impact on the power sector, project outcome is marginal.
Despite targets set in the OFAPS, financial performance and delivery services of the SEBs did not
improve. It is now widely acknowledged that within the existing regulatory and administrative
framework SEBs will not be in a position to regain financial and commercial viability on their own.
On the other hand, with respect to the project's other institutional development and physical
components, the outcome is satisfactory. In particular, PFC's business operations grew and its
financial base strengthened. Moreover, implementation of investment and study activities by the
SEBs proceeded relatively well, albeit subject to delays.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, Key Lessons Learned
16.    Sustainability of institutional improvements among beneficiary SEBs is unlikely unless a
major restructuring of the sector is pursued at the state level. Nevertheless, with the reform agenda
gaining ground among the Government leadership, and as more states adopt reform measures,



iv
successful implementation of the OFAPs is now more plausible than at any other time. Already, two
of the loan beneficiary SEBs, i.e., Haryana SEB and! Andhra Pradesh SEB, have gone for sweeping
reforms with direct assistance from the World Bank, increasing the prospect of their meeting and
even exceeding, the financial and operational performance targets set in their OFAPs. Future Bank
lending to state level utilities through PFC should be extended only if the participating states have
adopted a reform agenda that the Bank would have otherwise promoted under its current direct
lending operations with reforming state power sectors. Further, institutional capacity of PFC to
manage the complex process of restructuring would have to be strengthened.
17.    Despite its risky loan portfolio, sustainability of PFC's operations is likely. PFC's business is
expected to continue to expand with the diversification of the Company's client base, and with the
able support of a relatively stronger financial management team. Further, as more of the SEBs
embrace reforms, portfolio quality is expected to improve. To preserve gains made in its financial
operations, PFC would have to apply more rigor in the evaluation of the quality of its loans, strictly
enforce its policies on exposures, and review and strengthen its policies on loan loss provisioning.
18.    PFC continues to serve as key channel for central Government assistance to the power sector,
particularly in providing financial incentives to states which agree to adopt policy reforms promoted
by the Center. The Company's principal strategy is to become one of the leading sources of project
finance in the sector, and to become more actively involved in private power projects by offering a
wider range of financing services. But PFC's future success depends on the degree to which India's
power industry is restructured into a commercial and competitive sector. It is in PFC's business
interest to actively promote a more comprehensive reform agenda akin to those adopted by Orissa,
Haryana and more recently by Andhra Pradesh.   Moreover, PFC has developed expertise in
appraising and financing transmission and distribution projects. The financial needs of the private
distribution utilities that emerge from the restructured state power sectors represent a niche market.
which PFC can suitably service.
19.    Among the key lessons learned from this project are:
*  Development outcome of Bank assistance to India's state power sector will likely be
unsatisfactory unless sectoral issues on regulation, tariff and financial reform, and managerial
autonomy are addressed through a full restructuring of the sector. Accordingly, since the mid-
90s, Bank operations at the State level involved comprehensive restructuring of the power
industry, e.g., in Orissa, Haryana and Andhra Pradesh.
*  Project development objectives should be realistic. The project tried to address a myriad of sector
issues which the modest level of project inveslment and technical assistance could not fully
support. In an attempt to do so, loan/sub-loan conditionalities were embodied in the operational
policy statement (OPS) and program (OFAP) instruments, respectively, involving numerous
performance targets which required much time and effort to monitor and enforce.
* For similar projects involving many beneficiaries and multiple investments, compliance with sub-
loan conditions should be sought up-front at time of sub-loan approval. To the extent possible,
compliance with future performance targets, e.g., as set in the OFAP, should not affect contracts
execution at the risk of impairing the program. Multiplicity of loan and sub-loan conditions
subjected the project to many starts and stops.
* Acceptance of revenue subsidy in lieu of tariff adjustments significantly hindered tariff reform
and weakened the utilities' resolve to become financially sound. State governments found it
politically more expedient to extend subsidy support than to raise tariffs even at the expense of
exacerbating the state fiscal deficit.



v
* A positive financial internal rate of return of the sub-projects should be a primary loan eligibility
criterion to ensure that financial revenues can cover costs. Reliance on the OFAP to result in
required tariff adjustments jeopardized viability of the investments.
*  A larger and robust sub-project pipeline needs to be in place before loan approval. The drop out
rate for many schemes reviewed at time of appraisal was high due to failure of clients to meet the
OPS eligibility criteria. In the case of the Pre-Investment Fund (PIF), it took some time before
PFC was able to attract borrower interest in the Fund. Moreover, several clients did not pursue
their loan proposals.
*  Agreement on procurement process should be in place no later than appraisal. Further, advance
procurement action covering at least the first year's disbursement should be taken by time of loan
approval.  This helps ensure that, particularly for first-time Bank clients, there is clear
understanding of the procurement guidelines of the Bank.
*  The threshold value for prior review of ICB packages can be increased upon evidence of
creditable procurement review by the financial intermediary such as PFC. Non-ICB packages can
also be made eligible for Bank financing.
*  Given demonstrated competency of PFC staff, and the numerous sub-loans and procurement
contract packages involved, disbursements in future operations with PFC can be made on the
basis of sub-loans, rather than against contract payments.



INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPRrV VEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3436-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Sector Context
1.    Recent decades saw  commendable progress in expanding India's electricity supply.
Nevertheless, demand continued to outstrip supply, adversely affecting the quality of electricity
service. Power supply was characterized by frequent outages, voltage and frequency fluctuations, and
high systems losses. Unreliable service, in turn, resulted in frequent industrial equipment failure and
higher than necessary production costs. In 1989, the Bank conducted a study to ascertain the causes
of major power system inefficiencies in India'. The study identified the following key areas of
inefficiencies, and the Power Utilities Efficiency Improvement Project was designed to help address
these issues:
(a)    Investments in transmission and distribution (T&D) have not kept pace with investments
to expand generating capacity. The project supported high-priority T&D investments to
alleviate constraints to evacuation of supply;
(b)    SEBs needed to address poor maintenance, inadequate controls and operational
supervision, poor communication and monitoring systems, lack of trained staff, and
unsatisfactory billing and collections. The project provided funding and technical
support for the SEBs to help remedy these deficiencies;
(c)    The performance of generating plants in India, particularly thermal plants, was below
national standards. The project included a technical assistance component to identify
further opportunities for plant modernization and life extension;
(d)    The environmental operating conditions of many thermal plants in India were
substandard. The project included a substantial component to provide funding for
upgrading the environmental conditions of the SEBs' power stations; and
(e)    The preparation of power projects in India, particularly for hydroelectric plants, was a
difficult and slow task, which ultimately retarded implementation. The quality of project
feasibility studies, site investigations and pre-construction engineering also required
considerable improvement. The project included a pre-investment fund to finance
project preparation activities.
India Power Sector Efficiency Review (in two volumes) - November 30, 1989 - Report No. 7878-IN.



2
2.     An underlying factor contributing to the inadequacy and inefficiency of power supply was the
lack of financial discipline in the sector. The sector was plagued by major revenue shortfalls due to
tariffs set below cost of supply, hea 'v cross-subsidies arising from extremely low and/or free
agricultural tariffs, and extremely poor collection performance. Commercial viability was impeded
by lack of competition; state-owned utilities dominated the sector and operated with limited
managerial and financial autonomy from state Governments. The sector's heavy reliance on tight
state budget resources constrained power expansion and systems upgrading. Accordingly, the Project
was also designed to help improve the financial performance of the sector by channeling proceeds of
the Bank loan through the Power Finance Corporation (PFC).  It was envisaged that PFC would
extend financing based on a set of lending criteria that would foster financial discipline and
commercial principles among its borrowers.
Project Objectives
3.   As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the project's objectives were to:  (a) support
Government efforts to make PFC a viable and effective instrument for effecting improvements in the
power sector; (b) strengthen the operations of the beneficiary SEBs by lending only to those willing
to undertake acceptable reform programs spelt out in financial and operational action plans (OFAPs);
(c) foster better use of existing power facilities by reducing constraints in the T&D systems; (d)
mitigate the adverse environmental impact of thermal plants in operation by providing adequate anti-
pollution and monitoring facilities; and (f) improve the preparation of power projects and promote
the development of the local consulting industry by funding pre-investment studies and engineering
for power projects.
4.     The implementation and physical objectives for the various project components involved: (a)
the expansion and strengthening of T&D networks; (b) environmental upgrading of power plants; (c)
engineering studies for system renovations; (d) strengthening of operations and management of SEBs,
including billing and collection; (e) institutional strengthening of PFC; and (f) creation of a Pre-
Investment Fund (PIF).
Evaluation of Objectives
5.     The project objectives were at that time supportive of Government of India's energy policy
under its Eighth Plan (1993-97) and directly promoted specific Plan objectives of improving
efficiency of energy production and use, and increasing investments in T&D relative to investments
in generation. Cognizant of the need to resolve the sector's financial and institutional problems, the
Government adopted measures to ensure that its discretionary funds as well as external assistance
were used to effect institutional improvements in the SEBs and State Generating Corporations (SGC).
The creation of the PFC was part of this strategy. It was envisaged that PFC would finance a quarter
of the SEB/SGCs' financing requirements for the Eighth Plan. In line with its operational policies,
PFC would lend only to utilities who have undertaken to implement OFAPs, endorsed by their
respective states, aimed at improving the utilities' resource mobilization and operational efficiency.
6.    The Bank's involvement in the project was also viewed as part of a continuing effort to
support institutional improvement at the state level. It was then perceived that lending through PFC
would expand the Bank's impact in the sector by having access to most SEBs in India, as opposed to
direct lending by the Bank to a limited number of SEBs. More importantly, since PFC's lending
operations with the SEBs would be on a frequent and continuing basis, PFC had the advantage of a
close and regular contact with the SEBs, thus providing a better potential for enforcing lending
conditionality.



3
7.     The expectation that, with the adoption of OFAP-based reforms, the project would result in
the improvement of the power sector and strengthening of SEB operations proved to be unrealistic.
Just as earlier conditioned Bank assistance to SEBs failed to improve the SEB's operational and
financial performance, Bank lending through PFC did not result in sustainable improvements and
commercialization of the SEBs' operations. The Bank has since recognized that such improvements
are difficult to achieve in the absence of a comprehensive restructuring of India's power sector. In the
absence of such a restructuring, the institutional development objectives of the Project were
ambitious. Moreover, the project did not duly take into account the extent to which power subsidies
would contribute to state fiscal deficits and in depriving other development sectors of much needed
state funding.
8.     The project faced a multiplicity of institutional, managerial and financial risks, some of which
were identified at the time of appraisal. These risks were amplified by the relatively complex
structure and implementation requirements of the project. As designed, the project consisted of six
components, each involving a range of activities and investments involving various beneficiaries.
The investment component alone involved 52 different schemes situated in multiple sites involving
126 ICB packages of T&D equipment. The Pre-Investment Fund (PIF) component involved over 30
technical assistance sub-loans. The project was to be administered by PFC, an agency at its formative
years at time of project commencement. Further, in addition to the Bank-financed activities, PFC was
managing, a parallel operation financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) under similar terms
and conditions.  During the loan period, 28 OFAPs were formulated and negotiated with PFC's
borrowers. It is to PFC's credit that despite the heavy demands of project management, the Company
was able to carry out the Project with relative efficiency, albeit with some initial delay and midstream
adjustments in the investment pipeline and implementation milestones. Further, PFC was expected to
implement the project, as well as its entire operations, in accordance with an Operational Policy
Statement (OPS) agreed with the Bank.  The OPS contained over two dozen key financial
management provisions, compliance to which was subject to regular Bank monitoring.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
9. Overall Results.  The project's development objectives were only partially achieved and with
mixed results. In particular, the objective of raising the overall financial and operating performance
of participating SEBs was not achieved. However, the project resulted in the financial growth and
expanded lending capacity of PFC, in removing T&D bottlenecks to the grids, and in enhancing some
SEBs' institutional capacity in selected areas of utility management and project planning.
10.  The financial and operational difficulties continued to be faced by India's power sector are
evidenced by its continued heavy reliance on state subsidy support and persistent supply shortfalls. In
FY97, SEB operations required subsidies of as much as Rs 75 billion allowing them to post an
average rate of return in the sector of 2.7%. Without the subsidy, only two SEBs would have
operated in the black, and returns would have averaged negative 13.0% for the sector. However,
because of increasing constraints in state budgetary resources, many SEBs are now facing insolvency
and further deterioration of service. Systems losses continue to be excessive, cost of operations
continue to run high, and power rates remain below cost of supply. While the power sector has been
opened to private participation, in the absence of reforms to make the utilities creditworthy, private
investments have not been readily forthcoming without Central Government assurances of counter
guarantees. It has become evident that no less than a full-scale restructuring of the state power sector
is required; i.e., one involving establishment of an independent regulator, tariff reforms, unbundling
of services, and expansion of ownership base, including privatization of distribution services.



4
11.  PFC's conditioned lending has, nevertheless, heightened the awareness among the SEBs and
the State Governments of the need to improve the 'SEBs' creditworthiness and managerial autonomy
to operate as commercial businesses. Further, difficulties in OFAP implementation created a growing
appreciation of the need to embark on more far-reaching structural and regulatory reforms, tariff
restructuring, and opening up of the sector to private ownership and competition. A number of the
OFAPs have since been revised to include more reform-oriented activities in parallel with the Central
Government's promotion of more sweeping regulatory and structural reforms in the power sector.
12.  The project has been more successful in achieving its other development as well as physical
objectives. Investments in T&D are resulting in better utilization of power facilities which help
reduce system technical losses, improve system load factors, and reduce power outages and frequency
drops in the affected service areas. These were achieved through the following investment activities:
(i) removal of transmission constraints for power evacuation from power plants through construction
of 132 kV, 220 kV and 400 kV substations; (ii) reinforcement of overloaded transmission lines; (iii)
increase of capacity of associated substations; (iv) expansion of overloaded distribution substations;
(v) reinforcement of 66kV and 33kV distribution grid; (vi) installation of capacitors and distribution
transformers to improve service and reduce losses; and (vii) purchase and installation of single-phase
and three-phase consumption meters for new connections or to replace defective ones.
13. Through the project, PFC financed transmission schemes involving 4,191 km of lines and 6,528
MVA of substation capacity. The Project also supported urban distribution schemes covering 23
towns involving construction of 5,546 km of distribution lines, over 2,038 MVA substation capacity,
and installation of 559 capacitors. To date, out of the 52 schemes financed, 40 are completed and the
remaining 12 are more than 75% completed.
Scheme Type        Number of Sclhemes    Completed      Near Completion
Transmission                   27                18                9
Urban Distribution             22                20                2
Capacitors                     1                  1
Metering                       1                  1
Environment                    1                  -                1
TOTAL                           52                 40               12
14.  At time of appraisal, the rates of returns of various sub-projects were estimated. Pursuant to
PFC's lending policy, only schemes resulting in economic rates of return (ERR) above 12 % qualified
for funding. The ERRs have not been recalculated. However, given the growing shortfall in power
supply and the resulting rise in the value of power, coupled with the competitive prices secured for
equipment supply for the sub-projects, it is expected that the ERRs remain equally satisfactory, if not
higher. On the other hand, majority of the sub-projects yielded negative financial rates of return
(FRR) at time of appraisal due to the low tariff levels then prevailing. It was envisaged that through
implementation of the OFAPs tariff levels would be rationalized. However, since average grid tariffs
remain below cost of supply, respective FRRs for the T&D schemes are likely to be negative, except
for those schemes, which serve predominantly industrial and commercial loads for which tariffs have
been significantly adjusted.
15.  The project also helped improve marnagement of environmental performance of power plants.
Under the project, PFC established an Environmental Assessment and Monitoring Unit (EAMU).
The unit has since assisted SEBs in the preparatiorn of environmental action plans for a number of



5
thermal stations. These plans are being implemented with PFC's financial assistance. In addition,
through the Pre-Investment Fund (PIF), several environmental impact assessment (EIA) studies were
financed, which have helped SEBs to obtain various environmental clearances for their respective
projects. Although only one environmental improvement scheme was financed from proceeds of the
Loan, i.e., for the Durgapur Project Limited (DPL) which involved installation of electrostatic
precipitators, PFC funded over 25 schemes from its own resources. EAMU's activities with the
utilities helped in securing SEBs management's attention to environmental performance issues.
16.  The project, through the Pre-Investment Fund (PIF) and technical assistance support provided
by USAID under its Energy Management, Consulting and Training (EMCAT) program, helped
improve project preparation and strengthen institutional capacity among the SEBs. Under the PIF, 22
schemes of 31 approved activities were completed. These involved preparation of feasibility and
engineering studies, information technology studies and computerization and communication
schemes, environmental impact assessments, diagnostic review of utility performance, consultant
services for preparation of solicitation documents and negotiations of power purchase agreements
with IPPs. EMCAT provided local and international training opportunities to SEB personnel and
energy officials in the areas of utility management, planning, renovation and rehabilitation and on
principles of sector reforms.
17.  Finally, the objective of developing PFC into a viable financing institution to support
investments in India's power sector is being achieved. The achievement is particularly remarkable
given the very difficult and risky market served by PFC. PFC's business operations expanded
significantly since onset of the project. PFC's ability to manage its financial risks helped build up its
reputation within both the domestic and international financial community, enabling PFC to mobilize
commercial loans on the basis of its corporate standing. By the Loan's closing date, PFC's total
funding stood at Rs 78 billion, with a net worth of Rs 25 billion. During FY1998, post-tax profits
reached a record high of Rs 5.5 billion on a revenue base of Rs 11 billion, resulting in a return on net
worth of 22.2%. Outstanding loans & advances position amounted to Rs 73 billion. While this
business level was attained three years later than projected at time of appraisal, the delay was largely
due to a prudent reining in of PFC lending during those years when its key borrowers failed to
comply with sub-loan conditions.
18.   However, for as long as the state power utilities are not restructured, the quality of PFC's loan
portfolio remains at high risk. In order to mitigate portfolio risks, PFC started to diversify its client
base in 1995 to include financially stronger centrally-owned utilities as well as private developers.
PFC also expanded its business lines to include other types of financial instruments and services,
which are expected to yield higher returns.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors zenerallv subject to Government control
19.    Power Sector Policies. Prevailing sector policies hindered the implementation of many of the
financial and institutional improvements laid out in the OFAPs. The sector is thus far from becoming
self-sufficient and commercially viable. The lack of commitment on the part of SEB management
and state Governments to pursue tariff reforms has created further financial distortions in the sector.
More of the participating states preferred to meet the 3% rate of return requirement for the SEB
through subsidy support, rather than face the ire of consumers, particularly in the agricultural sector.



6
This has led to further financial losses among the SEBs over the loan period and contributed to
worsening of state fiscal deficits. The cost and price distortions in SEB operations were aggravated
by the non-metering of the agricultural load, resulting in gross inaccuracies in the estimation of
systems losses, further masking the inefficiencies of distribution management. Industrial users
burdened with bearing heavy cross-subsidies have iricreasingly shifted to captive generation, reducing
the SEBs' sounder revenue base. For these reasons, the Government of India promulgated the
Electricity Regulatory Commissions Act in July 1998, to establish the Central Electricity Regulatory
Commission and to provide for State Electricity Regulatory Commissions (SERC). The SERCs
would, as a minimum, assume the responsibilities of the SEBs and their respective state Governments
in the setting of retail tariffs.
20.    State guarantees against sector risks. PFC's priority mandate from the Government, during
its initial years of operation, was to service the financial needs of SEBs and to serve as conduit of
Central Government and external funding to the state power sector. PFC's clientele was thus
confined to a limited number of borrowers, operating in one economic sector, and generally in poor
financial health. At the same time, PFC was expected to preserve its financial stability. Thus to
mitigate the heavy market risk, a structure of repayment guarantees, limits on PFC's exposures and
provisions for non-rescheduling of loans, were embodied in PFC's OPS as agreed with the Bank. In
practice, as some SEBs started to default in their loan repayments, PFC was unable to invoke state
Govemnment guarantees that backed the SEBs' borrowings. PFC was thus constrained to restructure a
number of loan repayments. Eventual use of escrow accounts, while improving PFC's ability to
collect, resulted in further tying up of SEBs' lirnited revenues, further constraining the SEBs'
capacity to finance operations and to mobilize resources from other creditors. Recognizing the
contraction of viable business opportunities with SEBs, the Government concurred with PFC to
extend its financial services to central power utilities and private power sector, and to thus diversify
its portfolio and product slate.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
21. Proiect Management. The project involved oversight by PFC of both institutional strengthening
as well as investment activities. While tracking of the progress of investment activities was relatively
straightforward, the supervision of financial and institutional improvements was less tractable.
Extending loans to PFC's clients required extensive preparation of individual OFAP and credit
appraisal reports for each client as well as regular monitoring of OFAP implementation and sub-loan
compliance. These tasks were made more arduous by the lack of ready and credible financial and
operational data from the SEBs and the need to conduct diagnostic studies to assess the SEBs' and
SGCs' priority institutional needs. Securing agreement by the sub-borrowers and their respective
State Government required intensive and frequent follow-ups by PFC, and often involved difficult
and protracted negotiations. Aside from requiring regular tariff review and adjustments, an OFAP
typically called for computerization of billing and revenue collection, upgrading of inventory control
and management information systems, reduction in systems losses, improved metering and load
monitoring, and preparation of T&D master plans. Enforcement of the various performance targets
under the OFAP became burdensome. Instead, the OFAPs served more effectively as a planning tool.
Within existing structural constraints, the OFAPs yielded certain technical, productivity and skills
improvements within the SEBs. For example, computerization of the billing function was pursued by
11 SEBs, and meter testing facilities were improved and over a million meters were procured and/or
installed by the five SEBs availing of the loan proceeds. However, on the critical areas requiring
policy commitment and support of the state Govermment, i.e., pricing, distribution management, and
loss reduction, the results have been marginal at best.



7
22.    Enforcement of Operational Policies. One of the more critical aspect of the project was the
enforcement by PFC of its operational policy statement (OPS) as agreed with the Bank. The OPS
embodies a set of parameters to ensure a minimum level of financial and operating performance, and
guides PFC in its relationship with its clients.  PFC's institutional resolve to attach adequate
conditionality to its lending operations and adherence to its OPS remained adequately strong.
Specifically, in order to be eligible for loan assistance. PFC required its borrowers to earn the
minimum rate of return of three (3) percent as provided for in the Electricity Act. This was to be
achieved through a combination of tariff increases, cost reductions and revenue subsidy support from
the state budget whenever the state fails to authorize the necessary tariff adjustments. For FY97,
twelve SEBs posted rates of return equivalent to 3%. However, these were largely due to state
subsidies reflecting write-offs of state loans, and to a lesser extent, cash infusion. Only two SEBs had
average tariffs set above their average cost of supply. On hindsight, to promote financial self-
sufficiency of the SEBs, it would have been advisable for PFC (and the Bank) to require achievement
of a minimum rate of return based on tariff revenue alone, i.e., excluding revenue subsidy.
23.    There were a few lapses in the enforcement of the OPS.  In 1995, as a result of non-
compliance of two sub-clients to the 3 per cent ROR, as well as the overexposure of PFC to UPSEB,
and PFC's poor recovery position, the project was rated unsatisfactory. The rating has since been
restored to satisfactory as the respective State Governments were prevailed upon by PFC to release
cash subsidies to the concerned borrowing SEBs, resulting in improved project disbursements. More
recently, given the growing shortfall in power supply, PFC relaxed its policy on rate of return
requirement with respect to loans directed towards completion of on-going generation projects.
24.    When rated against the classification system agreed to between PFC and the Bank2, the
quality of PFC's lending portfolio is not good. As of July 1998, PFC's assets would be classified as
follows: normal risk assets - 17.17%; substandard assets - 78.68%; doubtful assets - 4.04%; and loss
assets - 0.11%. In contrast, based on the risk classification norms set out by the Reserve Bank of
India, PFC's asset would be classified significantly better as follows: normal risk assets - 79.69%;
substandard assets - 20.17%; doubtful assets - 0.14%; and no loss assets. Under the RBI norms, state
guaranteed loans are regarded risk-free; even if in practice, PFC has had difficulty calling on them.
25.    PFC's Institutional Development.  Overall, and with the support of USAID's EMCAT
program, the project was able to complete most of the institutional strengthening activities envisaged
under the project.  These included enhancement of PFC's managemenlt information system,
preparation of administrative manuals and procedures to guide internal operations, training of PFC
staff in financial, utility, and project management, power economics, upgrading of power plants and
T&D planning and design. Further, a unit at PFC was established to undertake sector studies in
support of corporate operations, promote the PIF, and assist SEBs in OFAP preparation. Pursuant to
recommendations of organizational studies, PFC instituted a restructuring of its operational and
financial management units. The finance and treasury functions were enhanced with the recruitment
of additional and experienced personnel. As of the loan's closing, PFC's staff strength boasted 239
personnel, double the level at time of project appraisal. PFC has since demonstrated a strong capacity
to appraise and supervise investment projects, and more recently, make inroads in banking and
2 Under this classification, the criteria used are as follows: i) normal risk assets: the borrower maintains an
overall debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.0; ii) substandard assets: the debt service coverage ratio is
less than one but there is no default in debt service payments to PFC; iii) doubtful assets: debt service
payment is overdue more than 90 days; iv) loss assets: debt service is overdue more than 60 days after the
guarantee has officially been called. In case of a law suit, debt service payment is overdue more than six
months.



8
finance sector as evidenced by its successful attempts in 1997 and 1998 to raise foreign currency
loans from the international financial markets at competitive rates.
Factors generally subject to sub-borrower's control
26.   Implementation of the OFAPs.  Uneven attention was given by SEB management to
implementation of the various institutional building acti/ities agreed under the OFAPs. Accordingly,
some activities were not given necessary support resulting in delays in achievement of set targets.
27.    Lack of counterpart fiinds. As beneficiary SEBs continued to face liquidity problems, the
funding of investment programs became increasingly dependent on limited state budgetary releases.
The lack of readily available funds adversely affected payments to contractors and their timely
reimbursement by PFC. To redress the problem, PFC initiated since November 1995 direct
disbursement to suppliers, resulting in significant increase in Loan disbursements in succeeding years.
Moreover, the inadequacy of project accounting among SEBs for Bank-financed sub-projects also
made it difficult to identify the respective SEB's share of the project cost.
28.    Weak project management. A number of the beneficiary SEBs were not well equipped to do
erection and commissioning work on their own. The use of tumkey supply and works contracts or of
composite works contract to do erection, civil works w,ith supply of balance of materials (i.e., those
not being procured through ICB) could have expedited completion of the sub-projects.
Project Implementation Experience
29.    Procurement. In anticipation of possible delays in procurement, during negotiations, the
Government agreed with the Bank on simplified procedures for clearance of procurement action and
release of foreign exchange for the project. Accordingly, processing and clearances at the Central
Government level were relatively smooth; e.g., CEA review of tender specifications was not required.
Moreover, model technical bid specifications were prepared and cleared with the Bank before project
effectiveness. Nevertheless significant delays in procurement actions were experienced in the initial
stage of the project due to the protracted period taken for the Bank and PFC (and their clients) to
reach final agreement on the commercial provisions of the tender documents. The Bank erred in
clearing on a piece-meal basis, revisions to the standard bidding documents (SBD) proposed by PFC
over several months, and had to withdraw its earlier clearance in view of resulting inconsistencies in
the overall bidding document. This resulted in a 13-month delay in starting the tendering and
ordering process.  However, with the Bank's clearince on November 23, 1992, progress in
procurement actions has been generally satisfactory. It is to PFC's credit that despite the initial delay,
the project was largely completed with only a six-month extension from its original closing date. The
Bank's decision to delegate the procurement review to the Procurement, Disbursement and Audit
Team (PDAT), located at the Bank's New Delhi Office, significantly helped in facilitating Bank
procurement review and providing prompt response to queries from PFC and beneficiary SEBs.
30.  Use of ICB procedures resulted in savings due to competitive price offers received for several
packages. However, given current price levels and sources of equipment, goods and supplies, PFC
suggests, that for similar projects, the threshold for ICID procurement be raised to US $1 million to
allow for speedy action on some packages for standard equipment readily available locally (e.g.,
lightning arresters). Further, PFC recommends that Bank financing be made available for national
competitive bidding (NCB) procurement as well. It is noted that a higher threshold for ICB was in
effect more than a decade back and when prices were much lower, e.g., as in the Kerala Power
Project (Ln2582-IN) which was approved in 1986. However, the competitive prices resulting from
ICB process under Loan 3436-IN appear to outweigh the arguments for faster procurement action



9
using NCB.   Nevertheless, recognizing that PFC staff has performed its procurement review
function creditably, the threshold value for prior review by the Bank could be raised from US$
200,000 to say, US$ 1 million in future operations.
31.  Changes in Investment Pipeline. Implementation delays were also experienced due to changes
in the sub-projects after loan approval. Disqualification of some beneficiaries identified during
appraisal due to non-compliance with sub-borrower eligibility criteria resulted in the need to replace
them with new beneficiaries and to appraise new sub-projects. 3 Although in anticipation of possible
non-compliance by the borrowers to the loan conditions, up to a total of US$ 303 million worth of
project pipeline was built up for IBRD financing, the loan amount was still not fully utilized due to a
combination of factors: significant variation in exchange rate after sub-project approvals, lower
contract values realized due to competitive bid offers; and reduction in scope of some sub-projects.
The delays brought about by the inclusion and exclusion and re-inclusion of schemes into the project
pipeline has resulted in modification of the implementation milestones set at time of appraisal. It was
originally expected that all contracts would have been effected by a specified cut-off date, end-June
1994. This date was rescheduled at PFC's request to June 1995 for the investment component, and to
December 1997 for the Pre-Investment Fund component.
32.  Project Costs. Savings and Cancellations. Against the appraisal estimate of US $640 million,
the total project cost was US$ 580 million. Of the total Loan value of $265 million, $25 million was
canceled on February 19, 1997, pursuant to DEA's request, and another $25 million was canceled on
March 26, 1998. While both cancellations were largely due to project savings arising from the
depreciation of the Indian Rupee and from lower contract prices, part of the cancellation in 1998 was
due to the dropping of some of KSEB's schemes and foreseeable delays in completion of some PIF-
funded activities. These cancellations reduced the Loan amount to $215 million.
33.  Closing Date and Disbursements. Actual loan disbursements lagged behind the appraisal
estimate as indicated in Table 4 due to aforementioned implementation delays. The closing date of
the Loan was extended by six months to June 30, 1998. Disbursements were completed on December
3, 1998. In total, US$ 208.2 million was disbursed, leaving a balance of US$ 6.8 million to be
cancelled. Thus, total cancellations amounted to US$ 56.8 million.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
34.  Sustainability of sub-project investments and PIEF-funded activities is likely, provided sufficient
funding is available for operation and maintenance of the equipment and facilities. The quality of
work of the T&D schemes financed under the Loan are satisfactory, and the SEBs have competent
technical staff to operate and maintain the facilities. However, efficiency improvements arising from
3For instance, early in the project implementation cycle, Punjab State Electricity Board's (PSEB) schemes were
dropped from the project due to PSEB's reluctance to enter into an acceptable OFAP. In July 1993, due to
MPSEB's inadequate borrowing headroom, several of its sub-projects, which were to have utilized US$ 56
million of the Loan funds, were dropped from the Project. At about the same time, additional APSEB
transmission sub-projects involving $30 million were identified but subsequently excluded due to
APSEB's non-implementation of the minimum agricultural tariff. In December 1993, Rajasthan SEB
applied for, and was found eligible, to borrow funds from the Loan. In March 1994, at the Bank's
suggestions, projects of the Haryana SEB were included in the project under an Emergency OFAP. The
Bank also suggested that the Kerala SEB avail of Loan 3436-IN to finance the balance of expenditures
remaining unfunded after the closure of the Kerala Power Project (Ln 2582-IN). PFC was able to commit
loan funds for this purpose only after KSEB signed an OFAP in September 1995.



10
the investments will not be tangible if overall systeim performance deteriorates due to lack of
operational funds and weak management.  Of particular concern are the relatively high losses in
urban distribution systems due to mismanagement and poor metering facilities.
35.  Sustainability of institutional improvements among beneficiary SEBs is unlikely unless a major
restruicturing of the sector is pursued at the state level. For instance, financial gains achieved under
the 0FAP would get reversed depending on the year to year resource constraints and political climate
facing the State Government, affecting its decision on whether to grant cash subsidies and/or approve
tariff revisions. Nevertheless, with the reform agenda gaining ground among the Government
leadership, and as more states adopt reform measures, successful implementation of the OFAPs is
now more plausible than at any other time. Already, two of the loan beneficiary SEBs, i.e., Haryana
SEB and Andhra Pradesh SEB, have gone for sweeping reforms with direct assistance from the
World Bank, increasing the prospect of their meeting and even exceeding, the financial and
operational performance targets set in their OFAPs.
36.  Despite its risky loan portfolio, sustainability of PFC's operations is likely in the light of its
continuing mandate for promoting the Government's power policies by serving as vehicle for central
Government assistance to the power sector.  PFC  business expansion is likely given the
diversification of the Company's client base, and the support of a relatively stronger financial
management team. Further, as more of the SEBs embrace reforms, portfolio quality is expected to
improve. To preserve gains made in its financial operations, PFC would have to apply more rigor in
the evaluation of the quality of its loans, strictly enforce its policies on exposures, and review and
strengthen its policies on loan loss provisioning.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
37.    Bank performance was generally satisfactory during project implementation, and was marked
by close coordination with PFC management and staff from the outset. Project identification and
design considerations emerged from a sector work on efficiency issues conducted by the Bank. The
lending approach taken was in direct response to the Government's strategy for introducing financial
and operational reforms in the state power sector through conditioned lending by PFC. Although the
approach was then seen as promising compared to the d1isappointing results of the Bank's previous
involvement in the Indian state power sector, it nevertheless proved to be short-sighted. The impact
of the power sector on the state finances was not fully considered, as otherwise state subsidy support
would not have been an acceptable option to generating the required minimum rate of return for the
SEBs. Mo;eover, the expectation that institutional improvements in the SEBs could occur within the
prevailing regulatory and administrative framework was unrealistic. At appraisal, the Bank identified
the major financial and institutional risks faced by the project. In particular, due attention was given
to ensuring that appropriate prudential norms, financial management systems, and credit evaluation
tools were adopted by PFC in its day-to-day operations. Accordingly, the dialogue resulted in the
forrnulation of the Operational Policy Statement (OPS) which embodied PFC's financial management
principles. The Bank also reviewed the process of OFAP formulation from diagnostic studies stage to
design of actual OFAP agreements between PFC and its clients. In this area, however, the Bank
underestimated the difficulty of formulating, supervising and ensuring compliance of sub-borrowers
to the multi-faceted OFAP agreements.
38.    During project implementation, from March 1993 to June 1998, eight supervision missions
were conducted. In late 1995, the Bank led a multi-donor mid-term review of the project, which
included the participation of ADB and USAID. Supervision mission teams were composed of staff



11
with expertise in finance, engineering, environmental management, procurement, and economics.
Several missions involved visits to beneficiary SEBs and project sites. The supervision mnissions
reported adequately on the implementation issues, calling the attention of the Borrower, sub-
borrowers, and Bank management to emerging problems, and providing advice and suggestions to
resolve implementation bottlenecks. As a workable framework for state power sector restructuring
emerged from various Bank-state dialogues, the Bank regularly engaged PFC management and staff
in discussing the need for more comprehensive reforms. These discussions led to inclusion of the
reform agenda in the training programs under the USAID/ EMCAT technical assistance component as
well as reformulation, to a limited extent, of some of the OFAPs.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
39.    Commitment by PFC management to the project's development objectives was demonstrated
at project design stage with the formulation of a comprehensive Operational Policy Statement (OPS)
and associated operating guidelines and procedures. To the extent practicable, PFC generally adhered
to its OPS,. although there were deviations from a couple of provisions (reference Table l1).
Compliance with the covenants under the Bank loan was also satisfactory. Qualified technical staff
handled sub-project appraisals based on methodology worked out with the Bank at project
preparation. PFC staff exerted best efforts to identify more projects and actively seek out contract
packages for which sub-borrowers were willing to follow ICB procedure. PFC personnel persevered
in convincing borrowers and states to agree on the OFAPs as well as in securing client interest in
availing loans from the PIF to finance project preparation and other capacity building activities.
40.    Good project reporting was maintained over the five-year period. PFC's supervision and
monitoring involved over 200 visits to beneficiaries in addition to business meetings at PFC
headquarters. Monitoring of OFAPs entailed close and frequent contacts with clients, including high
level state Government officials. Acknowledging that its investment lending and OFAP monitoring
activities were often disjointed during the early part of project, PFC subsequently made strides in
synchronizing the two activities through a reorganization and improvement in systems and
procedures. While various implementation issues arose during much of the project period, PFC staff
were pro-active in seeking solutions and in taking initiatives to remedy a number of the problems,
thus mitigating further project delays. Improving customer relations was a frequent management
concern. At the earlier stages of the project, PFC's lending approach was considered heavy-handed
by some of its clients particularly in conjunction with OFAP negotiations. However, client relations
progressively improved, as clients became more familiar with PFC's lending criteria and with more
regular staff visits made to the states.
41.    Financial management at PFC was initially weak for a financial institution, and suffered a
setback with the absence of a full time finance director for more than two years. PFC subsequently
instituted key changes in its organizational structure to strengthen its financial management capacity
and to conduct its operations more along commercial business principles. In particular, the Finance
group was restructured, its treasury management function considerably strengthened, and experienced
and qualified director and staff recruited. Innovations in resource mobilization activities, financial
services and revenue collections have since been introduced as evidenced by the successful closing of
international loan syndication and maintenance of a sound overall funding position. Asset and
liability management was improved and PFC now actively pursues its risk management policies on
interest, currency, and liquidity.



12
G. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME
42.    Project outcome is mixed. Implementation of investment and technical assistance activities
proceeded in a satisfactory manner, albeit subject to delays as described earlier. PFC's business
operations grew and its financial base strengthened. However, financial and operating performance
of SEBs remained unsatisfactory despite the OFAP agreements. It is now widely recognized that
within the existing regulatory and administrative framework, SEBs will not be in a position to regain
financial viability on their own.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
43.    PFC's business is expected to expand given the growing need for power plant investments.
Today, total installed capacity in India is about 86,000 MW, representing a peak capacity shortfall of
18% and energy supply shortage of 11.5%. Under the Ninth Plan (1997 to 2002) it is estimated that
over 40,000 MW of new capacity will be required to meet demand, followed by another 54,000 MW
under the Tenth Plan. About half of these new investments are expected to be in the private sector.
These investment opportunities represent a vast growth potential for PFC. The Company's principal
strategy is to become one of the leading sources of project finance in the Indian power sector, and to
become more actively involved in private power projects and expand the range of its financing
services. As a long-term strategy, PFC aims to provide a comprehensive package of financial
services to the power sector, including financial advisory services and consultancy services. PFC is
gearing up to provide funds of more than Rs 50 billion annually, or about 10% of the power sector's
funding needs, by serving as channel for Government and multilateral fund resources, participating in
consortium funding and co-financing, and developing new loan products.
44.    PFC's future success depends on the degree to which India's power industry is restructured
into a commercial, competitive and credit-worthy sector. A Reform Group has been created within
PFC to promote reforms pursuant to recent legislative changes introduced by the Central Government
calling for establishing regulatory commissions at the state level and through reformulation of the
OFAPs. However, these measures are less comprehensive than those being pursued by several states
such as Orissa, Haryana, and Andhra Pradesh, under their policy dialogue with the World Bank. It is
in PFC's business interest to actively promote a more comprehensive reform agenda akin to those
adopted by the aforementioned states as the expected financial improvements would enhance the
quality of PFC's loan portfolio.
45.    PFC has developed expertise in appraising and financing transmission and distribution
projects. The financial needs of the private distribution utilities that emerge from the restructured
state power sectors represent a niche market, which PFC zan suitably service.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
46. Several lessons can be drawn from this project:
a) Development outcome of Bank assistance to India's state power sector will likely be
unsatisfactory unless sectoral issues on regulation, tariff and financial reform, and managerial
autonomy are addressed through a full restructuring of the sector.



13
b) Project development objectives should be realistic. The objectives as defined were wide-
ranging and required having to address many sector issues.  In an attempt to do so,
perforrance targets were built into the sub-loans/projects through the OFAPs which
contained too many elements and thus difficult to enforce. Moreover, a number of the
performance targets involved politically difficult actions.  PFC did not have sufficient
leverage as an institution to influence adoption by the states of key policy changes required.
c) For complex projects involving many beneficiaries and multiple investments, compliance
with sub-loan conditions should be sought up-front at time of sub-loan approval. To the
extent possible, compliance with future performance targets, e.g., as set in the OFAP, should
not affect contracts execution at the risk of impairing the program implementation.
Multiplicity of loan and sub-loan conditions subjected the project to many starts and stops.
d) Acceptance of revenue subsidies in lieu of tariff adjustments significantly hindered tariff
reform and weakened the utilities' resolve to become financially sound and independent.
State governments found it politically more expedient to raise subsidy support than to raise
tariffs even at the expense of exacerbating the state fiscal deficit.
e) Future Bank lending to PFC should be extended only if the beneficiaries adopt a reform
agenda that the Bank would have otherwise required under its current direct lending
operations with reforming state power sectors. Further, the capacity of PFC staff to manage
the complex process of restructuring would have to be strengthened.
f) The financial internal rate of return of the sub-projects should be a primary sub-loan
eligibility criterion to ensure that financial revenues can cover costs. Reliance on the OFAP
to result in required tariff adjustments jeopardized viability of the investments. Although
commercial levels of investment return may not be possible at the outset, nevertheless, a
positive financial return should be required to ensure that Bank-financed investments do not
contribute to further financial losses of the beneficiaries.
g) Project components should have been trimmed downed. As an offshoot of the ambitious set
of project objectives, and to support the multi-dimensional program under the OFAPs, several
types of investment and TA activities were included.
h) A larger and robust sub-project pipeline needs to be in place before loan approval. The drop
out rate among schemes was relatively high due to failure of clients to meet the OPS
eligibility criteria. In the case of the PIEF, it took some time before PFC was able to attract
borrower interest to the Fund.
i) Full agreement on procurement process and model tender documents should be in place by
appraisal and advance procurement action covering at least the first year's disbursement taken
by time of loan approval. This would ensure that, particularly for first-time Bank clients,
there is clear understanding of the Bank's procurement guidelines. The threshold value for
prior review can be increased and non-ICB packages made eligible for Bank financing.
j)  Use of tumkey supply and erection contracts should be considered to facilitate timely
completion of sub-projects.
k) Given the demonstrated competency of PFC staff, and the numerous sub-loans and
procurement contract packages involved, in future operations, disbursements can be
facilitated if they are made based on sub-loans, rather than against contract payments.
1) Adoption of strong financial management systems by the financial intermediary is imperative
particularly when dealing with a high risk portfolio such as that managed by PFC.
Improvement and professionalization of treasury management functions played a key role in
preserving PFC's financial assets.



14
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives                Substantial             Partial              Negligible          Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives
Institutional development
Physical objectives                             S
Poverty reduction
Gender issues
Other social objectives                                                                                            v
Environmental objectives
Public sector management                                               0
Private sector development
Other
B. Project Sustainability                     Likely               Unlikely              Uncertain
Physical elements
Developmental objecfives
C. Bank performance                      Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory      Marginally satisfactory     Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
D. Borrower performance                  Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory      Marginally satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation (physical elements)                                       v
Implementation ( physical elementsO                                   1       
Covenant compliance                                                   v
Operation (physical elements)
E. Assessment of outcome                 Highly satisfactory      Satisfactory      Marginally satisfactory     Deficient
Physical elements    
Developmental changes



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                        Purpose                      Year of      Status
IBRD Loans                                                        Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Uttar Pradesh Power       Construction of 330 MW  hydro at Srinagar,      1988     Completed
rehabilitation of thermal plants; and reinforcement
Ln2957-IN                    transmission system. Institutional and financial
improvements in UPSEB.
2. (First) Maharashtra Power  Improve power supply through construction of   1989      Completed
50MW Koyna hydro, strengthening of
Ln3096-lN                    transmission and distribution system. Institutional
and tariff improvements.
3. Second Maharashtra Power    Increase power supplies and improve the quality  1992   Completed
Ln3498-IN                     of electricity services through construction of a
500 MW coal-fired unit at Chandrapur; 1,500
MW capacity HVDC line and the related terminal
stations; and distribution reinforcement.
Strengthen MSEB's finances; demand
management, environmental impact management
capability.
Following Operations
1. Technical Assistance (TA)  Support the Government's private power         1993      Completed
Project for Private Power     development initiative by providing states access
Development                   to TA facility to finance engagement of experts in
(Ln3630-IN)                   private power contracting.
2. Orissa Power Sector        Support implementation of regulatory,          1996      On-going
Restructuring Project        institutional and tariff reforms; institutional
(Ln4014-IN)                   development of Grid Corporation of Orissa
(GRIDCO), Orissa Hydro Power Corporation and
the new Regulatory Commission, Improve
Orissa's power system and demand-side
management, and upgrade environmental
performance and management capabilities in the
sector.
3._Haryana Power Sector       Support the first phase of the power sector reform  1998  On-going
Restructuring Project (APLI)  process by establishing the new legal, regulatory
(Ln4271-IN)                   and institutional framework, initiating the
privatization of the distribution business, and
removing the most critical bottlenecks of the
power system.
4.Andhra Pradesh Power Sector   Support the first phase of the power sector reform  1999  On-going
Restructuring Project (APLI)  process.
(Ln4441-IN)                                                             I            I             I



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle               Date planned               Date actual
Identification                                  04/1989                    04/1989
Preparation                                     07/1989                    07/1989
Appraisal                                       04/1990                    04/1990
Negotiations                                    09/1990                    09/1990
Board presentation                              12/I1990                   01/1992
Signing                                                                    02/1992
Effectiveness                                                              03/1992
Mid-term review                                                            11/1995
Project completion                              12/1997                    06/1998
Loan closing                                    12/1997                    06/1998
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Bank Fiscai Years              FY92 | FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)   15.9    47.7   100.7   174.9   206.7   259.7   265.0   265.0
Actual (US$ million)            14.0    14.0    14.7    37.8    95.3    167.7   195.0   208.2
Actualas % of estimate>)       88.0    29.4    14.6    21.6    46.1    64.6    73.3    78.8
liate of final disbursement                                          _                  12/03/98
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Physical Component
Component                       Estimated                         Actual
Transmission Schemes
Ckt. Km of lines                           2754                             4191
Transformer capacity (MVA)                  1475                            6528
Urban Distribution Improvement
No. of Towns supported                       26                              23
Transformer capacity (MVA)                  1041                            2038
Capacitors (MVAR)                           164                             559
Ckt. Km. Of lines                           1624                            5546
Environmental Upgradation              14 plants in 8 states                1 plant
Other Indicators
Finalization of bid documents            October 1991                   November 1992
Cut-off Date of Contract Award           June 30, 1994                 December 31, 1997
Table 6: Key Indicators for PFC Financial Operations
(in Rs Millions)
Indicator                  SAR       _               Actual
Performance Targets                OPS Targets           As of loan closing date
Debt to Equity Ratio               Maximum 4:1                    2.13
Debt Service Coverage            Not lower than 1.2               2.18
Return on Capital                Positive real return        15% real return
OperaIg Levels                   Projected 1994-95     1994-95    r    1997-98
Total Equity                          27,381            16,650           24,027
Total Assets                          82,439            43,595           80,959
Operating Income                      10,451            4,632            10,888
Net Income                            3,928              1,562            4,815
Annual Loans Disbursed                22,920            7,924            20,250



17
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
A. Studies supported under EMCAT Component
Study                Purpose                   Status              Impact of Study
By US Consultants
1.     OFAP Manual                         Completed   Improvement in operational and
financial performance.
2.     PFC Library Improvement              Completed    Better equipped with latest
Programme                                         information on MIS
3.     T&D Loss Reduction Workshop          Completed    Reduction in T&D Losses.
4.     Organization Study of PFC            Completed    Reorganization of units for
enhanced performance.
5.     Financial Operations Management &    Completed    Officers from various utilities were
Reporting (Workshop)                              introduced to the latest concepts.
By Indian Experts
1.     Organization Study of PFC           Completed    Being implemented in phases.
2.     Study on Improving Indigenous        Completed   Information shared with State
Meter Technology                                  power utilities.
3.     Computerization in Power Finance     Completed    PFC has an integrated accounting
Corporation by M/s CMC Limited.              _   system & MIS
4.     Evaluation of benefits for HT        Completed    Reduction in T&D Losses and
Capacitor Installation Programme.    .            improvement in the power factor.
5.     Rationalization of pay and perquisites    Completed    Being partly implemented.
6.     Cost trends; system of cost and      Completed    A workshop to disseminate the
benefit estimation for power projects             results of the study is planned.
7.     Tariff formulation for different supply    Completed    A workshop to disseminate the
functions & different consumers.                 results is being planned.
8.     Case study on Structural Reforms in   Ongoing     To learn lessons and incorporate
Orissa (taken up in the month of                  necessary improvements in the
December 1997)                                    Reforms in other States.
B. Studies Supported under the Pre-Investment Fund (PIF) Component
Study               Purpose                         Status                  Impact of Study
I     Diagnostic studies                Both studies completed     Helped the borrowers to
formulate OFAP with PFC
2     EIA studies                       All the seven studies have    Helped the borrower to obtain
been completed            Environmental clearances
3     Preparation of feasibility reports,  All the nine studies have  Helped the borrower to obtain
Geological Investigation, and plant    been completed       various project clearances.
layout studies                    _
4     Design and Engineering. Of        Completed                  Helped the borrower to
Kothagundam TPS                                             implement the Projects
5     Consultancy for Construction      Completed                  Helped the borrower in
Management                                                  Supervision of the Project
6     Information Technology Studies    Completed                  Led to detailed design and
engineering for APSEB's state
wide computerization scheme.
7     Computerization and communication  MPEB - scheme completed   Helped borrowers to upgrade the
systems and upgrading.            WBSEB - supplies of       computer system
equipment effected
8     Consultancy of PPA, negotiations  In progress                Will help SEBs formulate and
with IPPs                                                   negotiate PPAs with IPPs



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
Component           Appraisal Estimate (Rs.m)        Actual (Rs.m)
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Investment Schemes
a. Transrnission & Distribution  3809    2251    6060   12737    6932       19669
b. Plant Environment Upgrading   1018     601    1619       193      95       288
Sub-total                     4827    2852    7679   12930    7027        19957
Technical Assistance
a. Pre-Investment Fund             75      184     259      395               395
b. PFC Institutional Strengthening  10      10      20      56                 56
c. SEB Institutional Strengthening  48     50       98      108               108
d. Studies for System Renovation   30      73      103     223                223
Sub-Total                       163      317     480      782                782
Contingencies                   2800      881    3681
Total Project Cost (Rs. M)       7790    4050   11840   13712    7027    20739
Total Project Cost (US$ m)        421     220      640     385      197       582
Interest During Construction       49      22       72        Not available
(US$m)
Total Financing Required          470     242      7121
(US$m)                          l_      _
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$m)           Actual (US$m) al
Source           Local    Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                        59       206         265          0       208     208
PFC                        269        22         291        134         0     134
SEB                        142          -        142        227         -    227
USAID                         -        14         14                   11      11
Total d/                   470       242         712        361       219     582
a! estimates of actual IDC are not available
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Rs. Million)
At appraisal, the internal economic rate of return (ERR) for the varrious investment schemes were estimated to be at
least 12 percent. A recalculation of the ERR was not performed. However, given the increasing value of power in
the face of growing supply shortages during the project period, and the competitive equipment prices secured for
the sub-projects, the rates of return are expected to remain satisfactory.



19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Secion    Covenat  Preent   Otiga          kevised             Description of            Comments
tYpe     Ss   fWflllmet  fufilment                Covenant
4ate       date
LA        2.2B         03        C      03/18/1992            GOI to open and maintain in dollars a  Fulfilled
special deposit in Reserve Bank of
India
LA        3.07         03        C      03/16/1992            GOI and PFC to enter into a          Fulfilled
subsidiary loan agreement under terms
and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank.
LA        4.01         01        C      09/30/1995            GOI/PFC to submit to the Bank not    Fulfilled
later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year, an Auditor's report
on the Special Account.
LA        4.02         04        C      03/31/1995            GOI to communicate to PFC, by        Fulfilled
March 31 each year, the amount PFC
is authorized to raise in the domestic
bond market in the following year.
PFC to submit GOI's authorization to
the Bank.
LA       5.01 (e)      05        CP                           OPS: PFC to implement and consult  Complied except for
with the Bank before any material    deviations in two
modification is made to it. PFC to    areas; said deviations
provide in quarterly progress reports  are acceptable to the
information on any changes made by  Bank.
PFC Board to the OPS.
PA        2 (5)        04        C      03/31/1995            GOI to communicate to PFC, by        Fulfilled
March 31 each year, the amount PFC
is authorized to raise in the domestic
bond market in the following year.
PFC to submit GOI's authorization to
the Bank.
PA        3.02         05        C                            PFC to take out and maintain         Fulfilled
insurance.
PA     4.01 (b) (i) 1  01        C      05/31/1995            PFC to submit unaudited financial    Fulfilled
statements, not later than two months
after the end of the financial year.
PA     4.01 (b) (i) 2  01        C      09/30/1995            Audited financial statements: PFC to  Fulfilled
submit not later than six months after
the end of the financial year
PA       Sch 2 (1)     03        C                            PFC funds will not be pre-allocated;  Fulfilled
funds will be lent to the power utilities
on the basis of a criteria agreed upon
between the Bank and PFC.
PA       Sch 2 (2)     05        C                            PFC to submit to the Bank for        Fulfilled
approval the items intended to be
financed with the proceeds of the
proposed loan, under each component
of the project.



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
.            _~~~~~~4
PA       Sch 2 (3)     06         C                           PFC undertakes to avail of financing  Complied
for the environmental upgrading of
power plants, the power utility will
prepare an environrmental assessment
of the candidate power station (s) and
agree to implement actions needed.
PA       Sch 2 (4)     06         C                           PFC to give the Bank the opportunity  Complied
to comment on the first power plant
environmental review of each
participating SEB.
PA      Sch 2 (6-1)    02         C      11/1611995           PFC to submit each year before        Complied
January 31, a report including PFC's
current financial performance
compared to the parameters set in the
OPS.
PA      Sch 2 (6-2)    02        CD     06/30/1995            PFC to submit each year before June  Complied
30, five-year financial projections
showing how the OPS parameters will
be attained.
PA      Sch 2 (7c)     05         C                           PFC to include in its loan agreements  Fulfilled
a provision to ensure that its clients
meet environmental and rehabilitation
standards acceptable to the Bank.
PA      Sch 2 (7d)     05         C      12/31/1994           PFC agreed that only sub-projects     FulfiUled
having complete detailed engineering
and all clearances by agreed cut-off
dates would be eligible for financing.
PA       Sch 2 (7e)    05         C      06/30/1994  12/31/1997 PFC to have all contracts financed    In compliance based
under the loan awarded by agreed cut- on revised cut-off
off date.                       date for recently
included schemes.
PA     2.01 (a); 3.01  05        CP                           OPS: PFC to implement OPS and    In general
consult with the Bank before any  compliance.
material modification is made to it.
PFC to provide in quarterly progress
reports information on any changes
made by PFC Board to the OPS.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                            8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation   9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
from beneficiaries                        10. = Project implementation not covered by
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds            categories 1-9
4. =  Counterpart funding                        11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
5. =  Management aspects of the project or             resource allocation
executing agency                          12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. =  Environmental covenants                          regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                    13. = Other
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD= complied with after delay
CP =  complied with partially
NC = not complied with



21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Policy Statements
Additionalitv
1.   Funds provided by PFC to power sector entities constitute an additionality to the funds assigned to them through
the Plan. The borrowers cannot substitute PFC's funds for earmarked allocations by the Planning Commission.
Status of compliance: In compliance. PFC's loan agreements with SEBs include a clause to this effect. The
Planning Commission has also issued a directive to all SEBs to this effect.
PFC's funds not to be ure-allocated
2.    PFC's funds are not allocated to the states. PFC's financing decisions are based solely on the merits of individual
projects.
Status of compliance:   In compliance.
Eligibility Criteria
3.   PFC will assist only those SEBs and SGCs that agree to implement Operational and Financial Action Plans
(OFAPs) satisfactory to PFC.
Status of compLiance: Since June 30, 1991, new loans are granted only when an OFAP is in place.
4.   PFC will lend only to projects that meet the following criteria: a) are economically justified, with a rate of return
of not less than 12%; b) are technically sound; c) technical solutions proposed must be least cost; d) are compatible with
existing expansion plans; e) solutions proposed should meet GOI and State environmental impact standards; and f)
schemes should have all clearances as required by State and Central agencies.
Status of compliance : In compliance. However, criteria for inclusion of projects/schemes in the accelerated
generation and supply program, under which PFC is receiving a subsidy from GOI and is lending at subsidized rates to
the Borrower, are as follows: (a) renovation & modernization; (b) on-going generation projects; (c) missing
transmission links and system improvement; and (d) grant for studies.
5.    Schemes for environmental upgrading of power stations should meet acceptable engineering standards, and
should be the most cost-effective means of mitigating environmental effects.
Status of Compliance. In compliance.
6.   Priority areas for funding are the following: (a) renovation & modernization of thermal and hydro power plants;
(b) completion of on-going generation projects; (c) expansion of transmission and distribution systems; and (d) system
improvement
Status of compliance:    In compliance.
Repavment Guarantees and Exuosure limits
7.    PFC will extend financial assistance only to those SEBs whose State Governments have given confirmation that
PFC will have priority on the SEB's surplus revenue over the loans granted by the State Governments to the SEBs, in
accordance with the Electricity Act.
Status of compliance: In compliance. This is provided in the guarantees signed by the State.
8.   PFC's maximum exposure limits are set according to both its clients' credit worthiness and the guarantees
offered (such as escrow account in addition to State guarantee), according to an agreed matrix that determines the credit
risks weights to be used in calculating the maximum levels of exposure per client as a percentage of PFC's net worth.
The maximum level of exposure per client is as follows: 1990-92: 35% of PFC's Net Worth; 1992-93: 30%; 1993-94:
25%; 1994-96: 20%; and 1996-98: 25%
Status of compliance: Not in compliance. PFC exceeded its exposure limits in the case of 8 clients. As on end-
FY98, the aggregate over-exposure for the eight borrowers corresponded to Rs. 28,686 million, with APSEB, its largest
borrower exceeding by Rs 6,875 million. PFC justifies this over-exposure by referring to its policy of approving loans
for borrowers, who have exceeded their limits, only in connection with projects whose implementation would result in
an improved financial position for the borrower in question.



22
Table 11: Compliance with Operatioinal Policy Statements (continued)
Non-reschedulina of Loans
9.   PFC's general policy is not to reschedule repayments due from its borrowers. However, the OPS allows PFC, if
PFC considers it financially prudent, to provide a financial restructuring package supported by appropriate
conditionality.
Status of compliance: Not in compliance. As of end of FY 98, loan repayments due from five of PFC's
borrowers (UPSEB, APSEB, TVNL, BSHPCL and WBPDCL) had been rescheduled and restructured through loan
consolidation and conversion into monthly installments, and supported by escrow accounts and irrevocable payment
instructions.
Adiustability of Lendine Rates
10.  When PFC borrows at variable interest rates it will include provisions in its loan documents to allow its lending
rates to be adjusted both on the disbursed as well as the undisbursed portion of its loans.
Status of compliance : Not in compliance. Domestic currency lending of PFC is at a fixed rate of interest with
the provision for adjusting lending rate on undisbursed portion. However, in foreign currency loan agreements, such
clauses are being incorporated.
Procurement and Disbursement Procedure
11.    Funds will be made available to the borrower only when the expenditure takes place.
Status of compliance : In compliance. Detailed disbursement procedures in place.
Suvervisions & Monitoring
12.    The borrower shall furnish periodic progress reports, satisfactory to PFC, in respect to implementation of the
financed project(s) and the OFAP. In addition, PFC's supervision teams will periodically visit project sites to assess
progress and to provide support to the borrower as needed.
Status of compliance : In compliance
13.  PFC may suspend or cancel any part of a loan if the borrowing entity fails to perform any obligation under the
legal agreement. PFC has developed a set of Guidelines for Application of Remedies.
Status of compliance:    In compliance
Profitability Tar2ets
14.   PFC will endeavor to operate as a commercial entity, earning an adequate rate of return on its capital (positive in
real terms), maintaining a healthy loan portfolio and building a strong financial base to enable it to borrow on attractive
terms.
Status of compliance: In compliance. PFC's real return on Networth for FY 98 was 15% (based on unaudited
financial statement).
15.  PFC's lending rates will be positive in real terms and will reflect its borrowings and operational costs, plus a
margin to ensure its financially viability. Lending documents will include a provision to ensure that lending rates are
adjusted to reflect this objective.
Status of compliance : In compliance.4 As of end FY 913, PFC's net interest margin stood at 4.8%.
CaDital Adeouacv
16. Initially, a maximum debt-to equity ratio of 4:1 will be rnaintained. The appropriateness of this ratio will be
periodically revisited.
Status of compliance: In compliance. As of March 31. 1998, the debt-to-equity ratio was 2.13.
4Cf. item 10, however, with regard to adjustment of rates on disbursed portion of domestic currency loans.



23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Policy Statements (continued)
Debt Service Coverage Ratio
17.   PFC's operation will be managed so as to maintain a debt service coverage ratio not lower than 1:2.
Status of compliance: In compliance. At the end of FY 98 the DSCR ratio stood at 2.18.
Liouidity
18.   PFC will maintain liquid assets equal to not less than the equivalent of the anticipated disbursements for the
following three months. Status of compliance: In compliance.
Foreign Exchange and Interest Rate Risks
19.  PFC will not bear the interest rate and foreign exchange risks in its operations.
Status of compliance: In general compliance. Co-financing operations under ADB-CFS, a World Bank TA
loan and French Credit are on a back-to-back basis. Where the margin between lending and borrowing cost is adequate
to cover exchange rate risk, external commercial borrowings are on-lent in Rupees with the exchange rate risk being
absorbed by PFC.
Guarantees
20.   PFC will be lending to SEBs and SGCs only with the backing of a guarantee provided by the State Governments
or commercial banks. In addition, PFC may request contingent arrangements, like escrow accounts, to be invoked in
certain cases, like when the guarantees have not been honored, or the OFAPs are not being implemented to the
satisfaction of PFC, or when SEBs / SGCs want to enhance their borrowing limits.
Status of Compliance: In compliance.
Term Transformation
21.   PFC will determine the average repayment period of its loans so as to ensure that the average maturity of its
assets does not exceed that of its liabilities.
Status of Compliance: In compliance. There is a general match between asset and liability maturities.
Guarantees provided by PFC to SEBs / SGCs
22.   The provision in the preceding paragraphs relating to remedies, forex and interest rate risks, loan guarantees, etc.
will equally apply to guarantees granted by PFC.
Status of Compliance    In compliance. PFC follows this principle in computing risk exposure limits and in
requesting counter-guarantees.
Accounting and Audit Systems
23.   PFC will maintain its accounts in conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act (1956) and directives
from the GOI. PFC's Statutory Auditor is appointed by GOI on the advice of the Comptroller and Auditor General, who
may also carry out his own audit of PFC. Status of Compliance: In compliance.
24.   PFC is aware of the need to develop an efficient organization staffed with competent professionals from different
disciplines. To support this effort, PFC intends to maintain training programs that provide access to the latest
development in the different disciplines. Status of Compliance: In compliance.
Review of Polices
25.   The above set of poiices and procedures will be revised from time to time to reflect the changing needs in the
operations of the Corporation. Status of Compliance. In general compliance. PFC drafted a revised OPS and a copy
was provided to the Bank in March 1996 and Bank comments were reflected in the Aide Memoire of the Bank
Supervision Mission of November 1996.



24
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                    Planned                    Actual
Weeks           US$        Weeks         US$(000)
Through Appraisal                                                  41           120.3
Appraisal-Board                                                    28           82.9
Board-Effectiveness                                                50           149.7
Supervision                                                        168          457.6
Completion                            13             50            13           30.0
TOTAL                                                             300           840.5
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfornance Rating
Stage of Project Cycle    MontlV    Number of   Days in    Specialized      Implementation    Development     Types of
Year      Persons      Field        Staff Skills          Status       Objectives      Problems
Through to Appraisal    07/89   3                          FA. ES. E. 00
Appraisal through     04/90 to   4           40            FA. ES, EC, E
Board Approval        02/92
Supervision 1         08/92      1           14            E                       2                I            PR
Supervision 2         03/93     7            44            FA. E. ES. ENC          2                l
Supervision 3         05/93     8            30            FA, E, EN, ES.          2                I             D
PR
Supervision 4         07/93     3            3             FA, PR, ES             2                 1           FP, D
Supervision 5         03/94     5            30            FA. E, 00, PR          2                2            FP, SC
Supervision 6         03/95     4            15            E, ES, C, 00           U                U           FP, SDi
Supervision 7         11/95     4            20            E, FA, 00, PA          S                S          FP, C, SDi,
(Mid-Term Review)                                                                                                IAS
Supervision 8         11/96     5            37            FA, E, EC, ES,         S                S           FP, PCD,
O0                                                  SDi. SC
Supervision 9         12/97     3            16            FA, PR, 00             S                S          A, CF, SD
Completion            07/98     4            27            FA, E, 00, PA          S                S              P
Specialists:  FA = Financial Analyst, E = Engineer, EC= Economist, EN = Environmental Specialist, ES = Energy Specialist, 00 = Operations
Officer, PR = Procurement, C = Consultant, PA = Projects Assistant
Problems:   A = Administrative, CF = Counterpart fund shortfall, D = Project process delay, C = Contract delays - awarding & implementation, FP
= Financial performance, IAS = Implementing agency staffing, PCD = Project/component design, SC = Sub-borrower commitment,
SD = Shortages and/or delay in supply of materials, SDi = Slow disbursement
Ratings: I = No or minor problems, 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems, HS = Highly satisfactory, S = Satisfactory, U = Unsatisfactory,
HU = Highly unsatisfactory, NR = Not rated/not applicable



25
Appendix A
India: Power Utilities Efficiency Improvement Project (Loan 3436-IN)
World Bank Supervision Mission
June 30 to July 7, 1998
Aide Memoire
A Bank mission visited India from June 30 to July 7, 1998 to conduct the final supervision of the Power
Utilities Efficiency Improvement Project and initiate preparation of the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR). The mission team was composed of Mmes. M. Manzo (Sr. Operations Officer), V. Ziff
(Projects Assistant), and Messrs. S. Jansson (Private Sector Development Specialist) and V. P. Thakor
(Power Engineer, Consultant). The mission would like to thank the Power Finance Corporation (PFC)
and the Department of Economic Affairs for the close cooperation extended to the team.
Key Mission Findings
Status of Implementation. The pace of project implementation has considerably accelerated
between December 1997 and June 1998. Nine investment sub-projects that were earlier reported to be
lagging (four in Kerala, three in Madhya Pradesh, one in Andhra Pradesh and one for Durgapur Power
Ltd.) are now progressing rapidly towards completion. There are no outstanding problems of contract
execution, and deliveries of most equipment have taken place. Moreover, procurement has advanced for
the West Bengal computerization and communication scheme which is being funded under the Pre-
Investment Fund (PIF) component of the project.
Disbursement as of June 30, 1998, the loan closing date, stood at US$ 195.4 million out of a total
loan amount of $215.0 million (net of earlier cancellation of US$ 50 million). It is estimated that further
disbursements from the loan, equivalent to about US$ 10 million in respect of eligible expenditures
incurred before the closing date, will be made, provided withdrawal applications are received at the
Bank's headquarters before close of business October 31, 1998.
PFC's financial performaance during FY1998 was marked by record post-tax profits amounting to
Rs 5,510 mnillion.  Improved profitability was attributable to widening of the net interest margin to
4.76%, expansion of the loan portfolio by some 30%, and further reductions in effective corporate tax
rate. As a result, PFC posted a healthy return on net worth of 22.2% for FY1998, or twice the level of
the previous year.
In FY1998, PFC continued to diversify its sources of funding by tapping the international bond
market with a 12- year Euronote issue of US$ 100 million at 7.5% fixed interest rate p.a. After close of
the fiscal year, PFC's continued good standing in the international debt market was evidenced by the
successful syndicated loan issue of US$ 100 million that closed on June 12, 1998. The issue was priced at
115 basis points over the six months LIBOR rate for US dollars, which reflects a satisfactory pricing in
view of the on-going Southeast Asian financial turmoil.
The poor quality of PFC's loan portfolio, however, continues to be problematic. While PFC
undertook major restructuring of the debts of several of its borrowers, subsequent rescheduling of
restructured debt has had to be resorted to, e.g., loans to APSEB. Moreover, against the exposure limit
defined in PFC's Operational Policy Statement (OPS), eight of PFC's borrowers have exceeded their
borrowing entitlements. As of April 1, 1998, PFC's aggregate over-exposure to the eight borrowers
corresponded to Rs. 28,686 million. The mission strongly recommends that to preserve recent gains
made in its financial operations, PFC apply more rigor in the evaluation of the quality of its loans,



26
strictly enforce its policies on exposures, and review and strengthen its policies on loan loss provisioning
and write-offs of "bad debt".
Implementation  Completion Report.   The mission exchanged  views with PFC  staff and
management on the overall outcome of the project, discussed a range of factors that affected the project,
and the lessons learned. While preliminary assessment indicate that overall results were satisfactory,
achievement of the various development objectives was mixed. The expectation that the project would
result in improvements in the power sector, including improvement in the creditworthiness of
participating SEBs, was not, and could not be met in the absence of major structural, tariff and regulatory
reforms in the state power sector. Based on latest project information available from PFC, the mission
prepared a detailed outline of the ICR for PFC's comments and data update. Subject to results of site
visits to be made by Mr. V. P. Thakor to confirm status of sub-project completion, and preparation by
PFC of an Operational Plan, a Completion Mission may not be required.
Status of Project Implementation
Investment Sub-projects.   Fifty-two schemes among seven utilities were financed under the
investment component. These involved 121 procurement packages, requiring over 200 contracts. The
status of completion of the sub-projects is summarized below (Refer to Annex I for details):
Sub-project Type               Total             Completed        More than 75%  complete
Transmission                     27                  7                       20
Urban Distribution               22                  12                      10
Capacitors                        I                  Jl
Metering                          1
Environment                       1                  -                       1
Total                            52                  21                      31
During the month of July 1998, the mnission would carry out visits to selected sub-project sites for
physical verification of the works. For this purpose, Mr. V. P. Thakor plans to visit the following sub-
projects with a representative of PFC:
State                     Sub-project               Cost in Rs. Millions
Aridhra Pradesh         GIS Substations, Hyderabad               1523.6
Urban Distribution, Hyderabad            949.1
Gujarat                 220 kV Dehgam s/s                        283.9
400 kV Amreli s/s                        951.0
400 kV Zerda s/s                         801.6
Urban Distribution, Rajkot                78.7
Rajasthan               220 kV Bhinman s/s                        195.9
220 kV Balotra s/s                       276.5
Urban Distribution, Jaipur               295.2
Total Cost                                                  5355.5
A significant portion of remaining disbursements consist of retention payments which are released
after the performance of the equipment is proven.  PFC requested clarification from  the mission
concerning the Bank's policy in respect of such payments. The mission clarified that the loan accounts
will be kept open for 120 days after the closing date to process payments against expenditures that
became due prior to the closing date. Under the prevailing practice, payments that did not become due
before the closing date could not be processed after the closinlg date.



27
Pre-Investment Fund (PIF) Activities . Thirty schemes are being supported under the PEF of which
21 schemes are completed. The schemes involve a total contracted value of Rs 560 million. PFC
estimates that total loan disbursements in support of the PIEF activities would amount to Rs. 400 niillion,
or between US$ 10 million to $11 million. This amount is much higher than anticipated by the Bank
mission in December 1997, and is attributable to the major progress made during the last six months in
advancing procurement under the West Bengal computerization and communication project. Inspection of
equipment supply was completed and delivery effected.
Five schemes, which involve provision of consultant services to assist SEBs in their negotiations of
Power Purchase Agreements with IPPs, represent activities carried over from the Private Power
Development Project (TA Loan 3630-IN). It is estimated that about US$ 100,000 would be disbursed
from Loan 3436-IN for this purpose. These advisory services are expected to continue beyond June 1998
until the respective PPA negotiations are completed. The balance of funds required to complete these
consultant activities would be financed from PFC's own resources.
Corporate and Financial Performance 5 (Annex 2 represents highlights of PFC's financial
performance for the past four years.)
Income and Profitability. PFC's revenues from operations and other income in FY1998 amounted
to Rs. 10,927 million, of which the earned interest on Loans & Advances amounted to Rs. 9,202 million
(an increase by 49% over the previous FY). Total operating expenses amounted to Rs. 5,748 million, of
which interest expenses represented Rs. 5,011 million. After adjustments and provision for income tax,
this translated into a Net Profit of Rs. 5,510 million, or a 140% increase over that of the previous year.
This huge increase in profits are due to a widened net interest margin (from 3.97% to 4.76%), as applied
to a loan portfolio that expanded by some 30%, and a further reduction in PFC's effective tax rate.
Return on Net Worth (paid-in capital + reserves) doubled from 1 1% in FY1997 to 22% in FY1998 , with
earnings per share more than doubling from Rs. 233 to Rs. 543. The real return on Net Worth in FY1998,
after accounting for inflation, was a very healthy 15%, up from 4.6 % in FY1997.
Capital & Resource Mobilization. As at end FY1998, the total paid-up Share Capital amounted to
Rs. 10,305 million out of an authorized capital of Rs. 20,000 million. No further equity infusion from
GOI is being contemplated for the foreseeable future. There could be an opportunity for future
participation by institutional investors in PFC's equity. Total funding in FY 1998 increased by Rs. 16,672
million to Rs. 77,831 million. At end-FY, PFC's Net Worth position stood at Rs. 24,820 million,
corresponding to 32% of Total Funding, which was at the same relative level as in the previous year.
Total debt increased by 29% to Rs. 53,011 million, including an interest subsidy from GOI in the
amount of Rs. 1,941 million. Out of total borrowings, debt from the domestic market accounted for Rs.
25,268 million, mainly in the form of tax-exempt and non-tax exempt bonds. World Bank and ADB
loans through GOI stood at Rs. 12,818 million. PFC also tapped the international bond market for a 12-
year Euronote issue of US$ 100 million. Together with a syndicated loan of US$75 niillion, that was
raised in FY1997, and other foreign currency loans of Rs. 6,031 million, the aggregate Foreign Exchange
Loan position at end-FY1998 stood at Rs. 12,984 million. In an effort to further diversify its funding
sources, PFC has entered into a line of credit agreement with 1KB Bank of Germany, for financing of
imports by various borrowers of PFC. PFC is also negotiating with other ECAs for similar arrangements.
The intemational rating agency Moody's assigned a 'Baa3' rating to PFC's foreign currency debt,
which is at the sovereign ceiling of India. At the time of the mission, however, Moody's downgraded
India's sovereign debt by two notches to 'Ba2', which could affect the pricing of any long term paper that
5 As of the time of this mission, financial statements provided for FY 1998 are provisional and will be reviewed by
the auditors.



28
PFC would place in the international market. Standard and Poor has recently changed the foreign
currency outlook for PFC from 'stable' to 'negative'. The downgrading of PFC's debt by international
rating agencies is likely to increase the average cost of PFC's funding. This factor, together with the
general slowdown of the Indian economy, may contribute to an impending reversal of the trend of
continued growth in PFC's business operations and profitability.
Application of Funds.   Outstanding Loans & Advances position increased by nearly 30% to Rs.
73,059 million, after recording net disbursements of Rs. 16,644 million, which was twice the level of net
disbursements in the previous year. This reflected a strong expansion in business activity as 57 loans to
36 different borrowers were sanctioned, involving a total value of Rs 29,323 million. As of end of
FY1998, PFC's largest borrowers are APSEB with loans totaling Rs. 12,811 million, MSEB with loans of
Rs. 8,774 million, and RSEB with loans of Rs. 7,021 million. In an effort to diversify its client base, PFC
approved Rs.4,454 million worth of loans to five private sector borrowers, although associated
disbursements have yet to be made.
Collection Performance and Portfolio Quality. At the end of FY1998, total loans overdue (arrears)
stood at Rs 313.4 million reflecting an average collection rate over the year of 56.5%. The collection rate
on new amounts due and billed over the year was posted at 99.7%, whereas the recovery rate of accounts
in arrears was 26 %. The level of total arrears was controlled by consolidation and rescheduling of
several problem loans and their conversion to monthly installments backed up by revenue escrow
accounts in addition to the state guarantees. The respective escrow accounts are governed by tripartite
agreements, under which the borrower's agent bank sets aside the required monthly amounts into the
escrow from revenues collected on behalf of the borrower, in accordance with irrevocable payment
instructions. The mission noted that in view of the continued financial instability of some SEBs, the
pressure for rescheduling the restructured accounts would remain high, as experienced in the case of
APSEB, despite the escrow arrangements and state guarantees.
The quality of PFC's portfolio, therefore, continues to be a matter of serious concern. Based on the
classification system agreed with the Bank, which in addition to the DSCR takes due regard to timely
payments and timely auditing/annual reporting, the portfolio at end-FY1998 can be classified as follows:
normal risk assets - 17.17%; substandard assets - 78.68%; doubtful assets - 4.04%; and loss assets -
0.11%. In FY1998, PFC provided for reserves for bad ancl doubtful debts of Rs. 88 million, raising the
aggregate provision on the balance sheet to Rs.788 million at the end of the fiscal year. This represents a
mere 1.1 % of the loan portfolio, which would not allow PFC to cover any substantial write-offs of non-
performing assets.
On the other hand, using the RBI guidelines, PFC's asset would be classified significantly different
as follows: normal risk assets - 79.69%; substandard assets - 20.17%; doubtful assets - 0.14%; and loss
assets - 0.00%. The latter classification regard state guaranteed loans as risk-free and PFC maintains that
loan loss provisioning is unnecessary as it has no non-performiing assets.
Operational Policy Statement (OPS).
PFC is in compliance with the loan covenants and, except for certain deviations enumerated below, is
in general compliance with the OPS earlier agreed with the Bank. PFC's deviations from the OPS during
the last FY were in the following areas:6
6 Refer to Table 11: Compliance with Operational Policy Statement, Part II: Statistical Tables for the ICR



29
* The exposure limit was exceeded in the case of eight borrowers: APSEB, KEB, MPEB, PSEB,
RSEB, TNEB, UPSEB and GRIDCO; the aggregate over-exposure to the eight borrowers
corresponded to Rs. 28,686 million as of end of FY1998.
* The Operational and Financial Action Plan (OFAP) requirement for SEBs to maintain a minimum
rate of return of 3 per cent was waived with regard to loans for completion of on-going generation
facilities;
* The OPS stipulates that lending rates are to be adjusted on both the disbursed and the undisbursed
portion of its loans in order to maintain interest margins. PFC only adjusts the lending rates on
the undisbursed portion on its domestic currency loans, whereas the rates on both disbursed and
undisbursed portions are adjusted in the case of foreign currency loans.
* The OPS provides that PFC will not reschedule loans, but in exceptional circumstances can
restructure loans supported by appropriate conditionality. Accordingly, PFC consolidated and
restructured several problem loans and required that they be backed up by an enhanced security
package involving escrows. Unfortunately, a rescheduling of the restructured loan(s) was soon
effected for APSEB; and except for the automatic transfer of escrow funds, the security
arrangement was not significantly improved.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Discussions
The mission had detailed discussion of issues to be covered in the project ICR. Comparative data
and information tracing project progress from time of appraisal to completion were made available by
PFC. On this basis, the mission prepared a working draft of the ICR for comment and
confirmation/update of facts and figures by PFC. A copy of the draft ICR would be sent by the Bank to
PFC by late September for PFC's comment upon receipt by the Bank of firmer data on project costs,
disbursements and completion status. The Bank would also expect to obtain PFC's evaluation report on
the project on or before October 31, 1998 for attachment to the final ICR version, which is expected to be
released by mid-November.
For the purpose of the ICR, the mission requests PFC to prepare an operational plan as well as
provide impact indicators for as many components of the project as feasible. In particular, the impact of
25 sub-projects for environmental actions would be desirable though only one of these sub-projects
(Durgapur) is funded by the Bank loan and is still not completed. Similarly, the impact of the metering
project in Haryana, where about 23,000 meters for H. T. consumers were replaced, should be evaluated.
The effect on billing and collection due to this measure should not be difficult to assess. The mission also
requested PFC to review selected efficiency indicators (in addition to financial performance) for the
beneficiary SEBs. These may include frequency of outages and interruptions, T&D losses, plant load
factor, billing and collection, etc. The trend in these indicators between 1992 and 1998 could indicate the
beneficial impact of PFC/World Bank efforts.



30
Annex 1
Power Utilities Efriciency Improvement Project (Loan 3436-IN)
Implementation Progress as of May 31, 1998
1.1 Sanctions
Credit           No. of        Total Cost     Loan Amount    Donor Agency
sub-projects           in Rs Crores                 Share
sanctioned
WB - Investment        52              1996            1183              798
Sub-projects
WB-PIF                 31              150              129              67
Total                  83              2146            1312             865
1.2 Procurement Status
Credit         Packages       NIT (s) Issued    Bids Opened       Awards
Identified
No/Value        No./Value           No.           No./Value
WB -Inv.            128/737          128/737            128            121/702
WB-PIF               45/129          45/129             41              41/64
Total               173/866          173/866            169            162/766
1.3 Physical Progress (Investment Component)
Sub-project Type       Total          Completed         More than 75% complete
Transmission             27                7                       20
Urban Distribution       22               12                       10
Capacitors               1                 1
Metering                 1                 1
Environment              1                 -                       1
Total                    52               21                      31



31
Annex 2
POWER FINANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
RESULTS OF FINANCIAL OPERATIONS
31/3/94    31/395    31/3/96    31/3/97   31/3/98
I     Financial Highlights in      31.37     31.50      35.50     36.11      39.73
US$ million @
2     Total Loans                  1,182.21   1,347.68   1,361.69   1,562.31    1,838.89
3     Total Capital                490.37    528.41     513.04    553.67      624.72
4     Total Assets                 1,380.30   1,497.05   1,494.90   1,793.52    2,041.08
5     Net Profit                   47.02     49.62      55.46     62.59       138.69
6
7     Rate of Inflation in India (%)         10%        7.15%
8
9                                            Rupees In Millions
10    Balance Sheet
11    Cash & Cheques               650.00    300.00     -         800.00     793.00
12    Bank - ST                    31.00     791.00     164.00    565.00      173.00
13    Bank Deposits                3,729.00   3,881.00   2,225.00   4,650.00    4,157.00
14    Other ST Assets              510.00    144.00     178.00    193.00     655.00
15    ST Investments               1,590.00   -         345.00    -          -
16    Total Current assets         6,510.00   5,116.00   2912.00    6,208.00    5,778.00
17    Loans & advances            37.086.00  42,452.00  48,340.00  56,415.00   73,059.00
18    Provision for Bad Debts     -303.00   -417.00    -560.00    -700.00    -788.00
19    Net Loans & Advances         36,783.00  42,035.00  47,780.00  55,715.00   72,271.00
20    Gross Fixed Assets           12.00     13.00      2,087.00   2,861.00    3,467.00
21    Accumulated depreciation     5.00      7.00       10.00     20.00      424.00
22    Net Fixed Assets             7.00      6.00       2,077.00   2,841.00    32043.00
23    Total Assets                 43,300.00  47,157.00  52,769.00  64,764.00   81,092.0
24  1
25    Exchange Risk Admn.Fund &
26    Borrowers Contribution       816.00    1,254.00   1,740.00   -          -
27   Interest Accrued              471.00    523.00     546.00    694.00      844.00
28    Proposed Dividend            100.00    300.00     400.00    480.00      528.00
29    Other Liabilities            1,907.00   2,430.00   2,129.00   2,430.00    1,889.00
30    Total Current Liabilities    3,294.00   4,507.00   4,815.00   3,605.00    3,261.00
31    Bonds                        18,543.00  18,072.00  18,902.00  22,993.00   25,268.00
32   Interest subsidy from GoI     -         -          -         -           1,941.00
33    Loans - Gol                  200.00    1,600.00   4,600.00   9,400.00    12,818.00
34    Fx Loans                     5,748.00   6,297.00   6,235.00   6,065.00    6,031.00
35    Syndicated Loans             -         -          -         2,708.00    2,980.00
36    Fixed Rate Euro Notes        -         -          -         -          3,973.00
37    Public Deposit Scheme        132.00    36.00      4.00      -          -
38    Total Debt                   24,623.00  26,005.00  29,741.00  41,166.00   53,011.00
39    Share Capital                9,855.00   10,305.00  10,305.00  10,305.00   10,305.00
40    Share Application Money      450.00    -          -         -          -
41    Special Reserves             3,009.00   3,873.00   4,960.00   5,850.00    8,342.00
42    Bond Redemption Reserves     2,058.00   2,453.00   2,933.00   2,933.00    2,933.00
43    General Reserves             11.00      14.00     15.00     905.00      3,240.00
44    Total Capital                15,383.00  16,645.00  18,213.00  19,993.00   24,820.00
45    Total Liabilities & Capital  43,300.00  47,157.00  52,769.00  64,764.00   81,092.00
46
47    Income Statement
48   Interest on Loans & Deposits  3,993.00   4,12700   4,560.00   6,160.00    9,202.00
49   Income from Investments       540.00    464.00     853.00    466.00      708.00
50    Lease income                 -                    39.00     455.00     806.00



32
51    Other income                43.00      42.00     66.00      133.00    211.00
52    Total income                4,576.00     4,633.00    5,518.00   7,214.00    10,927.00
53   Interest Expense             2,145.00   2,179.00   2,360.00   3,207.00    5.011.00
54   Issue Expenses               0.00       0.00      63.00     309.00     66.00
55    Admn .Expenses              49.00      59.00     83.00      107.00     126.00
56    Depreciation                2.00       2.00      3.00       10.00     405.00
57   Interest Tax                 118.00     120.00    138.00    200.00     52.00
58    Total Operating Expenses    2,314.00   2,360.00   2,647.00   3,833.00    5,660.00
59    Prov. For Bad Debt          113.00     114.00    143.00     140.00    88.00
60    Total Expenses              2,427.00   2,474.00   2,790.00   3,973.00    5,748.00
61    Profit for the Year         2,149.00   2,159.00   2,728.00   3,241.00    5,179.00
62    Priorperiod adjustments(Net)    0.00   0.00      9.00      5.00       -413.00
63    Profit Before Tax           2,149.00   2,159.00   2,719.00   3.236.00    5,592.00
64   Income Tax                   674.00    596.00    750.00    976.00      82.00
65    Profit After Tax            1,475.00   1,563.00   1,969.00   2,260.00    5,510.00
66
68    Liquidity Ratio             197.63%    113.51%   66.71%    172.21%    177.18%
69    Debt to Networth            160.07%    156.23%    163.30%   205.90%    213.58%
70    Debt Service coverage Ratio    200.28%    199.17%   215.34%    201.22%    219.68%
(PBT) 
71    Debt Service coverage Ratio  168.86%    171.82%    183.56%    170.78%    218.04%
(PAT)                       _
72    Capital as % of Assets      35.53%    35.30%    34.51%    30.87%      30.61%
73
74   Interest income on avg. loan    10.77%    10.38%    10.04%    11.76%    14.21%
portfolio                                        _
75   Interest Exp. on borrowings  8.71%      8.38%     7.94%     7.79%      9.45%
76    Net Interest margin         2.06%      2.00%     2.11%     3.97%      4.76%
77    Admn.Exp/Avg.Total Assets   0.11%      0.13%     0.17%     0.18%      0.17%
78    Personal & Admn.Exp.as % of
79    Avg.Loan Portfolio          0.13%      0.15%     0.18%     0.20%      0.19%
80    Return on avg. paid up capital    14.97%  15.51%  19.11%    21.93%    53.47%
81    Return on avg. Assets       3.41%         3.46%  3.94%     3.85%      7.56%



33
Appendix B
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3436-IN)
I. BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
1    INTRODUCTION
The project was envisaged at the time India was facing continued power shortages equivalent to about 9%
total energy and 22% peak capacity requirement even though significant progress was made in the system
expansion. The demand & supply gap was attributable to technical & price inefficiencies. The tariff
structure of the SEBs (State Electricity Boards) was skewed in favour of the agricultural consumers. The
inability of the SEBs to recover their costs has meant that SEBs had to rely on state government subsidies
to support their operations. The SEBs were plagued with problems of unsatisfactory billing & collection,
poor communication & monitoring systems, poor maintenance & lack of trained manpower resulting in
poor service and low cash flows.
The World Bank study conducted in 1989 had highlighted deficiencies and inefficiencies in the Indian
power system. The project was designed to address problems through strategic support to SEBs. The
following aspects of power system development were specifically targeted :-
*  Investment in transmission and distribution had not kept pace with investments to expand generating
capacity.
*  SEBs needed to alleviate poor maintenance, inadequate controls and operational supervision, poor
communication and monitoring systems, lack of trained staff and unsatisfactory billing and
collections.
*  The performance of generating plants in India, particularly thermal plants, was below acceptable
standards.
*  The environmental operating conditions of many thermal plants in India were substandard.
*  The formulation of power projects in India, particularly for hydroelectric plants, was a difficult and
slow task, which retarded growth. The quality of project feasibility studies, site investigations and
pre-construction engineering also required considerable improvement.
Eighth Five Year Plan (1993-97), envisaged bringing about reforms in working of State Utilities through
stringent action. Government, however, was constrained in its ability to act unilaterally and add strings to
the budgetary support provided to state sector. Added to this, budgetary constraints restricted Central
Government support to the power sector. The ability of utilities to generate internal resources was
hampered by the poor financial condition stemming from the operational & financial inefficiencies. It
was realised that the improvement in the sector was possible only through funds linked with reform
conditions. The Power Finance Corp.Ltd was brought into picture as part of Government of India's
initiative for bringing the reforms in the working of State Utilities. The Project was aimed at a turn around
in the sector's finances & improvement in operational & financial efficiency of the State utilities through
a series of actions on tariff, billing & collection front, plant efficiency improvement, reduction in T&D
losses, Load management & greater production & end use efficiency.



34
The project was proposed to address the objectives of reduction in system losses, setting the power rates
closer to economic cost of supply & improved inter-state grid mechanism for reduced energy shortfall.
1.1 PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the project envisaged were :- (i) To support Government of India's efforts to make PFC
a viable and effective instrument for improvements in the power sector; (ii) To strengthen the operations
of the beneficiary SEBs by lending only to those willing to undertake acceptable reform programs; (iii)
To foster better use of existing power facilities by reducing constraints in the transmission and
distribution systems; (iv) To mitigate the adverse environmental impact of thermal plants in operation by
providing adequate anti-pollution and monitoring facilities; (v) To improve the preparation of power
projects and promote the development of the local consulting industry by funding pre-investment studies
and engineering for power projects.
2    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The proceeds of the loan have been onlent by PFC to the five major beneficiary SEBs for transmission &
distribution, capacitor, urban distribution and environmental upgradation of thermal plants. Initially, the
major beneficiaries under the loan were APSEB,GEB, MPEB, DPL; later on RSEB, HSEB & KSEB were
also included in December 1993, March 1994 and March 1995 respectively. Apart from financing of
investment schemes of SEBs and bringing about the irstitutional reforms in the SEBs, the project
envisaged setting up a Pre Investment Fund to finance the project preparation and other studies aimed at
enhancing the performance of power utilities in the country.
2.1  Investment sub - projects
The details of various schemes undertaken under the Project including the Pre investment schemes are as
under;
Amounts in Rs. Crores
WB Investment       Number of      Cost of     World Bank      Utilisation
Project          Schemes       Project        Share
Transmission              27           1143.70          554.34        488.67
Urban Distribution        22            783.47          266.00        201.00
Capacitors                01             15.31            6.00          5.75
Metering                  01             24.45           13.65         12.17
Environmental             01             28.80           11.80          6.42
Total                     52           1995.73          851.80        714.00
The objective of facilitating better use of existing power facilities was aimed by extensively including the
transmission and distribution systems augmentation and improvement schemes under the loan. Under the
loan, 4191 Ckt. Kms. of Transmission lines and 6528 MVA of Transformation capacities were supported.
Distribution improvement schemes for as many as 23 cities were sanctioned where 2038 MVA of
transformation capacities along with 5546 Ckt. Kms of Trainsmission lines and 559 MVAR capacitors
were supported. These measures helped in improving the supply both in quantitative and qualitative
terms. The above steps have gone a long way in improving the transfer of electricity from the existing
power stations to the load centres and improving the hitherto neglected urban distribution improvement of
the 23 cities.



35
2.2  Pre Investment Fund
To alleviate the shortage of well-prepared projects for power sector development the loan created a Pre-
Investment Fund (PIF) which would provide financing for project preparation and design. The following
activities were considered for financing: -
(1) Preparation of pre-feasibility/identification of power expansion (or) improvement schemes. (2)
Preparation of feasibility/ detailed engineering schemes
(3) Preparation of studies of institutional nature and those necessary to improve the managerial, financial
(or) operational efficiency of power sector (or) power utilities. (4) Technical assistance, training
necessary to implement action recommended in studies. (5)  Studies necessary for system integration
at regional (or) national level for improved and efficient integrated operations. (6) Studies of sectorial
nature leading to improved sector wide policies and efficiency.
As part of PIF activities PFC sanctioned 30 schemes amounting to Rs.1227.90 million and made
disbursement totalling to Rs. 553.30 million. The details of schemes undertaken are as detailed in
Annexure-I.
2.2.1 Benefits
(1) Consultancy services hired for Design and Engineering and Construction Supervision have resulted in
implementation of the power projects in schedule time. (2) Feasibility / Geological investigation studies
carried out for various thermal and hydro projects has helped borrowers to prepare Detailed Project
Reports. (3) Implementation of state-wide Computerisation and Modernisation of Communication
System has resulted in improvement of billing and revenue collection, inventory control management,
management information system  etc.   (4) Diagnostic studies have resulted in improvements in
borrower's financial & operational activities. (5) International Financial / Legal / Technical Consultancy
has helped the borrowers to negotiate power purchase and other related agreement with the Independent
Power Producers.
2.3  Institutional Strengthening of Utilities
The project also aimed at bringing the improvements in operational and financial management through a
planned action plans. The assistance included provision of technical and training services, acquisition of
data processing equipment, software and Operational and Financial Action Plan (OFAP).
OFAP mechanism evolved in 1991 laid emphasis on improvement in performance of SEBs over a period
of time through well focussed measures within the existing institutional frame-work (organisational,
managerial and financial) of SEBs' operations, aimed at internal improvement in performance of SEBs.
It was also recognised, SEBs within the existing framework may not be in a position to regain financial
viability on their own and inevitably required State Government's commitment and support particularly
for tariff revision and rationalisation, and provision of cash subsidy for achieving statutory minimum
ROR of 3%.
OFAPs in respect of 30 utilities (14 SEBs, I T&D Co., 8 SGCs, 1 Municipal run utility, 1 joint sector
utility and 5 departmentally run power utility) are in place. These included five World Bank funded
utilities, namely APSEB, GEB, RSEB, HSEB and MPEB.
The mechanism of OFAP was got reviewed by MWs. Price Waterhouse & Co., USA, under the EMCAT
Project. To standardise the formulation, implementation and monitoring mechanism an OFAP Manual
was adopted in 1995, establishing linkages with the strategic planning process, prioritisation of core and



36
non-core areas and constitution of working group to supervise the implementation of the action points.
The OFAP Unit was reorganised on regional basis to have better client focus with a task manager for each
utility for sharper monitoring. Financial assistance to the respective utility is linked to the status of OFAP
implementation.
OFAP mechanism has helped in bringing about qualiitative as well as quantitative improvements in the
SEBs performance. The OFAP has brought about increased awareness, at all levels, of SEBs problems
generated action on the part of SEBs/State Government's on many critical issues.
The focus has been on enduring improvements rather than on certain financial parameters through
motivating and securing willingness/commitment of the State Governments.
2.3.1  The OFAP mechanism has brought about the following improvements in SEBs operations:-
*  Achievement of 3% ROR and release of Subsidy
*  Tariff increase/Rationalisation
*  Capital Restructuring brought about increased profitability levels thereby reducing the
dependence on subsidy.
*  Improved Receivables
*  Institutional Development brought about improvement in various functional areas of SEB's such
as materials management, costing and cost control, financial and accounting systems, project
planning and control, internal audit, MIS, etc.
e  Improved Billing & Collection systems
2.3.2  OFAP in retrospect
It can be concluded in retrospect that OFAP mechanism has served the purpose by leading to increased
awareness, concern and commitment to the problems being faced by the state power utilities. Significant
improvements have been brought about in the operational, financial and institutional functional areas
within the existing structural frame-work. The OFAP experience has led to the realisation that the
deficiencies lie mainly at the State Government level, which are impeding the utilities from becoming
commercially viable and self-sustainable entities. SEBs depend on the State Government's for investment
plans and decisions, mobilisation of resources, tariff rates, subsidy payments and other areas ranging
from procedural to policy matters. In addition, SEBs have become monolithic and monopolistic
organisations with consequential managerial and operational problems.
To bring enduring results and consolidate the gains the focus has to shift, as also emphasised in GOI
policy, towards reform and restructuring. Reforms in the State power sector. PFC has already initiated
discussions with the states of Assam, West Bengal, Meghalaya, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Tamil
Nadu, Kerala, Goa, Jammu & Kashmir and Punjab for initiating reforms. State Governments. Of Assam,
West Bengal, Goa, J&K and Punjab have expressed their willingness to reform their power sector with
the technical and financial assistance from PFC.



37
2.4 Environmental Upgrading of Power Plants
The project helped focus on the improvement in environmental upgradation in general and management
of thermal power plant in particular. Under the project PFC established an Environment Assessment and
Monitoring Unit (EAMU).  This environmental unit, set up in PFC, established environmental
upgradation plans for thermal stations in the beneficiary SEBs and helped in general improvement of
environmental management in these SEBs. This Unit helped SEBs in formulation of environmental
action plans for a number of thermal stations.
PFC supported over 25 environmental improvement schemes with PFC financial assistance, of which one,
namely Durgapur Project Ltd. was also financed from the proceed of the World Bank loan. Durgapur
Power Project, environmental Improvement Scheme involved installation of Electro Static Precipitator
(ESP).
3      BENEFICIARIES
The investments in T&D schemes of all beneficiary SEBs have resulted in better utilisation of power
facilities which helped reduction in system technical losses, improved system load factors and reduced
power outages i.e. increase in reliability in the effected service areas. These benefits were achieved by
removal of transmission constraints for power evacuations, reinforcement or upgradation of overloaded
transmission lines including higher voltages, enhancement of transformer capacity of grid sub-stations
and distribution sub-stations, reinforcement of distribution system and installation of capacitors to
improve services and reduce losses. The benefits were also achieved by plugging the revenue leakage by
installation of high class accuracy electronic meters for single phase and three phase consumers in
particular industrial consumers.
3.1 Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board (APSEB):
3.1.1 Transmission & Distribution Projects
Under the Loan from World Bank, APSEB in association with PFC identified 8 Transmission sub
projects amounting to Rs.2838 million with World Bank share of Rs.2220.70 million & 2 Urban
distribution projects amounting to Rs. 1005 million with World Bank share of Rs.723.10 million. Under
the loan APSEB has been able to support 1118 ckt Kms of Transmission lines & 1300 MVA of
transmission capacities. Further, 280 distribution MVA, 42 distribution MVAR and 2421 distribution ckt
Kms are supported.
3.1.2 Operational Financial Action Plan
APSEB started booking subsidy in annual accounts. Subsidy has been released by State
Govemment upto 1996-97 by writing off Government loans to achieve 3% RoR. During the last 6 -7
years, APSEB revised tariff five times with the last tariff increase being of the order of 37% (August '96).
The gap between average tariff and average cost has been reduced and ratio of recovery against cost stood
at 78% in 1996-97. Increase in average tariff without agricultural consumption were 66% during 1992-93
to 1996-97 against increase of 96% in cost of supply during the same period. State Government converted
Rs. 1321 crores of SG loans into equity rationalising the capital structure to a certain extent. The
outstanding receivables were decreased from 77 days sales in 1992-93 to 67 days during 1996-97.
Suitable measures have also been initiated through OFAP for improvement in various other
functional areas of APSEB. APSEB has computerised the billing for both HT/LT consumers. M/s NIIT
developed the software & APSEB implemented this in 3 out of total 150 locations. APSEB appointed M/s



38
Tata Constancy Services for implementation of computerisation scheme. The loan provides for assistance
of supply, installation & commissioning of computer hardware & accessories. The total outstanding dues
have come down to 60 days of sale.
3.2 Gujarat Electricity Board (GEB):
3.2.1 Transmission & Distribution Projects
Under the Loan from World Bank, GEB in association with PFC identified 7 Transmission sub
projects amounting to Rs.1955 million with World Bank share of Rs.1296.30million & 5 Urban
distribution projects amounting to Rs. 176 million with World Bank share of Rs.130.70 million.
Under the loan GEB has been able to support 769 ckt Kms of Transmission lines & 1745 MVA of
transmission capacities. Further, 110 distribution MVA and 170 distribution ckt Kms are supported.
These steps yielded good return in terms of better quality of supply & low transmission losses ( Year-on-
Year growth rate of -2.48%). The net energy flow into the grid has increased substantially due to
investments made in transmission & distribution systems which supported the increase in energy
supplied.
3.2.2 Operational Financial Action Plan
Subsidy upto 1995-96 have been released by the State Government to achieve 3% RoR. With the
emphasis laid on the OFAP, the GEB has revised the tariff on an annual basis. During the last 6 -7 years,
GEB revised tariff nine times with the last tariff increase being of the order of 16%(October '96). This
has led to reduction in the gap between average tariff and average cost. The ratio of recovery against cost
increased from 72% in 1992-93 to 81% in 1996-97. Trends of increase in average tariff without
agricultural consumption have matched the trends of increase in cost of supply both of which increased by
average around 56% during this period.
Government of Gujarat (GoG) is actively considering a proposal for conversion of Rs 2040 Crores
loans into equity.  The receivables of GEB, due to improvement in collection efficiency and
computerisation of billing and MIS, have been kept under check. The receivables were decreased from
137 days sales in 1992-93 to 133 days during 1996-97. Suitable measures have also been initiated
through OFAP for improvement in various other functional areas of GEB. GEB has computerised all 390
billing centres, covering 52 lakh consumers of all the categories. Seven additional laboratories for testing
& repairing of meters have started functioning.
3.3 Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB):
3.3.1 Transmission & Distribution Projects
Under the Loan from World Bank, HSEB in association with PFC undertaken 3 Transmission sub
projects amounting to Rs.235.1million with World Bank share of Rs.96.40million & 1 Urban distribution
projects amounting to Rs. 160.20 million with World Bank share of Rs. 136.50 million.
PFC has supported 135 ckt Kms transmission lines, 100 MVA transformnation capacity and 320
distribution MVAR. Number of metres - 227525 have been installed by HSEB.



39
3.3.2 Operational Financial Action Plan
HSEB has an agreed OFAP with PFC. It started booking subsidy to achieve an RoR of 3% for
1992-93. The Govt of Haryana (GoH) has cleared all its subsidy till 1996-97. For 1995-96 and 1996-97
GoH paid subsidy partially against State Govt loans.
HSEB has been revising its tariff from time to time. The latest revision has been w.e.f. 15.6.98 for
consumers other than agriculture, has been increased by almost 15%. The position of their receivables has
improved from 243 days in 1992-93 to 110 days in 1996-97.
GoH/HSEB has gone ahead in a big way for reforms, and HSEB has been bifurcated into Haryana
Power Generation Corp. Ltd., and Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Ltd. The World Bank is providing the
necessary funding for the Haryana reform project.
For improving metering and energy audit, electronic meters out of 2300 nos, 1844 nos. have been
installed and balance have been received at site as of August, 1998.
3.4 Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board (MPEB):
3.4.1 Transmission & Distribution Projects
Under the Loan from World Bank, MPEB in association with PFC has undertaken 3 Transmission
sub projects amounting to Rs. 1463.00 million with World Bank share of Rs.734.00rnillion & 7 Urban
distribution projects amounting to Rs.634.00 million with World Bank share of Rs.330.80 million. Under
the loan MPEB has supported 356 ckt Kms transmission lines and 560 MVA transformation capacity.
Further, 149 distribution MVA, 108 distribution MVAR and 1580 distribution ckt Kms are also
supported.
3.4.2 Operational Financial Action Plan
MPEB started booking subsidy in annual accounts. Subsidy upto 1995-96 has been released by
the State Govemment and for 96-97 has been released partially to achieve 3% RoR. OFAP required the
MPEB to revise tariff on an annual basis. During the last 6 -7 years, MPEB revised tariff eight times
with the last tariff increase being of the order of 15%(August '96). This has led to the reduction in the gap
between average tariff and average cost. The ratio of recovery against cost increased from 83% in 1992-
93 to 88% in 1996-97. Increase in average tariff without agricultural consumption exceeded the increase
in the cost of supply. Tariffs increased by 86% during the period 1992-93 to 1996-97 compared to 44%
for the cost of supply over the same period.
After constantly pursuing up with the State Government., the State Govemment. Converted
Rs.700 crores of SG loans into equity rationalising the capital structure.
Due to improvement in collection efficiency, computerisation of billing and MIS, receivables
have been kept under check. The receivables decreased from 111 days sales in 1992-93 to 53 days during
1996-97. Suitable measures have also been initiated through OFAP for improvement in various other
functional areas of MPEB. By availing the loan from WB/PFC, the MPEB had computerised billing of
both HT & LT consumers partly by in house development and partly by entrusting work to private
agencies. For better efficiency & integrated MIS the Board has considered to computerise the entire
billing of HT &LT consumers in house. The computerisation of billing is part of upgradation of in house
data processing facility. The LT billing in all 144 divisions have been computerised & training is being
provided to executives & non- executives.



40n
3.5 Rajasthan State Electricity Board (RSEB):
3.5.1 Transmission & Distribution Projects
Under the Loan from World Bank, RSEB in association with PFC has undertaken 5 Transmission
sub projects amounting to Rs.914.80million with World Bank share of Rs.640.lOrnillion & 6 Urban
distribution projects amounting to Rs.1163.00 rnillion with World Bank share of Rs.841.50 million.
Under the loan RSEB has supported 703 ckt Kms transmnission lines and 413 MVA transformation
capacity. Further, 691 distribution MVA, 89 distribution MVAR and 628 distribution ckt Kms are also
supported.
3.5.2 Operational Financial Action Plan
RSEB started booking subsidy in annual accounts. Subsidy upto 1995-96 have been released by
the State Government to achieve 3% RoR. With the emphasis laid on the OFAP, the RSEB has revised
the tariff on an annual basis. During the last 6 -7 years, RSEB revised tariff six times with the last tariff
increase being of the order of 10% (October, 1996 and July, 1997). This has led to reduction in the gap
between average tariff and average cost. The ratio of recovery against cost increased from 78% in 1992-
93 to 83% in 1995-96. Trends of increase in average tariff without agricultural consumption have
matched the trends of increase in cost of supply, both of which increased by average approx.70% during
this period. After constantly pursuing up with the State Government., the State Government. converted
Rs.913 crores of SG loans into equity rationalising the capital structure.
The receivables of RSEB, due to improvement in collection efficiency and computerisation of
billing and MIS, have been kept under check. The receivables were 83 days during 1996-97. Suitable
measures have also been initiated through OFAP for improvement in various other functional areas of
RSEB. Under the loan RSEB has under taken the following activities:-
(1) All the 23 nos meter testing labs have come into operation. (2) 12,371 nos SIP meter boxes have been
installed. The impact of installation of pilfer boxes on revenue is being carried out. (3) Out of the 2080
posts of Meter Readers, 1873 posts have been filled up by redeployment and regional offices have been
authorised to award bill distribution on contract basis to the extent required. (4) The time required to
replace Hr meters has been brought down to one month and efforts are being made to keep the sufficient
stock of meters in various circle stores.
3.6    Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB):
3.6.1 Transmission & Distribution Projects
Under the Loan from World Bank, KSEB in association with PFC has undertaken 2 Transmission
sub projects amounting to Rs.697.00 million with World Bank share of Rs.555.90rrillion & 2 Urban
distribution projects amounting to Rs.782.00 million witlh World Bank share of Rs.634.80 million. These
projects were earlier covered under the World Bank Loan No: 2582IN. Under the loan KSEB has
supported 1110 ckt Kms transmission lines and 2410 MVA transformation capacity. Further, 808
distribution MVA and 628 distribution ckt Kms are also supported. Through the project KSEB was able
to obtain the pending supplies for the contracts awarded under the earlier Bank Loan 2568-IND given
directly to KSEB. The project helped KSEB in completion of transmission and distribution work in three
towns. The project thus helped KSEB to evacuate power from the Lower Periyar Hydro Electric Project
through the transmission lines constructed under the project.
3.6.2 Operational Financial Action Plan



41
KSEB started booking subsidy for achievement of 3% RoR since 1992-93. The subsidy upto the
year 1994-95 has been cleared by GOK. However, subsidy for the years 1995-96 and 1996-97 are still to
be cleared by GOK.
KSEB has been revising tariff regularly every year and provision has been made in the tariff
structure for annual increase of 10% in tariff w.r.t. all HT and EHT consumers. The receivables as on
March, 1998 have been reduced to 62 days sales from 112 days sales in 1992-93.
The meters of 1178 consumer out of total 1586 HT and EHT consumers have been replaced with
TOD meters. Other measures have also been initiated by KSEB / GOK through OFAP for improvement
in various other areas of operations.
4  BORROWERS PERFORMANCE
The loan was a complex one involving 52 sub-projects of 7 beneficiaries SEBs. Qualified technical staff
of PFC handled sub-project appraisal based on the procedure and methodology worked out with the Bank.
Committed staff exerted best efforts to identify more sub-projects and actively sorted out by identifying
procurement packages both ICBs and LCBs which sub-borrowers were willing to follow under the laid
down procurement procedure. PFC project personnels have good project reporting system and maintained
the same over the last 5-6 years period. PFC supervision and monitoring involved more than 200 visits to
beneficiaries and to project sites in addition to meetings with sub-borrowers at PFC headquarters. With
concentrated efforts completion of procurement of equipment and material involving over 120
procurement packages and resulting in over 150 contracts was successful. With the active willingness of
sub-borrowers to follow ICB procedure in procurement under the project, a saving in overall cost was
there in many sub-projects due to competitive prices and wider participation by the vendors.
4.1 PROBLEMS FACED
Delay in clearance by WB of the model bidding documents for ICB contracts by over 13 months posed
obvious problems in initial take off affecting timely completion of the loan. The Bank first gave the
clearance in April, 92 but withdrew it thereafter. The final clearance was given by Bank only in the Nov.
92, whereas as per the Staff Appraisal Report, this was to be done prior to the sanction of the loan in Oct.
1991. Therefore, utilisation could effectively be started only in June-July 1994, approximately 2 year after
the loan became effective.
The conditions imposed by WB / PFC led to ineligibility of some of the beneficiary SEBs the resulting in
re-ordering of some packages and delay in start of utilisation of loan proceeds. The loan suffered
adversely due to exclusion of schemes of MPEB worth US $ 56 million WB share in July'93 due to
inadequate headroom for sanction as pointed out by WB. Also, in Oct'94, schemes of APSEB having a
WB share of US$ 30 million were not supported on the instance of the WB as APSEB was not imposing a
minimum agricultural tariff of 50 paise per Kwh, even though this was not a conditional in the loan. In
June'94, the disbursements to MPEB and GEB were stopped due to rolling back of agricultural tariff and
non-payment of subsidy which resulted in negative lending limits. This was resumed only after the WB
permitted disbursement in Jan'95 for GEB and March'95 in the case of MPEB. Suspension of
disbursement by PFC to borrowers often resulted in diversion of supplies by contractors, which could not
be readily restored. Long suspensions on contracts sometimes resulted in cancellation of contracts leading
to re-tendering and revised ordering in certain cases.
RSEB, HSEB and KSEB were included as beneficiaries of the loan in Dec'93, March'94 and March'95
on World Bank' instance whereas the loan became effective in March'92.
The cut-off limit for ICB Contracts was kept at US $ 0.20 million. The similar limit in case of ADB loan
is US $ 3 million. The low limit in case of WB loan resulted in far too many packages being routed



42
through the ICB procedures, which was time consuming.  The usual time required for ICB was
approximately 14 to 18 months from "Issue of NIT to Ordering".
ICB bidding procedure resulted in competitive prices and low order values in packages as compared to
the ones envisaged at NIT stage. Even though, it is not a constraint to project execution, but it resulted in
considerable savings and limited loan utilisation in terms of US dollars.
The long procurement cycle through ICB precluded inclusion of additional items at a later date to utilise
the saving effected.
Inspite of the above, the co-operation provided by the WB, both by the Washington Office and the local
office in India, was meaningful and contributed a lot to the effective implementation of such a complex
loan with a nominal delay of only 6 months. The Bank's flexibility in allowing substitution of identified
sub projects, which had to be dropped due to eligibility related problems, helped in expeditious utilisation
of the loan. After initial clearance of model bidding documents by World Bank, the quick response to
procurement related issues by the World Banks' local office in India helped a lot in minimising the delays
in procurement activities which were otherwise quite long keeping in view the Bank's ICB procedure.
In addition to this periodic review missions by the Bank helped PFC as well as the beneficiaries in
keeping continued focus over the investment sub projects and advice given by the WB from time to time
was of immense use in solving the problems relating to borrowers' eligibility.
Inclusion of HSEB as late as in March, 1994 under emergency OFAP and of RSEB in Dec.'93 and the
balance works of WB loan No. 2582-IN of KSEB in Oct.'95 at the instance of the WB was instrumental
in enhancing the utilisation of the loan. However, the late inclusion of these SEBs also had an adverse
impact resulting, extension of the ordering cut-off date as well as of the loan closing date.
In view of the complex loan package involving large no. of sub-projects and procurement packages the
borrowers performance was considered above satisfactory. The desire to initiate the utilisation was
reflected in the advance procurement process initiated at PFC's instance by the SEBs even before the sub-
projects were approved based on the detailed appraisal. The delay in the initial utilisation was caused by
the delay in the approval of ICB document by about ] 3 months. Much of the impact of this delay was
reduced by the advance pr9curement action initiated.
PFC had to pursue with the utilities and WB for acceptance of sub-projects, appraisals, approval of
standard bidding documents, package procurement programmes' acceptance, preparation of tender
documents, approval of award recommendations and placement of contracts spread over the first 8 to 10
quarters (Approx. 2 initial years) before the first utilisation could be started in July'94.
PFC, therefore, continued to review the status of sub-projects and contracts (total 121 for WB Investment
sub-Projects) with the beneficiaries to arrive at half yearly targets for the year (1st July to June). These
assessments were then consolidated into quarterly assessments for the year (April to March).
For facilitating sub-projects implementation, complete procurement activities, submission of claims to
PFC and the loan utilisation PFC has undertaken over 200 visits, since start of the loan to various
beneficiaries' Head quarters, apart from review meetings at PFC Office to review the progress with the
beneficiaries.
5    BENEFITS
The outcome of the loan has been positive in as much as



43
1. The transmission and distribution systems strengthening of the various beneficiaries has resulted in
improved power supply position from the existing facilities. These systems would also cater to some
extent in supply of additional power from the up-coming new generation facilities.
2. The mechanism of OFAP evolved in 1991 in consultation with WB has helped in identifying the
problems faced by the SEBs in different functional areas and also in chalking out an actions plan to
achieve the solutions in a time bound manner. As of now, 30 State Power Utilities are having OFAP
in place (including 8 utilities raised OFAP in place). This has established a conducive environment
wherein further investments in this sector would be productive to that extent. The above has also
resulted in a cultural change in the traditional functioning of SEBs and at the same time imparted
skills to the staff in order to sustain the development.
3. The technical specification and the quality of equipment procured for the above purpose is of
international standards and would be of immense help in sustaining the development made for a
longer period of time.
4. The beneficiaries have acquired experience in the procurement through ICB route. This has enhanced
and honed their skills in the area of procurement.
5. Expertise for absorption of finance from multilateral institution has been created among the
beneficiaries along with the requisite expertise.
6    LESSONS LEARNED
The World Bank Loan 3436-IN to PFC was operated contemporary to ADB loan 1161-IND; and
consisted of a large number of sub projects spread over a number of beneficiary States. It gave ample
opportunity to PFC personnel to gain experience and expertise in the matters of loan negotiations, loan
commencement activities, loan appraisals procurement, loan disbursements, project progress monitoring,
and post completion review of the included sub projects. The sub loan conditionalities to the borrowers
were embodied in a comprehensive operational policy of PFC and operational financial action plan for
each borrower. The key lessons learnt during the operation of the loan between 1992 to 98 are
summarized below :-
1)    Projections for loan utilisation should be based on realistic time cycle of sub -projects
formulation, loan sanctions, procurement activities and material deliveries. This would result in
narrowing the gap between projected and actual utilisation of loans.
2)    The sub loan conditions for specific beneficiaries making investments in multiple sub-projects
should be designed in such a manner that sub projects for which loan sanctions have been made
are not abandoned or delayed during implementation due to loan covenants. This would facilitate
objectives of the programme by preventing the contract disruption due to loan covenants.
3)     The economic internal rate of return is not adequate criteria to bring out performance
improvements in the financial operations and performance of the borrowers. Financial internal
rate of return of the sub-projects should be given due weightage for the sanction of loan to sub
projects.
4)     The limit for inviting ICB should be raised to a pragmatic level (say US $ 3 million) keeping in
view the likely scenario by the end of the ordering process.
5)     The ICB time cycle be reduced by adopting standard bidding document and authorising PEC to
make essential modification as per need and thereby giving more responsibility to the Executive
agency for speedy procurement.



44
6)     Areas of the sub-projects for investments should be identified/approved at loan negotiation stage
rather than approving individual sub-projects after the loan sanction.



45
Annexure-I
Utility                        Scheme                Loan      Total       World Bank
Ln. No.                                              Amount  Utilisation   Component
& Date
Rs.Milion  Rs.Million  Rs.Million
1.       APSEB      A   Environmental Impact
31115001       Assessment (EIA) Study for
7.2.94         Vishakhapatnam TPS
B   Detailed feasibility Report for
____   Vishakhapatnam TPS
C   Plant Layout study for
_ __ _ Krishnapatnam
D   EIA study for Gas based
Amalapuram TPS
E   EIA Study for Vemagir Gas
based TPS
F   EIA Study for Rayalaseema
TPS Stage - II
G   EIA Study for Ramagundam
TPS Stage -II
H   EIA Study for Kothagudam
TPS St-V
=___ _   Total                     2.81       2.15         2.15
2        APSEB           Information Technology (IT)   0.23       0.23         0.23
31115002       study for statewide
16.2.94        computerisation
3        APSEB          Design & Engineering for       16.74      14.66       14.66
31115003       Kothagudam TPS St-V
10.5.94
4        APSEB      A   Detailed Feasibility Report for
31115004       railway siding for
11.5.94        Vishakhapatnam TPS St-II
B   Detailed Feasibility Report for
railway siding for
Krishnapatnam TPS
C   Detailed Feasibility
transportation of coal for
Krishnapatnam TPS
Total                         2.05       1.5)         1.51
5        APSEB      A   Geological Investigation
31115005       Studies for Ramagundam TPS
11.5.94
B   Environmental Studies for
existing power stations
C   Detailed Project Report for
mini hydel schemes



46
D   Detailed Project Report for
Ramagundam
E   Detailed Project Report for
____  Kothagudam                                 .
Total                         1.12       1.12         1.12
6        APSEB          State wide computerisation    381.50      80.70       4.40
31115007       scheme
20.7.94
7        RSEB           Diagnostic study for RSEB      0.17       0.17        0.17
07115001
7.10.93
8        MPEB           Upgradation of computer        0.70       0.45        0.00
20115001       system
27.5.94
9        GRIDCO         Upgradation of 132KV Lines     13.50      2.70         0.00
48115002       for 220 KV Lines
19.8.94                            .
10       MeSEB          Diagnostic study               0.25       0.25        0.25
64115001
19.8.94
11       KSEB           Consultant services for const.    100.80  74.89       74.89
Mngt in Kerala Power Projects
12       WBSEB          Computerisation and           524.00     265.97      161.17
50115001       communication
2.6.95
13       HSEB           Consultant services for PPA   35.50       0.00        0.00
03115001       negotiation for Hissar &
22.4.97        Yamunanagar TPS
14       GPCL           Consultant service for PPA    55.20      26.30        26.30
19315002       negotiation for Pipavav, Ghoga
5.5.97         TPS
15       TNEB           Consultant service for PPA    40.00      28.81        28.81
36115002       negotiation
27.5.97
16       APSEB          Consultant service for PPA    27.40      27.40        27.40
31115010       negotiation
17       APSEB          Consultant service for PPA    26.00      26.00        26.00
31115011       negotiation
28.10.97                                   __----__1227
_ _  __ GRAND TOTAL               1227.97  553.31       369.06



47
Annexure-IIl
Completion Status of Investment Sub-Proiects
Beneficiary/Type of                    Total Number      >75%       Completed
Sub-Project                           Supported     Completed
APSEB
- Transmission           8              3            5
--Urban Distribution      2                           2
GEB
-- Transmission           7              1            6
--Urban Distribution      5                           5
HSEB
--Transmission            2                           2
--Meters                  1                           1
--Capacitors              1                           1
MPEB
-- Transmission           3             3
-Urban Distribution       7                           7
RSEB               -- Transmission           5                           5
--Urban Distribution      6                           6
KSEB
-- Transmission           2             2
Urban Distribution      2              2
DPL
-- Environment            1              1
ALL
BENEFICIARIES
-- Transmission          27             9             18
- Urban Distribution     22             2            20
--Capacitors              1                           1
-- Meters                 1                           1
-- Environment            1              1
TOTAL                    52             12            40



48
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3436-IN)
II. SUMMARY OF PFC's OPERATIONAL PLAN
Background
Power Finance Corporation Ltd. (PFC) was incorporated as a limited liability company under the
Companies Act, 1956 on 16th July, 1986 and declared as a Public Financial Institution u/s 4A of the
Companies Act in August 1990. PFC is wholly-owned by the Government of India (GOI) and acts as a
Development Financial Institution (DFI) dedicated exclusively to the funding and development of the
Indian Power Sector. PFC disbursed its first loan in January. 1988.
Obiectives
PFC carries a strong mandate for developing the power sector and financial strengthening of the State
utilities by providing funds linked with financial and institutional reforms. PFC also provides fund and
non-fund based support to private power projects. PFC provides finance for the following:
* Power generation projects both thermal and hydro electric
*  Power transmission and distribution systems
* Renovation and modernization of power plants
* System improvement and energy conservation schemes
* Survey and investigation of power projects
* Consultancy/Studies
A major portion of funds for investment in the Power Sector in India is allocated to the State/Central
power utilities through the Five Year Plan process by the Government of India. PFC' s financial support
to these utilities is in addition to the Plan allocation and is not pre-allocated to any state or project. The
Power Utilities and Projects, which are able to meet the eligibility parameters laid down by PFC are
provided finance based entirely on their merits and strengths.
Services Offered
PFC, as a dedicated financial institution for power sector endeavors to meet various funding needs of
power sector and utilities. It maintains a diversified portfolio of fund & non-fund based products and is
continuously innovating to meet the dynamic funding needs.
Term Loans for
*  Power Projects                              *  Financial Guarantee
*  Renovation & Modemization of Power Plants   *  Lease Financing
*  Energy Conservation Schemes                 *  Bill Discounting
*  System Improvement                          *  Working Capital
*  Consultancy Services, etc.                  *  Loan Syndication



49
Operational Policy
PFC's lending policies area set out in its Operational Policy Statement (OPS). OPS permit PFC to
prioritize different categories of projects for lending. In part, this prioritization takes the form of the
differential interest rates offered by PFC and it is also reflected in the project credit limits. In addition,
PFC places emphasis on projects having short lead times and on-going projects, which are being
hampered through lack of funds. In general, PFC aims to maximize the utilization of existing generating
capacity alongside creating new generating capacity.
Operational Parameters
*  Eligibility Criteria of the Borrowers      *  Credit Appraisal Process
*  Project Selection                          *  Collateral Policy
o  Extent of Funding                          *  Project Monitoring
*  Priority areas of Funding                  *  Terms & Conditions of Loans Granted
Priority Funding Areas
(1) Studies, Consultancy Services & Training; (2) Research & Development Projects; (3) Capacitors &
Load Dispatch; (4) Environmental Upgradation; (5) Urban Distribution, Transmission including R&M;
(6) Renovation & Modernization of Generation Projects; and (7) Thermal/Hydro Generation Projects
Financial Operational Plan
The financial projections of the corporation are as under:
Si. No.          Parameters             Rinmillio)199899  1999-2000  2000-01
(Rs. in million)  (Rs. in million)
I     Sanctions                       24,000        39,000        64,000
2      Disbursements                   18,000       27,500        45,000
3      Resource Mobilization           18,500       27,000        40.500
Future Strate!M
*  Three-pronged focus: to diversify customer base, project base and financial instruments. Accordingly,
PFC has commenced sanctioning of loans to the private sector, as well as to Government-owned
utilities at the Centre. It has expanded project financing to include more project types, and has
introduced new financial instruments such as leasing, bill discounting and guarantee for suppliers'
credit.
*  PFC's main emphasis is on power sector reforms at the State Level and is now actively engaged in
promoting said reforms.
*  Diversification of PFC's equity base with participation of institutional investors is envisaged. Current
capital base is seen by PFC to be adequate, and diversification would occur only when capital
expansion is required, but with GOI maintaining majority ownership.



50
OFAP Requirement
1. PFC plans to continue incorporating into all its lending operations the explicit commitment of the
borrower, and of its State Government when needed, to implement actions, as agreed with PFC,
aimed at improving the borrower's operational efficiency and financial performance. These actions
are grouped in Operational and Financial Action Plans (OFAPs), which include specific deadlines to
be closely monitored by PFC.
2. The OFAP mechanism evolved in 1991 and laid emphasis on improvement in performance of SEBs
over a period of time through different measures within the existing institutional framework
(organizational, managerial and financial) of SEBs' operation and ground realities prevailing then.
OFAP therefore essentially aimed at internal improvement in performance of SEBs ,which was
otherwise highly unsatisfactory, within structural constraints. It was recognized that SEBs within the
existing framework may not be in a position to regain financial viability on their own and inevitably
required State Govt.'s commitment and support for improvement measures particularly in the area of
tariff revision and rationalization, and provision of cash subsidy for achieving statutory minimum
ROR of 3%. The mechanism also pre-supposed lever of PFC's assistance strong enough to catalyze
desired changes and further augmented by routing of multilateral/bilateral assistance to state power
utilities through PFC.
Implementation of OFAP
3. The process and mechanism of OFAP was reviewed by M/s. Price Waterhouse & Co., USA, under
the EMCAT Project. To standardize the formulation, implementation and monitoring mechanism an
OFAP Manual was adopted in 1995. Main highlights of the Manual were linkages with the strategic
planning process, prioritization of core and non-core areas and constitution of working group to
supervise the implementation of the action points.
4. The OFAPs are continued to be monitored regularly through quarterly progress reports, discussions
by PFC Monitoring Mission visits to the Utilities. The OFAP unit was reorganized on regional basis
to have better client focus with a task manager for each utility. Outstanding issues are taken up with
SEBs and the State Governments at the concerned level through correspondence as well as meetings
at the CMD/Director levels with State Govt.. officials and SEB Chairman from time to time.
Intervention wherever considered necessary has also been sought for of the Ministry of Power.
5. Status of implementation of OFAP is also put up and considered by the loan sanctioning authority
while consideration of the proposal for further financial assistance to the respective utility.
Consideration of proposal/sanction of the loan have been used as leverage depending upon the gravity
of the outstanding issues, for ensuring SEB/State Government actions.
6. OFAP mechanism has helped in bringing about qualitative as well as quantitative improvements in
the SEBs performance. The OFAP has brought about increased awareness at all levels of SEBs
problems and has led to a qualitative change of perception leading to action on the part of SEBs/State
Governments on many critical issues.
7. PFC at its level has been making earnest efforts in bringing about improvement in the performance of
the SEBs. This, being a monumental task, required a pragmatic and long-term perspective with
flexible and positive approach. The focus has been on enduring improvements rather than on certain
financial parameters through motivating and securing willingness/commitment of the State
Governments.



