Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
L F -3 43 4 -1
MICROFICHE COPY                                                    Report No. 8943-IN
Report No. 8943-IN Type: (SAR)
MEJIA, ALF/ X81467 / E10009/ AS4TE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 3, 1992
Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
C&77of 4uh!, 1992XF
Currency Unit               =        Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00                     =        Palse 100
Rs 1,000,000                =         USS38,482
USS1.00                     =         Rs 28.00
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer (km)                =  1,000 meters (m) = 0.6214 miles (mt)
1 Meter (m)                     =  39.37 Inches (in)
1 Cubic Moter (i3)              =  1.31 cubic yard (cu yd) = 36.36 cu. ft.
1 Ton (t)                       =  1,000 kilograms (kg) = 2,200 lbs
1 Kilovolt (kV)                 =  1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt ampere (kVA)         =  1,000 volts-amperes (VA)
1 Megawatt (MW)                 =  1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1 million watts
1 Kilowatt-hour (kWh)           =  1,000 watt-hours
1 Megawatt-hour (MWh)           =  1,000 kilowatts-hours
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)           =  1,0C0,000 kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          Asian Development Bank
AEC          Ahmedabad Electricity Company
AIC          Average Incremental Cost
BSES         Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Ltd.
CEA          Central Electricity Authority
CESC         Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation
DOP          Department of Power
DSCR         Debt Service Coverage Ratio
EAMU         Environmental Assessme,.D and Monitoring Unit
EHV          Extra High Voltage
ESP          Electrostatic Precipitators
Co0          Covernment of India
HVDC        High Voltage Direct Current
ICICI        Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDBI        Industrial Development Bank of India
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
LIB         Limited International Bidding
LIC         Life Insurance Corporation of India
LRMC        Long Run Marginal Cost
MIS          Management Information System
NHPC        National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
NPTC        Natlonal Power Transmission Corporation
NTPC        National Thermal Power Corporation
OFAP         Operational and Financial Action Plan
OPS          Operational Policy Statement
PFC         Power Finance Corporation
PLF         Plant Load Factor
RES         Regional Electricity Board
REC         Rural Electrification Corporation
SEA         Socio-Environmental Assessments
SEB         State Electricity Board
SCF         Standard Conversion Factor
SGC         State Generating Corporation
SPAR        Sub-project Appraisal Reports
TEC          Tots Electric Companies
The Act      Electricity Supply Act of 1948
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary .................................... iv
I.   SECTORAL CONTEXT ........................................... 1
Overview .............................................. 1
Electricity Demand and Supply ......................... 2
Organization of the Power Sector ...................... 2
GOI Strategy in the Power Sector ...................... 3
Past Bank Group Strategy in the Power Sector .......... 5
Bank Group Support .................................... 7
Results of These Efforts ....................... ........ 7
Towards a New Approach in the Power Sector ............ 9
II.  THE BENEFICIARY ........................................... 10
Formation of PFC                  ...  10
Organization and Staffing of PF .. . .   12
Operational Policy Statement             .    .    .    12
Pre-allocation of PFC's Funds            . . .    13
Institutional Strengthening of PFC Borrowers   ... 13
Lending Criteria                  ...  14
PFC's Loan Processing Procedures           . . .   15
Collection Procedures                . . .  16
Accounting and Auditing               .       . . 16
Environment Monitoring Unit             .    .     .     16
Monitoring of Projects                . . .  17
Management Information System ........................ 17
Financial Planning, Budgeting and Controls ........... 17
This report was prepared by Messrs. Alfonso Mejis (Principal Financial
Analyst), Alfonso Sanchez (Principal Engineer), Mark Tomlinson (Senior
Economist), and Mrs. Magdalena Manzo (Energy Specialist).
The report has been reviewed by Messrs. K. Siraj (Operations Advisor);
K. Jechoutek (Senior Economist), and J. Hanson (Lead Senior Economist).
The report has been endorsed by Mr. Heinz Vergin, Director (India
Department) and Mr. Jean-Francois Bauer, Division Chief (Energy Operations
Division, India Department).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
II     THE PROJECT                                ....................... 17
Project Setting             ....................... 17
Project Objectives             ...................... 19
Project Description    .. .                                        19
Institutional Strengthening of PFC  .            .20
Pre-investment Fund  .............................. 20
Financing Through PFC ........................... . 20
Transmission and Distribution Projects ..     20
Environmental Upgrading of Power Plants ..   21
Engineering Studies for System Renovation ...21
Institutional Strengthening of Utilities .... 21
Billing and Collections ..                            21
Status of Project Engineering .............. .......... 21
Project Implementation Arrangements and Schedule ...... 23
Environmental ard Resettlement Aspects ................ 25
Project Costs ......................................... 26
Project Financing ..................................... 27
On-Lending Arrangements ............................... 27
Procurement ........................................... 28
Disbursements ......................................... 29
Project Monitoring .................................... 30
:roject Risks ......................................... 30
IV.  FINANCE .................................................... 31
Background ............................................ 31
PFC's Market .......................................... 31
SEB's Future Funding Requirements ...................... 32
PFC's Sources of Financing ............................ 33
Domestic Market Borrowings ....................... 33
Equity Contributions  ............................. 34
External Borrowing ............................... 34
PFC's Lending Terms ................................... 34
PFC's Historical Performance .......................... 35
PFC's Financial Policies .............................. 35
General Operations Parameters .................... 35
Solvency ...................................                  36
Liquidity ...................................                 36
Profitability ..................................  36
Foreign Exchange Risk ............................ 36
Term Transformation .............................. 36
Repayment Guarantees and Exposure Limits ......... 36
Non-Rescheduling of Loans ........................ 38
Adjustability of PFC's Lending Rate .............. 38
PFC's Future Financial Performance .................... 38
Conditionality ........................................ 40



- iii -
Page No.
V.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ................. 40
Least Cost Analysis .................................... 41
Program Analysis ..............                       41
Project Analysis ...............                      42
Costs ............................................... .42
Benefits ............................................... 43
Results of Program and Project Economic Analyses ....... 44
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ............................... 45
Agreement Reached ...................................... 45
Recommendation ......................................... 47
ANNEXWS
1.1      All India:  Electricity Supply and Demand
1.2      Previous Loans and Credits to Indian Power Sector
(as of November 30, 1991)
2.1      PFC Organization Chart
2.2      Operational Policy Statement
2.3      Guidelines for Preparation of Action Plans
2.4      PFC's Lending Operations Up to March 31, 1991
2.5      Environmental Assessment and Monitoring Unit -
Scope of Work and Procedures
3.1      Detailed Project Description
3.2      Environmental Review of Power Stations -
Suggested Terms of Reference
3.3      A.  Tentative Scope of Technical Assistance for
System Renovation
B.  Suggested Terms of Reference for Thermal
Plant Rehabilitation
3.4      Draft Terms of Reference for Preparation of a
Training Program for PFC
3.5      PFC Plan for Implementing the Institutional Development Program
3.6      PFC Preinvestment Fund Concept and Scope of Operations
3.7      Project Cost Summary
3.8      Procurement Arrangements
3.9      Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
4.1      SEB's Financial Peformance 1986-90
4.2      Historical and Projected Income Statements
4.3      Assumptions Followed in Financial Projections
4.4      Sensitivity Analysis - Selected Cases
5.1      Punjab SEB Transmission and Distribution Project -
Economic Analysis
6.1      Documents in Project File



- iv -
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            India, acting by its President
Benef4ciary:         Power Finance Corporation Ltd. (PFC)
Amount:              US$265 million
Terms:               Repayment over 20 years, including five years grace,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Term:    From the Government of India (GOI) to PFC, with
repayment over 15 years, including three years grace,
at an interest rate at not less than 11.5Z per annum
with GOI assuming the foreign exchange and interest
rate risks. PFC will onlend to its clients at an
interest rate which is now set at 12.5Z and which will
be adjusted to reflect variations in its cost of
funds, and repayment terms ranging from 3 to 7 years,
according to the types of assets financed.
Project
Description:         The main objectives of the project are to: (a) support
GOI efforts to make PFC a viable and effective
instrument for improving th, power sector; (b)
strengthen the operations of the beneficiary utilities
by lending only to those willing to undertake
acceptable reform programs; (c) foster better use of
existing power facilities by reducing constraints in
the transmission and distribution systems; (d)
mitigate the adverse environmental impact of thermal
plants in operation by providing adequate anti-
pollution and monitoring facilities; and (e) improve
the preparation of power projects and promote the
development of the local consulting industry by
funding preinvestment studies and engineering for
power projects. The proposed project comprises: (a) a
program to strengthen PFC's capabilities to discharge
its responsibilities; (b) the creation of a
preinvestment fund in PFC; and (c) five components to
be financed through PFC: (i) the implementation of a
pre-identified segment of the lending program of PFC;
(ii) environmental upgrading of power plants; (iii)
engineering studies for system renovation: (iv)
institutional strengthening of power utilities; (v)
improvements in SEBs' billing and collection.



v 
Benefits:            The main benefits of the project are: (a) improvements
in the operational efficiency of the state utilities;
(b) improvements in the finances of the state
utilities through reducti n in losses and better
billing and collections; (c) improvements in the
environmental operating conditions of participating
utilities; (d) improved quality of service; and (e)
better use of existing plant facilities. Projects
eligible for PFC funding are required to have an
economic rate of return of at least 12Z; the economic
rates of return of projects already approved, and
which represent about 50% of all investments
envisaged, range from 141 to over lOOZ.
Risks:               The proposed project does not pose extraordinary
technical risks. There are, however, risks related to
the institutional, managerial, and financial aspects
of the project. There is a risk that the
participating utilities will not meet the expected
improvements set out in their action plans or that the
pace of reform will be slower than planned. This risk
will be minimized by establishing realistic targets in
the plans, and by providing financial and technical
resources to the utilities to facilitate their
implementation. To minimize the risk of delays caused
by siow procurement decisions and administrative
processing, at negotiations GOI provided the Bank with
the details of the procedures to be followed to
expedite and simplify clearances of procurement
actions and releases of foreign exchange for Bank-
financed procurement. There are two risks related to
PFC's performance. The first is that PFC could face
collection problems because of the poor financial
performance of its customers. This risk would be kept
at an acceptably low level by requiring PFC's clients
to establish a set of suitable guarantees. The second
risk is that PFC might fail to become an effective
promoter of institutional improvements at the
utilities level. This could occur if PFC does not
have the institutional resolve -- and GOI's support --
to attach adequate conditionality to its lending
operations. This also may occur if political
pressures prevent PFC from enforcing said
conditionality or its Operational Policy Statement
(OPS). To manage this eventuality, agreements were
reached to ensure that PFC's policies and procedures
are consistent with its development objectives.



- vi -
Estimated Cost: a/
Local     Foreign      Total b/
--------(US$ Million)------
A. Transmission & Distribution Schemes   214          126          340
B. Environmental Upgrading of Plants         67        24           91
C. Studies for System Renovation              2          4           6
D. Institutional Development of SEBs          3          3            6
E. Institutional Development of PFC           1          0            1
F. Creation of Preinvestment Fund             4         10          14
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                        290       167          457
Physical Contingencies                   28         15           43
Price Contingencies                     102         39          141
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          420       220          640
Interest During Construction
World Bank                                20        20           40
Others                                   30          2           32
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                    470       242          712
Financing Plan:
Source                                                                       Z
IBRD                                      59        206          265       37
PFC Resources                            26)         22          291       41
USAID                                      -         14           14        2
SEBs                                     142         -           142       20
Total                                    470        242          712      100
Estimated Bank Disbursement:
(US$ Million)
Bank Fiscal Year              FY92   FY93   FY94   PY95   FY96   FY97   PY98
Annual                        15.9   31.8   53.0   74.2   31.8   53.0    5.3
Cumulative                    15.9   47.7  100.7  174.9  206.7  259.7  265.0
Rates of Return:  In excess of 12Z.
a/ Including taxes and duties of about US$84 million equivalent.
b/ Total may not add up due to rounding.



INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
Overview
1.01        Over the past decade, electricity consumption in India increased
at an average annual -ate of 9.2%. Despite impressive progress in systems
expansion, power shortages continue and are equivalent to about 9% of total
energy and 22Z of peak capacity requirement. The supply gap is largely
attributable to the relatively inefficient and wasteful utilization of energy
in the country due to technical as well as energy price inefficiencies.
Reduction in systems losses (currently estimated at 222), setting of power
rates closer to the economic cost of supply and improved inter-state and
regionr.l power trading could significantly reduce the supply shortfall. The
proposed project will address some of these efficiency issues.
1.02        With per capita level of about 270 kWh per annum, electricity
consumption in India is among the lowest in the world, and demand is expected
to continue to expand at an average growth rate of 8X per annum over the next
five years. Even if GOI were to boldly address the inefficiency problems of
the sector through adoption of energy conservation measures and correction in
price signals, massive investments in additional capacity will still be
required.
1.03        In the face of the current and medium-term budgetary constraints,
central government funding of the sector's investment program is likely to be
insufficient and the state and central government-owned utilities will have to
increasingly rely on their own internal resources to finance power systems
expansion. However, their ability to contribute internal resources toward
capacity investments is hampered by their poor financial conditions. The
sector's financial distress primarily stems from the operational and financial
inefficiencies of the State-owned utilities -- the State Electricity Boards
(SEBs) and the State Generation Companies (SGCs). Their poor performance is
adversely affecting the finances of the centrally-owned utilities and is
hindering efforts at attracting private investors to the sector. A turn-
around in the sector's finances and closing of the power gap would require
bold actions on tariff, billing and collection, together with conservation
measures such as plant efficiency improvements, reductions of transmission and
distribution losses, load management and promotion of greater production and
end-use efficiency.
1.04        The Power Finance Corporation (PFC) was established in 1986 by
Government of India (GOI) to effect some of the needed financial and
operational reforms at the state level. PFC links its financing of the SEBs'
priority investments to tangible improvements in their operations. It
supports efficiency improvements in existing plant operations, expansion and
upgrading of transmission and distribution facilities as well as mitigating
measures for controlling plant emissions. While helping finance investments
in power supply, PFC, through its !.an conditionalities, attempts to instill
financial discipline in the SEBs, thereby strengthening their financial base
and their capacity to contribute to the sector's investment requirements.



- 2 -
1.05        The following paragraphs describe the salient characteristics of
India's power sector, its organizational structure, the Government's strategy
for the sector and the main thrust of the Bank's support in the past, a review
of the effectiveness of these strategies and the lessons that have been learnt
from the Bank's involvement. They also present the Bank's current assistance
strategy for the sector.
Electricity Supply and Demand
1.06         At present, India's power systems have an installed capacity of
over 62,700 MW (Annex 1.1). This makes their size comparable with that of
France, the United Kingdom, and all of sub-Saharan Africa excluding the
Republic of South Africa. In FY90, India generated 245,000 GWh -- about 702
from coal stations, 25? from hydro stations, and 5? from gas, oil and nuclear
stations. Grid supply has expanded quickly: in FY82 installed capacity was
only 32,350 MW and generation was 114,000 GWIl. More than half (51Z) of
electricity demand is attributable to industrial consumption; 22? to
agricultural use; 15? residential; 6? commercial; and the balance largely due
to public services. The growth in electricity demand has been accelerated by
relatively low powir tariffs which in turn has fostered wasteful end-use of
energy. The potentiul impact on demand of adopting economic pricing is
significant; a recent estimata projects a reduction in capacity requirements
by nearly 900 MW a year over the next ten years. Yet even if the sector were
to achieve the full savings potential from a progressive implementation by GOI
of pricing reforms and demand management programs, the need for major capacity
additio,ns will remain.
Organization of the Power Sector
1.07        Public Utilities.  Responsibility zor electricity supply is shared
constitutionally between GOI and the States. Through the Department of Power
(DOP) of the Ministry of Power and Non-Conventional Energy Sources, GOI
controls the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), the National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC), the National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NIiPC), the
Rural Electrification Corporation (REC), and, through CEA, the Regional
Electricity Boards (REBs). DOP also controls the Power Finance Corporation
(PFC) and the newly-created National Power Transmission Corporation (NPTC).
CEA's tasks are to develop a national power policy and coordinate sector
development. NTPC and NHPC are bulk supply utilities which sell power to the
SEBs. REC plans and finances most investments in rural electrification. The
REBs coordinate the dispatch and inter-state power exchanges in each of the
country's five regional power svstems. Their function is, however, limited by
their lack of statutory authority and by weaknesses in the structure of bulk
power tariffs. PFC mobilizes resources for the SEBs. NPTC will coordinate
the development and operation of transmission systems. Initially these will
be systems associated with NTPC's and NHPC's power stations; since August
1991, NPTC has started to operate and maintain NTPC's transmission facilities
under a management contract pending finalization of asset transfer. In
November 1991, a similar arrangement was entered into with NHPC.
1.08        Under the same Ministry, the Department of Non-Conventional Energy
Sources administers GOI's renewable energy program, which is one of the
largest among developing countries. The program seeks to supplement
conventional power supply with alternative energy systems, e.g., mini-hydro,



biomass, wind and solar energy, as well as meet the decentralized energy needs
of the rural sector. The program is implemented through the public utilities
as well as through energy development boa':ds and the private sector.
1.09        The states con rol the SEBs and the SGCs, which generate about 75Z
of electricity supplies and provide most of the distribution to final
consumers. Although they are supposed to be autonomous, in practice the SELs
and SGCs must obtain state approval for decisions on investments, taritfs,
borrowings, salary and personnel policies. The SEBs are grouped into five
regional interconnected systems. The activities coordinated regionally
through the REBs include generation schedules, overhaul and maintenance
programs and power transfers,
1.10        Private Utilities.  At Independence, private utilities and
licensed local authorities together provided about &0X of public electricity
supply. The Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948 (the Act) creeted the SEBs and
entt-usted tlhe' Boards with primary responsibility for public power supply. The
Act also made the SEBs responsible for regulating private utilities. The
Industrial Policy Resolution of 1956 subsequently defined aspects of
generation and distribution which were to be the exclusive responsibility of
the states. Most licensees were taken over by the SEBs when their licenses
expired, and no new licenses have been granted since 1956. Only five private
utilities remain: Bombay Subuirban Electric Supply Limited, Tata Electric
Companies, Ahmedabad Electricity Company, Surat Electric Company, and CESC
Ltd. (formerly Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation). Together they account
for about 5 of public power supplies in India, and are concentrated in the
major urban centers. In addition, an estimated 6,250 MW of "captive"
generating facilities are operated by industries.
GOI Strategy in the Power Sector
1.11         ihe Five-Year Plan eontains the only formal statement of India's
energy and power policies. The Eighth Plan, which is expected to cover the
period 1993-1997, is still to be finalized. On the basis of preparatory
documents, the objectives of GOI's energy policy are to: (a) achieve energy
self-reliance; (b) reduce oil import dependence; (c) meet rural energy needs;
and (d) improve the efficiency of energy production and use. Specific
investment objectives in the power sector under the Eighth Plan are likely to
include: (a) accelerating the completion of ongoing projects, particularly
hydroelectric investments; (b) encouraging the corstruction of energy
efficient and environmentally benign gas-based combined cycle plants; (c)
rehabilitating existing plants; (d) improving the quality of ceal supplies
through better coal preparation; (e) increasing investments in transmission
and distribution relative to investments in generation; and (f) continuing the
modest development of nuclear power.
1.12        To achieve the Plan objectives, it is essential that GOI and the
state governments tackle the sector's financial and institutional problen-.
GOI is constrained in its ability to act unilaterally in the power sector at
the State level. There are two main reasons for this: (a) the SEBs and SGCs
are owned by the states and are cften operated as extensions of their own
administrations; frequently the states use them to pursue socio-political



- 4 -
objectives; and (b) under India's federal system, allocations of budgetary
resources for investments to the states are made following an automatic
mechanism -- the Gadgil Formula -- and so it is politically impossible for GOI
to condition budgetary assistance to the states. To promote improvements in
the sector, GOI can only exercise its leverage through those discretionary
funds not subject to the Gadgil formula. These funds essentially include PFC
financing and funds from external assistance.
1.13        GOI has recently taken a number of steps to ensure that its
discretionary funds are used to effect reforms in the SEBs. The creation of
the Power Finance Corporation is one step in this direction. PFC is expected
to finance about a quarter of the SEBs' financing requirements for the Eighth
Plan period. In line with its operational policies, PFC will lend only to
utilities who have undertaken to implement Organizational and Financial Action
Plans (OFAPs), endorsed by their respective states, aimed at improving the
utilities' resource mobilization and operational efficiency. These OFAPs
typically include elements such as: (a) actions, including tariff adjustments,
to allow the utilities to reach, in a period of no more than tbree years, the
minimum 3% rate of return, after interest, on historically valued assets, as
required by the Act; (b) commitment from the states to pay cash subsidies to
the utilities whenever tariff revenue is insufficient to meet the minimum 3?
rate of return; (c) specific plans to reduce the utilities' receivables; and
(d) introduction of clauses in the utilities' tariff to allow them to recover
automatically, from their consumers, any increase in the cost of both fuel and
purchased power. In addition, GOI has :nformed the Bank that starting in
FY92/93 external assistance will be allocated to those projects for which
counterpart funds needed to complete the project on time are available.
1.14         Faced with a growing "power gap" and diminishing public resources
available for the sector, GO0 has taken bold steps in opening the power sector
to the private sector. In the July 1991 modification to the Industrial Policy
Resolution, the power sector was removed from the list of activities
previously reserved for tie public sector. In September 1991, the Act was
amended to lift many of the regulatory disincentives to private investment in
the rower sector. In particular, it provides for 100t ownership of power
companies by the priv-te sector, an extended pericd of license to 30 years
with 20-year renewals and increased financial returns. Provision is made for
private generating companies and captive plants to sell power to the SEBs.
GOI would also allow foreign companies to have a 100% participation in power
projects. A High Powered Board chaired by the Cabinet Secretary was
established in October 1991 to promote private investment and accelerate the
clearance of projects. So far, a total of 21,558 MW of generating plant
projects have been advertised by the various states for private sector
investment; of this, private investors have expressed interest in developing
schemes involving 5,554 MW. GOI's increased reliance on the private sector
will also lead in the medium term to improved financial discipline among the
SEBs since private investment would only go to states with an attractive
policy environment and a financially sound SEB.
1.15         Th;se measures are to be complemented by: (a) GOI's increased
reliance on the central generating companies (NTPC, NHPC) for the expansion of
supply in order to improve cost recovery and ensure that priority projects are



- 5 -
implemented efficiently; (b) the strengthening of NPTC to rationalize the
construction and operation of India's bulk transmission system; (c) the
establishment of Regional Tariff Advisory Committees to provide advice to
state governments, SEBs and central generating utilities on the level and
structure of bulk and retail tariffs needed to assure the financial viabiliLy
of all agencies in the sector; (d) the adoption of energy conservation
measures.
Past Bank Group Strategy in the Power Sector
1.16        Over the last decade, IBRD followed a three-pronged strategy in
its lending operations in the power sector in India. Firstly, it supported
agencies owned by GOI as a means of effecting sector-wide improvements.
Secondly, it financed a selected number of SEBs whose managements and state
governments appeared to be committed to reforms. Finally, and in close
cooperation with IFC, it financed existing private power utiliti-s to improve
their financial and economic efficiency and to encourage GOI to lower citry
barriers for new investors. The success of this strategy has been uneven.
1.17        Experience with Central Power Agencies.  IBRD's support for the
central agencies has provided many opportunities for institutional
strengthening. IBRD helped NTPC to become India's model utility and, in the
process, IBRD also helped to improve operational efficiency nationwide. NTPC
provides about 132 of India's total power supplies and the operational
efficiency of its plants consistently surpass that of the state utilities.
Its investment projects were generally completed on schedule and within
budget, reflecting the strong project management capability it has developed.
The procedures introduced by NTPC in quality control helped improve the
quality standards of power equipment supplied by IndiRn manufacturers.
1.18        However, GOI's and the Bank's efforts to use NTPC to develop the
power sector into an efficient and commercially viable part of the economy
have fallen considerably short of the objective. This is due to the pervasive
nature of the sector's financial problems and the relative autonomy of the
states which limits what can be achieved through involvement exclusively w-'th
central agencies. The financial health of NTPC has been threatened by the
continued accumulation of receivables from the SEBs. At the end of May 1990
they stood at the equivalent of about six months of sales. At that time, in
an effort to eliminate the arrears by October 1993, GOI decided to underwrite
their payment by "attaching" in NTPC's favor, portions of the states'
budgetary allocation. While GOI has kept its end of the bargain, SEBs
continue to accumulate arrears. The Bank has informed GOI and NTPC that
support for new proiects would no longer be possible unless actions to reduce
NTPC's receivables position are taken.  The Bank is currently refraining from
further commitments to NTPC, including a proposed loan of US$375 million which
had been negotiated and wab originally scheduled for Board presentation in
FY90. GOI has arranged a "debt-equity" swap with the Uttar Pradesh State
Electricity Board (UPSEB) (NTPC's main debtor). It involves NTPC taking over
Uttar Pradesh's Unchahar Power Plant in exchange for receivables and
increasing the value of UPSEB's letter of credit to the level of expected
sales from NTPC. The negotiations are well advanced and the takeover is
expected to be completed by early 1992. In the long-term, the problem of



NTPC's collections will not be resolved until the financial performance of its
clients is substantially improved through tariff adjustments and collection
improvements. Since the Center has no direct means to ensure that financial
performance of the state utilities improves, the centrally-owned utilities
have no option but to enforce financial discipline through meanz such as (a)
letters of cre?dit set at the level of its sales to each client, ndlor (b)
limiting the supply of power to the level of payments received. GOI is
supporting moves in these directions.
2.29        Following the recent approval of Amendments to the Electricity
Act, GOI has now the authority to set the tariffs of the central utilities.
To rationalize power systems operations, GOI has decided to implement a two-
part bulk tariff for NTPC and NHPC. The proposed tariff revision is expected
to be finalized by March 1992. Its implementation would provide incentives
fcr a more economic dispatching of bulk power supplies within and among
regional grids.
1.20        Experience with SEBs.  Beginning in the mid-1980s, IBRD emphasized
direct involvement with state governments and SEBs, attempting to improve
selectively the performances of the Boards. Tariffs and financial performance
are key components of IBRD's strategy towards the SEBs. However, these are
also the areas in which progress is most difficult to achieve since the state
governments historically would rather promise additional financial support to
the SEBs, through subsidies, than authorize unpopular tariff increases.
However as a general rule, those subsidies are not paid, leaving the SEBs
insolvent. IBRD's close lending relationship with the SEBs has been
successful in the case of a few of the stronger SEBs, such as the Maharashtra
State Electricity Board, which has shown efficiency improvements, relatively
better financial performance, and willingness to innovate. Projects with
institutionally and financially weaker SEBs carried a correspondingly higher
risk. Indeed, the performance of several SEBs did not meet expectations. As
a result, the Bank had to apply remedies as follows: (a) in 1989, the loan to
Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking (DESU) was canceled; (b) in April 1991,
disbursements under the Uttar Pradesh Power Project were suspended; and (c) in
June 1991, the SEBs in the States of Karnataka, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala
were advised that disbursements would have to be suspended unless actions to
meet the financial covenants were taken. Th; Bank's stance has yielded
positive responses as the concerned state governments have come to recognize
their responsibility for ensuring the financial integrity of their SEBs and
the critical role of proper tariff levels in achieving tl-is objective. DESU
has recently been authorized to substantially increase its tariff even in a
difficult political environment and now serves as a model case regarding
tariff level and structure. The Karnataka SEB has been able to comply with
its financial covenants in September 1991, when the Government of Karnataka
paid the rural electrification subsidy, settled part of its arrears and
converted part of the government loans into equity. Similarly, the State of
-imachal Pradesh significantly reduced its payables to the SEB and waived
interest payments on government loans due from the SEB for FY91. The
&overnment of Kerala has exempted the Kerala SEB from paying electricity
duties for FY90 and FY91, however, since this is insufficient for the SEB to
meet its financial covenants, the Bank has not extended the closing date of
the loan (Loan 2582-IN). A 33% tariff increase is to be implemented by Kerala



- 7 -
as of January 1, 1992. As concerns UPSEB, the state government decided to
allow a tariff increase of 281 effective January 1, 1992, which should bring
its financial performance for 1992 in line with the Action Plan agreed under
the Uttar Pradesh Power Project. As a result of these actions, the Bank held
in abeyance the cancellation of the outstanding balance of Loan 2957-IN. A
decision to lift the suspension of disbursement will be made upon formal
notification of the implementation of the tariff adjustment. At that time, it
will also be necessary to reassess the scope for loan cancellation based on
the latest cost-estimates which reflect the impact of Rupee devaluation on
project costs.
1.21          Experience with Private Utilities.  The Bank and IFC's
experience with the private utilities has been in general more satisfactory.
Unlike the SEBs, the private utilities have beei allowed by their respective
state governments to operate autonomously and in a technically and financiall,
viable manner. They have not suffered from the institutional and financial
problems of the GOI-owned central entities, because the power they generate i
largely fed into their own distribution networks which supply urban
residential and industrial consumers.
Bank Group Support
1.22        IBRD has made 32 IBRD loans (US$6.4 billion) and 18 IDA credits
(US$2.3 billion) for power projects in India (Annex 1.2). Twenty-seven
projects have been completed: 20 for generation; four for transmission; and
three for rural electrification. Ongoing projects include ten for generation
(three of which are for hydro power plants); three for transmission; and seve
which include a mix of generation, transmission and distribution. Six of the
IBRD loans have been extended to private utilities. The physical
implementation of most Bank power projects in India has proceeded slowly, but
eventually, after significant initial delays, has broadly met expectations.
However, loan and credit disbursements continue to show large outstanding
balances (US$3,869 million, as of June 30, 1991). These are due primarily tc
the very long construction periods for generation projects compounded by
frequent delays in procurement and in foreign exchange and import license
clearances by the various ministries, and the increasing number of projects
under implementation. Undisbursed balances have been pushed up further by
frequent cost under-runs on major equipment contracts. The latter are due tc
the softening of international markets in the mid-1980s and the rapid real
devaluation of the Rupee. The Bank is reviewing the level of potential
savings in its power loan portfolio for India with a view towards cancelling
those balances which are no longer required for project implementation.
1.23        IFC has made five investments totalling US$203 million to four ol
the five private power utilities in India. These investments were made in Al
and TEC in FY89, in TEC and CESC in FY90, and in BSES in FY91. All the
projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Results of these Efforts
1.24        Expansion and Quality of Service.  The Bank's support to India's
power sector contributed to the rapid expansion of the country's power suppl



- 8 -
from 32,350 MW installed capacity in FY82 to over 62.700 MW today. However,
the quality of electricity supplies remains unsatisfactory. Interruptions and
reductions in supply and voltage are common. The poor quality and
unreliability of public supplies cause consumers to purchase costly back-up
generating capacity which uses scarce liquid fuels. Technical and commercial
losses exceed 20? of net generation.
1.25        Operational Efficiency.  In parallel with expanding supply, the
sector has made some encouraging ef.iciency gains. For example, the plant
load factor has increased from 44Z in FY81 to 55? in FY90. This means that
every 1 kW of capacity now provides 1,031 kWh (27?) more electricity per year
than in FY81. Ir, addition, the rate of coal consumption by power stations has
been cut by about 10? since FY81. It now requires 720 tons of coal to
generate 1 GWh, compared with 802 tons in FY81. This saves approximately 13
million tons of coal annually (about 82 of the sector's total consumption) and
is worth about US$300 million/year. These improvements reflect a
strengthlening of plant maintenance and operations and are commendable in view
of the deteriorating quality of coal the sector is receiving. A significant
institutional gain is the one-third reduction in the ratio of employees to
consumers from 29 employees per 1,000 consumers in FY81 to 19 employees at
present. Many of the efficiency and institutional improvements are
attributable to the rapidly expanding shares of NTPC and the private utilities
in India's power system since FY83.
1.26        Financial Performance.  Weighted retail tariffs have increased
slightly since FY82' in constant price terms although they have remained at
about 502 of the long run marginal costs (LRMC). Increases in real costs
(particularly for fuel and wages) have largely neutralized the increases in
efficiency and real tariffs. In the meantime, tariff differentials among
consumer groups have widened. Industrial consumers have taken the brunt of
the increases over the last ten years and their tariffs are in nost states now
close to, and in some cases even above, LRMC. Agricultural tariffs, on the
other hand, actually have fallen in absolute terms and now cover less than 10?
of their supply costs. Compounding the problem is the poor collection from
agricultural users, high technical and non-technical system losses, leading to
an increasingly large financial burden imposed by the sector on the power
system. Partly as a result of this subsidization, as shown in Annex 1.1,
agriculture's share in total consumption has grown from about 17? in FY82 to
22Z in FY90. A similar situation applies to the case of residential uses of
electricity. Accordingly, GOI has put pressure on the SEBs and the central
utilities to raise tariffs. Since April 1990, 12 SEBs, out of 18, have
increased their tariffs, and both Kerala and Uttar Pradesh are expected to
increase their's effective January 1, 1992. In September 1991, the State
Power Ministers agreed to have a minimum agricultural tariff, bringing the
beginning of a solution to this problem. In addition, the need for SEBs to
establish automatic cost recovery surcharges for fuel, freight, etc. was
recognized. The implementation of these initiatives are partly reflected in
the recently announced tariff reforms for Kerala and Uttar Pradesh.
I Using FY82 prices, from 40 Paise/kWh in FY82 to 47 PaiselkWh in FY90.



1.27        The combined financial losses of the SEBs have been steadily
increasing. When operating losses, non-payment of subsidies and poor
collections are taken into account, the SEBs had a negative internal cash
generation equivalent to US$4.1 billion from FY86 to FY90. Deficits of this
magnitude materially affect public finances and, because of late payments to
suppliers, create major financial problems for NTPC, NHPC, Indian Railways,
Coal India, and Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), the largest local
manufacturer of electrical equipment. As a consequence, GOI was forced in
FY91 to earmark central transfer assistance to these entities, funds which
otherwise would have been allocated to the budgets of the delinquent states.
1.28        Conclusion.  Notwithstanding tbe efficiency gains secured by the
sector in recent years, there is an urgent need for further improvement. Key
constraints are the lack of financial autonomy and the poor financial
discipline of the publicly owned utilities, as well as the absence of
commercial incentives in many markets and subsidized power prices.
Physically, these constraints cause India's power systems to provide less
power and power of a poorer quality, at higher cost, than they otherwise would
be able to provide. The economic costs of shortages and poor quality supply
are exacerbated by inefficient end-use of power which is in turn, invited by
mispricing and non-collection of dues.
1.29        Performance audits conducted for the Second Power Transmission
Project (Credit 242-IN) and the First and Second Rural Electrification
projects (Credits 572-IN and 911-IN) highlighted the difficulties of effecting
institutional improvements in the absence of clear division of
responsibilities between the central entities and the SEBs. Project
Completion reports show that the Third and Fourth Transmission projects
(Credits 377-IN and 6C4-IN) experienced similar difficulties; despite some
progress, in general, SEBs did not respond to GOI's initiatives. The lessons
learned from these projects, as well as the experience gained in dealing with
the problems of the sector, had an important bearing in the design of the
proposed project.
Towards a New Approach in the Power Sector
1.30          GOI's strategy towards the power sector evolved to a large
extent from the intensive policy dialogue with the Bank over the last year and
a half. The Bank supports the major policy reforms recently undertaken,
namely the channelling of discretionary funding by the center only to the
performing states and the increased role for the private sector. However,
much needs to be done to begin solving the structural problems of the sector.
1.31        The evolving lending strategy would continue to support capacity
additions through the private sector and efficient public utilities while at
the same time giving increased attention to improvements in the utilization of
existing operating assets. It would seek and support actions by GOI to
address the longer-term issues in the power sector such as problems in the
current allocation process (not only in the power sector but also in coal and
natural gas), the planning process, the operational efficiency of the power
system, the institutional set up of the state utilities and financing needs of
the power sector will be explored. In addition, issues affecting energy



- 10 -
conservation and socio-environmental aspects of power development will be
taken up. Bank lending for power would focus on:
(a)   promoting domestic and foreign private investments, including
joint ventures between the private sector and well managed public
utilities;
(b)   projects implemented by either center or state utilities
benefiting states whose SEBs either perform in a satisfactory
manner or have started implementing credible plans underwritten by
their states to improve their performance and finances with
emphasis on significant up-front tariff adjustments;
(c)   investments that promote energy conservation and demand-side
management; and
(d)   innovative, small-scale developments such as mini-hydro, co-
generation and non-conventional energy schemes which are
environmentally sound and cost-effective. IBRD will also continue
to assist the Indian power sector in addressing the environmental
and sociological aspects of power development.
1.32        The proposed project fits into this strategy because (a) it is
directed to finance investments that will enhance the efficiency of existing
assets, such as removing bottlenecks in transmission and distribution systems,
engineering studies for systems renovation, environmental upgrading of power
plants, and institutional strengthening of selected SEBs; (b) PFC lends only
to SEBs/SGCs that either are nerforming or have agreed, with the support from
their states, to introduce long lasting improvements in their operations and
finances; and (c) PFC financial support to SEBs/SGCs is conditioned upon their
compliance with conditionality aimed at ensuring that said improvements are
actually implemented.
II.  THE BENEFICIARY
Formation of PFC
2.01        PFC is a wholly owned entity of the Government of India.  It was
incorporated in July 1986, under the Companies Act of 1956, and began
operations in early 1988. The objectives set in its Memorandum of Association
allow PFC to undertake an ample array of financial activities aimed at
supporting the development of the power sector in India. These activities
include the financing, to both public and private power utilities, of: new
capacity, renovation and modernization of power plants, system improvement,
energy conservation, maintenance and repair of fixed assets, pre-investment
activities, research, and consultancy services.
2.02        GOI, through PFC would allow most of the non-budget funding of the
utilities, representing 25Z to 30Z of their total financing requirements, to
be linked to tangible improvements in the utilities' operations. To implement
this objective, PFC would grant loans to SEBs/SGCs conditioned upon the



- 11 -
implementation of actions which would improve their financial and operational
performance. This strategy is reflected in an Operational Policy Statement
(OPS) (Annex 2.2) prepared by PFC and found satisfactory by the Bank.
2.03        The developmental function assigned to PFC, in the form it is now
conceived, has not been tried before in India. While the role of the typical
sectoral financial institution would be to mobilize resources for a particular
sector, PFC's main objective is to promote improvements in the power sector
operations. The financial function is simply an instrument that provides the
necessary leverage to help ensure PFC's effectiveness. It is envisaged that,
in the long term, most power utilities should reach a financial performance
that allows them access to the financial market on the basis of their own
creditworthiness.
2.04        Lending through PFC offers a number of advantages.  Firstly, it
represents an improvement over the umbrella-type operations, attempted in the
past by the Bank using the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC). The
effectiveness of these operations was limited by the weak institutional
capability of REC, reflected in poor implementation and supervision
performance. Secondly, lending through PFC would allow the Bank to expand its
impact in the sector by having access to most SEBs/SGCs in the country, as
opposed to direct lending by the Bank, which has to be restricted to a limited
number of SEBs/SGCs. Thirdly, because PFC will have frequent operations with
most SEBs/SGCs, probably on an annual basis, it will enjoy the advantage of a
close and regular contact with them, providing a better potential for
enforcing lending conditionality.
2.05        However, it is recognized that for PFC to be successful, it has to
develop a strong institutional capability of its own and enjoy considerable
autonomy. To ensure that the potential benefits to be derived from lending
through PFC actually materialize, the Bank established that any lending to PFC
should be subject to the following parameters:
(a)   PFC should have clearly defined, transparent and strict criteria
for its lending decisions (paras, 2.09 and 2.16);
(b)   these criteria should apply not only to Bank funds on-lent through
PFC, but to all PFC's resources (para. 2.16);
(c)   sub-borrowers that do not meet the agreed criteria should not be
granted any loan from PFC (para. 2.16);
(d)   PFC should take remedial action against sub-borrowers which
default in their undertakings with PFC (para. 2.14); and
(e)   the agreements between the Bank and GOI/PFC should provide for
monitoring by PFC of compliance with the agreed lending criteria
and undertakings by sub-borrowers to PFC, and for suspension of
Bank disbursements if PFC does not fulfill its obligations (paras.
4.20 and 4.21).



- 12 -
Organization and Staffing of PFC
2.06        PFC is run by a Board of Directors which consists of a Chairman
and Managing Director, two full-time directors (for finance and technical
matters), and four directors representing the Department of Power, the Central
Electricity Authority, the Planning Commission, and the Ministry of Finance.
This composition of the Board enhances the coordination between PFC and
different decision-making centers in the power sector.
2.07           The Corporation is organized along three divisions, or groups --
one for technical matters, one for finance, and one for operations. Each
group is headed by a Director. The Technical Group appraises new projects and
monitors the portfolio of loans. The Finance Group is responsible for the
financial operations of the Corporation and provides support to the Technical
Group on the financial aspects of projects. The Operations Group provides
critical support to the SEBs in preparing their Operational and Financial
Action Plans (OFAPs) and monitors the implementation of these plans. As
explained in para. 2.1 , these OFAPs are the framework used by PFC to design
the conditionality for each one of its operations. The Operations Group also
manages the human resources of the Corporation and provides leadership in the
formulation of policies, preparation of procedural guidelines, and study of
issues affecting the power sector. PFC is aware of the need to periodically
review the effectiveness of its structure and make adjustments as needed. The
cu-rent organizational structure of PFC is presented in Annex 2.1.
2.08        PFC's top management is experienced and has done an outstanding
job in providing the basis for the future development of the Corporation. PFC
has managed to put together a group of about 130 carefully selected
professionals. The Corporation is gradually developing a work culture
characterized by very demanding standards of quality and a high degree of
motivation among staff. In addition, PFC has retained a small nucleus of
high-level consultants experienced in different aspects of power sector
operations. Although several key positions have been filled with staff on
deputation from other government entities, as a way to facilitate recruitment,
PFC is confident it will be able to retain those considered best qualified for
their respective jobs. PFC is gradually developing a capability for
appraising and monitoring the implementationi of projects, and a special
training program for its staff will be included in the project (para.3.06).
The Technical Assistance component of the project also includes support in the
development of policies and procedures to enhance PFC's capability to prepare
and monitor projects and to promote the institutional development of its
borrowers.
Operational Policy Statement
2.09        PFC has prepared an Operational Policy Statement (OPS) which
describes the Corporation's rationale, its operating philosophy, objectives,
programs, and procedures. A summary is presented in Annex 2.2. The purpose
of the OPS is to establish the policies that will guide PFC in its relations
with clients and in its own operational and financial activities. The
financial policies embodied in the OPS are summarized in para. 4.16. Changes
in the OPS are expected to be called for as a clearer picture of PFC's



- 13 -
activities emerges. The OPS is the instrument that reflects the major
agreements between PFC and the Bank on how the Corporation will conduct its
operations, and the implementation of the proposed project will be carried out
in accordance with the OPS (para. 4.20).
2.10           The Bank and PFC have reached agreement on the contents of the
OPS. Because PFC's clientele is confined to a limited number of borrowers,
operating in one economic sector, and are in rather poor financial health,
steps have been tEken to mininize the financial risks to PFC.  These steps
include, inter-alia, the design of a set of repayment guarantees, limits on
PFC's exposure, and a provision that PFC will not reschedule its loans (para.
4.16).
Pre-allocation of PFC's Funds
2.11        To help preserve PFC's autonomy, GOI and PFC have adopted a
prudetc policy of not pre-allocating PFC's funds by states. Pre-allocating
these funds would undermine PFC's basic developmental objectives and would
render totally ineffective the operating policies included in the OPS.2
Given PFC's need for autonomy to promote improvements in the power sector,
during negotiations confirmation was obtained that PFC's funds will not be
pre-allocated but will be lent following the pre-agreed criteria spelled out
in para. 2.16 and included in PFC's OPS (para. 6.03 (b)).
Institutional Strengthening of PFC Borrowers
2.12        The core of PFC's effort to promote better standards of
operational and financial efficiency in the state power utilities is the
preparation and implementation of action plans tailored to each particular
utility. PFC's Operational and Financial Action Plans (OFAPs) consist of a
set of actions, to be implemented according to an agreed timetable, aimed at
correcting the most critical deficiencies of the particular SEB. These OFAPs
typically include elements such as: (a) actions, including tariff adjustments,
to allow the utilities to reach, in a period of no more than three years, the
minimum 3% rate of return, after interest, on historically valued assets, as
required by the Act; (b) commitment from the states to pay cash subsidies to
the utilities whenever tariff revenue is insufficient t. meet the minimum 32
rate of return; (c) specific plans to reduce the utilities' receivables; and
(d) introduction of clauses in the utilities' tariff to allow them to recover
automatically, from their consumers, any increase in the cost of both fuel and
purchased power. Although the SEBs(SGCs are responsible for preparing the
OFAPs, PFC's staff provide initial support in diagnosing major problems, and
participate in a manner that ensures that the views of the utilities'
management and, eventually, the states' officials are expressed in the
formulation of corrective actions. The utilities also would be responsible
for retaining consultants to assist in implementing the OFAPs, although PFC
could include the cost of financing this consultancy in its loans to the
utilities. The general concept of OFAPs, the elements that enhance their
2 However, the need to avoid pre-allocating PFC's funds does not mean
that GOI and PFC cannot develop indicative targets for planning purposes.



- 14 -
effectiveness, and the steps followed in their preparation are presented in
Annex 2.3.
2.13        The development of an OFAP for each of the SEBs included in the
proposed project was integral to the preparation of the sub-projects presented
by PFC for Bank fin3ncing. The OFAPs for the SEBs of Punjab, Andhra Pradesh,
Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat Lave been approved by the concerned state
governments and accepted by PFC. They contain a comprehensive set of actions
addressing the most critical issues of each SEB including among others tariff
restructuring, payment by the State of cash subsidy support, billing and
collection, system efficiency, materials management, and financial and
accounting control. The key elements of these OFAPs are summarized in page 5
of Annex 2.3. The impact of the OFAPs on the SEBs' financial operations have
started to be felt. In FY1990 the rates of return of these four SEBs were: -
2.5% for Punjab (PSEB), 0.182 for Andhra Pradesh (APSEB), 3.3% for Madhya
Pradesh (MPSEB), and -8.0% for Gujarat (GSEB). All four have since adjusted
their tariffs: PSEB by 14% in FY91, APSEB by 20% in FY91, MPSEB by 10% in FY91
and 12Z in FY92, and GSEB by 11% in FY91. MPSEB continues to meet the target
3% rate of return. APSEB is estimated to achieve it in FY1992 and PSEB and
GSEB in FY1993. Without the tariff and subsidy payment provisions in the
OFAPs, the returns in FY1993 are projected to be significantly lowar at: -6.6%
for PSEB, -2.42 for APSEB, -7.0% for MPSEB, and -11.2X for GSEB. Likewise, a
number of actions have since been taken by the SEBs with respect to settling
of receivables, payment by the state governments of subsidy, improving
inventory management, and computerization of billings and collections.
2.14        The practice of agreeing on OFAPs as a criterion for lending
should not be limited to sub-borrowers under the proposed Bank loan. PFC
concurs with this policy dnd as of June 30, 1991, it no longer considers new
requests for loans from SEBs that have not presented a satisfactory OFAP. The
need for SEBs to achieve the minimum 3% rate of return has been underscored by
PFC in its dialogue with the SEBs and in FY92, PFC has started to require SEBs
and State Governments to agree on a time-bound program to achieve this minimum
return. The implementation of the OFAPs will be made part of PFC's legal
agreements w'th its borrowers. To give force to the OFAP, it is required that
both the State government as well as the SEB's management commit themselves,
in writing, to implement the OFAP. PFC intends to closely monitor the
implementation of the OFAP as part of its regular supervision activities, and
to provide the necessary support to the SEBs to facilitate implementation.
Lack of compliance with the OFAPs could trigger the application of remedies
established by PFC in its guidelines. These guidelines (Annex 2.2) include
suspension of disbursements and cancellation of the loan and denial of access
to future borrowing.
Lending Criteria
2.15        PFC is empowered to lend to anv entity, public or private in the
power sector. However, in its initial years it will concentrate on supporting
the SEBs and the SGCs, where the developmental needs are considered the most
critical. PFC has established priorities to guide its lending operations,
which include the following four activities:



- 15 -
(a)   renovation and modernization of generating plants;
(b)   system improvement;
(c)   expansion of transmission and distribution systems; and
(d)   completion of ongoing generation projects.
2.16        PFC reviews both the eligibility of the borrower as well as that
of any proposed project. To be eligible for PFC financing, a utility should
undertake to implement an OFAP (para. 2.12) agreeable to PFC to improve its
operations and finances. In addition, any project proposed must satisfy six
criteria, as follows:
(a)   the project must be economically justified, with an economic rate
of return of not less than 12Z;
(b)   the project must be technically sound;
(c)   the technical solutions proposed in the project must be the least
cost option;
(d)   the project must be compatible with existing expansion plans;
(e)   the solutions proposed in the project must meet acceptable
environmental and social impact standards; and
(f)   the schemes must have obtained all the clearances required by
state and federal agencies.
Schemes for environmental upgrading of power stations must meet acceptable
engineering standards, and should be the most cost-effective means of
mitigating environmental effects.
PFC's Loan Processing Procedures
2.17        Borrowers take the initiative in presenting requests for
financing. When a request is received, PFC carries out an appraisal of the
project and of the entity. This rnpraisal includes a review of the technical
aspects of the project, its economic justification and environmental
implications and an assessment of the finances and operations of the
implementing agency. PFC staff are organized regionally to expedite the
appraisal process and to allow the Corporation greater familiarity with each
client's special circumstances. An outcome of this analysis is for the
potential borrower to prepare an OFAP, with PFC support. The OFAP then
provides the basis for the conditionality in the event PFC decides to finance
the project. After the OFAP is approved, it is updated about once a year and
the conditionality is adjusted in subsequent operations. PFC's lending terms
are discussed in para. 4.14.
2.18        Disbursements of PFC's funds typically are made directly to the
supplier when the supplier is a government entity, or through commercial banks



- 16 -
if otherwise. PFC's overall disbursements procedures have been found
acceptable by the Bank. To allow borrowers to make payments in small amounts,
a revolving fund of not more than 15Z of the loan amount may be established by
PFC. As of March 31, 1991, PFC had gras.ted 352 loans to 21 clients and it had
lent a total of Rs 33.6 billion (about U;$1.3 billion). A summary of PFC's
lending operations is presented in Annex 2.4.
Collection Procedures
2.19      PFC has established satisfactory collection procedures.  The
Corporation notifies its clients in writing 15 to 20 days before payments are
due, and it has developed a system with its bankers to expedite transfers of
funds collected. In the event payment is not made on the due date, one week
later PFC issues a notice threatening legal action against the borrower and
guarantor. If the situation remains unsolved after 60 days, PFC applies the
remedies it has established, including suspension of disbursements,
cancellation of the undisbursed amounts and making the guarantees effective
(Annex 2.2, Attachment). Although these procedures appear sound, PFC's
experience is still too limited to allow a final assessment of their
effectiveness. PFC's collection performance would be monitored closely during
supervision.
Accounting and Auditing
2.20      A complete accounting system, in conformity with the Companies Act
(1956), was recently installed with the help of consultants and its
computerization is advancing. PFC conservatively recognizes income only when
actually received and not on an accrual basis. However, an accrual record is
maintained to monitor the maturity of arrears. PFC's statut' y auditor is a
private firm appointed by GOI on the advice of the Comptroller and Auditor
General, who may also elect to carry out his own audit. PFC's audit reports
have been produced on time and they were reviewed by the Bank and found
satisfactory. During negotiations PFC agreed to submit to the Bank, no later
than two months after the end of each fiscal year, unaudited financial
statements, and no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year,
copies of said financial statements certified by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank, accompanied by an auditor's report. The financial
statements will include: Income Statement, Statements of Cash Flow, and
Balance Sheet (para. 6.04 (a)).
Environment Monitoring Unit
2.21      PFC is creating a specialized unit to assist its borrowers in
preparing the environmental and social dimensions of the projects submitted to
the Corporation. This unit also will be responsible for coordinating the
preparation of Environmental Impact Assessments and monitoring their
implementation. The Bank has provided some preliminary guidance in the make
up of this unit and PFC is actively recruiting staff. Annex 2.5 presents the
scope of the work of this unit.



- 17 -
Monitoring of Projects
2.22     PFC has developed an efficient system for monitoring the physical
implementation of the projects it finances. This system includes progress
reports and period' visits. In the future, as OFAPs with different borrowers
are approved, PFC also will need to strengthen its capability for monitoring
their implementation.  The training and technical assistance programs included
in the proposed operation will support the development of PFC in this respect
(para. 3.06).  Failure by the borrowor to comply with the conditionality
agreed, incluaing the implementation of the OFAP, will trigger application of
remedies (para. 2.14).
Management Information System
2.23     PFC has been gradually developing a management information system
(MIS) which provides control at different levels of the corporate structure.
The Corporation is aware that the MIS will need to be enhanced as the volume
of its operations grows. Along these lines, PFC is conceptualizing a
computerized system that will allow different units of the organization to
share common data bases, thereby improving efficiency and consistency across
the organization. The technical assistance program under the proposed loan
would provide support to enhance the Corporation's MIS.
Financial Planning, Budgeting and Controls
2.24     PFC has been introducing systems to support its financial management.
It has a computerized financial model routinely used in assessing the impact
of alternative policies, levels of operations and degrees of performance.
Similarly, its budget system and control procedures are adequate for the
current level of operation, but will need to be enhanced to handle PFC's
future requirements. The institutional development component under the
proposed project would support this objective.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Setting
3.01        While India has made commendable progress in expanding its
electricity supply in recent years, shortages still persist which now are
equivalent to about 22Z of maximum power demand and 92 of total energy demand.
Moreover, the quality of electricity needs improvement, particularly with
respect to the continuity of service and regulation of voltages and
frequencies. Poor quality supply in turn results in frequent industrial
equipment burnouts and higher than necessary production costs. In 1989, the
Bank conducted a study to ascertain the causes of major power system
inefficiencies in India and possible actions to correct them.   The project
a India Power Sector Efficiency Review (In two volumes) - November 30,
1989 - Report No. 7878-IN.



- 18 -
seeks to address several of the inefficiencies detected in the studs in five
areas, as follows:
(a)   Investments in transmission and distribution have not kept pace
with investments to expand generating capacity. This imbalance
has led to system overloading and, as a consequence, high
electricity losses and frequent power interruptions. Moreover,
the lack of transmission and distribution capacity prevents full
use of generating plants. The project seeks to alleviate these
constraints by providing funding for high-priority transmission
and distribution investments;
(b)   SEBs need to address poor maintenance, inadequate controls and
operational supervision, poor communication and monitoring
systems, lack of trained staff, and unsatisfactory billing and
collections. Improvements in these areas, including reductions in
non-technical losses, would improve service quality and the cash
flow of the SEBs. The project provides funding and technical
support for the SEBs to help remedy these deficiencies;
(c)   The performance of generating plants in India, particularly
thermal plants, is below international standards. For instance,
thermal plant availability is 10 to 15 percentage points below
international norms. Plant renovation and life extension are
cost-effective ways to improve availability and reclaim lost
capacity. GOI and many of the SEBs already are implementing an
important program to partially rehabilitate 164 thermal units.
Many thermal units included under the renovation program have been
only partially rehabilitated and require further work. In
addition many units have become due for renovation since the
program was launched in 1984, or were not included in the first
phase of the pro-ram. The project includes a component to
identify further opportunities for plant modernization and life
extension;
(d)   The environmental operating conditions of many thermal plants in
India are substandard. The project includes a substantial
component to provide funding for -w .ding the environmental
conditions of the SEBs' power s4t.,.on; and
(e)   The preparation of power projects in India, particularly for
hydroelectric plants, is a difficult and slow task which
ultimately retards implementation. The quality of project
feasibility studies, site investigations, and pre-construction
engineering also requires considerable improvement. Inadequate
preparation is caused both by an acute shortage of funds in sector
institutioiis and by staff limitations in the technical
organizations of GOI responsible for this work. Lack of funds
also prevents studies from being carried out which would improve
the operation and management of the power utilities. The
consulting industry for power projects in India is still young;
strengthening it would help to supplement the technical resources



- 39 -
provided by government agencies and establish an avenue for
introducing up-to-date engineering practices. The project
includes a pre-investment fund to stimulate growth in the local
consulting industry. The fund would be used by the power sector
agencies wishing to employ consulting fi ms to carry out studies
and engineering for power projects.
3.02        PFC is becoming an increasingly important institutional vehicle in
promoting efficiency improvements in the SEBs and SGCs.  To be effective ir
th.is endeavor, PFC needs to: (a) lend a large share of the utilities'
financial requirements under terms attractive to them to secure the leverage
needed to introduce conditionality; (b) follow financial management practices
which ensure its financial viability; (c) have the capability to prepare and
supervise a large volume of projects; and (d) provide support to the utilities
in designing and implementing their performance improvement plans. The
project supports GOI's and PFC's actions in these areas.
3.03        With regard to the first point, the project includes the financing
of sub-projects for a selected number of SEBs; this financing would represent
an important addition to the funds currently allocated to the SEBs through the
Central Plan. Regarding the second point, the project provides assistance to
PFC for establishing policies and practices which will reduce its financial
risks and ensure its financial viability. With respect to the third and
fourth points, the project incorporates a comprehensive institutional
development program to enhance PFC's capabilities in project appraisal and
supervision.
Project Objectives
3.04        The main objectives of the project are to: (a) support GOI efforts
to make PFC a viable and effective instrument for effecting improvements in
the power sector; (b) strengthen the operations of the beneficiary SEBs by
lending only to those willing to undertake acceptable reform programs; (c)
foster better use of existing power facilities by reducing constraints in the
transmission and distribution systems; (d) mitigate the adverse environmental
impact of thermal plants in operation by providing adequate anti-pollution and
monitoring facilities; and (e) improve the preparation of power projects and
promote the development of the local consulting industry by funding pre-
investment studies and engineering for power projects.
Project Description
3.05        The project comprises: (a) a program to strengthen PFC's
capabilities to discharge its responsibilities; (b) the creation of a pre-
investment fund in PFC; and (c) five components to be financed through PFC:
(i) the implementation of a pre-identified segment of the lending program of
PFC; (ii) environmental upgrading of power plants; (iii) engineering studies
for systenm renovation; (iv) institutional strengthening of power utilities;
and (v) improvements in SEBs' billing and collection. A detailed descripAion
of the project is presented in Annex 3.1.



- 20 -
3.06        Institutional Strengthening of PFC.  This is a program to
strengthen PFC s capabilities to discharge its responsibilities. The program
will provide specialized services, equipment, software, and training. The
major activities to be covered undcr this program include:
(a)   enhancing PFC's management information system;
(b)   developing administrative manuals and procedures to guide internal
operations:
(c)   developing manuals for project appraisal and monitoring;
(d)   training PFC staff in financial, utility, and project management,
power economics, upgrading of power plants, transmission and
distribution, and planning and design of distribution systems; and
(e)   establishing a unit at PFC for sector studies to support the
Corporation's operations.
3.07        Pre-investment Fund.  The project includes the establishment of a
special pre-investment fund at PFC. The fund will be used to finance project
preparation and other studies aimed at enhancing the performance of power
utilities in the country.
3.08        Financing Through PFC.  The project will help PFC finance five
types of activities directed to the SEBs/SGCs, as follows:
(a)   Transmission and Distribution Projects.  Includes the financing of
a pre-identified segment of the loans for this purpose to be
approved by PFC during 1992-94. This segment represents about 8t
of PFC's lea.ding program. It includes the financing of the
construction of specific sub-projects proposed by eligible SEBs
and SGCs. These sub-projects are: (i) sub-transmission and
associated distribution works in urban areas; and (ii)
transmission lines and substations in the participating SEBs.
This being the first Bank operation with PFC, it was considered
prudent to limit Bank financing to a set of identified investments
in a reduced number of SEBs where the likelihood of a successful
reform program is greater, as opposed to providing financing for
the entire PFC lending program. Along these lines, the project
comprises investments to be made by the SEBs of the states of
Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and Punjab. PFC has
prepared sub-project appraisal reports (SPARs) for each SEB. Each
SPAR includes, among other things, an action plan (OFAP), agreed
with the SEB and the State (see section (d) below), and the
details of the sub-projects to be financed, their estimated costs,
economic and technical justification and an implementation
timetable. These four SEBs have already identified about 70? of
the transmission and distribution investments under the project.
A provision has therefore been made in the project to include
investments in one or two additional States where SEBs may become
eligible for Bank financing, or to include more sub-projects for



- 21 -
the four SEBs already identified, as the case may be. PFC will
prepare SPARs for the remaining investments as other SEBs become
eligible for Bank financing;
(b)   Environmental Upgrading of Power Plants.  The project includes
studies, engineering and works to upgrade the environmental
operating conditions of power plants;
(C)   Engineering Studies for System Renovation.  This program includes
studies for: (i) further improvement and modernization of thermal
stations to supplement the rehabilitation investments sponsored by
CEA and PFC during the Seventh five-year plan; and (ii) high-
priority upgrading of other system components;
(d)   Institutional Strengthening of Utilities.  The project includes a
component for the implementation of the institutional development
programs for SEBs and SGCs identified in their OFAPs. This
assistance will include, among other things, improvements in
operation and management, provision of technical and training
services, and acquisition of data processing equipment and
software; and
(e)   Billing and Collections.  The project covers the promotion of
improvements in the billing and collection systems of the SEBs,
including studies, equipment, software, and support for
establishing the necessary systems and procedures.
Status of Project Engineering
3.09        The transmission and distribution sub-projects being proposed for
financing are standard works routinely carried out by the SEBs and do not
involve complex engineering. Therefore, the SEBs will be responsible for the
engineering of these sub-projects. The participating SEBs have staff
qualified to plan and design the sub-projects proposed and would have access
to technical services by employing consultants under the Pre-investment Fund.
Sub-projects under this project component are grouped into three categories:
(a)   transmission and distribution sub-projects for which engineering
at the bidding level is already complete and all necessary
approvals by government agencies (CEA, DOP, Planning Commission,
etc.) have been granted. This group represents about 60% of the
proposed investments in transmission and distribution;
(b)   transmission sub-projects for which detailed engineering is
complete but which are still under review by the concerned
government agencies. This group represents 202 of the proposed
investments; and
(c)   transmission and distribution sub-projects for which engineering
is still under preparation and government approvalE are pending.
This group comprises 20X of the proposed investments.



- 22 -
3.10        PFC and SEBs have jointly prepared draft technical specifications
and bidding documents for sub-projects under categories (a) and (b). The same
documents and specifications will be used, with appropriate changes, for sub-
projects under category ().  Clearances pending for sub-projects in category
(b) are expected to be issued over the first year of project implementation.
Final engineering together with the corresponding clearances for sub-projects
under category (c) are scheduled to be completed before the end of 1992. At
negotiations PFC agreed that only those transmission and distribution sub-
projects in categories (b) and (c) that have completed detailed engineering
and all the clearances required before December 31, 1992, would be eligible
for Bank financing (para. 6.04 (b)).
3.11        Engineering fo, the installation of electrostatic precipitators
(ESPs) under the environmental upgrading of plants is currently at the bidding
stage for the stations identified at the time of project appraisal. In most
cases, however, the proposed environmental actions are limited to the
controlling of particulate emissions through the installation of electrostatic
precipitators.  Additional engineering is needed to determine and design
actions in other areas of environmental concern such as water treatment, ash
handling, dust control, emissions monitoring equipment, etc.  At negotiations
PFC agreed that those SEBs participating in this program will conduct, with
the assistance of consultants if needed, a full review of the environmental
conditions of their stations in order to determine, and subsequently
implement, any actions required to meet acceptable environmental standards
(para. 6.03 (c)). PFC's environmental unit (para. 2.21) will provide guidance
and assistance to the SEBs in identifying consultants when required, and in
preparing and conducting the environmental reviews, described in Annex 3.2.
3.12        The studies for system renovation will be conducted by the SEBs
with assistance of consultants as needed. The studies will focus on improving
efficiency of generating plant, but other system components such as
distribution or transmission systems may be included. SEBs wishing financing
for system renovation studies will conduct them under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, prepared for each particular study. Annex 3.3 gives
the suggested scope of the system renovation studies and the terms of
reference for the thermal plant renovation studies.
3.13        The nature and scope of the training program and of the
institutional strengthening of PFC have been identified but further work is
needed to refine this program and to formulate a detailed implementation plan.
The training program should include identification of training agencies,
schedules and duration of training, detailed curricula, priorities, target
staff, etc.  PFC has prepared terms of reference for the traix, ng program
(Annex 3.4), as well as a detailed plan for the first year of its training
program. The longer term training program will be prepared by consultants
under the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) component
of the project. An implementation plan for the institutional strengthening
program is presented in Annex 3.5.



- 23 -
Project Implementation Arrangements and Schedule
3.14           PFC will have overall responsibility for project implementation
and for supervising and coordinating implementation of the project components
to be carried out by the SEBs. PFC has appraised or will appraise all sub-
projects to ensure that they meet the eligibility criteria for financing by
PFC (para. 3.15). PFC has furnished the Bank with satisfactory SPARs for four
SEBs (in Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat). In addition, at
negotiations PFC agreed to submit to the Bank, for prior approval, the
remaining items intended to be financed with the proceeds of the Bank loan
under each one of the components of the project (para.6.03(d)). PFC will
monitor implementation through a well established supervision system already
in place. PFC also will prepare periodic progress reports on the project for
concerned authorities and the Bank, and will serve as the liaison between the
Bank and government agencies involved in the project.  PFC will provide
assistance to the SEBs in matters related to project implementation directly
or through consultants and will help the SEBs identify and select firms to
assist them during project execution. PFC will lend funds to the SEBs in
accordance with its operational policies for eligible sub-projects and will
obtain reimbursement from the Bank in accordance with the loan disbursement
arrangements proposed for this project (para. 3.29).
3.15      In order to be eligible for PFC financing under the project, an SEB
or SGC must undertake to implement an OFAP agreeable to PFC and the Bank to
improve its operations and finances (para. 2.14). PFC has established general
eligibility criteria for individual sub-projects (para. 2.16). Bank-financed
sub-projects, except for the environmental upgrading of power plants and
studies, must meet these criteria. The criteria are as follows:
(a)   transmission sub-projects over 220 kV must be part of the long
term least-cost plan for generation and tran;.mission adopted by
CEA;
(b)   transmission and distribution sub-projects of 132 kV and Lelow
must be part of the state transmission plan;
(c)   the technical solutions proposed must be least cost;
(d)   sub-projects must be based on a suitable engineering analysis and
be technically justified in terms of: (i) operational analysis
(i.e., load flow, short circuit, stability analysis, etc.); (ii)
improving of service standards (i.e., sub-projects must meet
unserved demand, contribute to improvements in voltage and
frequency, or increase system reliability); (iii) eliminating
system constraints to improved use of existing plant (i.e.,
deficiencies in transmission capacity); (iii) remedying the
overloading of system components; or (iv) directly contributing to
reducing losses in the system;
(e)   the solutions proposed must meet acceptable environmental and
social impact standards;



- 24 -
(f)   all sub-projects must have an economic rate of return of at least
12Z; calculated in accordance with the methodology agreed with the
Bank (Chapter V); and
(g)   sub-projects must have all the clearances required by state and
federal agencies.
3.16        Sub-projects for environmental upgrading of power stations will
have to meet acceptable engineering and environmental standards, and must be
the cost-effective means of mitigating environmental effects. In order to
encourage utilities to participate in this program, there will not be
preconditions for eligibility for Bank financing under this project component.
Any power utility requesting funding for these sub-projects is eligible for
Bank financing.
3.17        The project comprises a large number of individual sub-projects,
each having its own construction schedule. However, the implementation period
for the entire project has been estimated at about five and a half years,
based on representative transmission and distribution projects financed by the
Bank. Implementation would take place between January 1992 and June 1997.
Procurement of most of the materials and equipment needed for the project
would be carried out between January 1992 and June 1994. The construction of
lines and transmission systems and other civil structures related to the
project would be completed over the remaining three years. To allow
sufficient time to complete the sub-projects before the proposed loan is
closed, all contracts financed by the Bank will be awarded before June 30,
1994 (para. 6.04 (c)). The participating SEBs and SGCs will be responsible
for implementing individual transmission and distribution sub-projects and for
the environmental upgrading of their power plants. The SEBs also will be
responsible for implementing their institutional development programs and
preparing system renovation studies, with the assistance of consultants. The
OFAPs will establish in each case the task for which consultants would be
required and the deadline for employing the consultants by the SEBs. The SEBs
will prepare the terms of reference for each of the studies required with the
assistance of PFC. PFC will implement its own technical assistance and
training programs in accordance with the detailed plans agreed with the Bank.
The program for improving billing and collections will be conducted under the
direction of participating SEBs with the assistance of PFC and consultants.
Any SEB is eligible to participate in this program.
3.18        PFC will administer the proposed Pre-investment Fund which will
operate as a line of PFC financing with separate accounts. The Fund will
provide financing for technical services and for studies and training in areas
such as preparation and engineering of power projects, institutional
development, system improvements, etc. To be eligible for financing from the
Fund, the studies will have to be contracted with independent consulting firms
or individual consultants. Studies conducted by government departments or
government agencies or by individual consultants employed with such
organizations are not eligible for Bank financing. PFC will give the Bank an
opportunity to review the objectives, scope, terms of reference and proposed
implementation approach of any studies financed by the Bank or being part of
the OFAPs, before approving financing for such studies. PFC will establish a



- 25 -
roster of consultants and consulting firms in different disciplines related to
the project. Interested SEBs will be able to obtain information from this
roster to prepare short lists for particular assignments. The roster will
serve as a data bank and the inclusion of a firm or individual consultant in
the roster should not be construed as PFC approval of its qualifications.
Annex 3.6 gives details of the objectives, scope of operations and
responsibilities of the Fund.
Environmental and Resettlement Aspects
3.19        The project does not present any major environmental issues of
significance or call for major dislocation of population. It contemplates
environmental actions in three aspects: (a) it includes direct investments for
about US$100 million to reduce pollution levels and environmental degradation
around a large number of power plants; (b) it also includes studies for system
renovation comprising studies for upgrading of power stations which include an
assessment of their environmental condition. These assessments would be the
basis for future implementation of mitigatory actions (Annex 3.3); and (c) the
transmission and distribution sub-projects under the project will be subject
to environmental assessments when needed and will include the required
mitigatory actions to protect the environment. Participating SEBs will be
asked, as a condition of obtaining Bank financing for a particular sub-
project, to meet acceptable environmental and rehabilitation standards which
as a minimum satisfy Bank requirements for this type of projects. At
negotiations PFC agreed to include a provision in the on-lending agreements
between PFC and its clients that this requirement will be met (para.6.03(e)).
3.20        About 15 to 20 power plants are expected to participate in the
program for environmental rehabilitation. In order to ensure that the
environmental assessments of the power plants and that the proposed actions
meet acceptable standards, at negotiations PFC agreed to give the Bank the
opportunity to comment on the first power plant environmental review prepared
by each participating SEB prior to PFC funding approval (paras. 3.11 and 6.03
(f)). The Bank would comment selectively on other environmental reviews.
Goods, works, and technical services required to implement the actions
recommended by the environmental review will be eligible for Bank financing
under the project.
3.21        Before being eligible for Bank financing, all transmission lines
and distribution sub-projects have to be cleared by the Department of
Environment, Forests and Wildlife of the GOI. In accordance with GOI
regulations, transmission lines will be routed to avoid encroachment on
protected forest and wild life protected zones, or to minimize encroachment on
these areas when no alternative routings are possible. In addition, as a
condition of obtaining forest clearances, SEBs are required to propose and
implement compensatory afforestation programs. GOI regulations require the
SEBs to plant ten trees for each tree felled for line construction.
Government land or degraded forests are to be used in establishing new
plantations in order to minimize acquisition of private lands. Construction
specifications for the project will include provisions for contractors to
restore construction areas to environmentally acceptable conditions.
Construction access tracks in protected areas will be allowed to revert to



- 26 -
forest and will be rendered unusable to avoid area encroachment. Inspection
and routine maintenance of lines in protected areas would be completed on
foot. No land will be acquired for the construction of lines because only
right-of-way is required. The construction of distribution sub-projects will
be confined to urban areas. Most of the proposed sub-projects involve
improvements of existing facilities, so no new land will be required. In some
instances, small urban plots may need to be acquired for expansions of
distribution substations. Any population that may be dislocated by th-
substation will be duly resettled and rehabilitated.
3.22        PFC, through its Environmental Unit (para. 2.21), will assist the
SEBs in: (a) determining the sub-projects that require an environmental
assessment; (b) preparing the assessments; and (c) implementing any actions
recommended in the assessments. PFC also will moritor implementation of
corrective actions.
Project Costs
3.23        The estimated project cost is about US$640 million, including
physical and price contirngencies and about US$84 million in taxes and duties.
Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs account for US$220 million, or 34Z
of the total cost. Interest during construction adds another US$72 million to
the financing required. Project costs are based on December 1989 prices for
the procurement of goods and works similar to the ones contemplated under the
project. The prices have been updated to March 1991. Quantities were derived
from detailed designs, where available, and from bidding level or feasibility
level designs. The Sub-projects Under Preparation component includes sub-
projects for which engineering has been completed but which still require
approvals by government agencies and sub-projects for which engineering is
still in process (para. 3.09). Consulting and training services for the
technical assistance programs for PFC and the SEBs have been estimated at 500
consultants-month, based on the tentative scope of work agreed with PFC and
estimates prepared by USAID consultants. Another 500 consultant-months have
been estimated for system renovation and environmental upgrading studies. An
allowance of 5% has been made for project engineering and administration.
Physical contingencies of 102 have been included. Price contingencies, which
represent 31Z of the base cost, are based on inflation rates of 7.8% for 1990,
10.1Z for 1991, 11.0% for 1992, 7.0Z for 1993, 6.5 for 1994, 6.0Z for 1995,
5.52 for 1996 and thereafter for local costs; and 3.9Z for foreign costs.
Interest during construction was calculated assuming interest rates of 7.73%
p.a. for the Bank loan and for the loans from cofinanciers and 12.5X p.a. for
PFC's loans to the SEBs up to 1991-92 and 15% afterwards. A summary of
project costs is presented in Table 3.1, and further details are provided in
Annex 3.7.



- 27 -
Table 3.1:  Project Cost Summary
Rupees Million             US$ Million
Local   Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign Total
A. Sub-projects Fully Cleared:
1. Transmission                   2,812   1,682   4,474        99    68       167
2. Distribution                     771      465   1,228       27    16        43
S. Plant Environment Upgrading      171      101     272        8      4       10
Total projects fully cleared         3,754   2,218   5,972       132    78      209
O. Projects under preparation
1. Transmission A Distribution      226      134     380       88    52      140
2. Plant Environment Upgrad;ng      847      SOO   1,347       61    20        81
Total projects under preparation     1,073      834   1,707      149    72      221
Total A+B                         4,827   2,852   7,679       281   160       430
C. Technical Assistance
1. Project Support:
Studies for Systems Renovation     30       73      103       2      4       6
2. Capacity Building:
SEBs  Institutional Development   48       SO      98        3      3       8
PFC's Institutional Development    10       10      20        1      0        1
Creation of Preinvestment Fund     76      184     269        4    10        14
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                 4,990   3,169   8,169       290   187      467
P ;sical Contingencies              482      284     787       27    18       43
Price Contingencies               2,318      697   2,916      102    39       141
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   7,790   4,060  11,840       421   220      840
Interest During Construction:
World Bank                          546      683   1,128       19    20       40
Others                              907       62     969       30      2      32
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED             9,242   4,696  13,937       470   242      712
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Project Financing
3.24          The proposed Bank financing for this project is US$265 million,
equivalent to about 37Z of the total financing requirements, or about 42Z net
of duties and taxes.  USAID is prepared to finance about US$14 million for the
technical assistance program envisaged under the project4. PFC would finance
about US$291 million, equivalent to 41Z of the total financing requirements,
and the SEBs and beneficiary states would finance the remaining US$142
million, equivalent to 202 of financing requirements. The Bank would not
finance IDC. The project financing plan is presented in Table 3.2.
4 A grant agreement was signed by PFC with USAID in June 1991, the
effectiveness of which is conditional upon the approval by IBRD or the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) of a loan to PFC (refer to para. 4.13).



- 28 -
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Local     Foreign        Total       Z
IBRD                     59         206           265       37
PFC Resources           269          22           291       41
USAID                    -           14            14        2
SEBs                    142          -            142       20
Totals                  470         242           712     100
On-Lending Arrangements
3.25        The Bank loan would be made to GOI and GOI has agreed to on-lend
the proceeds to PFC, with a repayment period of 15 years, including three
years grace and an interest rate of not less than 11.5Z p.a. (para. 6.01).
GOI will bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks. These are the
standard on-lending terms used by GOI to transfer borrowed funds to financial
intermediaries. PFC would on-lend the proceeds of the Bank loan, together
with its own resources, to selected SEBs, at its standard lending terms
referred to in paragraph 4.14, which include an interest rate which is revised
from time to time to ensure that it reflects PFC's cost of borrowing and allow
PFC to earn a return on its equity that is positive in real terms. These on-
lending terms reflect four important factors. First, neither PFC nor the SEBs
are able to bear the foreign exchange risk at this point. Second, PFC's
interest rates should remain competitive with those of other domestic
financing sources. Third, the interest rate charged to the SEBs should be in
line with the rates agreed under the Bank's direct operations with SEBs.
Fourth, it would not be advisable to establish lending terms for the Bank's
funds different from those PFC applies to its other operations. The general
issue of interest rate structure in India is currently under discussion with
GOI. It is expected that any policy changes resulting from these discussions
also will be reflected in the power sector.
Procurement
3.26        All equipment and materials financed by the Bank costing the
equivalent of US$200,000 or more will be procured under ICB procedures. Bank-
financed specialized equipment such &s laboratory instruments and equipment,
specialized engineering office equipment, computer hardware and software,
instruments for monitoring and testing of power system components, up to an
aggregate cost of US$5 million, may be procured through international or local
shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. Other materials, equipment,
costing US$200,000 or less per contract will be procured under Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. The nature and
size of the civil works, mostly scattered erection of equipment, does not
justify International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Civil works will therefore
be procured under LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Foreign suppliers
and contractors will not be precluded from participating in LCB.



- 29 -
3.27        The SEBs have their own crews for installing equipment,
particularly equipment for distribution systems. Therefore, the SEBs plan to
erect part of the equipment by force account, in cases involving small works
scattered throughout the States for which public bidding is not practical or
Justified. The Bank will not finance force account works. Local
manufacturers, competing under ICB, will have a 152 preference margin or the
applicable duty, whichever is lower. Local firms are expected to be
competitive in equipment supply tenders. Consultants financed by the Bank
will be employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Employment of
Consultants.
3.28        All contracts for the supply of goods financed by the Bank with an
estimated cost exceeding US$500,000 equivalent will be subjeLt to prior review
by the Bank.  Other contracts will be subject to ex-post review.  About 70
contract packages for goods will be subject to prior Bank review, representing
about 802 of total project cost.  In order to simplify the Bank's review of
documents, the beneficiary SEBs will be requested to agree to use standard
bidding documents for all Bank-financed contracts. A summary of procurement
arrangements is presented in Table 3.3 and detailed arrangements are presented
in Annex 3.8.
Table 3.3: Summary of Procurement Arrangements a/
(T5S$ Million)
ICB    LCB      Other       N.A.  Total
L,id                                                             16.2    16.2
Civil Works                                   72.3    17.4 c/             89.7
(10.0)                      (10.0)
Materials and Equipment              424.1    47.5     5.6               477.2
(233.0)           (5.0)             (238.0)
Training and Consulting Services                      36.2                36.2
(17.0)              (17.0)
Engineering and Administration                                   20.7     20.7
Total                                424.1  119.8    59.2        36.9   640.0
(233.0)  (10.0)  (22.0)             (265.0)
a/ Amounts include taxes and duties (US$84 million), and figures between
brackets are the Bank-financed portion.
b/ Land acquisition, administration overheads and items not subject to
commercial procurement.
c/ Works implemented departmentally.
Disbursements
3.29        Disbursements of Bank funds will be made against: (a) 100? of
foreign expenditures, 1002 ex-factory expenditure and 75? of other locally



- 30 -
procured equipment and materials for eligible sub-projects for transmission,
distribution, system renovation, and environmental upgrading of power plants;
(b) 1002 of consulting and training services for the SEBs and PFC; (c) 100% of
foreign expenditures, 1002 of local ex-factory expenditures and 751 of other
locally procured hardware, software and equipment for institutional
development of PFC and the SEBs and pre-investment activities; and (d) 100? of
expenditures for consulting and training services under the Pre-investment
Fund. Disbursements are to be fully documented. To facilitate disbursements
GOI will establish a special account with an authorized allocation of US$14
million. GOI agreed to have this Special Account audited by independent
auditors, and to furnish to the Bank, not later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year, a report of said auditors (para. 6.02 (a)). Annex 3.9
shows the schedule of estimated disbursements for Bank funds. The schedule
follows the one used for typical transmission and distribution projects
financed by the Bank. The closing date for the loan would be December 31,
1997.
Project Monitoring
3.30        PFC is to furnish the Bank with progress reports on the status of
physical works, consulting services, costs, disbursements, and administrative
arrangements for the project within 45 days of the end of each quarter. The
reports should contain special sections reporting on: (a) the compliance with
agreements by all PFC borrowers and on the compliance with OFAPs by the SEBs
receiving Bank financing, and (b) on the progress being achieved in the
implementation of the environmental components of the project with particular
reference to the activities of the PFC Environmental Unit. PFC also is to
report on the progress made in implementing its own institutional development
program and on any exceptions made to the application of its Operational
Policy Statement (para. 2.09). The first progress report should be furnished
to the Bank no later than May 15, 1992 and should cover initial project
activities up to the quarter ending March 31, 1992. In addition, PFC will
furnish the Bank with annual reports on its financial results and on its
administrative and managerial situation.
Project Risks
3.31        The project does not pose extraordinary technical risks because
the type of physical works involved is routinely implemented by utilities in
India. There are, however, risks related to the institutional, managerial,
and financial aspects of the project. On the institutional side, there is a
risk that the participating SEBs will not meet the expected improvements set
out in the OFAPs or that thp pace of reform will be slower than planned. This
risk will be minimized by establishing realistic actions and targets in the
OFAPs, and by providing financial and technical resources to the SEBs to
facilitate implementation of the OFAPs. On the managerial side, there is a
risk of protracted decision making by the SEBs, particularly in relation to
procurement. This, combined with the extensive, detailed reviews of
procurement actions typically carried out by GOI agencies for Bank-financed
projects, may slow the pace of implementation. Similarly, project delays may
occur because of the long time it takes for the implementing agencies to
obtain GOI authorizations for payments in foreign currency. To minimize this
risk GOI recently streamlined the procedures to be followed to expedite and



- 31 -
simplify clearances of procurement actions and releases of foreign exchange
for Bank-financed procurement. The procedures are expected to ensure that
these clearances and permits are granted within a reasonable amount of time.
Delays also may occur in obtaining administrative clearances for sub-projects
under processing or preparation (para. 3.09). These delays may result in the
SEBs not being able to utilize the entire loan before its closing date. To
keep this risk at an acceptably low level, the size of the loan has been
determined after conservatively assuming that only 50% of the sub-projects
under processing would be cleared in time to become eligible for Bank
financing.
3.32        There are two risks related to PFC's performance.  The first is
that PTC could face collection problems because of the poor financial
performance of its customers. This risk would be kept at an acceptably low
level if PFC requires, as a condition of lending to any SEB or SGC, that it
establish a set of suitable guarantees, as described in para. 4.16. The
second risk is that PFC might fail to become an effective promoter of
institutional improvements at the SEB/SGC level. This could occur if PFC does
not have the institutional resolve -- and GOI's support -- to attach adequate
conditionality to its lending operations. This also may occur if political
pressures prevent PFC from enforcing said conditionality or its OPS. To
manage this eventuality, agreements have been reached to ensure that PFC's
policies and procedures are consistent with its developmental objectives
(paras. 4.16, 4.20 and 4.21).
IV. FINANCE
Background
4.01        During the short period it has been in operations, and in the
context of a strategy to establish its presence in the power sector in India,
PFC has managed to implement a relatively large lending program. In the
future it plans to continue concentrating its efforts in trying to promote
improvements in the operational efficiency and financial performance of state
owned power utilities. Most of the SEBs are financially weak and,
accordingly, constitute a very risky market. Recognizing this situation,
PFC's Operational Policy Statement (OPS) was carefully framed to allow PFC to
discharge the responsibility assigned to it, while at the same time preserving
its financial integrity. In view of the uncertainties about the size of PFC's
lending operations, as well as the blend of financial instruments it will be
allowed to use and other variables, the assessment of PFC's future financial
performance was made assuming a base case and undertaking a sensitivity
analysis of PFC's performance to changes in those variables. The results show
that PFC's performance under the different scenarios is adequate, provided it
can enforce its collections policy.
PFC's Market
4.02        Although PFC is allowed to lend to any power utility in India,
including private utilities, in the medium term it will concentrate most of
its efforts on the SEBs and SGCs, which are recognized as the weakest segment
of the power sector. In the past, despite the fact that investment targets



- 32 -
are normally set lower than what is required to eliminate the gap between
demand and supply of electricity, funds made available to state utilities have
consistently fallen short of the requirements of their expansion programs.
This shortfall in funding has resulted in delays in commissioning projects
and, consequently, in cost ovfrruns. The problem of inadequate funding has
several causes. First, the methodology followed in preparing the Five-year
Plan underestimates actual funding requirements because Plan estimates: (a) do
not take into consideration price escalation during the period of
implementation; and (b) include optimistic assumptions of SEBs' expected
contribution to investment from internally generated funds, since no provision
is made for working capital requirements. Second, Plan funds originally
intended for the power sector often are diverted by the states to other
sectors.
4.03        As a group, the SEBs have not performed well financially.  During
the period 1986-90 the SEBs made no contribution to the financing of their
investment and had a negative internal cash generation conservatively
estimated at about Rs 61 billion (about US$4.1 billion). The utilities earned
an average rate of return on historically valued net fixed assets, after
interest, of minus 12X, which allowed them to meet only one-third of their
annual debt service requirements. Annex 4.1 presents a summary of this
performance for the years 1986-90.
4.04        Since the SEBs have no ability to contribute to the financing of
their investment programs, following the states' traditional practice of
financing their SEBs solely through debt, state-owned utilities had to borrow
heavily to cover the cash deficit -sntioned above, as well as to finance their
if.vestment. About two-thirds of their borrowing come from the states. The
proportionate share of the states in financing the SEBs has been gradually
dropping from 70Z in 197'-75 to 65Z at the end of 1986-87. This trend is
expected to continue. The state utilit:es are allowed to issue 20-year, 11.5t
bonds which are guaranteed by their respective state governments. These bonds
are purchased by the financial institutions for the purposes of their
statutory reserve requirements, so the market is quite limited.
4.05        In addition to borrowing from the State, SEBs/SGCs obtain loans
from the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), the Rural Electrification
Corporation (REC) and the long-term financial intermediaries like the
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI) and the
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI). LIC loans carry an interest rate
of 13% p.a. and are guaranteed through the mortgage of assets. REC loans
carry an interest rate of 7.52 to 13% p.a. and ICICI and IDBI are lending at
14? p.a. All of these loans mature in seven to ten years.
SEBs' Future Funding Requirements
4.06        Power investment estimates for the Eighth Five-Year Plan (now
1993-97) are still under discussion. A figure of Rs 500 billion is being
indicated. CEA estimates that 60? of the power sector investment during the
Eighth Plan could go to the State sector and the rest to the Center. The
estimated amount of Rs 300 billion for the State Sector would represent an
increase of 30? over the Rs 230 billion under the Seventh Plan.



- 33 -
4.07        It appears that GOI expects PFC funding of the states's
requirements in the power sector to gradually grow to be able to meet about
25X to 302 by the end of the Eighth Plan. There is consensus within GOI on
the need for PFC to reach a volume of operations large enough to provide it
with the leverage required to effectively promote improvements in the states'
power utilities. On the basis of the figures discussed in para. 4.06, this
volume of lending operations translates into between Rs 75 billion and Rs 90
billion, in addition to the budget funds allocated to the states through the
Gadgil formula.
PFC's Sources of Financing
4.08        PFC has three major sources of financing available to it: (a)
domestic market borrowings; (b) equity contributions; and (c) external
borrowing. Each of them is discussed briefly below.
4.09        Domestic market borrowings.  PFC is expected to rely heavily on
borrowings from the domestic market. It is important then to have an idea of
the size of the bond market for Government owned enterprises in India. Table
4.1 presents a breakdown of public enterprise borrowings from 1986-87 to 1989-
90.
Table 4.1: Market Borrowings by Public Enterprises, 1987-90
(Rs billion)
1986-87        1987-88        1988-89      1989-90
Railways        5.6            4.0            6.0          10.0
NTPC            4.3            4.4            6.5           0.0
NHPC            1.5            2.8            0.0           3.7
Nuclear Power   -              1.3            2.0           1.8
PFC              -             1.0            6.2           1.2
Telecom         3.8            3.5            3.0           5.0
Neyveli
Lignite Corp.  0.6              .9            3.2           4.0
India
Petrochemicals 0.9              .6             .2           -
Others          3.1            2.9            4.3          13.3
Total       19.8           21.4           31.4          39.0
Source: PFC
4.10        GOI maintains close control over public enterprise borrowings,
establishing the allocation for each specific enterprise, the type of
instrument to be used, and the timing of the issue. Currently three types of
domestic bonds are available to the public sector:
(a)  9s  tax-free, 10-year bonds;
(b)   132 taxable, 7-year bonds; and
(c)   11.5? taxable, government guaranteed, 20-year bonds;



- 34 -
4.11        Commercial banks and other financial institutions buy most of the
issues of 11.5Z bonds to satisfy statutory requirements, and they tend to hold
them to maturity. They also buy the issues of 95 bonds, which in turn, after
three months, are offered to the general public over the counter. By the end
of 1990-91, PFC had successfully floated four issues of ten-year, 9? bonds,
two for Rs 1 billion each and two for Rs 6 billion. It has also floated three
issues of 20-year, 11.5Z bonds for a total of Rs 600 million. Due to the
adverse budgetary impact of the tax free bonds, it is expected that in the
future PFC will mostly rely on taxable bonds for its domestic financing.
4.12        Equity Contributions.  PFC has an authorized capital of Rs 10
billion, of which Rs 8.5 billion was paid at the end of FY91. Increases in
the authorized capital are normally agreed with GOI for the period of the
Five-year Plan and payments are made annually. The current level of
capitalization is becoming a constraint that may limit PFC's volume of
operations. Under the Eighth Plan PFC's capital is expected to be increased.
4.13        External Borrowing.  PFC is expected to play a key role in
channeling a substantial portion of the loans from multilateral institutions
and bilateral sources to the power sector. In FY90 PFC received a FF 304
million (US$60 million) credit from France to finance a Diesel Plant in
Karnataka and in FY91 a US$110 million commercial co-financing loan from ADB
under its Complementary Financing Scheme, similar to the Bank's B-Loan scheme,
was channeled through PFC. In addition, a grant was received from ODA to
assist in the development of appraisal of urban distribution systems. Several
other operations are in different stages of preparation, including: (a) one
from ADB for US$300 million with a scope similar to the proposed project and
scheduled for approval in February, 1992; (b) a DM 66 million assistance from
KFW; (c) a pound 50 million grant from the United Kingdom for an Energy
Efficiency Project; and (d) a grant, NOK 1 million, from Norway for
institutional development. In order to supplement the foreign exchange funds
mobilised from multilateral and bilateral sources, in a few years, the
Corporation may also attempt to access the international capital market. The
timing and scope of that attempt will depend primarily on the speed with which
India will restore its creditworthiness. The Bank may then be able to play a
catalytic role with respect to the Corporation's borrowings from the foreign
private sources.
PFC's Lending Terms
4.14        PFC's current lending terms are shown in Table 4.2.  Although
PFC's current lending rate is 12.52, the OPS establishes that the lending rate
is adjustable to reflect the cost of funds to the Corporation and to ensure
that PFC earns a return on its equity which is positive in real terms (para.
4.16 (d)). PFC is currently reviewing its lending rate and it is expected
that it will be increased to about 162 to 17Z p.a. Loan maturities offered by
PFC to its clients are prudently matched with the maturities of PFC's own
borrowings. Although the present repayment terms may be relatively short
given the gestation period of some SEB projects, in the long-run, the average
maturity of PFC's liabilities will likely increase as PFC is able to gain
access to longer-term borrowings.



- 35 -
Table 4.2: PFC's Lending Terms
Total          Grace         Interest
Category                 Maturity         Period        Rate p.a.
Renovation & Modernization       7 years         1 year          12.5
Capacitors                       3 years          none           12.5
Transmission & Distribution    7 years           2 years         12.5
Generation                       7 years         2 years         12.5
PFC's Historical Performance
4.15          Although PFC's lending operations began in early 1988, in fact,
most of 1987-88 operations took place in the last few weeks of the fiscal
year. In order to establish its presence as a source of financing for the
power sector, during its first years of operations PFC made loans primarily to
facilitate the completion of projects underway. In this process, although the
dialogue on ways to improve the efficiency of the SEBs was initiated, no
conditionality was attached to the loans. As shown in Annex 2.4, up to March
31, 1991, PFC had approved loans amounting to Rs 33.6 billion. This rather
substantial volume of operations for a new organization was financed through
GOI's equity contributions and bond issues, mostly of the 9Z, 10-year
category. PFC has made a profit every year since operations started, although
the return on its net worth was modest. At the end of 1990-91 PFC had a
debt:equity ratio of 1.7:1. The debt service coverage has been adequate.
Annex 4.2 presents financial statements for PFC for 1987-88 through 1990-91 as
well as a projection of its operations. Annex 4.3 gives the assumptions
followed in the financial projections. Table 4.3 provides some highlights
from these statements.
Table 4.3 Highlights of PFC's Historical Performance 1987-88/1990-91
(Rs Million)
1987-88  1988-89  1989-90  1990-91
Equity contribution      1,000    2,000    3,000    2,201
Bonds issued             1,000    6,200    1,200    6,200
Loan disbursement        1,011    4,9;8    6,976    8,968
Operating Income            57       601    1,156    2,306
Net Income                   4       148      304       810
Debt service coverage      2.2        .4      1.5       2.3
Return on net worth Z      0.3       4.3      4.5       8.3
Debt/equity ratio          0.8       2.2      1.4       1.7
PFC's Financial Policies
4.16        PFC has incorporated in its OPS (Annex 2.2) a set of parameters
designed to ensure a minimum level of financial and operating performance.
The following are some of the elements in the OPS which are expected to
enhance PFC's financial performance:
(a)   General Operational Parameters: PFC will endeavor to: (i) operate
as a commercial entity; (ii) maintain a healthy portfolio; and



- 36 -
(iii) build a strong financial base to enable it to borrow on
attractive terms.
(b)   Solvency: to preserve its capital structure, PFC has set a maximum
debt:equity ratio of 4sl. As PFC becomes better established, this
ratio will be revised.
(c)   Liquidity: (i) PFC's operations will be managed so as to maintain
a debt service coverage ratio not lower than 1.2; and (ii) PFC
will ensure the availability of liquid assets equal to not less
than the equivalent of the anticipated disbursements for the
following three months.
(d)   Profitability: PFC's lending rates will reflect its borrowing and
operational costs, plus a margin to ensure its financial
viability, earning an adequate return on its capital (positive in
real terms).
(e)   Foreign Exchange Risk: PFC will not bear the interest rate or
foreign exchange risks of its operations.
(f)   Term Transformation: PFC will determine the average repayment
periods for its loans so as to ensure that the average maturity of
its assets does not exceed that of its liabilities.
(g)   Repayment Guarantees and Exposure Limits: In light of the weak
financial performance of PFC's clients, as condition of
effectiveness of each one of PFC's loans, either a State guarantee
or a commercial bank guarantee will be obtained. As indicated
below, these guarantees could be enhanced by the SEBs establishing
an escrow account in favor of PFC.6 Furthermore, since it is not
healthy for PFC to concentrate an excessive portion of its loans
in any single client, PFC will not lend or grant any guarantee to
any borrower if as a result of such loan or guarantee the combined
amount of loans and guarantees outstanding with that borrower
exceeds certain limits. Table 4.4 presents a matrix that combines
two parameters, creditworthiness of the client and the type of
guarantees offered, to determine the credit risk weights to be
used in calculating the maximum levels of exposure per client as a
percentage of PFC's net worth. These credit risk weights follow
the concept of credit conversion factors adopted by the Basle
Committee on Banking Regulations, also known as the "Basle
Concordat". Table 4.4 includes a sliding scale that in four years
would bring PFC's exposure limits tc levels consistent with the
standards normally applied to development finance institutions.
This sliding scale has been designed to allow PFC enough time to
develop an adequate equity base. For the purposes of establishing
the credit rating o  a client, in the calculation of the debt
The Escrow Account system  provides PFC a first claim on the cash
collections of the utilities. In the event the utility fails to service its
debt, those funds are transferred to PFC.



- 37 -
service coverage the following parameters will be followed: (i)
borrowers would be allowed to exclude the servicing of the loans
from its State Government, provided the Governmenz commits in
writing not to ask the borrower for payment of any interest and
principal on its loans while any6 loan or guarantee received from
P'C remains outstanding and due; and (ii) rural electrification
subsidies not received by the SEBs should be excluded from
revenues. In analyzing the credit worthiness of its clients, PFC
will give due regard to the client's debt servicing record with
other lenders.
Table 4.4: Matrix of Risk Exposure and Guarantees
On-Balance Sheet Assets and Off-Balance Sheet Items
Credit          Guarantee          Risk
Level           Rating (a)      Offered (b)      Weight (c)
1               A               STG/BG            .5
2                               STG+EA            .3
3                B              STG/BG           1.0
4                               STG+EA            .5
5                C              STG/BG           2.0
6                               STG+EA           1.0
7         Backed by GOI                          0.0
Definitions:
(a)   Credit Rating A: Debt Service Coverage in excess of 1.3
Credit Rating B: Debt Service Coverage between 1.0 and 1.3
Credit Rating C: Debt Service Coverage below 1.0.
(b)    STG:  State Government Guarantee
BG:  Bank Guarantee
EA:  Escrow Account
(c)   Risk Weight is the factor by which the loans outstanding
that qualify under each level should be multiplied to
calculate the exposure.7
6 To this effect, PFC will request each State to confirm the priority
claim given by the Electricity Act to PFC's loans over loans granted by the
State.
7 For example, a Rs 100 loan ranked as Level 1 will be computed as
equivalent to Rs 50 (Rs OO x 0.5) for calculating the risk exposure.



- 38 -
Maximum Level of Exposure per client, as follows:
1991-92: 352 of PFC's Net Worth
1992-93: 302 of PFC's Net Worth
1993-94: 251 of PFC's Net Worth
1994-95 and thereafter: 20% of PFC's Net Worth
(subject to review before the end of 1993-94 to
determine its adequacy).
(h)    Non-rescheduling of Loans: Because of the detrimental impact that
re-scheduling could have on the financial discipline that PFC is
trying to promote in the sector, PFC has stated that it will not
reschedule its loans. It considers that rescheduling could
render ineffective its loan guarantee system and ultimately lead
to serious financial difficulties. However, under special
circumstances, if the Corporation considers it financially
prudent, PFC may provide financial restructuring packages to its
borrowers, supported by appropriate conditionality.
(i)    Adjustability of PFC's Lending Rate: Under its current policy,
when PFC's cost of borrowing increases, only the interest on the
undisbursed portion of loans may be adjusted. This policy should
not present difficulties as long as PFC borrows only at fixed
rates, as is currently the case. However, as PFC begins
borrowing at variable rates, it will include provisions in its
lending documents to allow for adjustability of its lending rate
on both the disbursed and undisbursed portions of its loans. PFC
has retained a consultant to determine the methodology for
implementing this policy. A report is expected by December 31,
1991 and a copy of the report will be furnished to the Bank for
comments.
PrC's Future Financial Performance
4.17        PFC's ability to cover a substantial portion of the outstanding
requirements of the state power sector, as discussed in para. 4.07, will
depend on several variables, not all of them under PFC's control. On the one
hand, PFC's financing capacity will depend on the volume of funds made
available to it by GOI, both in the form of equity contributions and by
granting PFC access to the domestic market and to external lenders. On the
other hand, even though the financial needs of the sector are evident, there
is some degree of uncertainty in regard to the attractiveness of PFC's
financing package, including the introduction, for the first time in India, of
conditionality attached to loans as well as the capability of SEBs and SGCs to
meet PFC's eligibility criteria (para. 2.16) and PFC's risk exposure limits.
4.18        Under these circumstances, PFC's future financial performance was
evaluated using different assumptions of volume of operations, borrowing and
lending maturities, cost of financing, lending terms, and collection
performance. The results of this analysis confirm PFC's financial viability
under the conditions evaluated, and its ability to meet the financial targets
set in the OPS, provided it is able to collect from its borrowers on time.
This underscores the need for PFC to adhere to its OPS and particularly to a



- 39 -
well designed and executed system of guarantees, as discussed above. A
summary of some of the alternatives tested is presented in Annex 4.4.
4.19        The base case, which assumes a level of operations of Rs 75.3
billion, was analyzed to determine PFC's performance under existing fiscal
constraints. To meet the financing requirements of the base case, during
1991-95 PPC will need to float bonds for Rs 39.6 billion, or 49Z of its total
funding requirements. It is assumed that from 1991-92 onwards PFC will rely
mostly on 13Z-7 year bonds and that accordingly, following the provision of
its OPS, it will adjust its lending rate to 15Z. This volume of bonds seems
realistic as the amounts floated each year are assumed to gradually increase
from the level attained historically. However, as mentioned above, it is GOT
who decides on the amount, type of bond and the timing of issue on a case-by-
case basis. This practice makes it almost impossible for PFC to do proper
financial planning and adds a degree of uncertainty and risk to PFC's
operations. To try to reduce this risk, during negotiations GOI agreed to
provide to PFC, every year before March 31, a firm commitment on the amount
PFC will be authorized to raise in the domestic bond market in the following
financial year, the type of bonds and approximate dates of these issues
(para. 6.02 (b)). Under the conditions assumed in the base case, PFC's
finances remain satisfactory, as shown in Annex 4.2 and summarized in Table
4.5, with a debt service coverage in excess of 2.3 and a return on net worth
approaching 14Z at the end of the five-year period.
Table 4.5 Highlights of PFC's Future Performance, 1991-1995
(a)   Financing of PFC's Operations 1991-1995
Sources of Funds:                      (Rs Million)      z
Equity contribution                        10,201         13
Bonds issued                               39,650         49
IBRD                                       3,944           5
Other Foreign borrowing                     2,529          3
Internal Funds Gen.                       24,351         30
Total Sources                             80,675        100
ApPlications:
Loans Disbursed                            75,338
Increase in liquidity                       5,337
Total Funds                                80,675
(b)   Performance Indicators
FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95
Debt Service Coverage    2.3       2.6      2.5     2.7      3.0
Return on Net Worth        8.3    10.4      9.5    12.7    14.3
Debt/Equity Ratio          1.7     1.8      1.9     1.9      1.9



- 40 -
Conditionality
4.20        To ensure that PFC operates according to the standards agreed
under the OPS, during negotiations PFC agreed to implement the OPS and not to
modify it in a material manner without prior concurrence from the Bank (para.
6.03 (a)).  In order to reinforce this covenant, at negotiatins PFC was
informed that failure by PFC to adhere to any of the following key elements of
the OPS will be construed by the Bank as a serious matter which would affect
the institutional capacity and financial viability of PFC:
(a) the enforcement of suitable repayment guarantees;
(b) observance of the risk exposure limits;
(c) enforcement of the non-rescheduling clause;
(d) observance of the lending criteria; and
(e) adjustment of PFC's lending rate to reflect its borrowing cost.
4.21        7o monitor PFC's performance, during negotiations PPC agreed to
present t, the Bank for comments every year, the following reports: (a) by
March 31 evidence of GOI authorization to PFC to issue bonds in the following
year; C( by January 31, estimated financial performance for the current and
next y .rs, comparing them to the parameters set in the OPS; and (c) by June
30, projected financial statements (income statement, sources and applications
of funds and balance sheets) for the next following five years, showing how
the OPS parameters will be attained (para. 6.04 (d)).
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
5.01         The primary justification for the proposed project is the
increased electricity demand to be served by the SEBs through the additional
transmission and distribution capacities to be installed. Aside from
facilitating the evacuation of power from existing and expanded generating
plants, the project will result in reduction of line losses, improved system
voltages, and enhanced reliability of the SEBs' service. To assess the
economic viability of the various transmission, urban distribution and
environmental upgrading schemes proposed by the selected SEBs, the schemes
were appraised by PFC as to whether:
a)   they are part of the least cost power
system expansion progrvn at the regional
and state levels; and
b)   they can individually yield adequate net
economic benefits.
5.02          The scope of economic analyses involved in the appraisal of the
various SEB projects is illustrated in Annex 5.1 in which the economic
evaluation of the transmission and distribution projects proposed by the
Punjab State Electricity Board is presented in detail.



- 41 -
Least Cost Analysis
5.03         The SEBs have carried out internal staff studies to arrive at
the least cost options of attaining the operational objectives targeted by
their proposed projects. These analyses were in terms of detailed load flow
studies which identified the weak segments of the network including existing
and potential circuit and transformer overloadings. Alternatives satisfying
system reliability and voltage design criteria have been examined at various
stages of planning to arrive at the best option based on technical and cost
considerations.
5.04         PFC has reviewed the alternative options considered by the SEBs.
In a number of cases, there were no reasonable alternatives to the proposed
schemes, for example, the stringing of a second circuit on transmission towers
already erected and lines traversing the shortest direct route between
designated loading points. Moreover, the SEBs have generally standardized
transmission systems at 220 kV and conductor ratings at 100 MVA per circuit,
such that consideration of alternative voltages have largely been limited to
cases of upgrading from 132 kV to 220 kV. For sub-transmission systems, the
voltages and type of substations depend on various factors, such as load
density and network layout. Transformer size and ratings have also been
standardized; the most common voltage ratings of the secondary sub-
transmission systems are 132/110/66/33 kV, and for primary distribution
system, 11, 22 or 6.6 kV.
5.05         The 220 kV works itself have been cleared by CEA in accordance
with its transmission planning criteria. These criteria require transmission
systems to be planned based on regional self-sufficiency, capable of
transmitting the respective state's allocation from the Central sector, and
able to withstand specified levels of outages without having to resort to load
shedding or rescheduling of plant generation, i.e. outages of two circuits of
220 kV system, or of one circuit of 400 kV or higher voltage system, or of one
pole of HVDC bipole, or of an EHV transformer.
5.06         In the case of distribution schemes, whenever possible, low cost
alternatives have been considered by the SEBs; for example, outdoor
substations over indoor, overhead lines over underground cables, etc. Since
the schemes cover mainly critical works for immediate relief to the systems
and are to meet the load growth up to the next five years only, consideration
of alternative voltages was limited. The procedure adopted by the SEBs has
been to select the reinforcement and renovation works in the distribution
system which satisfy design criteria mutually agreed with PFC. These criteria
cover statutory requirements of supply (e.g., voltage regulation), reliability
norms, flexibility for future expansion and other technical considerations.
5.07         With respect to environmental upgrading activities, PFC reviewed
and confirmed that the schemes represent the least cost mode of mitigating the
pollution effects of power operation.
Program Analysis
5.08         Inasmuch as the proposed 220 kV transmission schemes are planned
in conjunction with the regional power expansion programs, the economic



- 42 -
viability of these programs have been evaluated for regions where the selected
SEB operations are located. For this purpose, the investments time-slice for
the period 1990-2000 has been analyzed for the Northern Region grid in
connection with the projects proposed by Punjab SEB, for the Western Region
for projects of Gujarat SEB and Madhya Pradesh SEB, for the Southern Region
for projects of Andhra Pradesh, and for other regions where proposed SEB
projects may be considered for funding by PFC.
5.09          In addition to reviewing the regional system expansion plans,
the selected state's respective power investment program were also evaluated
to ensure that the proposed distribution schemes are integrated into the SEB's
over-all system plan. The economic returns from said plans were calculated
for the investment time-slice 1990-1995 corresponding to the construction
period of the distribution systems.
Project Analysis
5.10          To assess whether each of the many sub-project proposals yield
sufficient economic returns and to determine which ones should receive
priority funding, the proposals were further analyzed as to their project net
benefits and economic returns, and ranked accordingly. For urban distribution
improvement proposals, each scheme was appraised as a discrete and independent
project. On the other hand, in the case of transmission projects, each of the
proposed schemes were reviewed as to its operational objectives in the context
of the SEB's grid operations and agreed planning criteria. Schemes affecting
the same sub-systems were analyzed together and the load flows for each sub-
system affected under varying supply-demand conditions with and without the
proposed facilities were assessed to arrive at the value of benefits. To the
extent that lack of detailed load flow calculations from the SEBs prevented
such sub-system analysis, an approximation of the relative contribution to the
over-all grid of specific line components was estimated and an investment
yield corresponding to each line was derived. These estimates were based on
the projected load flow and loss reduction profile of each circuit as
indicated by load flow analyses of the grid for the scheduled year of line
commissionings.
Costs
5.11          In evaluating the economic costs of the system expansion
programs for the regions and states, the capital investments for generation,
transmission and distribution facilities were estimated for the period 1990-
2000 and 1990-1995, respectively. The operating and maintenance expense
profiles were developed based on the forecast system operation as estimated
under CEA's or the SEB's generation planning. All financial costs were
converted to economic costs applying the standard conversion factor (SCF) of
0.8 on local costs and by removing effects of taxes, duties and subsidies. In
view of its relatively poor quality and low heating value, local coal supply
is considered non-tradeable and its economic price is estimated based on cost
at pit-head plus transport expenses to thermal plants involved. The economic
price of fuel oil used by thermal stations for plant firing is based on the
border price plus local handling and delivery costs and is estimated at Rs 2.5
to 2.7 per liter.



- 43 -
5.12          Similarly, in analyzing project costs, the capital and operating
costs associated with proposed transmission and distribution schemes were
considered. In addition, the average incremental cost (AIC) of generation and
distribution were included in the evaluation of transmission schemes, and the
AIC of generation and transmission were imputed in the assessment of
distribution projects, so as to arrive at the full economic cost of
electricity supply to final end-users.
Benefits
5.13          Given the current situation in India of excess power demand over
supply, it is expected that the economic benefits to be derived frou. the
system expansion programs at the regional and state levels would consist
largely of increases in electricity consumption. Additional benefits
representing operational cost savings due to displacement of less efficient
thermal generation, reduced system losses, reduced frequency and length of
system outages are also projected.
5.14          Similarly, benefits from the specific transmission and
distribution improvements proposed by the SEBs are in the form of increased
power delivery primarily due to additional line and transformer capacity for
evacuating power from existing and forthcoming generating stations.  Increased
service availability or operational cost savings due to reduced energy and
transformation losses are also expected. In addition, the projects will lead
to enhanced system reliability due to improvements in voltage levels, metering
works, maintenance and fault attendance systems.
5.15          The additional electricity consumption afforded by the regional
and state power expansion programs and the proposed transmission and
distribution schemes are valued initially at the prevailing tariff 'evels. In
general, the expected financial revenues from the programs and the projects
are expected to be inadequate in view of the current policy of many SEBs of
setting tariffs below the cost of supply, including granting of explicit
subsidy to specific consumer groups. In this connection, it is envisioned
that with the implementation of the OFAPs which have been mutually agreed to
between PFC and the SEBs to help mitigate financial shortfalls in the SEBs'
operations, the financial returns on the proposed investments would
correspondingly improve.
5.16         Given the scarcity of power supply, however, the value of
electricity service in India is deemed to be considerably higher than the
current rates at which it is sold. Accordingly, the consumers' willingness to
pay has been estimated based on the cost of electricity from sources other
than the grid; i.e. from autogeneration from diesel generators for industries
and commercial consumers, and from diesel pumps for irrigation requirements of
agricultural users. The cost of these alternative sources (estimated at Rs
2.75 per kWh in the residential/commercial sector, Rs 2.07 per kWh in
industry, and Rs 3.41 per kWh in agriculture) are considered to be the upper
limit of the consumers' willingness to pay for their particular levels of
power use from the public supply system, while prevailing tariffs serve as the
lower limit. The consumer surplus attributable to incremental consumption is
estimated to be equivalent to half of the difference between these limits as
the higher cost of autogeneration is seen to reflect the value of energy to



- 44 -
consumers during the peak and intermediate load periods when there is load
shedding, but not necessarily during the rest of the day when energy from the
grid is normally available.
Results of Program and Project Economic Analyses
5.17          Economic evaluations of project proposals forwarded by the SEBs
of Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have been undertaken by
PFC. The transmission schemes have been cleared for implementation by CEA and
the distribution schemes have been duly reviewed by PFC as conforming to the
agreed technical design criteria. Those that yield sufficient economic
returns of at least 12X would be considered for funding under the proposed
project.
5.18          The economic returns estimated for various projects submitted by
Punjab SEB and Andhra Pradesh SEB as well as for some regional and state
programs are summarized in Table 5.1. Relatively high economic rates of
return were derived for the transmission and distribution schemes reflecting
the critical and urgent need for the proposed activities. A number of the
proposed transmission expansion will bring immediate and much-needed relief to
the present networks and will result in more efficient dispersal of power from
existing generating plants as well as from those already nearing completion.
On the other hand, the distribution renovation schemes will help meet load
growth in the immediate future as well as effect much needed improvement in
existing services. Hence, compared to the relatively low incremental costs of
removing system bottlenecks through the project facilities, the benefits to be
derived from the enhanced service and higher utilization of system supply
capacities are significant.
5.19          Sensitivity analyses based on adverse variations in project
benefits, costs and implementation schedule indicate that investment returns
remain strong. Moreover, tests using higher AIC values for other investment
components associated with power delivery indicate that project returns
continue to be well in excess of 122.
Table 5.1: Economic Return of Various SEB Projects
Base Case a/          Using High AIC Values b/
NPV 121          EIRR       NPV 12%          EIRE
(Rs. MlliI)         (X)    (Rs. MiiI)          (M)
Sub-Projects
PUNJAB SE
a. Transmission Sub-Projects
1. RTP-Ooblndgarh                910             119%         322            S3X
2. RTP-Jsllandar II              881            112%          462            6sx
8. Bhakra-Mahilpur               720             90%          350            64%
4. ONDTP-Mukatesr                420            116%          148            sex
S. CNDtP-Mansa-Sunam             365             69%          81             23%
8. RTP-Rajpura-Patiale           343             107%         128            64%
7. Mogo-Mukatsar                 273             128X         92             6SX
8. Mukatsar-Jallaobad           150             34x           8             13%
b. Distribution Sub-Projects
1. Khanna                        309             80X          82             86%
2. Patiala                       227             72%          47             29%
8. Jallandhar                    129             34X          17            1%
4. Shatinds                       73             38%           8             16%
S. Phaguara                       46            65%            16            29X



- 45 -
6. Hoshierpur                         a8                843            6               18%
1. Faeldkot City                      14               21X             a               14%
c. State Program                     12,634               263
A       PRADESH Sa
a. TransmIssion Sub-Projects
1. Cuddapsh-Renigunta                723               106%          237               693
2. Ramagundam-Nixemabad              682               138%          220               82%
S. Rtmagundam-Warangal               827               923            98               41%
4. Sullurpet-Renlgunta               800               483           12?               28%
Chitoor
b. Distribution Sub-Projects
1. RaJahmundry                       381               140%          220              87%
2. Kakinada                          320               115X          208               78%
8. Nellore                           284               106%          190               7ex
4. Kurnool                           259               124X          158               793
S. Warangal                          200               98X            9B               64%
6. Nizamabed                         190               1303          106               703
7. Chitoor                           178               903            98               663
c. State Program                     2e,667               32X
Northern Region
Expansion Projram                  51,408               1S%
Western Reglon
Expansion Program                 187,345               26%
pj Based on AIC estimates developed at 123 discount rate. To the extent that the State's
expansion program yields a return higher than 12X, addittonal return attributable to other
investment components Ias partly been credited to the project.
k/ Based on higher AIC estimates derived by applying a discount rate as high as the rate of
return of the State expansien program.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached
6.01          The conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and PFC,
satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan (para. 3.25).
6.02          GOI agreed:
(a)    to submit to the Bank, not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year, an auditor's report on the Special Account
(para. 3.29); and
(b)    to communicate to the PFC, not later than March 31 each year, a
firm commitment on the amount PFC is authorized to raise in the
domestic bond market in the following year, including the type of
bonds 'lo be issued and the estimated dates of such issues (para.
4.19).



- 46 -
6.03        PFC agreed:
(a)   to implement the Operational Po'icy Statement (OPS) (Annex 2.2)
and consult with the Bank before any material modification is
introduced to it (paras. Z.09 and 4.20);
(b)   that PFC's funds will not be pre-allocated but will be lent
following a pre-agreed criteria satisfactory to the Bank (para.
2.11);
(c)   that to be eligible for Bank financing of environmental upgrading
of plants, candidate SEBs/SGCs will prepare an environmental
assessment of the stations and agree to implement actions to meet
acceptable environmental standards (para. 3.11);
(d)   to submit to the Bank for approval the items intended to be
financed with the proceeds of the proposed loan, under each
component of the project (para. 3.14);
(e)   to include in its loan agreements a provision to ensure that its
clients meet environmental and rehabilitation standards
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.19); and
(f)   to give the Bank the opportunity to comment on the first power
plant environmental review of each participating SEB (para. 3.20);
6.04        PFC agreed on the following milestones for implementing the
project:
(a)   submit to the Bank, no later than two months after the end of each
fiscal year, unaudited financial statements, and no later than six
months after the end of the fiscal year, copies of said financial
statements certified by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank (para. 2.20);
(b)   that only sub-projects having complete deL, led engineering and
all clearances by December 31, 1992 will be eligible for Bank
financing (para. 3.10);
(c)   to have all contracts financed under the loan awarded by June 30,
1994 (para. 3.17); and
(d)   submit each year:
(i)   before January 31, a report including PFC's current
financial performance compared to the parameters set
in its OPS;
(ii) before June 30, five-year financial projections
showing how the OPS parameters will be attained; and



- 47 -
(iii) before March 31, evidence of GOI's authorization to
PFC to issue domestic bonds during the following
year, including the amount, the type of bonds and
approximate timing of the issues (para. 4.21).
Recommendation
6.05        On the basis of the above agreements, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$265 million equivalent to
India for '0 years, including five years grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.



- 48 -
Annex 1.1
--. .......
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
..............................................
ALL INDIA: ELECTRICITY SUIPPLY AND DEMAND
.......  ................................................
Actual a/                      Estimated b/                     Annual
Increase (X)
....... ............ .......................... ...................................... .
FY82        FY91     FY92      FY93     FY94     FY95          FY91-95
..........................    -------     ............. ...................................................
Instatled Capacity    - MU    32347          66066    69805    76355    81755    86597           7.0
Peak Availability      - MW    20121         39069    41101    44306    48157    50841           6.8
Peak Load              - MU    20121         50184    54481    58920    63611    68435           8.1
Deficit                - KW        0          11115    13380    14614    15454    17594          12.2
Deficit (X of Peak Load)                      22.1      24.6     24.8     24.3      25.7
Energy AvailabiLity   - GUh  113827         258690   271270   288726   314870   337295           6.9
Energy Requirement c/ - GWh  113827         283111   307257   332343   358746   385951           8.1
Deficit d/             - GWh       0          24421    35987    43617    43876    48656          18.8
Deficit (X of Requirement)                     8.6      11.7     13.1      12.2     12.6
................................. ......................................................................................................
NOTES:
a/   Constrained by suppty capacity.  No estimates availabLe on the extent of suppressed demand.
b(   Power supply position is based on sanctioned schemes assuming additional capacity
during FY 91-95 of only 23307.7 bW.
c/   An estimation of demand, based on consumption projections (including consuWtion
to be met by non-utilities) plus transmission and distribution Losses. It is to be noted here
that with the substantial supply constraints it is not possible to accurately estimate full
uvnset demand.    This figure merely captures the lowest boundary of demand.
d/   The deficit here is underestimated in light of the inability to accurately estimate unmet
demand.
Source: Fourteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, March 1991



- 49 -
Annex 1.1
Page 2 of 2
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AND DEMAND
ALL INDIA: ENERGY CONSLMPTION BY MAIN CONSUMER CATEGORY
Actual (X)               Estimated (X)
Consumer Category             FY82     FY90 a/           FY91     fY95
---------                   ----  ...... .... ....................... ..  -----    ---
1.   Domestic                 11.6     14.1              15.2     17.2
2.   Industry                 57.7     51,5              51.1     49.8
3.  Agriculture               16.9     22.1              21.9     21.3
4.   Commercial                5.8      6.3               5.7      5.6
5.  Traction                   2.8      2.2               2.3      2.2
6.   PubLic Lighting           0.9      0.8               0.8      0.8
7.   Public Water              2.3      2.1               2.1      2.2
S.   Others                    2.0      0.9               0.9      0.9
100.0    100.0             100.0    100.0
-  - .   ----.             .....     - -
a/   Provisional as per Fourteenth Survey estimates
Source:  Annual Report on the Working of SEBs and EDs, Planning Commission (9/1990)
Fourteenth Electric Power Survey of India, CEA, March 1991.



- 50 -
INDIA                                              ANNEX 1.2
PoIER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY INPROVENENT PROJECT
Previous Loans and C;edits to Indian Power Sector (as of November 30, 1991)
(Amount in USS million)
Approval     Closirg
Borrower   IBRO Loans                               Nbmber    Date        Date       Amount     Disbursed    Status
-- - -  .------.---.                                 ....     ............    . ........... - - -- -  ......... - - - --
1  India     First DVC - Bokaro - Konar                  23        4/50        2/56        18.5        16.7   Complete
2  India     Second DVC  tMalthon   Panchot              72         1/53       f/58        19.5        10.5   Comptete
3 Tata       Trombay Power                               106      11/54        9/66         16.2       13.9   CompLete
4  Tata      Second Trombay                              164       5/57        9/66         9.8         9.7   Complete
5  India     Third DVC - Durapur                        203        7/58        6/65        25.0         22.0   Complete
6  India     Kryno Power                                223        4/59        4/65        25.0        18.7   Conplete
7  India     Power Transmission                         416        6/65       12/70        73.0        50.0   Comptete
8 Tata       Second Kothagudem Power                    417        6/65        12/70        14.0       13.8   Complete
9 Tata       Third Tronbay Thermal Power                1549       4/78        12/84       105.0       105.0   Complete
10  India     Ramagundam Thermal Pover (0)              1648        1/79        6/87        50.0        45.6   Complete
11  India     Farakka Thermal Power (0)                 1887        6/80        6/89        25.0         2.5   Complete
12  India     Second Ramagundam Thermal Power (M)       2076       12/81        3/92       280.0 /a    270.4
13  India     Third Rural Electrificatfon               2165        6/82        6/88       304.5       295.5   Complete
14  India     Upper Indravati Hydro                     2278        5/83       12/91       156.4  #      0.4
15  India     Central Power Trarsmisslon (0)            2283        5/83        3/92       250.7 J    126.7
16  India     Indira Sarovar                            2416        5/84        6/92        17.4 /b      5.3
17  India     Second Farakka Thermal Power (0)          2442        6/84       12/91       300.8  #    184.0
18 Tata       Fourth Trombay Thermal                    2452        6/84        6/92       135.4       125.2
19  India     Chandrapur Thermal Power                  2544        5/85       12/92       300.0  #    177.4
20  India      Rihand Power Transmission (M             2555        5/85       12/91       250.0  #    191.5
21  Inr4ia    Kerala State Power                        2582        6/85        9/91       176.0        38.2
22  India     Combined Cycle (0)                        2674        4/86       12/91       485.0       448.4
23  india     Karnataka Power                           2827        6/87       12/95       330.0  #     45.5
24  India     National Capital Power Suuply (0)         2844        6/87        6/95       425.0 /c    192.4
25  India     Talcher Thermal Power C*)                 2845        6/87        3/96       375.0        53.6
26  India     Second Karnataka Power                    2938        5/88       12/96       260.0  #     27.7
27  Indis     Uttar Pradesh Power                       2957        6/88       12/96       350.0        47.0
28  India     Nathpa Jhakri Power                       3024        3/89       12/97       485.0        36.7
29  India     Maharahstra Power                         3096        6/89       12/96       400.0        24.0
30  India     Northern Region Transmission              3237        6/90        9/98       485.0        22.2
31  Tata      Private Power Utilities (TATA)            3239        6/90        6/95        98.0         0.0
32  SSES      Private Power Utilities (ISES)            3344        6/91       12/95       200.0        32.5
Total                                                                                 6442.2      2653.0
(Total Loans for NTPC Projects)                                                  (   2501.3 )
. ... ... .....U
/a Ou of original loan amount of USS300 million, US$20 mitilon were cancelled.
/b Out of original Loan amount of US$157.4 million, USS140 milLion were cancelled.
/c Out of original loan amount of US$485 million, USS60 million were cancelled.
IDA Credits
.. .......
I India      Fourth OVC - Durapur                        19        2/62       12/69        21.9        19.9   Complete
2  India     Second Koyna Power                          24        8/62        9/70        21.1        21.1   Corplete
3  India     Kothagudem Power                            3t        St63       12/68        24.1        24.1   Comptete
4  India     Seas Equiprent                              89        6/66        6/74        26.6        26.3   Complete
S  India     Second Power Transmission                  242        4/7i        3/77        75.0        72.9   Complete
6  India     Third Power Transmission                   377        3/73        9/78        85.0        85.0   Complete
7  Indfa     Rural Electrification                      572        7/75       12/80        57.0        57.0   Complete
8  India     Fourth Power Tranrmission                  604        1/76        6/83       150.0       149.9   Complate
9  India      Singraulf Thermal Power (0)               685        3/7         6/84       150.0       150.0   Complete
10  India     Korba Thermal Power ()                     793        4/78        3/86       200.0       199.9   CoupLete
11  India     Rnmagundam Thermal Power (0)               874        1/79        6/87       200.0       200.0    Complete
12  India     Second Rursl Electrification               911        5/79        3/84       175.0       171.7   Coiplete
13  India     Second Singrauli Thermal Power (0)        1027        5/80        3/89       300.0       292.8   Complete
14  India     Farakke Thermal Power (0)                 1053        6/80       12/88       225.0       225.0   ComWlete
15  India     Second Korba Thermal Power (M)            1172        7/81       12/89       400.0  #    370.3   Complete
16  India     Upper Indrovati Hydro                     1356        5/83       12/91       170.0       161.3
17  India     Indira Sarovar                           SF020        5/84        6/92        13.0 /d      0.6
18  India     Indira Sarover                            1613        5/86        6/92        13.2         0.0
Total                                                                                 2306.9      P227.8
(Total Credits for NTPC Projects)                                                (   1475.0
,.. ....... ..
(0) NTPC Projects
/d out of original credit of Us$129.8 equivalent, US$116 equivalent were cancelled.
U 0eaS not yet reflect cancellotions ade on Decomber S. 1991.



INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY    OVEMENT PROJECT
Power Financ Corporatlon Ltd.
Organization Chart
Chairman and
Managing Director
Intemal        Company SCcrelay          Managemnt                            Coporate Planning, Policy           Vigilance
Audit             and Legal               Auidii     l                       Formulation and Co-Ordination           _
Diroctor                                     Director                                     Direct
(Financiail)                                (Technical)                                  (Operational)
__ ~~Specialist                                  b                                                                 n
vLoan     ]       rResource                  Financial                       SPecialist             Development            Cell for
Administration  "    | Mobilization  |         | Advice                         Suppor                   Function            Power Studies
Accounting, axation,       Liquidity Planning Control                    Fonulation             Human Resource Managemnent, Personnel
Budget.[S._and lnvesuwnt Planning             and Administraton, Publicity and P.R.
Financial          Technology Scanning
Appraisal          and Co-Ordination
|Co-Ordination||_
l     o~~~nvirnmntal  |                               nstitutaonal Devclopmnent
----    Funtional relationship                                                         I                                         I4
Project Appraisal and Monitoring           _             _                       _J
Technical, Economic
and Financial App=aisal



- 52 -
Annex 2.2
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Operational Policy Statement
(This is a summary of PFC's document entitled "PFC: Operational Policy Statement
(OPS): Its Rationale, Operational Philosophy, Objectives, Programs and
Procedures", dated November 2, 1990 and approved by PFC's Board on November 12,
1990.)
The Rationale
1.       PFC has a critical developmental role in the power sector that is pursued
through: (a) the promotion of improvements in the operational performance and
financial managements of the sector's entities; and (b) through the encouragement
of a balanced growth of the sector.
Beneficiaries
2.      The Memorandum of Association allows PFC to provide assistance to any
power utility in the country. However, in view of the fact that state-owned
utilities comprise the largest segment of the sector and are the utilities where
the need for improvement in technical efficiency and strengthening of the
financial management is most acutely felt, PFC will consider this an area of
immediate priority.
Operations Financed by PFC
3.      In its comprehensive role as a development bank, PFC provides financial
assistance for power projects, issues guarantees for payment of money, imparts
training and supports the provision of consultancy services.
4.      PFC's main objective is to finance:
-     power projects, including generation (thermal and hydro),
transmission and distribution;
-     renovation and modernization of power plants;
-     system improvements and energy conservation schemes;
-     maintenance and repair of plant and equipment;
-     training;
-     research and development;



- 53 -
Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 6
promotion of renewable energy; and
-     consultancy.
Linkage with the Five-year Plan
5.      Funds provided by PFC to power sector entities constitute an additionality
to the funds assigned to them through the Plan. The borrowers cannot substitute
PFC's funds for earmarked allocations by the Planning Commission.
6.      PFC funds are not allocated to the states.  PFC'c financing decisions are
based solely on the merits of individual projects.
Eligibility Criteria
7.     PFC will assist only those SEBs and SGCs who agree to implement Operational
and Financial Action Plans (OFAPs) satisfactory to PFC.
8.     PFC will lend only to projects that meet the following criteria:
(a)       are economically justified, with a rate of return of not less
than 12%;
(b)       are technically sound;
(c)       technical solutions proposed must be least cost;
(d)        are compatible with existing expansion plans;
(e)        solutions proposed should meet GOI, State environmental and
impact standards; and
(f)        schemes should have all clearances required by state and
federal agencies.
9.      Schemes for environmental upgrading of power stations have to meet
acceptable engineering standards, and should be the most cost-effective means of
mitigating environmental effects.
10.     Priority areas for funding are the following:
(a)   renovation and modernization of thermal and hydro power plants;
(b)   system improvement;
(c)   expansion of transmission and distribution systems; and
(d)   completion of on-going generation projects.



- 54 -
Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 6
Reoavment Quarantees and ExDosure Limits
11.     PFC will extend financial assistance only to those SEBs whose State
Governments have given confirmation that PFC will have priority on the SEBs'
surplus revenue over the loans granted by the State Governments to the SEBs, in
accordance with the Electricity Act.
12.     PFC's maximum exposure limits are set according to both its clients'
credit worthiness and the guarantees offered by them. The following matrix
combines the credit worthiness of the client and the guarantees offered by the
client, to determine the credit risks weights to be used in calculating the
maximum levels of exposure per client as a percentage of PFC's net worth:
Matrix of Risk Exposure and Guarantees
On-Balance Sheet Assets and Off-Balance Sheet Items
Credit         Guarantee        Risk
Level          Rating (a)     Offered (b)      Weight (c)
1               A             STG/BG            .5
2                             STG+EA            .3
3               B             STG/BG           1.0
4                             STG+EA            .5
5               C             STG/BG           2.0
6                             STG+EA           1.0
7            Backed by GOI                     0.0
-----------------------------------------------------------
Definitions:
(a)    Credit Rating A: Debt Service Coverage in excess of 1.3
Credit Rating B: Debt Service Coverage between 1.0 and 1.3
Credit Rating C: Debt Service Coverage below 1.0.
(b)    STG:  State Government Guarantee
SG:   Bank Guarantee
EA:   Escrow Account.
(C)    Risk Weight is the factor by which the loans outstanding that qualify
under each level should be multiplied to calculate the exposure.
F Por example, a Re 100 loan ranked as Level 1 will be computed as
equivalent to Rs 50 (Re 100 X 0.5) for calculating the risk exposure.



- 55 -
Annex 2.2
Page 4 of 6
13.     The Maximum Level of Exposure per client is as follows:
1991/92: 35% of PFC's Net Worth
1992/93: 30% of PPC's Net Worth
1993/94: 25% of PFC's Net Worth
1994/95 and thereafter: 20% of PFC's Net Worth (subject to review before
the end of 1993/94 to determine its adequacy).
14.     For the purpose of calculating the credit rating to determine the credit
worthiness of a client, a debt service coverage (DSC) is established. In
calculating the DSC: (a) the servicing of the loans from its State can be
excluded, provided the State Goverument commits In writing not to ask the borrower
for payment of interest and principal on its loans while any loan or guarantee
received from PFC remains outstanding; and (b) any rural electrification subsidy
not received should be excluded from revenues. In establishing the credit
worthiness of its clients, PFC gives due regard to the amounts remaining due and
unpaid to institutional lenders.
Appraisal Procedures
15.     During appraisal PFC will: (a) ensure that the project proposed meets
PFC's selection criteria (para. 8); and (b) ensure that the borrowing entity
agrees to implement an OFAP acceptable to PFC.
Terms and Conditions
16.     Although PFC mobilizes resources from different sources, its on-lending
terms and conditions will be uniform irrespective of the source of financing.
Non-rescheduling of Loans
17.     PFC's loans will not be rescheduled.  However, in exceptional
circumstances, if PFC considers it financially prudent, it may provide a financial
restructuring package supported by appropriate conditionality.
Adiustabilitv of Lendina Rates
18.     When PFC begins borrowing at variable interest rates it will include
provisions in its loan documents to allow its lending rates to be adjusted both on
the disbursed as well as the undisbursed portions of its loans.
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures
19.      Funds will be made available to the borrower only when the expenditure
takes place. PFC has developed detailed disbursement procedures that apply to
every operation.



- 56 -
Annex 2.
Page 5 of 6
Supervision and Monitoring
20.      The borrower shall furnish periodic progress reports, satisfactory to
PFC, in respect to implementation oft (a) the project; and (b) the OFAP. In
addition, PFC's supervision teams will periodically visit the projects to assess
progress and to provide support to the borrower as needed.
Remedies
21.      PFC may suspend or cancel any part of a loan if the borrowing entity
fails to perform any obligation under the legal agreements. PFC has developed a
set of Guidelines for Application of Remedies (See Attachment).
Financial Manaaement of PFC
22.      PFC will endeavour to operate as a commercial entity, earning an adequate
return on its capital (positive in real terms), maintain a healthy portfolio and
build a strong financial base to enable it to borrow on attractive terms.
Caotal Structure
23.     Initially a maximum debt-to equity ratio of 4sl will be maintained.  As
PFC becomes better established, this ratio will be periodically revised.
Debt Service Coverage Ratio
24.     PFC's operations will be managed so as to maintain a debt service coverage
ratio not lower than 1.2.
Liauldity
25.     PFC will maintain liquid assets equal to not less than the equivalent of
the anticipated disbursements for the following three months.
Profitabilitv Targetc
26.     PFC's lending rates will be positive in real terms and will reflect its
borrowing and operational costs, plus a margin to ensure its financial viability.
Lending documents will include a provision to ensure that lending rates are
adjusted to reflect this objective.
Foreign Exchanae ard Interest Rate Risks
27.     PFC will not bear the interest rate and foreign exchange rLsks in its
operations.
Guaranteelf
28.     PFC will be lending to SEBs and BGCs only with the backing of guarantees
provided by the State Governments or commercial banks. in addition, PFC may



- 57 -
Annex 2.2
Page 6 of 6
request contingent arrangements, like escrow accounts, to be invoked in certain
cases, like when the guarantees have not been honored, or the OFAPs are not
implemented to the satisfaction of PFC, or when SEBs/SGCs want to enhance their
borrowing limits as indicated in para. 12.
Term Transformation
29.     PFC will determine the average repayment periods of its loans so as to
ensure that the average maturity of its assets does not exceed that of its
liabilities.
Guarantees provided by PFC to SEBs/SGCs
30.     The provisions in the preceding paragraphs relating to remedies, foreign
exchange and interest rate risks, loan guarantees etc. will equally apply to
guarantees granted by PFC to SEBs and SGCs for payment of monies by them.
Accounting and Audit Systems
31.     PFC will maintain its accounts in conformity with the requirements of the
Companies Act (1956) and directives from the Gol. PFC's statutory Auditor is
appointed by the GOI on the advice of the Comptroller and Auditor General, who may
also carry out his own audit of PFC.
Oroanization and Staffing
32.     PFC is aware of the need to develop an efficient organization staffed with
competent professionals from different disciplines. To support this effort PFC
intends to maintain training programs that provide access to the latest
developments in the different disciplines.
Review of Policies
33.     The above set of policies and procedures will be revised fzom time to time
to reflect the changing needs in the operations of the Corporation.
Note:
PFC's Operational Policy Statement includes four annexes, as follows:
Annex 1: Terms and Conditions of PFC's Loans.
Annex 2: Disbursement Procedures of PFC's Loans.
Annex 3: Guidelines for Application of Remedies in the Event of
Default by its Borrowers.
Annex 4: Accounting Policies
The full text of he OPS, together with its annexes is included in the
Project Files.



- 58 -
Annex 2.3
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Guidelines for Preparation of
Action Plans
General Approach
1.          The effectiveness of action plans as a tool for improving the
performance of power utilities depends largely on the commitment of the
utility to its implementation. The best way to ensure said commitment is by
getting the utility involved, from the outser, in the preparation of the Plan.
This approach avoids the risk of an adverse reaction to the Plan as the
utility may consider that the actions included in it are "imposed" on them and
are unrealistic.
First Step: Diagnosis
2.          The purpose of this first step is to determine the recent history
and current status of the different aspects of the operations of the utility,
including, inter alia, Organizational Structure, Financial Management and
Control, Planning, Engineering and Construction, System Operations &
Maintenance, Human Resources Administration, Support Services, Billing and
Collections, Management Information System, etc. The preparation of the
diagnosis requires a group of experienced professionals, with good knowledge
on how each one of the functional areas of the utility should work and of the
levels of performance that should be expected from each area. It is very
important that the diagnosis be undertaken with direct participation of those
to be later involved in the preparation of the Actio:i Plan and in its
subsequent monitoring. Their participation in the diagnosis will give them an
irreplaceable insight in the operations of the utility. When due to staff
constraints, or because of the need to have specialized expertise in certain
areas, it is necessary to retain consultants, it is highly advisable that the
control of the diagnosis remains under the responsibility of the official in
PFC in charge of the project.
3.          An initial step in the diagnosis is the preparation of a set of
financial statements (income statements, funds flows and balance sheets) for
the 'last three to five years and projections for the next five to ten years,
assuming a status quo in the operations, to show what the situation would be
if the current level of tariffs and performance are maintained in the future.
To provide a more realistic idea of the funds required, the investment program
has to be properly adjusted for price escalation. These proforma statements
are very important because they provide the reference point against which the
impact of the action plan will be measured. They also give an initial view of



- 59 -
Annexi 2. 3
Page 2 of 5
the problems the utility may be facing (for example, liquidity, cost
structure, inability to service debt, high level of work in progress).
Experience shows that this stage can be productively used to introduce the
financial staff of the utility in the use of computers for financial analysis.
4.          Each one of the functional areas of the utility is reviewed by the
experts in the diagnosis team. For this purpose, the development of a check
list is -iery helpful, although care must be exercised to ensure that its use
does not result in a mechanical approach. It is important for the team to
maintain at "iI times an investigative attitude, trying to differentiate
between the symptoms and the causes of the deficiencies detected. In tho
process of preparing the evaluation, the team interviews the staff responsible
in the utility, reviews documents, prepares flows, visits the relevant offices
to see how the work is carried out, and in some cases interviews customers,
suppliers, etc. The purpose is to gain a balanced and objective assessment of
the situation.
5.          The outcome of the evaluation is summarized for each functional
area, ideally in tabular form to facilitate processing of the subsequent
steps. The preparation of a diagnosis normally can be undertaken in no more
than three weeks by a team of two or three expert professionals.
Second Step: Discussion of the Diagnosis
6.          It is at this level where the full participation of the utility
should start. The purpose of this step is to reach agreement with the
management of the utility on the diagnosis. There are two reasons that
justify the need for this agreement. The first one, is to ensure that the
evaluation team has not made any error of judgement. This is not impossible
to happen, no matter how experienced the team is or how carefully the work has
been done, the risk of reaching erroneous conclusions always exists. The
second reason is that, unless the utility accepts the existence of the
weaknesses detected in the diagnosis, any effort in getting them corrected
would be wasted.
7.          The best approach to discuss the diagnosis is to have meetings
with the staff responsible for each particular activity. The objectives of
these meetings are to: (a) establish whether they agree with the diagnosis of
their respective areas; (b) get a better understanding of the causes of the
problem; (c) confirm that no major issues remain unidentified; and (d)
determine whether any corrective action is already being implemented. This
step normally takes no more than three days. At the end of the discussions a
revised diagnosis would be produced.
Third Step: Preparation of the Action Plan
8.        It is critical to stay away from the traditional approach of
pretending to solve problems by simply stating that certain improvements in



- 60 -
Annex 2.3
Page 3 of 5
the performance targets should be reached by a future date. What is needed is
to agree on the actions required to correct the weaknesses detected. For
example, it is not of much use to say that Transmission and Distribution
losses should be reduced to 18Z by December 1990, without indicating the
specific actions to be taken in order to reach that performance. Here is
where the participation of the SEBISGC staff becomes critical. With the
active participation of each one of those in the utility responsible for the
activity where a weakness is detected, ideas on how to deal with the problems
will be explored. It is advisable to begin by asking those responsible for
the activity about potential solutions. This tends to generate interesting
proposals and gets them involved. They tend to know better than anyone what
would work and what will not. Often it is better to adopt solutions that,
although not optimal, are realistic. However, sometimes one encounters too
negative or pessimistic positions that need to be changed through dialogue.
In addition, PFC staff and the consultants can bring fresh ideas and
experiences tried successfully in other utilities to broaden the scope of
options.
9.          After pondering the different options open in each case, one
solution is selected. These options fall into two categories of actions:
those under the control of the SEB/SGC and those outside their control
(normally under the control of the State). The solutions may either include
corrective actions to be iundertaken by the management of the SEBISGC, or
require the assistance of specialized experts, in which case each one of the
steps required to retain said experts should be included in the action plan
(terms of reference, short list, selection, contract etc.).
10.         Once the actions to deal with each problem have been agreed upon,
the next step is L- establish:
(a)   when each action should be implemented;
(b)   who is responsible for implementing it;
(c)   what results are expected from its implementation, trying to
quantify the outcome or present it in terms of changes in
performance indicators (plant availability, PLF, rate of
return, collection performance, etc);
(d)   resources required to implement the action; and
(e)   how and how frequently the implementation is going to be
monitored.
Fourth Step: Ranking of Issues and Phasing
11.         It is not realistic to expect to solve every problem in one shot.
Accordingly, the weaknesses detected should be ranked, giving priority to



- 61 -
Annex 2.3
Page 4 of 5
those that, if corrected, would have the greatest impact in terms of cash flow
generation capability of the utility. This ranking should be done jointly
with the management of the utility. Once the ranking is completed, the issues
to be tackled in a First Phase should be selected. The duration of this First
Phase has to be determinad in each case. In the case of PFC, since the
objective is to have frequent operations with each SEB/SGC, each phase should
probably include only the actions that could be completed in, say, 12 to 18
months, given: (a) the time required to undertake them, and (b) the
implementation capability of the utility. The funds required to implement the
action plan should be quantified and a financing plan to ensure its timely
completion should be agreed upon.
12.         Since institutional improvements should be a continuous operation,
the action plan should include a trigger point, be it a date or the completion
of a critical activity, indicating when the following phase should be
initiated.
Fifth Step: Financial Impact of the Action Plan
13.         Most improvements in the performance of a utility have an impact
on rhe utility's finances. For this reason, it is important to prepare a
second set of financial projections reflecting the expected financial impact
of the improvements intended to be accomplished through the Action Plan.
These projections should be comppred with those prepared as part of the
diagnosis, where a status quo was assumed. This comparison would clearly show
how meaningful the proposed Action Plan is. If the Action Plan is not
meaningful enough, it would need to be revised as needed until satisfactory
results are obtained.
14.         The financial projections showing the impact of the Action Plan
also serve the purpose of providing a reference point for future monitoring.
The pru!jaration of the Action Plan, its phases and the revised projected
financil statement3 normally require about four weeks of two professionals,
with ample experienct in power utilities management (one engineer and one
financial analyst) wo,-king closely with the staff of the utility.



- 62 -
Annex 2.3
Page 5 of 5
Summary of Key Elements of OFAPs Approved for the SEBs of
Puniab, Andhra Pradesh, Madhva Pradesh and Guiarat
Functional Area                   Actions
Tariff Restructuring    Incorporation of automatic fuel surc.harge
Annual tariff review and revision process
Appointment of Committee to review tariff structure
Payment of Subsidy       Agreement by state  governments  to pay  subsidy  (in
advance or monthly and on a cash basis) to allow the SEB
to meet the 3% rate of return
Capital Restructuring   Conversion of part of State Government loan into equity
to achieve debt equity ratio of 1:1.
Billing and Collection  Settling  of  inter-state  and  government  outstanding
accounts receivables
Computerize billing and collection accounts
Conduct meter testing
Introduce age analysis of accounts
Materials Management    Review and develop inventory control systems for thermal
power stations
Review T&D stores management system and issue timely
stores control reports
Internal Audit           Undertake technical audit (cost and quality)
Accounting Systems       Staff training on commercial accounting
Appoint consultants to develop and implement costing
system for thermal plants
Planning & Budgeting    Develop project evaluation and prioritization criteria
Involve financial department in planning
Link budgeting process with accounting system
Introduce manpower planning
Systems Efficiency
Generation        Conduct of full plant inspections
Preparation of plant upgrading plans
Preparation of detailed station maintenance manuals
Transmission      Conduct transmission network system analysis and prepare
and implement least cost corrective actions.
Distribution       Prepare 10-year sub-transmission and distribution master
plans for selected urban centers
Prepare 3-year plans for addressing deficiency of low
tension service for selected centers.



- 63 -
Annex 2.4
INDIA
PROJECT UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
....................... ..............................
PFC s Lending Operations Up To March 31, 1991
,..... ........ ..... ......... .................
(Rs. MilLion)
A.     Summary of Loans Approved - Purpose-Wise
No. of
Type of Project             Loans     Amount         X
..........---               ------. ....    ...   ...  .....     .. ......... ...----.......
1.    Generation                      83      17,278          55
2.     Transmission                  132       9,364          28
3.     Urban Distribution             56       2,138           4
4.    Renovation and Modernization   55        3,332           7
5.     Shunt Capacitors               26       1,548           6
TOTAL    352      33,660         100
R.    Summary of Loans Approved by Borrower
............. ...................................
No. of
State/SEB                   Loans    1987-88     1988-89     1989-90      1990-91    TOTAL       X
.............. .            ......   .......... ...... .............   ................... .... ...........----  ......
1.    Andhra Pradesh                  36         152         963       1,088       1,470    3,673      10.9
2.    Arunachat Pradesh                1           0          15           0                    15      0.0
3.    Assam                            1           0           0          42            0       42      0.1
4.    Bihar                           14           0         323         543          643    1,509      4.5
5.     Gujarat                        23           0         362         465        1,070    1,897      5.6
6.    Haryana                         20         131         368          33          509    1,041      3.1
Himachal Pradesh                5           0           0           0         263      263       0.8
7.    Janm  & Kashmir                  1           0           0         250            0      250      0.7
8.     Karnataka                      16          34         275       1,244          417    1,970      5.9
9.     Kerata                          9           0           0           9          232      241      0.7
10.    Madhya Pradesh                 47          35         571       1,265       1,912    3,783      11.2
11.    Maharashtra                    21         150         981         660       1,193    2,984       8.9
Nisoram                         1           0           0           0          246      246      0.7
12.    Nagaland                        5           0           0           8          69        77      0.2
13.    Orissa                         18         105         213         206         790    1,314       3.9
14.   Punjab                          12           0          38         641         677    1,356       4.0
15.    Rajasthan                      12         151         498          19         489    1,157       3.4
16.    Sikkim                          4           0           0          30          50        80      0.2
17.    Tamil Nadu                     33         150         957         875       2,342    4,324      12.8
18.   Tripura                          1           0           0           9                     9      0.0
19.    Uttar Pradesh                  54         167       1,590       2,403          719    4,879     14.5
20.   Ust Bengat                      16           0         627         964          887    2,478      7.4
21.   DPL                              2           0          58           14           0       72      0.2
TOAL 35     1,075----  ....7839 .... ---------    13,9.... -- 6     ......0
TOTAL    352       1,075       7,839      1D 768      13,978   33 660    100.0



- 64 -
Annex 2.5
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Assessment and Monitoring Unit
Scope of Work and Procedures
1. Introduction
1.0         GOI and a number of States require that environmental assessment
of power projects be submitted to the concerned authorities as a condition to
obtain environmental and forest clearances for project implementation. In
addition, there are Central and State norms for compensation and
rehabilitation of population affected by Public Projects that power utilities
must observe. GOI and the States issue environmental and forest clearances
provided the concerned utilities undertake actions indicated in the letter of
clearance to minimize adverse effects of proposed projects. Only projects
which have been cleared in this respect by all concerned agencies would be
eligible for Bank financing.
2.0         The World Bank requires, for all projects it finances, that the
environmental and social implications of the same be appraised and dealt with
in accordance with Bank policies in this regard. If Central and State
regulations exist, the Bank requires that the project ronforms to the most
stringent of all of them, including the Bank's.
3.0         Because of the public interest in environmental matters and the
need that PFC financed projects meet the necessary environmental and social
standards, the Corporation created an Environmental Assessment and Monitoring
Unit (EAMU) under the Technical Director.
2. Respogsibilities
The EAMU would:
'a)   ensure that environmental assessment "nd social impact assessment
of the project are incorporated in early stages of formulation as
a factor in the analysis of alternatives and design of the
project;
(b)   assist the borrowers as necessary in identifying major
environmental and social issues associated to the project;
(c)   assist in the preparation of terms of reference for socio-
environmental assessments (SEAs) of different kinds of projects
and keep a roster of Consultants who can help in preparing
assessments and impact mitigation plans;



- 65 -
Annex 2.5
Page 2 of 2
td)   monitor execution of SEAs to ensure that they meet acceptable
quality standards;
(e)   ensure that costs of mitigatory actions are properly considered in
selecting and costing projects;
(f)   ensure that SEAs are conducted in accordance with the applicable
standards;
(g)   monitor implementation of mitigatory plans and ensure that actions
indicated by the concerned agencies for environmental clearance
are carried out;
(h)   assist borrowers in assessing and proposing solutions for the
correction of environmental deficiencies of power plants already
in operation; and
(i)   promote and assist utilities in the creation of units specialized
in environmental aspects of power utilities (i.e. design,
monitoring etc.)
The EAMU would not carry out itself SEAs but would provide assistance, review
and monitoring of any work undertaken by the SEBs or their consultants in
regards to PFC financed projects.
3. Staffing
The EAMU would be staffed initially with one environmental
engineer (emission, effluents, etc) one part time environmental scientist
Cforest, wildlife, fisheries, etc.) and one part time sociologist/
anthropologist with experience in rehabilitation of displaced persons.



- 66 -
Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 8
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project DescriRtion
I. TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
1.          The project includes a number of transmission and distribution
schemes which have been selected to alleviate most urgent deficiencies in the
system. Typically schemes include: (i) removal of transmission constraints
for power evacuation from power plants; (ii) reinforcement of overloaded
transmission lines; (iii) increase of capacity of associated substations; (iv)
expansion of overloaded distribution substations; (v) reinforcement of 66, 33,
and kV distribution grid; (vi) installation of capacitors and distribution
transformers to improve service and reduce losses; and (vii) purchase and
installation of single-phase and three-phase consumption meters for new
connections or to replace defective ones. The following are the schemes
identified thus far:
A.    Punjab
Transmission Lines - Phase I
Ropar - Rajpura, 220 kV, 76 ckt-km
Installation of second circuit for evacuation of power from Ropar
thermal plant.
Rajpura - Patiala, 220 kV, 26 ckt-km
Extension of single-circuit line to evacuate power from Ropar station
via Rajpura.
Bhakra - Mahlipur - Jalandhar II, 220 kV, 94 ckt-km.
Installation of double-circuit towers and first circuit of line to
evacuate Punjab's share of Bhakra power plant. Includes setting up of a
220/66-kV substation at Mahlipur with 1 x 100 MVA module.
Mukastar - Jallalabad, 220 kV, 35 ckt-km
Installation of double-circuit towers and first circuit of line to
increase supply to Jallalabad. Includes setting up of a 220/66-kV
substation at Jallalabad with 1 x 100 MVA module.



- 67 -
AnneL 3.1
Page 2 of 8
Transmission Lines - Phase II
-     Ropar - Jalandhar II, 220 kV, 220 ckt-km
Double circuit line for evacuation of power from Ropar thermal plant.
Includes expansion of Jalandhar II 220/66-kV substation by 1 x 100 MVA.
-     Ropar - Govindgarh, 220 kV, 120 ckt-km
Double circuit line for evacuation of power from Ropar thermal plant.
Includes expansion of Govindgarh 220/66-kV substation by 1 x 100 MVA,
and setting up of Govindgarh II, 220/66 kV substation with lxlO0 MVA.
-     Guru Nanak Dev (GND) (stage III) - Mukatsar, 220 kV, 65 ckt-km
Single circuit line from Guru Nanak Dev for power evacuation. Includes
connection of stages II and III of GND.
-     GND (stage III) - Sunam, 220 kV, 170 ckt-km.
Double circuit line via Mansa for power evacuation and expansion of
substation at Sunam by 1 x 100 MVA (220/66 kV).
-      xMoga - Mukatsar 220 kV 35 ckt-kin
Installation of double circuit towers and first circuit of line to tap
Punjab's share of NHPC plants.
Distribution Schemes
Distribution improvements in seven urban center as presented in Table 1.
TABLE 1: DISTRIBUTION WORKS IN PUNJAB
TOWNS
FARIDROT  JALANDUHAR HOSHIARPUR PHAGWARA PATIALA XHANNA BHATINDA  TOTALS
DISTRIBUTION WOS:
- Increase in substation capacity
No. of substations             .                1        1      3       2       3      11
Total (MVA)                   8.0               8.0      8.0  17.0      40.0   15.0    96.0
- Installation of capacitots (M4VAR)   1.5       1.5      1.5   4.5       6.0    3.0    18.0
- Installation of 66, 33 b 11 kV
overhead lines and underground
cables (km)                   49      244      19       15    19       76    57       479
- Installation of distribution
transformers
go.                           59      413      24       24   160       83    78       841
NVA                           5.9      51.3     3.4      3.2  21.5      18.5   8.2    106.0
- Installation of censumption mtoter  40000   49000    6000    16000  8000  5000  3000    93000



- 68 -
Annex - 3.
Page 3 of 8
B.    Andhra Pradesh
Transmission Lines - Phase I
-     Chitoor-Renigunta-Sullurpet, 220 kV, 180 ckt-km
Closing of southern 220-kV ring in the state. Installation of double
circuit towers and first circuit to improve reliability of supply to
this area. Includes bay extensions at Chitoor, Renigunta and Sullurpet.
Transmission Lines - Phase II
-     Cuddapah - Renigunta, 220 kV, 132 ckt-km
Construction of double circuit line to. feed power from Ramagundam
thermal plant into Southern Andra Pradesh. Includes extension of one
bay at Cuddapah and Renigunta substations and increase of transformation
capacity at Renigunta by I x 100 MVA.
-     Ramagundam - Nizamabad, 220 kV, 147 ckt-km
Installation of second circuit of this line to evacuate power from
Ramagundam thermal plant. Includes extension of line bays at Ramagundam
and Nizamabad substations, and addition of 1 x 100 MVA transformer at
Nizamabad.
-     Ramagundam - Warangal, 220 kV, 90 ckt-km
Installation of second circuit of this line to evacuate power from
Ramagundam thermal plant. Includes bay extensions at Ramagundam and
Warangal substations and addition of 1 x 100 MVA transformer at
Nizamabad.
Distribution Schemes
Distribution improvements in seven urban centers are presented in Table 2.
TABLE 2: DSSTaTrIT!ON WORKS rN ANDHRA PRADESE
TOWNS
C8STOOR  KURNOOL NELLORE RAJABKUNDRY KAKINADA NIZAMDAD WARANGAL  TOTALS
OISTUBUTZON WORKS:
- IAcrCase Ln substation capacity
No. of substations          3       3       2       2        2       1      6      19
Total MVA)                  35.0   20.0   30.0    40.0      20.0   10.0   72.0  227.0
-installation of capacitors (MVAR)   1.8    2.4    4.8  3.6   3.0    3.0   18.0   36.6
- nstallotion of 33 & 11 kV
evehrbod lt.s and underground
cables (km)                 19     21    14        28.5     46.5    6.0   23.6  158.6
-tntallation of dlstribution
transformers 
So.                        189    223   334       374      349    199    100   1768
MVA                         18.9   22.3  33.4    37.4       34.9   19.9   10.0  176.8
- Installation of consumption motors 17000  35000  41000   36000  36000   27000  380003  23J400



- 69 -
Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 8
C. Madhya Pradesh
Transmission Lines - Phase II
- Bina - Malanpur, 400 kV, 532 ckt-km
Construction of double circuit line to utilize MP share of power from Korba &
Vidhyachal power plants. Includes the following associated works:
-     Construction of 400/220 kV, 315 MVA substation at Malanpur.
-     Addition of two 400 kV bays at Bina.
-     Double circuit interconnection between 220 kV and 400 kV substations at
Malanpur (20 ckt-km).
-     Addition of four 220-kV bays at Malanpur.
-     Birsinghpur - Damo - Katni, 400 kV, 432 ckt-km.
Construction of double circuit line to utilize MP share from Amarkantak and
Birsinghpur thermal plants and from Tons hydro plant. Includes construction of
220/132-kV substation at Katni with 160 MVA capacity and extension of two 220-kV
bays each at Birsinghpur and Damoh.
Satna - Katni, 220 kV, 200 ckt-km
Construction of double circuit line to increase supply to Katni & Damoh area.
Includes extension of four 220-kV bays at Katni and four 220-kV bays at Satna, 20
ckt-km interconnection (_32 kV) between 220-kV and 132-kV sections at Katni, and
addition of 132 kV bays at Katni.
Distribution Schemes
Distribution improvements in seven urban centers are presented in Table 3.



- 70 -
Annex 3.1
Page 5 of 8
TABLE 3: DISTRIBUTION WORKS IN MADHYA PADBESH
TOWNS
rNDORE   UJJAlN    KATNI    DURG  JABALPuIR  RAiPuR   KHANDWA   TOTALS
DISTRIBUTION WOS:
- Increase in substation capacity
No. of substations:
NeV                                     2        3         3       2         3        3         2        18
Exgpansions                             5        1         1       4         7        4         2        24
Total                                   7        4         4       6        10        7          4       42
Total (NVA)                            35.0     20.0      17.0    18.0      41.0     35.0       20.0    186
- Installation of oapacitors (MVAR)       12.0      12.0      6.0      7.2     12.0      12.0       7.2    68.4
- Installation of 33 & 11 kV
oYrhead lines and underground
cables (kin)                            115.8    116.6    136.7   183.0       74.5     71.0      65.0    762.6
- Installation of distrLbution
trensforers:
go.                                      s0       62       172     117       108       73         94      676
I4VA                                    15.7      10.3     27.9    19.8       21.6     10.0       10.9    116.2
- Installation of Trivector neters        27        30       27       27       90        35        21       257
D.     Guj arat
Transmission Lines - Phase II
-      Gandhar - Kapadvanj 220 kV,  120 ckt-km
Double circuit line to feed power to Kapadvanj from Gandhar station via
Deghan. Includes 2 x 50 MVA substation at Kapadvanj (220/132 kV)
-      Deghan - Ranasan,  220 kV, 40 ckt-km
Construction of double circuit line to feed power to Ranasan from
Gandhar via Deghan. Includes addition of two 220 kV bays at Ranasan.
Distribution Schemes
Improvements of distribution systems in five urban centers as presented in
Table 4.



- 71 -
Aex 3. 1
Page 6 of 8
*ABLE 4: DISTRIWUTION WORKS IN GUJARAT
TOWNS
RAJKOT  BHAVNAGAR ISARUCH  JAMNAGAR JUNAGARU  TOTALS
DISTRIBUTION WORKS.
- Increase in substation capacLty
No. of substations:
(Includes Augmentation)
- No.                             1        2        1      1        1       7
- MVA                            20       20       10     22.5    10       82.5
- Installation of capacitors (MVAR)  10       7.5      6      14.5     3      41
- Installatton of 132166111 kV
0/H lines and V/C cables           77.5    49        25     39      33      223.5
- Installation of distrLbution
transformers:
No.                                70       46       35     71      45      267
:VA                                10       10        7     16       7       50
- Installation of consumption motors  2250  1S00     1150   1700    1150    8050
ENVIRJONMENTAL UPGRADING OF POWER STATIONS
2.    PFC has received financing applications for installation of
electrostatic precipitators (ESPs) or expansion and renovation of existing
ones in a number of power plants. These are expected to be financed by the
Bank as follows:
State               Power Station
Gujarat             Ukai
Uttar Pradesh       Harduagang
Obra
Panki
West Bengal         Durgapur
The estimated investment in these plants is about US$100milionu. In addition,
PFC expects to receive requests for the following schemes during 1990/91-
1992/93 which could be financed by the Bank or other cofinanciers on a first-
come-first served basis depending upon the availability of funds:
S.tate                  Powr Station
Gujarat                 Wanakbori
Uttar Pradesh           Obra (Phase II)



- 72 -
Anneg 3. 1
Page 7 of 8
Madhya Pradesh         Satpura
West Bengal           Kolas '.
Bihar                 Patr. ctU
Baraun.
Orissa                Talcher
Assam                 Bongaigaon
Andhra Pradesh        Kothagudem
Estimated investment on these stations is about US$ 60 million. It has been
assumed that 60% of the plants identified would be eligible for Bank financing
under this component. Participating SEBs would also conduct .-I parallel an
environmental audit of each plant included in the program to determine, and
implement, any actions necessary to correct environmental deficiencies of the
station (Annex 3.2) . The objective is for the station to meet the
environmental standards established by GOI, the State or the Bank, whichever
is more stringent. It has been estimated that about 100 consultant-months
would be required to conduct the environmental audits, prepare the upgrading
programs, and assist the SEBs in their implementation.
III. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR SEBs
3.          PFC and the participating SEBs have identified areas in which SEBs
need immediate assistance for improvement. Actions to obtain and implement
such assistance and associated timetables have been included as part of the
OFAPs agreed between PFC and the SEBs. Many of these actions require
participation of consultants and training of staff. There is also a need for
the SEBs to acquire data processing systems, including computer equipment and
software. Major areas in which assistance is required are: accounting,
management information systems, organization and msthods, inventory
management, operation and maintenance of plant, system modernization, advanced
distribution planning, and billing and collections. The latter subject is
discussed in further detail below. It has been estimated that about 400
consultant-months (average of 65 staff-months per participating SEB) would be
required of which about 300 would be local and about 100 foreign. Letters of
invitation for proposals including terms of reference for specific assignments
are under preparation and would be issued by individual SEBs in accordance
with the timetables agreed in the OFAPs.
IV. SYSTEM RENOVATION STUDIES
4.          This component is aimed at identifying high-priority investments
in the areas of upgrading of generating plant as well as in transmission and
distribution. The main objectives of the program are: (i) determine the causes
of inefficient use of installations; (ii) propose ways to attack such causes
or modification of existing designs or operating practices to avoid causes the
elimination of which is uneconomical; and (iii) prepare the necessary



- 73 -
Annex 3.1
Page 8 of 8
engineering and implementation plan to carry out the recommendations. All SEBs
and SGCs are eligible to participate in this program. It is expected that
about 25 power stations, one or two major transmission systems, and about six
urban distribution centers would be included in the program. It has been
estimated that about 400 consultant-months would be required for the studies
of which some 300 would be local. Annex 3.3 gives the suggested terms of
reference for renovation of thermal stations.
V. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF PFC
5.          This a program to strengthen PFC's capabilities to discharge its
responsibilities. The program will provide specialized services, equipment,
software, and training. An Implementation Plan is presented in Annex 3.5. The
major activities to be covered under this program include:
(a)   enhancing PFC's management information system;
(b)   developing administrative manuals and procedures to guide internal
operations:
(c)   developing manuals for project appraisal and monitoring;
(d)   training PFC staff in financial management, utility management,
project management, power economics, upgrading of power plants,
transmission and distribution, and planning and design of
distribution systems; and
(e)   establishing a unit at PFC for sector studies to support the
Corporation's operations.
VI. PREINVESTMENT FUND
6.          Annex 3.6 gives the details of functions and operation of the
Preinvestment Fund.
VII. IMPROVEMENTS OF BILLING AND COLLECTIONS
7.          This component is geared to support efforts being made by various
SEBs to improve their billing and collection systems. Some participant SEBs
nave agreed, as part of the OFAPs, to revamp and modernize their billing and
collections. The objectives are, inter alia, to reduce cycle times, simplify
procedures, set proper customer accounts, improve controls, and facilitate
customer access to collection points. SEBs are in the process of preparing
terms of reference and letters of invitation for consulting services in
accordance with the timetables agreed in the OFAPs. A second set of operations
under this component comprises support to pilot billing and collection schemes
of an innovative nature. Two of such schemes have already been identified: one
is related to possible implementation of prepaid supply by use of magnetic
cards and the other is a customer self-reading of meter being already tested
successfully by Uttar Pradesh SEB. The details of how to support these pilot
trials will be developed jointly by PFC, the SEBs and the Bank.



- 74 -
Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Review of Power Stations
Suggested Terms of Reference
OWl ectives
1.          The objectives of the environmental review are to: (i) determine
the degree to which participating power stations are meeting environmental
standards set by GOI, the States and the Bank; (ii) identify the corrective
actions needed to meet such standards in sustainable way; (iii) recommend
other actions to restore plant environs to acceptable environmental condition
and maintain such condition thereafter; (i , recommend an environmental
monitoring system for the plant; and, (v) prepare a detailed program for
implementation of the recommendations. The review should comprise handling of
inputs (coal, oil, etc.), emissions and effluents from the plant (stack
emissions, water discharges, ash, dust control, etc), sanitary conditions in
and around the station, including colonies and camps, foci of deterioration
around the station stemming from plant operations, irregular settlements
associated to the plant, and any other environmental impacts the need to be
mitigated or corrected. The recommendations of the review should be action
oriented. In some cases the initial review may recommend more detailed studies
of certain aspects to establish proper solutions to particular problems. These
studies should not slow down other actions to arrest or mitigate environmental
deterioration that can be implemented in parallel with the studies.
Scone of the Review
2.          The review would comprise the following main activities:
(a)   determination of environmental compliance requirements (review of
applicable regulations and policies);
(b)   review of any existing past records on environmental monitoring of
the station and assess quality and relevance of record keeping;
(c)   establish deficiencies in monitoring and formulate temporary
program for sampling and collecting missing information for
purposes of this review;
(d)   assess quality of reporting and procedures for notification of
environmental conditions of the plant (for the utility and for
other external authorities);
(e)   assess adequacy of administrative arrangements to handle
environmental aspects of the station (authority and
responsibility) and skills improvement needs;



- 75 -
Annex 3.2
Page 2 of 2
(f)   assess employees and staff awareness of environmental aspects of
the operation and need for educational programs;
(g)   determine adverse environmental effects, potential risks and
deviation from norms being caused by handling of plant inputs
including fuels, chemicals, water,and materials (dust, noise,
spills potential, working conditions of operators, etc.);
(h)   determine adverse environmental affects, potential risks and
deviation from norms being caused by handling of plant outputs
(gas and particulate emissions, liquid effluents, ash, dust,
refuse, etc);
(i)   assess the adequacy of on-site/off-site facilities to handle
station inputs and outputs;
(j)   assess the adequacy of pollution control equipment installed at
the plant, including gas emissions, particulate retention and
removal, water and sewage treatment, noise abatement devices, dust
control, etc;
(k)   review laboratory facilities, equipment, procedures, and
standards;
(1)   review adequacy of procedures and frequency of maintenance of
antipollution equipment including inspection and calibration of
monitoring equipment;
(m)   assessment of the overall sanitary conditions throughout the
station (water supply, sewage disposal, garbage disposal, rodents
control, sanitary facilities for staff,etc.) including colonies
and camps; and
(n)   identification of other adverse effects on environment around the
plant, caused by its operat'on, which should be addressed or
mitigated.
ReDort and Recommendations
3.          The results and recommendations of the review should be presented
in a report which should include a timetable for implementation of each
recommendation, proposed approach and administrative arrangements, cost
estimates, and additional studies required if any, etc.
'.mnlementation
4.          PFC would, as a condition of financing the installation of
electrostatic precipitators, agree with the concerned SEB that it would
conduct the environmental review and implement the recommendations as per the
agreed timetable.



- 76 -
Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 9
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
'.. Tentative Scope of Technical Assistance for System Renovation
Background
1.          Facing severe power shortages, India has decided, as part of its
power sector development strategy, to identify and implement actions for
modernizing and upgrading existing facilities as a cost effective way to
improve supply. PFC is expected to play a significant role in this task
through providing financing for renovation and modernization schemes and by
assisting SEBs and SGCs in the identification and formulation of such schemes.
With these objectives in mind, PFC is interested in obtaining technical
assistance to enhance its knowledge of system rehabilitation and
modernization. The assistance would cover renovation of thermal and
hydropower plants, transmission systems and substations and urban distribution
grids.
Scope
2.    PFC is particularly interested in the following topics:
-     system constraints analysis to identify elements suitable for
upgrading;
-     detailed methodology for inspection and diagnosis of system
elements (thermal and hydro plants, transmission lines,
subctations' distribution systems);
-     determination of cost effectiveness of rehabilitation schemes;
-     approach to preparation and planning of rehabilitation projects;
-     availability and suitability of state of the art equipment and
materials for modernization projects, and planning of retrofitting
schemes;
-     organizational set-up for implementation and monitoring of
rehabilitation and modernization projects; and
-     ex-post evaluation of renovation or modernization projects.
Methodology
3.          PFC considers that the most effective way to induct and
familiarize its staff with current practice is to expose its personnel to
actual practice in utilities successfully implementing renovation and



- 77 -
Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 9
modernization programs. Under this approach, PFC staff would be invited by
participating utilities to work in different phases of project formulation and
implementation.
4.          In addition, staff from participating utilities would visit India
to make classroom presentations, and organize workshops on specific aspects of
rehabilitation and modernization. This activity should be heavily oriented to
the practical aspects of planning and implementation as opposed to theoretical
analysis of projects.
5.          Participating utilities would subsequently provi_. support and
advice through PFC to predetermined SEBs in identification and preparation of
pilot schemes for modernization and rehabilitation.
6.          The program is expected to last from three to four years.  A
detailed program would be prepareJ when participating utilities are
identified.
Financing
7.          PFC is interested in obtaining grant finance from the home
countries of participating utilities, Any expenses not covered by donor
countries would be financpd by the Bank.



- 78 -
Annex 3.3
Page 3 of 9
B. Suggested Terms of Reference for
Thermal Plant Rehabilitation
Objective
1.          The objective of the work is to formulate and execute a program to
upgrade the performance of the existing thermal plant in the most cost
effective manner. The program will include a review and improvement of
equipment and installations, operational procedures, environmental operating
conditions of the plant, plant management and support services, and
identification of training needs of the staff. The main objectives of the
program would be to: i) identify the causes of malfunctioning or poor
performance of units; ii) identify ways of economically eliminating or
mitigating these causes of the problems; and, iii) implementing remedial
actions as needed to restore plant to acceptable performance levels.
Phases
2.          The proposed program is to be developed in three phases whose
precise scope will depend upon the results of the preceding phase. GOI and
the SEBs have carried out diagnostics of the physical conditions of the units.
Many SEBs have also partially upgraded a number of stations. These diagnostics
and actions should be taken as a basis, to be verified and modified as
appropriate. The following paragraphs describe the general scope of each
phase.
Phase I
3.          During Phase I, a work team (WT) including SEBs' staff and
consultants as needed would identify and select the corrective actions to be
proposed in the program, including their economic justification and priority.
In this phase the WT should:
(a)   review the already existing reports or studies on the units
prepared by GOI and the SEBs;
(b)   confirm, modify or expand the proposals contained in the above
documents through visits and inspections to the units, discussions
with operations staff of the concerned plants, and review of the
existing information about the units' performance and operation;
(c)   review and analyze the operation practices, the reliability,
accuracy and relevance of the data being collected by the SEB, the
quality of their analysis and the use being made of the
information;
(d)   review the practices for maintenance planning and scheduling;



- 79 -
Annex 3.3
Page 4 of 9
(e)   assess the need for staff training and for administrative changes
in the operation and maintenance, if needed;
(f)   reviaw the support systems, like management of spares, fuel, etc.;
(g)   assess the quality of the monitoring system, and appropriateness
of the instrumentation being used; and,
(h)   develop cost estimates for the different corrective actions and
prepare a cost-benefit analysis to rank them in merit order;
4.          At the end of Phase I, the WT will prepare a report with their
findings and recommendations, the cost estimates, and a tentative
implementation plan for approval by SEB senior management.
Phase II
5.          During this phase the WT will 6-velop a detailed implementation
and monitoring plan to carry-out the meast    selected under Phase I.  In
addition, the WT will develop the engineer .tg, technical specifications,
drawings, and packaging for procurement of the necessary parts and equipment.
Among other aspects, the following should be considered:
(a)   organizational set-up for implementation;
(b)   procurement schedule including recommended packaging and
procurement procedure to be followed (ICB, LCB, etc.) for each
package;
(c)   repair schedule for each unit considering its operational
commitments, delivery time for parts and equipment to be procured
and the options for power substitution;
(d)   staff needed to carry-out the program by specialty and timing;
(e)   training program of the staff;
(f)   program for changes in procedures and practices for operation and
maintenance; and,
(g)   monitoring for physical progress, cost control and results of the
program, including the preparation of a model for progress
reports;
Phase III
6.          The SEB, with the assistance of the WT, would implement the
program and evaluate the results.



- 80 -
Annex 3.3
Page 5 of 9
Sco0e of Work
7.          The following is the list of plants and units and
plant services systems to be renovated:
SEB               Plant Name         Unit Nos.   KW Size      Plant Systems
8.          The WT will, for each unit and plant included in this program,
carry out the following tasks:
(a)   review the records and reports on the history of each of the units
and plant systems under evaluation. This shall include the O&M
material procurement and spares status, records and any other
pertinent files which may reveal data for evaluation. The
information revealed by these reviews shall be used in defining
the tasks to be included in the renovation of the units. This
shall include the reasons for forced outages and unscheduled load
reductions. The tabulation of the tasks to be performed on each
unit/system under evaluation, shall be comprised of two lists; one
will include the tasks common to most of the units of this size
and manufacture and the other list will relate only to conditions
prevailing in the individual plant or unit(s). If there is a need
for the redesign of a piece of equipment or a system, the WT will
draw up the terms of the redesign work and recommend who would do
the redesign. The plant engineering personnel shall be
incorporated into the WT research, testing and inspection teams;
(b)   discuss with the plant engineers any and all problems known to
them that either impact on the performance and availability of the
unit or where designs have been furnished which are not compatible
with the current fuels and/or operating regimen;
(c)   inspect the entire unit and plant services during a scheduled
outage. The WT will pre-test equipment and related systems for
performance and/or integrity prior to the outage and analyze the
data to establish the areas which require detailed inspection and
evaluation during the outage;
(d)      review with plant managers and engineers the records, types and
format of the reports issued by each group, the oral and writ-ten
operating methods and procedures employed by the Operation and
Maintenance departments, the performance of engineering and
laboratory test groups and any documents which will establish the
ways and means of managing the functioning of the plant.
Maintenance planning procedures shall be given special
consideration;



- 81 -
Annex 3.3
Page 6 of 9
(e)   review the spare parts procurement and material conitrol
procedures. The fact that many of the plants are remote from any
other industrial facilities shall be weighed in the WT review of
the personnel qualifications, spare parts and machine shop
facilities on hand;
(f) assess the adequacy of the administrative organization of the
plant.
9.          The WT shall review the plant organizations as they are now with
the purpose of making suggestions and/or observations where improvements in
the plant organization and skills can be enhanced through the proposed
program.
10.         Two major areas of improvement in unit efficiency and performance
lie in: (a) the renovation and modernization of the instrument and controls;
and, (b) the degree of upgraded or modern equipment, system and materials to
be installed on the unit. The WT shall determine and evaluate the condition
and suitability of the instruments and controls and the capability of the
existing equipment to efficiently process the fuels and ash materials and the
air, gas, water, steam and power flows being transmitted through the units.
The ability of the existing design equipment to function under actual
conditions shall be evaluated against the installation of modern design
equipment which would further enhance the performance and reliability of the
units. The evaluation shall include the life extension benefits by the
renovation of the systems.
11.         The following unit systems and equipment shall be included in the
WT scope of review and evaluation:
(a) mill system from the feeder to the burners, including the coal
pipes and the hot air ducting from the primary air fans to the
mill. The upgrading of the mills with new, modern design parts is
also to be investigated and evaluated;
(b) fans, including the forced and induced draft fans, primary air
fans and if applicable, recirculating gas fans;
(c) coal and fuel oil burners including turn down ratios, flame
stability, flame monitoring and control, wear rates, efficiency of
combustion, etc;
(d) furnace and convection pass tubes, supports, hangers and headers.
Include the effect on life span due to high temperature excursions
and due to high ash erosion and excess air operation;
(e) boiler casing/setting air tightness;
(f) air preheater operation, maintenance and thermal performance;



- 82 -
Annex 3.3
Page 7 of 9
(g)   general condition and upkeep of insulation and lagging;
(h)   high pressure and temperature piping and valve systems including
hangers, snubbers and weld integrity, creep and stress cracks,
etc.;
(i)   ash handling and storage facilities, capacity and wear rates;
(j)   feedwater heaters and piping, valves, and support system;
(k)   pump and motor drive units performance, control and reliability;
(1)   turbine-generator functioning, equipment integrity and performance
from front standard to the exciter. This includes bearings,
governor, rotor and stator integrity (turbine and generator),
seals, blading, electrical windings, etc.;
(m)   condensing, cooling water and auxiliary equipment systems,
instruments and controls including vacuum and seal systems,
cathodic protection, level control and tube erosion/corrosion
rates and pluggage and wear rates. The cooling towers and
condensate, hotwell and circulating water pumps' condition and
performance are also to be established;
(n)   make-up water rates shall be assessed.  Target consumption is to
be less than one percent;
(o)   control and instrumentation functioning, control accuracy, parts
availability, capacity to control to within required set points,
flame stability and monitoring and control systems, etc.; and
(p)   the electrical system equipment and materials conditions are to be
examined, including the history of reliability of service on such
items as the motors, switchgear and motor control centers,
transformers, the relays and electrical controls and auxiliary
power consumption. The CEA statistical report on equipment
failures indicates an unusually high incidence of electrical
equipment failures. This should be studied and a program drafted
for the improvement in the reliability of this equipment.
12.         In addition to the units to be evaluated and renovated, there are
specific plant systems which also require inspection by the WT. The plant
systems to be evaluated are listed below:
(a)   the coal handling system shall be inspected and evaluated as to
the adequacy and suitability of service as it pertains to the
present quality, quantity and physical size and extraneous
material content of the coal being delivered. The inspection
shall cover from coal delivery wagons to its discharge into the
mills. The coal sampling system(s) and the magnetic separator(s)



- 83 -
Annex 3.3
Page 8 of 9
and the size, number and capacity of the plant coal crushers are
to be considered in this analysis;
(b)   the stacking procedures used for storing the coal at the site as
it pertains to rain drainage and the size of the storage pile
(plant equivalent operating time), shall be included in the
assessment of the coal handling system;
(c)   the ash handling system shall include the ash pipe conveying
systems from the unit hopper to the storage pond. The integrity
of the ash pond volume is also to be evaluated including the
adequacy of the size of the pond based on load forecasts, the ash
content in the coal and the ash collected with the installation of
the new high efficiency ESP's. The planting of trees and
vegetation on the filled pond surfaces also shall be evaluated;
(d)   the plant water treating and coal analysis test laboratories and
instrument test and repair shop facilities shall also be assessed
for suitability based on the size and complexity of the station;
(e)   the cooling and makeup water systems may be installed as a common
plant system and as such should be included in the inspection and
renovation program. This includes the water storage tanks and the
cooling towers and circulating water pumps and motors;
(f)   the chimney may be installed as a common system and should also be
appraised. This would include the flues and ducts as well as the
insulation and lagging and stack liner(s) integrity; and
(g)   the plant control and instrument systems which are not included in
the units package.
13.         It is recognized that the renovation and modernization of the
units may restore them to full rating. However, it is also apparent that
unless the original causes of the deterioration are also corrected, the units
will return to the same poor condition again in 5 to 6 years time. This is
especially the case if the boiler furnace and convection pass sections
continue to experience the present day coal and ash flow rates. The WT shall
also include in the scope of services a realistic boiler rating which will
permit the unit to operate at acceptable availability rates (902) and
maintenance costs. It is assumed that the balance of the cycle will be
capable of operating at full rating after the modernization of the unit. The
WT shall verify this point. In order to achieve full unit nameplate ratings
and still maintain acceptable performance on the boiler, the VT shall also
investigate and establish the technical and economic feasibility of installing
an additional boiler unit to supplement the lost steam flow from the derated
boilers. This cost shall be evaluated against the addition of new thermal
capacity.



- 84 -
Annex 3.3
Page 9 of 9
Environmental Upgrading
14.         The WT will conduct a thorough inspection of the environmental
aspects of the stations to determine whether they meet established pollution
standards and whether they are generally operated in a way that minimizes
adverse environmental impact. The WT will also review the station's
monitoring arrangements and systems to ascertain their adequacy in light of
existing regulations and current practice. The work of the WT will include
air pollution, coal handling and stacking practices, ash disposal system and
reclamation of ash ponds, water discharges and thermal pollution. The
planting of trees and vegetation on the filled pond surfaces also shall be
evaluated.
15.         The WT will pay particular attention to safety and industrial
security practices being enforced by the stations management on SEBs' staff
and workers and those employed by sabs~ontractors working for the SEB.
Monitoring and Reporting
16.         The WT will submit monthly project progress reports on the status
of the project in each plant, including cost expenditures, cash flow,
schedule, construction progress with pictures, and any and all other matters
of interest pertaining to the overall status of the project and also the
status of the work at each plant site.



- 85 -
Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Preparation of a Training
Program for PFC
1.          Study the various functions to be performed at different levels
within each department of the Power Finance Corporation. Growth Plans of PFC
should be considered to find out functions needed/likely to be performed in
next 5 years.
2.          Determine the expertise required at various levels to efficiently
carry out tasks. This would take into consideration work methods currently
used the likely impact of any computerization/automation. As far as
practicable the dynamics of environment changes and technological innovations
would be kept in mind.
3.          Identify existing skills available within PFC depending upon the
qualifications, experience and training of different personnel.
4.          Evaluate gaps between the skills required to carry out tasks and
skills available within PFC.
5.          Define the type of skills required into technical, inter-
disciplinary and behavioral areas. Special emphasis would be laid on types of
induction level training, refresher training and on the job training, and
retraining of individuals as they move from one level to another.
6.          Evaluate training needs at various levels based on the above, and
classify the as short term (to carry out specific tasks) and long term (to
upgrade inzer-disciplinary skills and behavioral skills).
7.          Study and recommend a corporate training plan for next 3-5 years.
8.          Analyze and recommend an organization set up to look after
training functions in PFC. This includes defining roles and responsibilities
for training officers and mechanisms for their implementation. -Indicate
training resources required and budgetary estimates.
9.          List the institutions within and outside the country that can
provide training to PFC personnel in various functions. List the institutions
for different functional areas of training vis-a-vis their specialization.
10.         Prepare course outlines for various training programs to be
organized on regular basis.



- 86 -
Annex 3.4
Page 2 of 2
11.         Develop a feedback mechanism to evaluate the impact of training
based on participants' feedback, instructors' appraisal and occasional
independent review.
12.         Develop linkage of training to performance evaluation, Cadre
Develo-naent, job enrichment and institutional strengthening of PFC.



- 87 -
Annex 3.5
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
POWER FINANCE CORPORATION
PLAN FOR IMPLEMENTING THE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PRoGRAM
ACTIVITY               SOURCE        STEP 1                STEP 2             STEP 3             STEP 4
OF      ---                   --.-    ----                          ...........
FINANCING   Action   Deadline  Action Deadline  Action   Deadline   Action   Deadline
-- --      .. .....   ......  - - - -   - - -   ......      -  --     ......
1. Strengthening of PFC:
(a) Structure                  1
(b) Managerial FunctAons       I
(incLuding manuals         I
and procedures)           I USAID   Prepare   1 month      Hire     3 months Interim  3 months  Final       6 months
(c) Human Resource Mgmt.       I          T.O.R.    after loan  consul-  after    Action   after      Action     after
(d) SEBa' Support Functions    I                    is made     tants    loan is  Plan     start of  Plan        start of
(e) M.I.S.                     1                    effective            effective         study                 study
(f) Office Technology          l
2. Establish Sector Studies         IBRO   Define    3 month     ApprovaL 4 months Staffing 6 months  Work        8 months
Unit in PFC                             Scope of  after loan by PFC6s after               after     Program    after
Unit      is made     Board    loan is           loan is  for the    loan is
effective            effective         effective First Year effective
3. Establishment of
Pre-investment Fund in PFC
(a) Set-up of Separate Fund    I          Prepare   6 months    Retain   12 months
(b) Define Policies &          I          T.O.R.   after loan  Consul-  after
Procedures                 1   IBRD             is          tents.   loan is
(c) Prepare ManuaLs            I                    effective            effective
(d) Organize Consultants       J
Rtoster                    1
(e) Appoint Staff
4. Enhancement of SESs'                    Prepare   5 months    Retain   12 months
Billing and Collections         USAID/  T.O.R.    after Loan  Consul-  after
IBRD             is made     tents.   loan is
effective            effective
. ............... ........... ...................... ........ ................ ............ ......................... ..............................................
5. Institutional
Development of SEBs:
(a) Preparation of OFAPs       I
(b) Consultancy to             I USAID/  lAs needed according to each individual OFAPI
Implement OFAPs            I   IiRD
(c) Training of SEBs Staff     I
6. Engineering Studies for
System Renovation
(a) Further Improvement to     I          Identify  4 months    Prepare  6 months Retain   12 months
plants renovated during 7thl   IBRO   Require-  after loan  T.O.R.   after    Consul-  after
Plan                       1          ments     is made               Loan is  tants.   loan is
effective            effective         effective
(b) High Priority              I   tBRD   Identify 6 months    Prepare  8 months Retain   14 months
Upgrading of Other PLants  3          Candidate after       T.O.R.   after    Consul-  after
plants    loan Is              ioan is  tents.   loan is
effective            effective         effective



- 88 -
Annex 3.6
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT "ROJECT
Power Finance Corporation Preinvestment Fund
ConceRt and Scope of Operations
Background
1.          Power sector operations and expansion have been hindered in India,
inter alia, by a shortage of adequately prepared schemes to improve efficiency
and to expand system's capacity. The problem is particularly severe in
hydropower projects and distribution schemes but it extends also to renovation
of thermal stations and in some cases to transmission projects. The situation
is the result of inadequate availability of funds to prepare projects and
inadequate staffing of the SEBs or both. Moreover the level of preparation of
many, projects are frequently below that required for financing decisions.
This results in delays in obtaining funding and, more seriously, in unexpected
technical difficulties and cost over-runs duritrg construction.
Objectives
2.          To alleviate the shortage of well prepared projects PFC has
decided to create a Preinvestment Fund (PFCPF) which, would provide financing
for project preparation and design. The proposed PFCPF would f4nance the
following activities according to terms to be established by Pil:
(a)   Preparation of prefeasibility or identification of power expansion
or improvement schemes;
(b)   preparation of feasibility studies for power schemes;
(c)   preparation of detailed engineering for power schemes;
(d)   preparation of studies of institutional nature and those necessary
to improve the managerial, financial or operational efficiency of
power sector or power utilities;
(e)   technical assistance and training necessary to implement actions
recommended in the studies mentioned in (d);
(f)   studies necessary for system integration at regional or national
level and for improved and efficient integrated operation;
(g)   studies of a sectoral nature leading to improve sector-wide
policies and efficiency.



- 89 -
Annex 3.6
Page 2 of 3
Eligible ExRenses for Financing
3.           PFC would finance the following items:
(a)    Salaries (including social benefits), overheads, fees and
reimbursable expenses of consulting firms or individual
consultants retained by the utilities (salaries, social benefits
and overheads of Government ownedO Consultant Organizattons,
Government consultants or utility s staff are not eligible for
Bank financing but reimbursable expenses are);
(b)    purchase of specialized equipment such as surveying and
laboratory equipment, specialized office equipment, computer
hardware and software, equipment required for field
investigation of projects, environmental monitoring equipment,
etc;
(c)    field exploration for projects contracted out including
geological investigations, exploratory, audits, laboratory,
modelling costs, specialized material testing. establishment of
instrumentation systems (hydrological, seismological
environmental, etc.) and any other activities necessary to
support sound technical project design and preparation;
AnDroval of Loans
4.          PFCPF financing would consider upon submission of properly
supported requests submitted by the concerned utilities. The proposal should
include a justification of the proposed study, the scope and terms of
reference, cost estimate and basis for it, schelule of main activities and
detailed arrangements for implementation (i.e. employment of consulting firms,
individual consultants, counter part staff and facilities. etc.) and detailed
procedures to be followed for procurement of goods, works and services.
Amount of Financing
5.          PFC could finance up to 100% of eligible study costs on tents be
determined from time to time by PFC Board.
Source of Funds
6.          PFC would finance the activities of PFCPF through equity
contribution from GOI, grants and loans from various donors and multilateral
financial institutions and reinvestment of profits that may be generated
through its own operations.
Accounts and Audit
7.          Accounts of PFC would be kept in such a way that all PFCPF
operations can be clearly identified and audited by independent auditors.



- 90 -
Annex 3.6
Page 3 of 3
Prganization and Responsibilities
8.          The PFCPF would operate as a specialized unit within PFC and not as
a separate entity. This unit would be staffed as needed to discharge the
following responsibilities:
(a)   Review and recommend to the Board of PFC requests for financing
studies;
(b)   assist potential borrower in the identification and preparation of
financing applications;
(c)   keep a roster of firms and individuals qualified ftc consultancy
assignment for use by users of the PFCPF;
(d)   establish guidelines for selection and use of consultants;
(e)   assist borrowers in the selection of consultants;
(f)   assist borrowers in the preparation of terms of reference and
typical contracts for consultancy services;
(g)   assist borrowers In administration of consultancy contracts; and
(h)   monitor execution of studies.



- 91 -
Annex 3.7
INDIA                                  Page 1 of 5
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Sunmary
Hill. Rs.                     HIll. USS
LocaL  Foreign    Total       Locat  Foreign    Total
A. Sub-projects Fully CLeared:
1.Transmission
Andhra Pradesh                      261      154      415           9         5       15
PunJab                              691      408    1.099          24        14       39
Madhya Pradesh                    1,688      998    2.686          59        35       94
GuJarat                             172      102      274           6         4       10
Sub-total                        2,812    1,662    4,474          99        58      157
2.Dustribution
Anndhra Pradesh                     213      126      339           8         4       12
PunJab                              197      116      313           7         4       11
Madhya Pradesh                      232      137      369           8         5       13
Gujarat                             129       76      205           5         3        7
Sub-total                         771       455    1,226          27        16       43
3.Plant Envirorunent Upgrading
Gujarat                             171      1O1      V72           6         4       10
Total Sub-projects Fully Cteared   3,754    2,218    5.972          132        78      209
B. Sub-projects under preparation
I.Transm. & Distrib.                 226       134      360          88        52      140
2. Plant Envirornental Upgrading     847       500    1.347          61        20       81
Total Sub-projects under prep.      1,073      634    1,707         149        72      221
Total A+B                           4.827    2,852    7.679         281       150      430
C. Project Support Tech. Assist.:
Studies for Syst. Renovation           30       73      103           2         4        6
0. Capacity Building Tech. Assist.:
Institutional Develop. of SE8s        48        50       98           3        3         6
Institutional Devolopment of PFC       10       10       20           1        0         1
E. Creation of Preinv. Fund               75      184      259           4        10       14
TOTAL SASELINE COSTS                   4.990    3,169    8,159         291       165      457
Physical Contingencies                482      284      767          28        15       43
Price Contingencies                 2,318      596    2,915         101        39      140
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     7,791    4,050   11,840         420       219      640
Interest During Construction:
World Bank                            545      583    1.128           19       20       40
Others                                907       62      969          30         2       32
TOTAL FINANCING REWUIRED               9,243    4,695   13,937         470       242      712
...... ..........Totals ma,ntaL....
Note% Totats may not tatty due to rounding.



- 92 -
Annex 3.7
Page 2 of 5
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
GUJARAT STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Project Cost Suanary
Rs. Million                US$ Million
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total
Transmission                          172      102      274        6        4        10
Distribution                          129       76      205        5        3         7
Environment                           171      101      272        6        4        10
.........  ----  ----     .. .....  ...... ... ... .... .
TotaL Baseline Costs-3/91            472      279      751       17        10       26
PhysicaL Contingencies                 47       28       75        2         1        3
Price Contingencies                   227       59      286        8        2        10
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     746      366    1,111       26        13       39
Interest During Construction:
worLd Bank                           31       33       64        1         1        2
Other                                69        0       69        2        0         2
T FN R R1   ....2..   ...... 4  ..3.
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED               846      399    1,244       29        14      43



- 93 -
Annex 3.7
Page 3 of 5
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MADHYA PRADESH ELECTRICITY BOARD
Project Cost Summary
Rs. Mitlion               USS Million
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign    Total
Transmi'sion                        1,688     998    2.685       S9       35       94
Distribution                          232      137     369        8        5        13
... ...  ----   .. ....  .... ...  ----    ------
Total Baseline Costs-3/91          1,919    1,135    3,054      67       40       107
Physical Contingencies                192     113      305        7        4        11
Price Contingencies                  922      239    1,162       32        8       40
-- -    ....   ......  ......   ......    ......_
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  3,034    1,488   4,521        106      52       158
Interest During Construction:
Wo-:d Bank                          83       134     217        3        5        8
Other                              336        0      336        12       0        12
TOTAL FN R E..   .....3......   ---50  ......  ......
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED            3,453    1,622   5,075        120      57      177



- 94 -
Annex 3.7
Page 4 of 5
INDIA
POWER UTiLITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PUNJAB STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Project Cost SLvmary
Rs. Zitlion                USS Mittion
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total
Transmission                          691       408    1,099       24        14       39
Distribution                           197      116      313        7         4       11
Total Baseline Costs-3/91            887       525    1,412       31        18       49
Physical Contingencies                  89       52      141        3         2        5
Price ^ontingencies                   426       111      537       15         4       18
_- -   -- --     -- --     -- -    .. . .   .  . .
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    1,402      688    2,090       49        24       73
Interest During Construction:
World Bank                            38       62      100        1         2        3
Other                                155        0      155        5         0        5
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED              1,596      750    2,346       56        26       82



- 95 -
ANNEX 3.7
Pasge 5 of 5
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVlEMENT PROJECT
. ..... .... ........... ................................
ANDHRA PRADESH STATE ELfCTRICITY BOARD
Project Cost Suunary
Rs. Million                 US$ Million
Local  Foreign    TotaL    Local  Foreign    Total
Transmission                            261       154       415        9         5        15
Distribution                             213      126       339         7        4        12
Total Baseline Costs-3191              474       280       754       17        10        26
Physical Contingencies                   47        28        75         2        1         3
Price Contingencies                     228        59       287        8         2        10
.....   ...... .   ------  ...... ... ......    ..........  . ..... ..... .... 
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       749       367    1,116        26        13        39
Interest During Construction:
World Bank                             20        33        54        1         1         2
Other                                  83         0        83        3         0         3
.....   ......T  ...... 1,2-3-30   ......    .....14    ..
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                 852       401    1,2F3        30        14        4



- 96 -
Annex 3.8
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
1.          Procurement of materials and equipment for the project would be
carried out by individual beneficiary SEBs under the coordination of PFC.
Model bidding documents, approved by the Bank, would be used to ensure
consistency of procedures. PFC plans to hold two main international bidding
rounds as follows:
Activity                                    Date                Date
(Phase I)          (Phase II)
Finalization of bid documents             10/91
Invitation of bids                        12/91-2/92          4/92-6/92
Bid opening                               3192-5192           7/92-9/92
Bid evaluation and review by Bank         5/92-7/92           9/92-11/92
Award of Contracts                        6/92-8/92           10/92-6/94
The main packages to be procured comprise the follo-tng materials, equipment
and works:
Transmission Towers                        Conductor & Earthwire
Insulators & Hardware                      HV Transformers & Reactor
Circuit Breakers                           Isolators
CTs, CVTs, PTs                             Lightning Arrestors
Miscellaneous Equipment for:               Power Cables
Circuit Breakers & Instrumentation        Distribution
Meters                                     Conductor
Power Transformers                         Capacitors
Rail Poles                                 Concrete Poles
Steel Structures                           Batteries and Chargers
Insulators and Fittings                    Earthwire
Low-tension Circuit                        Lightning Arrestors
Communications Equipment                   Miscellaneous Equipment
Erection of Equipment                      Miscellaneous Civil
Land                                       Antipollution Equipment
Engineering and Administration             Studies for System
Studies for SEBs Development               Studies for PFC Development
Preinvestment Studies



- 97 -
Annex 3.8
Page 2 of 2
2.          Invitation of proposals for consuLing services for Training and
Institutional Development of PFC would be procured starting in January 1992.
Consultancs are expected to mobilize by July 1992. Consultants for the SEBs
would be retained in accordance with the timetable agreed in the OFAPs for
each SEB.



- 98 -
Annex 3.2
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Proposed Project                            Starndard
Bank FY          Half Yearly                                         Profilel/
and Semester     Disbursement      Cumulative      Cumulative Z CumulativeZ
1992  I                  0           0                  0            0
II             15.9            15.9               6            6
1993  I               10.6           26.5              10            10
II             21.2            47.7              18           18
1994  I               21.2           68.9              26            26
II             31.8           100.7              38           38
1995   I              42.4          143.1              54            54
II             31.8           174.9              66           66
1996   I              10.6          185.5              70            74
II             21.2           206.7              78            78
1997   I              21.2          227.9              86            86
II             31.8           259.7              98           90
1998   I               5.3          265.0             100           100
iL Standard Disbursement Profiles. All Regions, Distribution Transmission.



- 99 -
ANNEX 4.1
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SES's FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 1986-1990
(Rs. Million)
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90        Total
FY86-FY90
A. Consolidated Income Statement
Operating kevenue                         67,913   83,623   95,566  112,070  128,203      487,375
Rural Elec. Subsidy                        3,763    9,283   14,849   11,805    9,662       54,362
Total Revenue                            76,676   92,906  110,415  123,875  137,865      541,737
Operation & Maintenance                   59,507   70,937   R5,666  100,328  115,176      431,614
Depreciation                               6,102    6,953    8,037    9,230   10,812       41,134
TotaL Operating Expenditures              65,609   77,890   93,703  109,558  125,988      472,748
Income before Interest                    11,067   15,016   16,712   14,317   11,877       68,989
interest: to Goverment                    10,334   12,498   14,288   16,629   19,647       73,396
to Others                       7,630    8,881   10,733   13,065   14,922        55,231
Net Income                                (6,897)  (6,363)  (8,309) (15,377) (22,692)    (59,638)
8. Estimate of Internal Cash Generation:
Income before Interest                    11,067   15,016   16,712   14,317   11,877       68,989
Depreciation                               6,102    6,953    8,037    9,230   10,812       41,134
Gross Internal Generation                 17,169   21,969   24,749   23,547   22,689      110,123
Less:Subsidy not received (a)              8,763    9,283   14,849   11,805    9,662       54,362
Increase in Receivables(b)           3,528    3,928    2,986    8,609    4,679        23,729
Interest payments(c)                 7,630    8,881   10,733   13.065   14,922        55,231
Repayment of Loans                    5,251    6,470    8,018    9,342    9,289       38,370
Net Ir.ternal Cash Generation             (8,003)  (6,593) (11,837) (19,274) (15,863)    (61,569)
Net Int. Cash Generation US$ million        (635)    (509)    (850)  (1,188)    (910)       (4,091)
C. Financial Ratios
---------------                                                                       Average
Net Fixed assets, beg. of year           136,870  166,060  180,850  204,570  244,220      191,545
Average Rate of Return (d)                  -5.0     -3.8      -4.6     -7.5     -9.3         -6.2
Adjusted Av. Rate of Return(e)             -11.3     -9.4    -12.8    -13.3    -13.2         -11.9
Debt Service Coverage (f)                   0.65     0.83     0.53      0.52     0.54        0.60
Debt Service Coverage (g)                   0.36     0.46     0.30      0.30     0.30        0.33
Source: Planning Comission, Annual Reports on the Uorkings of the SE0s,
New Delhi, 1989, 1990; PFC data.
(a) Subsidies are seldom paid. In some cases they are upset against interest.
(b) Assuming that receivables are equivalent to about 90 days of sales .
tc) Assumes that interests on Goverrnment Loans are not paid.
(d) On net historical fixed assets, after interest.
(e) Adjusted for subsidies not received.
(f) Adjusted for subsidies not received. Excludes interest on Goverrumnt loans
(g) Adjusted for subsidies not received. Includes interest on Government loans



- 100 -
Annex 4.2
INDIA                                        Page 1 of 4
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY 1MPROVEMENT PROJECT
POWER FINANCE CORPORATION
Historical and Projected Income Statemnts
(Rs Million)
Fiscal Year ending
March 31                       1987-88  1988-89  1989-90  1990-91  1991-92  1992-93  1993-94  1904-95
< -  ActuaLs----------> Estimates<------- Projected.---------.------
Interest Income
Interest on Loans                   1       112       G7    1,263    3,015    4,522    7,245    9,667
Income fros. Investments           57       489      570    1,043      822       732      767      784
Total Operating income              57      601   41,156    2,306    3,837    5,253    8,012   10,451
:peratini Expense
Administration                       1        8       16       33        53       72       92      115
Bond Issue Exr .nses                24       16       20       24       62        80       93      100
Interest:9% Bonds                  26       349      642      990    1,260    1,260    1,260    1,260
11.5 Bonds                          6        29       58       81      121       193      293
13% Bonds                           0         0        0      390    1,268    2,308    3,44S
IBRD                                                  19       78      186       353        0
Other Foreign Loans                  0        0       55      176      248       253      253
other                               11        3       36        0         0        0        0
Total Interest Cost                26      366      673    1,158    1,985    3,082    4,366    5,251
Financing Charges                                               6        7         9       10       12
Total Operating Expenses            52      390      709    1,221    2,107    3,242    4,561    5,478
Prior Year Adjustments                         0        3
Incom  before taxes                  6       211      450    1,085    1,730    2,011    3,452    4,973
Less: Provision for taxes             c       63      146      275      363       422      725    1,044
etInom4       14       34        10    1,6 .... ...... ......2............7... 2
Ilet Incane                           4      148      3tl4     810    1,366    1,589    2,727    3,928



- 101 -
Arsex 4.2
POWER FINANCE CORPORATION                                              Page 2 of 4
Historicat and Projected Sources and A plication of Funds
(Ras Milion)
Fiscal Year e,iding              1987-88  1988-89  1989-90  1990-91  1991-92  1992-93  1993-94  1994-95              Total      Total
March 31                          -------ActuaLs.--     ---> Estimates ------- Projected-................    FY88-FY90 FY91-FY95
--------,,--- ----.---..-- --...   -...   .- -...-   .,   .--  ................. ...........  ........  ........... ..... .
Sources of Funds
Surptus from Previous Year                    1,302    4,594    i,502    8,216    7,318    7,674    7,839                   0    2,502
Equity Contribution                 1,000    2,000    3,000    2,201    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000               6,000   10,201
Borrowings:                                                                                                                 0        0
IBRO                                                                         332       690    1,193    1,t29              0    3,944
Other Foreign Loans                              0         0    1,106    1,318         105         0         0             0    2,529
Issue of Bonds 9X(10 yrs)          1,000    6,000    1,000    6,000            0         0         0         0        8,000    6,000
Issue of Bonds 11.5X(20yrs)                    200       200       200       200       500       750    1,000           400    2,650
Issue of Bonds 13X(7yrs)                         0         0         0    6,000    7,500    8,500    9,000                0   31,000
Other Loans                                    574       500                                                          1,074         0
Repayment Received                              285       600    1,576    1,341    2,524    3,666    5,400               885   14,507
Retained earnings                       4       148       304       810    1,366    1,589    2,727    3,928              456   10,421
Incr. in Current Liabitities           62        67        34       223        39        42        47        51          163       401
Other                                             0          1        0                                                     1         0
. ........... ........................................ ...............................................................
Total Sources                     2,066   10,576   10,i33   14,618   20,812   22,269   26,555   30,948              16,978   84,155
. ....... ............................. ...................................................... ..........................................
Application of Funds
Loans Disbursed                     1,011    4,978    6,976    8,968   10,640   14,370   18,440   22,920              12,965   75,338
Debt Repayment                                     0      525       549         0         0         0        28          525       577
Fixed Assets                                      2         1         3         5         5         5         5            3        23
Increase in Current Assets           (248)   1,003        229   (3,116)   2,849         220       271       335          983       558
Increase in Other Assets                1        (1)       (0)       (2)        0         0         0         0           (0)       (2)
Short Term Investment               1,302    4,594    2,502    8,216    7,318    7,674    7,839    7,660               2,502    7,660
.... ..... ................................. ...................................................
Total Applications                2,066   10,576   10,233   14,618   20,812   22,269   26,555   30,9                16,978   84,155
-......--------......---------...... ..----....-..---......----....---.. ...---..........--...--....... -...   ....  ....-. ........ ..................



- 102 -
Amnex 4.2
... ... ..... .....
Page 3 of 4
POWER FINANCE CORPORATION
Historical and Projected Salance Sheets
(Rs Million)
Fiscal Year eadirn
Warch 31                       1987-88  1988-89  1989-90  1990-91  1991-92  199Z-93  1993-94  1994-95
. -------Actuals--------- > Estimates ------- Projected----       ----->
Liabilities and Equity         .................................................. --------------------
...... .......... ....
Equity
Paid-up Capital                  1,304    3,304    6,304    8,505   10,505   12,505   14,505   16,505
Reserves & Surplus:
Special Reserve                           122       302      700    1,247    2,051    3,432    5,421
Debenture Redbopt. .eserve         0       25       148      168      851       851      851       851
General Reserve & Surplus          2        4         5      397      534    1,318    2,664    4,604
Totat Equity                    1,308    3,455    6,759    9,770   13,137   16,725   21,452   27,381
Long-term Liabilities
Bonds                            1,000    7,249   ca,400   14,600   20,800   28,800   38,050   48,050
IDRD                                                                    332    1,022    2,187    3,831
Other Foreign Debt                   0         0        0    1,106    2,424    2,529    2,529    2,529
Other                                          0        0        0         0        0        0         0
Total Long-term Liabilities    1,000    7,249    8,400   15,706   23,556   32,351   42,766   54,409
Current Liabilities
Current Naturitiesz                   0      525       549        0         0        0       28        85
Other                            62      129       163      385      424       466      512       564
Total Current Liabilities          62      654       712      385      424       466      540       649
~~~~~. .......................................... ............................._ 
Total Liabilities and Equity      2,370   11,358   15,871   25,861   37,116   49,542   64,758   82,439
_........ .... _. .    _ _ . _.. ...... . .......  ...... . . . . . . . .
Assets
Short Term Investments            1,303    4,594    2,502    8,216    7,318    7,674    7,839    7,660
Loons & Advances                    726    5,104   10,504   18,131   26.24?   36,951   49,991   67,511
Current Assets
Repayment Due Next Year            285      600    1,576    1,341    2,524    3,666    5,400    5,400
Cash &   nk B0talances              14      800    1,078   (2,041)       787      984    1,230    1,537
Other                               38       255      206      208       229      252       277      305
Total Current Assets              337    1,655    2,859      (492)   3,540    4,901    6,907    7,242
Fixed Assets                                   2         3        6        11       16       21        26
Other Assets                          4         3        3        1         1        1         1        1
. ....... ....... .............. .......... .......................... . . . .. 
Total Assets                      2,3?0   11,358   15,871   Z5,861   37,116   49,542   64,758   82,439
............. ..........................  *.............................................................................



- 103 -
Annex 4.2
Page 4 of 4
POWER FINANCE CORPORATION
Historicat and Projected Performance Indicators
Fiscal Year ending             1987-88  1988-89  1989-90  1990-91  1991-92  1992-93  1993-94  1994-95
Merch 31                         -------Actuals.---------  Estimates ------- Projected-.---------------
... ... .................. .............. ......................... .. ...... ........
A-EARNINGS PERFORMANCE
Internal Generated (IG)RsHilt.        4       433      379    1,837    2,707    4,113    6,392    9,301
IG as X of Loans Disbursed            0         9        5        20       25        29       35        41
Interest as X of Expenses            49        81       79        77       80        84       83        81
Net Returm  on Portfolio  X          0.4      3.5       2.9      4.5      5.2       4.3       5.5      5.5
Net Return on Total Assets  %       0.2       1.3       1.9      3.1      3.7       3.2       4.2      4.8
Income Growth Rate X                                 105.7    166.6      68.6      16.3     71.6      44.1
Revenue Growth Rate X                                 92.4      99.4     66.4      36.9      52.5     30.4
Admninist. as X of PortfoLio        0.1       0.2       0.2      0.2      0.2       0.2       0.2      0.2
Return on Net Worth X               0.3       4.3      4.5       8.3      10.4      9.5      12.7     14.3
Return on Paid-up Capital           0.3       4.5      4.8       9.5      13.0     12.7      18.8     23.8
Interest Paid as X of Income       45.6      60.9     58.2      50.2     51.7      58.7     54.5      50.2
Profit as% of Operating Income       7.0     24.6     26.3      35.1     35.6      30.2      34.0     37.6
Average Cost of Borrowings X                 8.34      8.05     9.24      9.80    10.62    11.16    11.52
Interest Spread X                            4.16     4.45      3.26     2.70      4.38     3.84      3.48
B-LIQUIDITY RATIOS
Debt Service Coverage (DSCR)         2.2      2.4       1.5      2.3       2.6      2.5       2.7      3.0
DSCR Excluding Collections           2.2      *.6       1.0      1.4       1.9      1.7       1.8      2.0
Liquid Assets: Next Period
Disbursements (months)           3.17      9.28     4.79      6.96     6.77      5.63     4.75      8.51
C-CAPITAL ADEQUACY
Debt:Equity Ratio                    0.8      2.2       1.4      1.7       1.8      1.9       1.9      1.9



- 104 -
Annex 4.3
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Assumptions Followed In Financial Projections
Base Case
Income Statement
1.    Interest on Loans:              12.5Z p.a. up to 1991/92; 15?
afterwards.
2.    Income from Investments:        10? p.a. on cash reserves invested.
3.    Administration:                 one half of one percent of loans disbursed
during the year.
4.    Bond Issue Expense:             1? of the bonds floated during the year.
5.    Tax Provision:                  212 of income before taxes.
Sources and Applications of Funds
1.    Equity Contribution:            it was assumed that GOI would continue
making its contributions towards PFC's
capital at the same pace of prerious
years.
2.   Borrowings:                      although it is recognized that, to help
develop PFC into a major player in the
power sector, GOI intends to allow it to
tap the domestic market in amounts much
larger than those of the initial years,
for the base case it was decided to take a
more pessimistic approach. Accordingly,
the level of borrowing grows gradually.
On the other hand, the limitations in the
availability of 10 year, 92 and 20-year,
11.5? bonds, were taken into
consideration. Most of the borrowing is
assumed to be through 7 years, 13t bonds.
On-lending from GOI to PFi of the proceeds
of foreign loans is assumed at 11.5Z p.a.,
with a total maturity of 15 years
including 3 years grace period. GOI
assumes the foreign exchange risk.



- 105 -                          Annex 4.3
Page 2 of 2
3.    Repayment Received:      In the spite of the securities designed into PFC
operations, to maintain a conservative margin it
was assumed that only 80? of the payments due
were collected.
4.    Loans Granted:           Several factors affect the future level of PFC's
lending. These include: (a) receptivity to
PFC's conditionality; (b) ability of clients to
comply with PFC's eligibility criteria; (c)
availability to SEBs/SGCs of alternative sources
of funds; and (d) PFC's own access to sources of
financing. For thebe reasons, a rather
conservative posture was assumed. However, it
is recognized that the level of lending assumed
in the base case may not be compatible with the
share of the sector funding GOI expects to take
in the Eighth Plan.
Balance Sheet
Investments:                   The cash reserve was assumed equivalent to
about six months of disbursements. It was
assumed that it would be invested in
assets readily convertible into cash.



- 106 -
Annex 4.4
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis - Selected Cases
Case "A"
Parameters (1990191-1994/95):
(a)       Lending Volume: Rs 125,000 million, at 12.5Z p.a.
(b)       Foreign Borrowing: Rs 10,000 million (112 of borrowings), at 82 p.a. plus 62
foreign exchange risk.
(c)       10-year, 9% Bonds: Rs 46,800 million (532 of borrowing).
*d)       20-year, 11.52 Bonds: Rs 31,200 million (35Z of borrowing).
Financial Performance:
Fiscal Year Ending                       90-91 91-92 92-93 93-94 94-95
March 31                                  <---------Projected---------->
IRG as Z of Loans Granted-Rs. Million   11    14    20    27    34
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR)       2.2   2.1   2.2   2.4   2.5
DSCR Excluding Collections               1.9   1.8   1.7   1.6   1.6
Interest as Z of Operating Expenses       80    83    85    86    87
Net Return on Portfolio Z                3.9   3.4   3.2   3.1   3.1
Administration as Z of Portfolio          0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
Return on Net Worth 2                   13.1  13.2  13.5  13.7  13.6
Debt Equity Ratio                        2.6   3.1   3.4   3.6   3.6
Case "BO
Parameters (1990/91-1994/95)
(a)       Lending Volume: Rs 44,650 million, at 152 p.a.
(b)       Foreign Borrowing: Rs 6,400 million (26Z of borrowings), at 142 p.a.
(c)       10-year, 9% Bonds: nil.
(d)       20-year, 11.5Z Bonds: Rs 16,750 million (67X of borrowing).
(e)       7-year, 13? Bonds: 1,750 (72 of borrowings).
(f)       Cost to the Equity: 1O0  of share capital.



- 107 -
Annex 4.4
Page 2 of 2
Financial Performance:
Fiscal Year Ending                 90-91  91-92  92-93  93-94  94-95
March 31                           <-      ---Projected----------->
IRG As X of Loans Disbursed       15.74   26.60   35.78   33.98  33.92
Debt Service Coverage Ratio        2.15    2.60    2.86    2.65   2.50
Interest as Z of Optg Cost        98.20   97.82   97.51   97.43  97.38
Return on Loan Portfolio           4.73    5.61    5.26    4.90   4.66
Admn Expl Portfolio                0.06    0.06    0.06    0.05   0.05
Return on Net Worth 2             12.61   14.24   13.40   12.88  12.85
Interest Paid As 2 Of Total       47.53   43.43   45.65   48.46  50.91
Case "C"
Parameters (1990191-1994195)
Substantially the same as the Base Case, but assuming PFC's lending rate remains at
12.5?
(a)      Lending Volume: Rs 73,338 million, at 12.5% p.a.
(b)      Foreign Borrowing: Rs 6,051 million.
(c)       10-year, 91 Bonds: Rs 6,000 million.
(d)      20-year, 11.52 Bonds: Rs 2,650 million.
(e)       7-year, 13Z Bonds: Rs 29,800 million.
(f)      Cost to the Equity: 10? of share capital.
Financial Performance:
Fiscal Year Ending                 90-91  91-92  92-93  93-94  94-95
March 31                           <---        Projected- -- -->
IRG as X of Loans Disbursed           21   24    27      31     33
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR) 2.3  2.4   2.3    2.5        2.5
DSCR Excluding Collections           1.4  1.7   1.6    1.6      1.6
Interest as Z of Ope. Expenses        77   82    86      86      87
Net Return on Portfolio X            3.2  2.8   2.9    3.0       3.1
Administration as Z of Portfolio   0.2  0.2   0.2    0.2         0.2
Return on Net Worth 2                8.5  9.0   9.3    9.5       9.8
Debt Equity Ratio                    1.7  2.2   2.2    2.2       2.2



- 108 -
Annex 5.1
Page 1 of 19
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PUNJAB SEB TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.       Punjab State Electricity Board is seeking PFC financing under the
proposed Bank loan for its proposed set of transmission and distribution
expansion schemes. This section illustrates the methodology applied by PFC in
evaluating the economic viability of the T&D schemes based on the approach
recommended by the Bank. Similar analyses were undertaken in the economic
appraisal of project proposals from other SEBs.
2.       To assess the economic viability of PSEB's proposed transmission and
distribution schemes, the sub-projects were reviewed as to whether:
(a) they are part of t.ie least cost power system expansion program for
the State as well as for the Northern Region p..wer grid; and
(b) the investments will yield adequate economic benefits to the country.
Pro.ect Scope and Objectives
3.       Punjab SEB's proposed project for PFC financing from the World Bank
loan consists of:
(a) construction of about 331 km of single circuit and 250 km of double
circuit 220 kV lines, and associated substation with aggregate
transformer capacity of 600 MVA; and
(b) reinforcement of distribution system in seven (7) major towns by
providing additional sub-transmission lines, associated sub-station
and distribution transformers as well as capacitor banks and meters.
4.       The transmission system improvements will help meet the growing
electricity demand in Punjab State by facilitating the evacuation of power
from the 2x210 MW capacity additions to PSEB's Ropar Thermal Plant and Guru
Nanak Development Thermal Plant (GNDTP), respectively. In addition, the
project will improve the dispersal of the allocated share of power from the
nodal point of the central sector (NTPC and NHPC). Other components of the
transmission project involving network revamping will result in the upgrading
of delivery voltages, increased service reliability and reduced system losses.



- 109 -
Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 19
5.       The parallel expansion and reinforcement of the discribution system
being proposed is expected to result in delivery of electricity to more users,
increased reliability of existing services and lower distribution losses.
Market Profile.
6.       Over the past 5 years, peak demand for power served by the Punjab
grid, increased at an average annual rate of 12.7% reaching 2,771 MW in
1989/90. Actual peak demand is however estimated to be even higher in view of
the load curtailments that have been experienced due to the shortage of demand
capacity at periods of system peak. In the coming 5 years, peak demand is
expected to grow at an average of 7.3% per annum or to just below 4000 MW by
1994/95. Energy sales have increased since 1985 at a corresponding rate of
12.3%, and is estimated to have reached 12,037 GWh in 1989/90.   Sales is
projected to rise at a yearly average of 7.1% growing to nearly 17,000 GWh by
1994/95.
7.       The present structure of electricity demand in Punjab comprise of
39.7% agricultural, 34.6% industrial, 11.0% domestic, 7.8% fertilizer
production served through common hydro pool, 2.6% commercial, and the balance
of 4.3% for streetlighting and bulk supply. The high share of agricultural
demand is expected to be sustained over the coming years since Punjab is a
lead agriculture center of India accounting for about 60% of the country's
cereal production.
Svstem SUDPly
8.       PSEB's current installed capacity is 3,050 MW consisting of 1280 MW
coal-fired plants, 515 MW of hydro and 1254 MW share of common pool
hydroplant.  In addition, PSEB has an allocation of 575 MW from the central
sector power projects operated by NHPC and NTPC.
9.       The Board operates an extensive high voltage transmission grid at
voltages of 220 kV, 132 kV, 66 kV and 33 kV. Major expansion has occurred in
the 220 kV and 66 kV network, including upgrading of 132 kV supply to 220 kV,
and of 33 kV supply to 66 kV, At the same time, the 33 kV network is
progressively being phased out. PSEB's substation capacity has expanded at an
average annual rate of 7.6% since 1984. As of March 31, 1989, PSEB's
transmission and distribution facilities are as follows:
Table 1: PSEB's T&D Network
Voltage            TED Lines                  Substation
(in ckt.km.)            No.      Capacity (MVA)
220 kV               1646                 18            2812
132 kV               2773                 52            2833
66 kV               3140                198            3033
33 kV               1535                108             912
Total               9094                376            9590
S    



- 110 -
Annex 5.1
Page 3 of 19
System Operation
10.      System peak normally occurs in late summer and fall (September to
November) under high temperature conditions. The rise in demand is primarily
due to irrigation pumping requirements for agricultural purposes. In 1989/90,
the peak demand of 2771 MW was registered in September and the system's load
factor was about 65%. Transmission and distribution losses were 17%.
11.      Generation dispatch in the grid is based on the seasonal pattern of
hydro production which accounts for about 60% of the system's energy
requirements. Major pondage inflows occur in summer, during the monsoon
season, and after winter when snow melt from the mountains. Overhaul
maintenance of theri,ial stations is pursued at time of maximum hydro
production; conversely, hydroplant maintenance is carried out when irrigation
releases are low, at which time, thermal production is maximized.
12.      This seasonal interplay of thermal and hydro production is a critical
factor in the design of PSEB's transmission network. A salient feature of the
proposed project is the strengthening of the transmission linkage between the
thermal and hydro stations so as to permit optimum and flexible operation of
the grid under varying conditions of hydro and thermal mix.
Least Cost Analysis
13.      The PSEB has carried out internal staff studies to arrive at the
least cost options of attaining the operational objectives targetted by their
proposed projects. These analyses were in terms of detailed load flow studies
to identify the weak points of the network and possible circuit and
transformer overloadings. Alternatives satisfying system reliability and
voltage design criteria have been examined at various stages of planning to
arrive at the best option based on technical and cost considerations.
14.      PFC has reviewed the alternative options considered by the PSEB.  In
a number of cases, there were no reasonable alternatives to the proposed
schemes, e.g. the stringing of a second circuit on transmission towers
already erected and lines traversing the shortest direct route between
designated loading points. Moreover, as in other systems, PSEB has generally
standardized transmission system voltages at 220 kV and conductor ratings at
100 MVA per circuit, such that consideration of alternative voltages have
largely been limited to cases of upgrading from 132 kV to 220 kV. For sub-
transmission systems, the voltages and type of substations depend on various
factors, such as load density and network layout. Transformer size and
ratings have also been standardized; the most common voltage ratings of the
secondary sub-transmission systems are 132/110/66/33 kv, and for primary
distribution system, 11, 22 or 6.6 kV.
15.      The 220 kV works itself have been cleared by CEA following its
transmission planning criteria. These criteria require transmission systems
to be planned based on regional self-sufficiency, capable of transmitting the



-                             All -
Page 4 of 19
respective state's allocation from the Central Sector, and able co withstand
specified levels of outages I/ without having to resort to load shedding or
rescheduling of plant generation.
16.      In the case of distribution schemes, whenever possible, low cost
alternatives have been considered by PSEB, e.g., outdoor substations over
indoor, overhead lines following shortest direct routes over underground
cables, etc. Since the schemes cover mainly critical works for immediate
relief to the systems and are to meet the load growth up to the next five
years only, consideration of alternative voltages was limited. The procedure
adopted by PSEB has been to select the reinforcement and renovation
requirement in the distribution system to satisfy design criteria mutually
agreed with PFC. These criteria cover statutory requirements of supply (e.g.,
voltage regulation), reliability norms, flexibility for future expansion and
other technical considerations.
State  oer Investment grogram Analysis
17.      The State Power Investment Plan for Punjab calls for the installation
by PSEB of 930 MW of generating plant addition between 1990 and 1995, of whi.h
over 90% is in terms of additional coal thermal capacity. Together with the
planned transmission and distribution improvements, the program will involve
capital outlays of about Rs 21 billion (excluding IDC and contingency) over
the five-year period ending 1995. Of this aggregate investment, 60%
represents the cost of generation plant expansion, 26% for transmission
development, and the balance of 14% for distribution improvement. PSEB's
system expansion under the program will be further supplemented by additional
power allocation from the Central Sector resulting from NTPC's and NHPC's
respective investment expansion activities. Energy transfers from the Central
Sector is projected to increase from 2144 Gwh in 1988/89 to 3438 GWh in
1991/92 and stabilizing thereafter.
18.      Under the Program, reserve capacity margin is expected to decline
from 29% to 15% suggesting that peak capacity shortfall will continue to be a
problem despite the planned plant additions.
State Proaram Costs
19.      In addition to the capital costs of the program, the operating and
maintenance (O&M) expenses associated with ,he grid operation including the
cost of energy purchases from the Central Sector were considered. The cost
and technical operating parameters assumed are:
(a) Fuel costs are based on the purchase price of Rs 642 per ton of coal
and Rs 3.33 per liter of fuel oil; and fuel consumption rates of 0.66
kg per kWh generated for coal, and 0.0132 kg per kWh for oil as per
existing plant operation;
11 These are outages of (a) two circuit of 220 kV system, or (b) of one
circuit of 400 kV or higher voltage system, or (c) of one pole of HVDC
bipole, or (d) of an EHV transformer.



- 112 -
Annex 5.1
Page 5 of 19
(b) Annual capacity factor of thermal units is taken at 60%; auxiliary
consumption at 8%;
(c) Other O&M expenses are estimated at 2.0% of capacity cost for
generation, 2.5% for transmission, and 3% for distribution. These
estimates are consistent with historical levels of O&M costs of PSEB
with due allowance for incremental effects of plant improvements; and
(d) Purchases from Central Sector projects was priced at Rs 0.44 per kWh
based on anticipated price levels to be set by NHPC and NTPC.
20.      In calculating the economic costs, taxeE and duties are excluded from
the above financial estimates, and local currency costs subject to a standard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8.   Coal used at PSEB's thermal plants are
railed from mines situated near the border of Bihar and West Ber.gal and is
classified as low grade CIL class E steaming coal with specific heating value
of 16.0 GJ/Tonne (or 3800 to 3900 kcal/kg). In view of its relatively poor
quality and low heating value, the coal is considered non-tradeable and its
economic cost is estimated at Rs 429 per ton.   The economic price of fuel oil
is based on the border price plus local handling and delivery costs and is
estimated at Rs 2.5 per liter.
State Program Benefits
21.      The benefits of the State Power Investment Program consist of the
additional power supply arising from capacity expansion in power plants
(930 MW) as well as in the transmission and distribution network.
Commissioning of new generation facilities is expected to meet increases in
system demand as well as displace less efficient thermal generation during the
plants' initial years of operation.
Table 2: Projected Energy Dispatch from New PSEB Capacity
(in GWh)
Additional GWh            GWh Displacement      Total GWh
Fiscal Year        Input to System       of Less Efficient Units  Generation
1991-92                619                         853                1472
1992-93                1783                       1160                2943
1993-94                2705                       1160                 3865
1994-95                4045                        423                4468
1995-96 onward         4468                         -                 4468
22.      The benefit due to incremental power supply (including those
resulting from power purchases) is assessed in terms of the revenues derived
from the equivalent electricity sales (assuming 17% T&D lo3ses). The pattern
of end-user consumption is assumed to remain stable at 40% agriculture, 40%
industries, and 20% residential/commercial. Average sales revenue is assumed
to remain constant at Rs 0.70 per kWh based on prevailing tariffs and State



- 113 -
Annex 5.1
Page 6 of 19
subsidy. PSEB's average tariff increased by less than 5% a year since 1984/85
and has thus not kept abreast with inflation. Domestic and industrial
customers have shouldered most of the increase, while agricultural users
enjoyed even larger tariff subsidy resulting in reduced agricultural rates of
Rs 0.08 per kWh in 1988/89 compared to Rs 0.19 per kWh in 1985.
23.      For the purpose of determining the economic value of electricity
consumption, the prevailing tariff adjusted by SCF of 0.8 is taken as the
lower limit of the consumers' willingness to pay, i.e. Rs 0.56 per kWh. The
upper limit is established based on the consumers' cost of electricity from
alternative power sources. For residential and commercial consumption, the
alternative is taken to be the cost of autogeneration from small diesels
estimated at Rs 2.75 per kWh. For industrial users, the relevant cost is that
of autogeneration from larger diesel units (250-400 kW) estimated at Rs 2.07
per kWh. For agricultural consumers, the upper limit was taken to be the
equivalent energy cost of providing irrigation pumping from diesel pumps in
lieu of electric pumps, estimated at Rs 3.41 per kWh. Applying these costs to
the sectoral pattern of electricity consumption in Punjab yields an average
upper limit of Rs 2.74 per kwh. To estimate the consumer surplus, it is
assumed that to avail of additional power, consumers will be willing to pay a
premium equivalent to about 50% of the difference between the cost of
substitutes and existing tariffs; i.e., an average consumer surplus of Rs 1.09
per kWh.
24.      The value of energy displacement of generation from less efficient
thermal generation is expressed in terms of cost savings arising from the
higher thermal efficiency derived from the operation of the new units compared
to the existing units at GNDTP at Bhatinda.
Investment Returns on State Program
25.      Financial evaluation of the 5-year State Power Investment Program
indicates that for as long as the ex.sting average tariff of Rs 0.70 per kWh
prevails, the program will yield a negative financial return. The cost of
incremental supply attributable to the program is Rs 0.92 per kWh sold,
assuming zero interest rate of financing. Of this, Rs 0.785 per kWh is due to
the generation component; Rs 0.087 per kWh is due to transmission, and Rs
0.05 per kWh due to distribution. If the program were to yield sufficient
financial margins to service funds at say, 12% interest, the tariff would have
to be set to at least Rs 1.41 per kWh. The OFAP mutually agreed to between
PSEB and PFC will address deficiencies in PSEB's financial operations, and if
successfully implemented will improve the financial returns to PSEB's
investment program.
26.      In contrast, the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the State
Power Expansion Program is 2i6, yielding a net present value (NPV) at 12% of
Rs 12,634 million. Benefits considered include the consumer surplus
associated with incremental electricity sales. If consumer surplus were
excluded, the EIRR would be negative given that tariffs continue to be set
below the marginal cost of supply.



- Ii.s -
Annex 5.1
Page -' of 19
27.      Sensitivity analyses under conditions of reduced electricity sales,
project cost overruns and delayed commissioning result in the following
indicators of economic returns:
Table 3: Results of Sensitivity Analyses of the State Prozram
EIRR                 NPV at 12%
(V)                 (Rs million)
Base case                               26                     12,634
Benefits less 20%                       18                       5,772
Costs over 20%                          20                      8,468
Benefits less 20% and costs over 20%   13                       1,438
One year delay in commissioning         20                      8,903
28.      Even under adverse variations in benefit and cost levels, the State
investment program is expected to yield more than the target minimum economic
rate of return of 12%. Nevertheless, prudent control of program expenditures
will have to be exercised together with efficient operation of proposed system
facilities to ensure that the program's service targets are fully met and
benefits maximized.
Average Incremental Cost (AIC) of Power SuDPlY
29.      As a measure of the long run marginal cost (LRMC) of el :tricity in
the State of Punjab, the average incremental cost (AIC) of supply at the
levels of generation, transmission and distribution were derived based on the
costs associated with the State's Power Investment Program. The resulting AIC
estimates per kWh sold, at the discount rate of 12%, are: Rs 0.81 per kWh at
the generation level, Rs 0.162 per kWh at transmission, and Rs 0.09 per kWh at
distribution. The total AIC per kWh sold comes to Rs 1.062 per kWh compared
to the value of electricity based on an estimate of consumers' "willingness to
pay" of Rs 1.65 per kWh.
Northern Region ExRansion Program Analysis 2/
30.      PSEB's proposed transmission projects have been sanctioned by CEA as
consistent with the overall power development plan for the Northern Rlegion
Power Grid.  In addition to Punjab, the regional plan is based on the power
requirements of the States of Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan,
Uttar Pradesh, and the union territories of Chandigarh and Delhi.
/ This discussion is based on the regional program analysis undertaken in
connection with the Northern Region Transmission Project. The
calculations were adjusted with respect to: (a) consideration of 0 and
M expenses starting only in 1996/97; and (b) exclusion of projected
increases in tariff level to match the constant tariff assumption used
in the evaluation of the State program and of the individual sub-
projects.



- 11S -
Page 8 of 19
31.      Peak load served by the grid has expanded at an annual average rate
of 13.2% from 5,694 MW in 1981/82 to 11,991 MW in 1987/88. Energy deliveries
grew at an average of 10.1% per annum, 'rom 30,035 GWh to 53,566 GWh over the
same period. However, regional grid supply has been unable to keep pace with
the growth in demand. It is estimated that in 1987/88, the peaking capacity
deficit was 3,276 MW or 27% of peak demand, and the energy supply shortfall
was 6,155 GWh equivalent to 10% of total requirement. Over the coming years,
CEA projects that system peak load and energy demand in the region wouid grow
at about 9.8% a year to reach 36,646 MW and 182,239 GWh by year 2000.
Capacity and energy supply deficits (in the order of 6000 MW and 13,600 GWh,
respectively) will continue to be a problem despite the programmed expansion
in powez infrastructure.
32.      The current (1989/90) pattern of electricity consumption in the
Northern Region is characterized by 42% industrial use, 28% agricultural, 16%
domestic, 9.6% commercial, and the balance due to public utilities. By year
2000, it is projected that industry and agriculture will retain their relative
ranks, with modest gains in the share of domestic and commercial sectors
expected.
Regional Program Costs
33.      Among the expenses and operating parameters considered in the
estimation of the costs associated with the Northern Region power program for
the time-slice 1989/90 to 1999/2000 are the following:
(a) Economic value of investments in generation plants are projected to
involve over Rs 200 billion. Capital costs of transmission and
distribution facilities are estimated to be in the range of 60% of
generation investments;
(b) Incremental operating and maintenance costs are assumed proportional
to the capacity costs of the respective facilities; i.e., at 2.5% for
thermal plants, 1.1% for hydroplants, 1.0% for transmission and
distribution;
(c) System losses are projected to decline from the current 22% to 15% by
1996/97. Plant station use is assumed at 10% for thermal stations
and 1% for hydroplants; and
(d) Fuel costs are based on fuel consumption rates of 0.61 kg. of coal
per kWh and 10 ml of oil per kWh. Average cost of coal supply is
Rs 237 per tonne, assuming 50% of thermal stations are located at the
pithead, and 50% near load centers.  Economic price of fuel oil is
assumed at Rs 2.7 per liter.
34.      The economic costs applied excludes all forms of taxes and duties,
and includes adjustment of local costs by the 0.8 standard conversion factor.



- 116 -
Annex 5.1
Page 9 of 19
Program Benefits
35.      Benefits derived from the regional expansion program and their
valuation are similar to those resulting from the State program. Existing
average tariff in the region is Rs 0.67 per kWh, or after applying the 0.8
SCP, it is equivalent to the lower limit of consumers' willingness to pay of
Rs 0.53 per kWh. The consumer surplus is estimated at Rs 1.10 per kWh,
yielding an average value of electricity service of Rs 1.63 per kWh.
Program Returns
36.      Assuming benefits reflect consumer surplus, the derived economic rate
of return for the program is 15%, or yielding a net present value of Rs 51.400
million at the 12% hurdle rate.  If consumer surplus were excluded, the EIRR
would be 0.6%.
Transmission Project Analysis
37.      PSEB's proposed 220 kV transmission project involves two major
categories of works under which CEA clearances have been obtained, namely:
(a) evacuation and dispersal of power from generation stations, and
(b) system revamp and upgrading.
38.      Specifically, the project calls for the completion of transmission
lines associated with the Ropar Thermal Plant (RTP) Stage II, installation of
new 220 kV routes in conjunction with the commissioning of RTP Stage III,
establishment of a tie-line between the existing (Stage II) and forthcoming
(Stage III) at GNDTP, and 220kV access to the south-eastern region of Punjab
by connecting GNDTP Stage III to Sunam via Mansa.  The system revamp component
will involve voltage upgradin-, relieve ove-..;.. 4ng of existing circuits,
provide 220 kV service to the Jallalabad loa, cer:er, as well as facilitate
efficient dispersal of power from the Bhakra r,_-o complex.
39.      The transmission activities will involve eight line segments of which
three are associated with RTP power evacuationi, two with GNDTP and the rest
involving general system improvement. Proposed substation expansion calls for
additional transformer capacity totalling 600 MVA compo3ed of the following:
Table 4: Proposed Substation Transformer Expansion
Location             Cagacity & Voltage        Associated with:
Jalandhar            lxlOOMVA  220/66kV        RTP III
Khanna               2xlOOMVA  220/66kV        RTP III
Sunam                lxlOOMVA  220/66kV        GNDTP III
Jallalabad           lxlOOMVA  220/66kV        System Revamp
Mahilpur             lxlOOMVA  220/132kV       System Revamp



- 117 -
Annex 5.1
Page 10 of 19
40.      The transmission project will involve Rs 970 million capital outlay
over the period 1992 and 1994, representing 18% of PSEB's aggregate
transmission expansion program for the coming 5 years. In addition to
ensuring that the proposed set of transmission schemes is consistent with the
system expansion plan for the Northern Region and for the State, the
transmission project was analyzed an to its net benefit and investment return.
41.      The initial approach was to view the project from its operational
objectives and to gauge the deleterious effects on PSEB's system operation if
the proposed schemes were not pursued. Load flow studies at system peak
demand were provided by PSEB both with and without the new lines for selected
years. An analysis of these load fliws indicate that as early as 1992/93, the
absence of the proposed lines for evacuating power from the Ropar Thermal
Station (RTP) will cause an overloading in the existing circuits, namely, RTP-
Lalton Kalan (LTKL) and RTP-Gobindgarh, during maximum thermal conditions
which would result in load curtailment of at least 150 WW during peak hours.
Moreover, even with the shedding of the 150 MW load, the probability of
outage incidence under both maximum thermal and maximum hydro conditions is
increased due to heavier circuit loading. Transmission expansion in RTP's
service area represent at least 50% of the incremental sales served by the
project.
42.      A second set of benefits is derived from the operation of the lines
associated with the commissioning of the GNDTP III at Bhatinda and erection of
the Mukatsar-Jallalabad line. Based on the load flow configuration of
1994/95, the proposed circuits in the Bhatinda service area are expected to
carry a combined peak load of about 190 MW from the GNDTP station during
maximum thermal production of which at least 60% represents incremental load.
Part of this incremental demand is attributable to the load growth in Sunam
and Jallalabad estimated to reach 87 MW and 105 MW by 1994/95.
43.      A third set of benefits is the reduction in overall system loss
estimated at 37 MW resulting from the implementation of the proposed system
revamp.
44.      In addition to the capital and associated operating and maintenance
costs of the project, the incremental capacity and operating costs of
generation and distribution based on the AIC estimates derived from the State
program are considered. Incremental sales from the increased plant generation
permitted by the project are valued in terms of consumers' willingness to pay.
Savings due to prevented load curtailment, reduced outage risks, and reduced
system losses are likewise expressed in terms of improved levels of energy
delivery.
45.      The resulting economic rate of return (EIRR) is 87% for the
transmission package and its net present value (NPV) at the discount rate of
12% is Rs 5.568 million.  The high economic return reflects the critical
nature and urgent need for the lines, as their absence would create a system
bottleneck in the delivery of additional power available from the thermal
plants and will hinder improvement of existing electricity service in the
State. On the other hand, the financial rate of return is negative since
tariff is set below financial cost of supply.



- 118 -
Annex 5.1
Page 11 of 19
Alternative ARproach
46.      In order to assess the relative contribution of each of the eight
line segments comprising the proposed transmission package, and thus
facilitate investment decision in case funding limitation requires PFC to rank
and prioritize sub-projects, an alternative estimation approach was pursued.
It was assumed that since the package accounts for 20% of the transmission
investme.nts in the State over the next 5 years, additional PSEB transmission
capacity equivalent to a year's expansion is attributable to the package.
Accordingly, it is assumed that the eight lines will service a one-year
increment in system sales and this service level is taken to remain constant
over the operating life of the lines. The proportion of incremental sales
attributable to each line is assigned based on the relative magnitude of the
load that is expected to flow through the line; i.e., proportional to the
ratio of peak load flowing on the individual circuit to the sum of peak load
serviced by all the project lines. In addition, the reduction in transmission
losses resulting from installation of each circuit were also identified.
47.      The estimated average peak loading and loss reduction for each
component are given in Table 5.
Table 5: Avgraee Peak Load Flow and Loss Reduction
(in MW)
Sub-Project                Peak Flow                Loss Reduction
1. RTP-RAJPURA-PATIAIA               119                         2.3
2. RTP-JALANDHAR                     225                        21.4
3. RTP-GOBINDGARH                    324                         5.6
4. GNDTP-MIJKATSAR                   150                         1.7
5. GNDTP-MANSA-SUNAM                 150                         2.0
6. MUKATSAR-JALLALABAD                80                         1.4
7. MOGA-MUKATSAR                     100                         0.9
8. BHAKRA-MAHILPUR                   204                        15.0
48.      Expectedly, the resulting financiel returns for all the transmission
components are negative reflecting the low level of tariff relative to the
cost of production. However, the economic rate of return (inclusive of
benefits due to consumer surplus) consistently exceed the hurdle rate of 12%.



- 119 -
Annex 5.1
Page 12 of 19
Table 6: Net Present Values and Economic Rates of Return
of Pronosed Transmission Lines
Sub Project        NPV at 12% (Rs million)            EIRR ( L )
1. RTP-RAJPURA-PATIAIA              343                         107
2. RTP-JALANDHAR                    861                         112
3. RTP-GOBINDGARH                   910                         119
4. GNDTP-MUKATSAR                   420                         115
5. GNDTP-MANSA-SUNAI                353                          59
6. MUKATSAR-JALLAIABAD              150                          31
7. MOGA-MUKATSAR                    273                         128
8. BHAKRA-MAHILPUR                  720                          90
49.      If the cost and benefit flows derived for each of the project lines
were consolidated, the resulting EIRR for the transmission package is 90j.
The return is slightly higher than the j1 return obtained under the first
approach due to the deferred timing of circuit loadings in the Bhatinda area
assumed under the first approach as well as the lower level of system loss
reduction considered. I/ Both approaches reflect similar findings on the
relative economic contribution of each of the transmission components.
50.      Since detailed load flow simulations (under different generation mix
conditions and for several operating years) necessary for analysis under the
first approach are not readily available as it requires detailed computer
simulations, it has been agreed that in the interim, the second method will be
used by PFC in evaluating all the other transmission proposals submitted by
the various SEBs.   In addition to facilitating the evaluation of multiple-
line proposals, the approach is able to reflect the salient operational
characteristics of each scheme and provides an adequate estimation of the
economics of the transmission projecc. Further, since the power sector in
India is experiencing major capacity shortfalls, it can be assumed that the
new transmission lines will fully absorb incremental demand upon line
commissioning. _/
1/ From an overall system perspective, the effective reduction in losses
derived from the package is 38 MW, while linear addition of loss
reduction per transmission segment yields an overestimated system loss
reduction of 50 MW.
I/ In practice, the proposed lines will likely service part of existing
loads during initial years of operation, but will eventually carry
higher loads as it absorbs more '.ncremental demand over the years. The
potential overestimation of benefits in initial years is offset by the
conservative assumption of constant line loading through the project
life.



- 120 -
Annex 5.1
Page 13 of 19
Distribution Project Analysis
51.      The proposed urban distribution projects in seven towns in Punjab
involve a total investment outlay of about Rs 276 million over a four-year
period from 1990/91 to 1993/94. Each distribution project is treated as a
discrete project and is individually appraised as to its economic viability.
52.      In addition to the iirect capital costs and operating and maintenance
expenses associated with each distribution scheme, the AIC of generation and
transmission are applied on the incremental supply assumed to flow through the
proposed distribution facilities so as to arrive at the full cost of power
delivery.
53.      Two set; of benefits were identified namely, (a) incremental sales in
the urban area served by the network expansion, and (b) reduction in
distribution losses. To arrive at the estimated level of incremental sales,
the annual load connections and load flows per major feeder and transformer
"with and without" the proposed improvements for the forecast period 1989/90
to 1994/95 were analyzed. In calculating the loss reduction attributable to
the projects, three sets of losses were considered; i.e., energy losses per
feeder line losses, distribution transformer losses and power transformer
losses. A summary of the resulting benefits expressed in equivalent
incremental energy sales is given in Table 7.
Table 7: Benefits from PSEB's Proposed Urban Distribution Projects
Additional Energy                 Loss
Towns                    Sales                    Reduction
(GWh)                      (GWh)
1. Faridkot                   4.76                        6.23
2. Jalandhar                 52.44                        3.53
3. Hoshiarpur                12.76                        2.59
4. Phagwara                  12.31                        3.03
5. Patiala                   67.42                        3.58
6. Khanna                    86.35                       13.02
7. Bhatinda                  27.03                        3.33
Total                  263.07                       36.31
54.      Except for the investments in Faridkot City, the financial rates of
return derived for the distribution projects are negative due to low tariff
levels. In contrast, their economic rates of return exceed the 12% hurdle
rate confirming the projects' economic viability. The estimated net present
values (NPVs) and EIRRs of the distribution schemes are summarized in Table 8.



- 121 -
Annex 5.1
Page 14 of 19
Table 8: Net Present Values and Economic Returns of
PSEB's Urban Distribution Projects
Project Area             NPV at 12%                  EIRR
(Rs Millions)                 (%)
1.  Faridkot                  14                      21
2.  Jalandhar                129                      34
3.  Hoshiarpur                36                      39
4.  Phagwara                  45                      56
5.  Patiala                  227                      72
6.  Khanna                   309                      80
7.  Bhatinda                  73                      38
Sensitivity Analysis
55.      Sensitivity analyses carried out under conditions of adverse
variations in cost and benefits indicate that satisfactory economic returns
for both the transmission and distribution sets of sub-projects are
maintained. Sensitivity tests using higher AIC values were also performed
inasmuch as project returns were based on average incremental cost (AIC)
estimates developed under the discount rate of 12% and to the extent that the
State's Power Expansion Program yields a return higher than 12%, additional
return attributable to other program components have pai:tly been credited to
the project. Accordingly, AIC estimates based on a 26% roturn for other
investment components were used and the results show that all project schemes
are still able to generate at least 12% rates of return as follows:
Table 9. Sensitivity Tests Using Higher AIC Values
Sub Project        NPV at 12% (Rs million)             EIRR ( % )
Transmission
1. RTP-RAJPURA-PATIALA               128                          54
2. RTP-JALANDHAR                    452                           68
3. RTP-GOBINDGARH                    322                          53
4. GNDTP-MUKATSAR                    148                          56
5. GNDTP-MANSA-SUNAM                  81                          23
6. MUKATSAR-JALIALABAD                 6                          13
7. MOGA-MUKATSAR                      92                          55
8. BHAKRA-MAHILPUR                   350                          54
Distribution
1.  Faridkot                           3                          14
2.  Jalandhar                         17                          16
3.  Hoshiarpur                         6                          18
4.  Phagwara                          15                          29
5.  Patiala                           47                          29
6.  Khanna                            82                          36
7.  Bhatinda                           8                          15



IIIDI
POWER UTILITIES IflICIEICT INFROVYEENT PROJICT
POIJAB State Poser Expansion Prograc
Icomonic Aaalysia
NPV at 12 1:    BB 12634 Billion
(In lupees Nillion)                                                         HRER          26 1
61111tiOlU                                    tMISHISSIOU              DISTRIBUTION
Fiscal   --------------------------------------------  -------------------  -------------------    TOTAL    ADDITIONAL                                                         oE?
Year      INPORT  CAPITlL   FOEL  EXPENSIS           SOI-  CAPITAL           SUB-  CAPITAL          SUB-  D2LIVIRY        SALES   TARIFF   CONSONEB   COST    TOTAL    ECOKOOIC
Reding   COSTS a/  COSTS   COAL    OIL    OAR   TOTAL   COSTS  OAU   TOTAL   COSTS  0A   TOTAL    COSTS                    GWh   RIIENUIb/ SURPLOSc/ SAVINGS BENEFITS  BElEFITS
1990                 944                             944                                                      944                                                           -944
1991                1720                            1720    640       0      640    400             400      2760                                                          -2760
1992       101      2000    175       25     53    2355    760    16         776    400    12       412      3543         712       399         776      23      1198      -2345
1993       119      2240    S05       72     93    3029    840    35         875    440    24       464      4368         1644      921        1792       31     2744      -1624
1994       119      1856    166    1O9    138    2988   1000    56    1056    480    37             517      4561        2514       1408      2740        31     4179       -382
1995       119      1784   1145    163    175    3386   1120    81    1201    600    52             652      5239        3537       1981       3855       It     5847        608
1996       119              1265    180    211    1175              109      109            70       TO      1953        3860      2162        4207        0     6369       4416
1997       119              1265    180    211    1775              109      109             70       70     1953        3860      2162        4207        0     6369       4416
1998       119              1265    180    211    1775              109      109            70       T0      1953        3860      2162        4207        0     6369       4416
1999       119              1265    180    211    1775              109      109            70        70     1953        3860       2162       4207        0     6369       4416
2000       119              1265    180    211    1775              109      109             70       70      1953        3860      2162       4207        0     6369        4416
until
2030       119              1265    180    211    1775              109      109             TO       70     1953         3860      2162       4207        0     6369        4416
a/   The average cost of pomer purchases is asuned at Is 0.44 per kWh.
b/   The economic value of the average tariff is estimated at lo 0.56 per Hh.                                                                                                        -U
cl   The consuaer surplus is eatiuted at  s 1.09 per kWh.                                                                                                                             o   ax
Source:  PHC and Bank estimates



INDIA
P0o1i  DYILITIES IIFICIIIIC   P 1BOVEIEIT PROJECT
Northern Begiou EIpansion Progran
Economic lAalysis
1pf A? 122    :      6 51,408 niliioD
(in lapees Milliocl                                                   E188         15.2 2
Fiscal                Capital Costs                        Operating 2tpenses                                lncreeental Benefits                        TTAL
Year        -------------------------------------------------------------------   TOTAL           ----------------------------- --    7OTAL               18t
ending       Tbereal    lydro  T?D        Sub-Total    Fuel      0&N       Sub-total   COSTS         Sales  Revenue  Consqmer Surplos  BEN1FITS    BE1FITS
al       b/        cJ
1990        576.2   1390.2              1l66.4                                      1966.4                                                           -1966.4
1s9l       2410.2   3917.2               6327.4                                     6321.4                                                           -6327.4
1992       5923.6   7957.8              13881.4                                    13881.4                                                          -13881.4
1993      1085l .0  140819.6            24946.6                                    24946.6                                                          -24946.6
1994      15615.0  18533.7  12055.8  46204.5                                       46204.5                                                          -46204.5
1995      18288.2  19322.5  18083.7  55694.3                                       55694.3                                                          -55694.3
1996       17260.9  16661.3  18083.?  52005.9                                      52005.9                                                          -52005.9
1997      13668.4  11288.0  24111.6  49068.0            445.8   1025.4   1471.2  50539.3          5567.0   2950.5   6123.7              9074.2      -41465.0
1998       9057.8   5434.7  24111.6  38604.1           2087.3   2262.9   4350.2  42954.4         12439.4   6592.9  13683.3             20276.2      -22678.2
1999       46817.3   1936.9  12055.8  18680.0          5157.9   3503.6   8661.5  27341.6         23824.1  12626.8  26206.5             38833.3       11491.8
2600        1417.5    576.3  12055.8  14109.6         91497.9   3667.6  13165.5  27275.2         40956.2  21706.8  45051.8             66758.5      3U483.4
2001                                                   9497.9   4843.7  14341.6  14341.6         57275.5  30356.0  63003.1             93359.1       79011.5
2002                                                   9497.9   4843.7  14341.6  14341.6         57275.5  30356.0  63003.1             93359.1       79011.5
until
2021                                                   8497.9   4843.7  14341.6  14341.6         57275.5  30356.0  63003.1             93359.1       19017.5
a/ AJ suses 302 hyAroplant nitilizatioa  nd progressive reduction of TAD losses fron the 222 in 1989/90 to 15  in 1999/2000.
hi   Eaud ao prevailing economic tariff level of is 0.53 per k h
c/   Consumer   rplus estimated at is 1.10 per kiI.
Source:  laek and CIA estimates                                                                                                                                         o



INDIA
PONIR OTILIItS IFFICIKICY rRPBOv?IIil PROJECt
Punjab SIR Transaission Project
economic Analysis as a Single Project                                 NP! at 12%    Re 5568 million
21PB: 812
t o is BBillions I
fiscal            TBlaSlISSiO3 COSTS                                              TOTIL         IDCORIINTAL                                                     NiT
Tear        ---------------------------        GEIRR&TIO    DISTIBIUTION  DILIVRY                SALIS        TARIFF  CONSOMER   COST         TOTAL        ECOlOMIC
Ending       Capital  OAl         Sub-Total    COSTS al         COSTS b/          COStS            cob      BRI2U0  c  SORPLOSd/ SAVINGS BUNlFITS            0EIIFITS
1990                                  0                                             0                                                            0               0
1991                                  0                                             0                                                            0               0
1992           278                  278                                           278                                                            0           -278
1993           349                  341                                           349                                                            0           -349
1991           202          7       209            660             73             143            815            456       888         81      1426            483
1995                       22        22            95?            108            1085           1182            662      1208        121      2071            986
I99                        22        22            957            106            1085           1182            662      1288        121      2071            906
199?                       22        22            951            106            1085           1182            662      1288        121      2071            986
1998                       22        22            95?            106            1085           1182            662      1288        121      2071            986
1999                       22        22            957            106            1085           1182            662      1288        121     2071             986
2000                       22        22            957            106            1085            1182           662      1288        121      2071            986
until
2030                       22        22            957            106            1085            1182           662      1288        121      2071            986
a/  The average lncrenental cost of (AIC) of generation is estiaated at BI  0.81 per  Whl based on Punjab SIBOs poser expansion program.                                             g  X Ix
bl  The AIC of distributioo is eutinated at go 0.09 per ilk.                                                                                                                             4
c/  The econoate value of the tariff is astumed at the prevailing rate of Be 0.56 per  lhU.                                                                                           <     LJu
d/  The consuaer surplus is estimated at Be 1.09 per kUh.



11018
P0o11 OTILITIES IffICIKiCT IIPIOTVKl0T PROJICT
Punjab SID Transnissiou Project
economic inalysis by Line Component
'YP-UAJPDUA-PAI ULA LIII
hPY at 12.   iB  343 Billion
(in Rupees Billion)                                               1121       10:   I
fiscal        ADDITIOIAL    Gi6l-    tRlliSISSIOI  1PIIISI                       TOTAL   ADDITIONAL                                             piT
year       G6itRUTIOl   61TIO1                                  DISTRIBOTIOl  DILIVO!9  SAlES         TARIFF  CONSUMER  COST    tOT&L        ICONONIC
lnding         c6b          COSTS a/   Capital  0A1    7otal   COSTS   h/    COSTS          Gib    REVIKIIc/ SURI,LOS6d  SaIIUCS B1111ItS   BENEFITS
1990.0
1991.0 
1992.0                                   21.0            21.0                      21.0                                                        -21.0
1993.0                                  21.0             21.0                      21.0                                                        -21.0
1994.0         115            71.3        4.7   1.0       5.7      7.9             85.0         88      49.3       96.0    6.9      152.1       67.2
1995.0         115            71.3              1.2       1.2      7.9             80.4         88      49.3       96.0    6.9      152.1       71.7
1916.0         115            71.3              1.2       1.2      7.9             80.4         88      49.3       96.0    6.9      152.1       71.7
1Ig7.0         115            71.3              1.2       1.2      7.9             80.4         88      49.3       96.0    6.9      152.1      711.
1998.0         115            71.3              1.2       1.2      7.9             80.4         88      49.3       96.0    6.9      152.1       71.7
1999.0         115            71.3              1.2       1.2     7.9              80.4         88      49.3       96.0    6.9      152.1       71.7
2I00.0         115            71.3              1.2       1.2      7.9             80.4         88      49.3       96.0    6.9      152.1       71.7
until
2030.0         115            71.3              1.2       1.2      7.9             80.4         88      49.3       96.0    6.9      152.1       71.7
al   Thb  aen ge iocreneutal cost (AIC) of  eneratiom Is estioated at Is 0.81 per kgb based on Punjab SIB's pover expansion program.                                      |
bI   The UIC of distribution is estimated at Ba 0.09 per k0h.                                                                                                          - X
c/   The economic value of prevailing tariff i6 asmuned at is 0.56 per NbI.                                                                                          Go 4  LO
dJ   The cosu er surplus is estimated at 3m 1.09 per hUh.                                                                                                            0
Source: PVC and Bank estimates



INDIA
PONER OTILITIES IFFICIENCT [FPPOVIENNT PBOJICT
Puajab Sti Distribution Project
Economic Analysis
FARID5OT CITY
NPV at 12S    Rs 14 million
(In Rupees Billion)                                                 FIER       21.1 t
flscal        ADDITIODUL         6EN1-    TEU,S-       DISTRIBUTION EZP1SIS            TOTAL   ADDITIONAL                                                NIT
Year         GENERTIION       RATION   NISSION  ----------------------------   DELIVERY   SALES    TARIFF   CONSUMER              COST      TOTAL    [COOMOIC
lading          Guh             COSTS a/ COSTS b/   Capital    041          Total     COSTS        GWh    RIVENUIc/ SORPLUSd/   SAVINGS  BENEFITS  BENEFiTS
1990                                                                                  0.00                                                   0.00       0.00
1991                                                 3.11                  3.11       3.11                                                   0.00      -3.11
1992          2.02              1.25      0.25       8.29       0.26       8.55      10.05       1.54       0.95       1.65                  2.60      -7.45
1993          2.48             1.53       0.31       8.29       0.26       8.55      10.39       1.89       1.16       2.02                  3.19      -7.20
1994          2.97              1.84      0.37       1.04       0.50       1.53       3.74       2.27       1.40       2.43       1.42       5.24       1.50
1995          3.50             2.16       0.43       1.04       0.50       1.53       4.13       2.67       1.65       2.86       1.68       6.19       2.06
1996          4.07             2.52       0.50                  0.50       0.50       3.52       3.11       1.92       3.33       1.96      7.20        3.68
1997          4.69             2.90       0.58                  0.50       0.50       3.98       3.59       2.21       3.84       2.36       8.40      4.42
116          5.24             3.24       0.65                  0.50       0.50       4.39       4.00       2.47       4.28       2.18       9.53      5.14
1999          5.91             3.60       0.72                  0.50       0.50       4.81       4.44       2.74       4.75       3.27      10.76      5.94
2000          6.23             3.86       0.7?                  0.50       0.50       5.12       4.76       2.93       5.09       3.84      11.86      6.74
matil
2030          6.23             3.86       0.71                  0.50       0.50       5.12       4.76       2.93       5.09       3.84      11.86      6.14
al Average incremental cost (AICI of generation is estimated at Ra 0.81 per kNh sold based on Punjab SIR's power ezpansion program.
b/   lIC of transeission is estimated at Rs 0.16 per kib sold.
c/   ecomomic value of prevailiag tariff ts assnued at Is 0.62 per klh sold.                                                                                       - t  x
d/   Conssuer surplus is estimated at Bs 1.01 per kth sold.
Source   PIC  nd Bank estimatee



- 127 -
Annex 6.1
INDIA
POWER UTILITIES EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Documents in Project File
1.    Punjab State Electricity Board, Sub-project Appraisal Report; PFC:
June 1991.
2.    Andhra  Pradesh  State  Electricity  Board,  Sub-project  Appraisal
Report; PFC: June 1991.
3.    Madhya  Pradesh  State  Electricity  Board,  Sub-project  Appraisal
Report; PFC: June 1991.
4.    Gujarat State Electricity Board, Sub-project Appraisal Report; PFC:
June 1991.
5.    PFC's Operational Policy Statement; PFC: November 1990.



