Document of
The World Bank                      FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3186-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
CHITTAGONG UREA FERTILIZER PROJECT
January 15, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to
a basket of reference currencies, with the Pound Sterling
serving as intervention currency. On December 30, 1981, the
exchange rate was set at Tk 37.9568 buying and Tk 38.0568
selling per Pound Sterling.  Depending on exchange rate
movements between Sterling and the US Dollar, the Taka/
Dollar cross-rate is subject to change. In recent months
this rate has fluctuated between Tk 18 and Tk 20 per US$.
Unless otherwise indicated the following rate has been used
throughout this report.
US$1          -   Tk 19.00 1/
Tk 1          -   US$0.0526
Tk 1 million  -   US$52,632
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB     -   Asian Development Bank
ADFAED  -   Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development
BADC    -   Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BCIC    -   Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation
BGSL    -   Bakhrabad Gas System, Ltd.
BNP     -   Bangladesh Nationalist Party
CIDA    -   Canadian International Development Agency
CUFL    -   Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Limited
GOB     -   Government of Bangladesh
IsDB    -   Islamic Development Bank
MTFPP   -   Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan
OECF    -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
SFD     -   Saudi Fund for Development
SFYP    -   Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85)
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30
1/   For purposes of converting local cost estimates into US$ equivalent in
the Credit and Project Summary and in Part IV of the Report a rate of
US$1 to Tk 16, which was current at the time of appraisal, has been
used.



BANGLADESH             FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
CHITTAGONG UREA FERTILIZER PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiary:         Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Limited (CUFL)
Amounts:             SDR 12.8 Million (US$15 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    The proceeds of the proposed credit would be relent to
CUFL for a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace,
at 12% per annum interest. CUFL would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Objectives  The objectives of the proposed Project are to increase the
and Description:   country's urea fertilizer production capacity principally
to meet local demand and through import substitution to
conserve scarce foreign exchange resources. The project
consists of:
(i)   acquisition and preparation of the site for
the ammonia/urea plant;
(ii) design, engineering and construction of:
(a)  a 1,000 mt per day (TPD) ammonia unit;
(b)  a 1,700 TPD urea unit; and
(c)  utilities, off-site and ancillary
facilities for the ammonia and urea
units;
(iii) construction of office and plant buildings
and a staff housing colony, including com-
munity facilities for persons to be employed
in the management and operation of the plant;
(iv) supply of equipment for the construction of
the plant;
(v)   employment of a Technical Advisor to assist
and advise CUFL on the design, construction
and start-up of the plant;
(vi) employment of a Management Advisory and Opera-
tional Services Team to assist CUFL to manage,
operate and maintain the plant during the
initial three years after commissioning of
the plant; and
This document has a restricted distribution and nmy be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
(vii) training for selected CUFL personnel in
similar fertilizer plants in Bangladesh
and abroad.
Natural gas, which is an important resource of Bangladesh with
abundant proven reserves, will be used both as a feedstock and fuel for
the project. The project will reduce the country's fertilizer import
requirements. The net foreign exchange savings resulting from the project are
estimated at about US$114 million a year, in 1981 dollars. Direct employment
created by the project will be about 1,300 permanent jobs. At the peak period
of construction activity, more than 3,000 people will be employed for project
implementation. The operational risks are expected to be minimal because
of the adoption of commercially proven technology; the main risks facing
the project are possible implementation delays and low capacity utilization.
This should also be minimized by the implementation arrangements made for
this project, which include hiring of a general contractor, and providing
technical assistance to CUFL in operating the plant and in training its
staff.
Estimated Project Costs
Local    Foreign    Total
--------US $ Million-------
T. Fixed Capital
1.   Land Acquisition                               0.5        -         0.5
2.   Site Preparation                               8.7       9.7       18.4
3.   Process Equipment                               -       58.9       58.9
4.   Catalyst, Chemicals and Spare Parts             -        9.8        9.8
5.   Utility and Offsite Facilities                 1.0      37.2       38.2
6.   Materials Handling Equipment                    -       12.6       12.6
7.   Construction Equipment                          -       14.9       14.9
8.   Buildings and Structures                      16.1      11.4       27.5
9.   Construction and Erection                     12.4       2.8       15.2
10.  Freight, Insurance and Customs Duty            4.7      15.8       20.5
11.  Professional Services                          2.5      42.3       44.8
12. Pre-Operating Expenses (including
staff training expenses)                    4.7        3.2       7.9
Base Cost Estimates                          50.6      218.6      269.2
Physical Contingency                          6.1       16.8       22.9
Price Contingency                            15.8       49.3       65.1
Total Fixed Capital Cost                     72.5      284.7      357.2
II.  Working Capital                               29.8       5.3       35.1
III. Interest During Construction 1/               75.3        -        75.3
Total Financing Required                    177.6      290.0      467.6
1/   Capitalized, reflecting interest rate of 12% p.a. payable by CUFL to GOB.



(iii)
Financing Plan:     Seven co-financiers, under the leadership of the Asian
Development Bank, would finance the entire foreign ex-
change cost of the project while the Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) would meet the local financing require-
ments. The contributions of all co-financiers would be
provided to GOB on concessional terms. Following is a
summary of the financing plan.
Financing Plan
-US$ Million Equivalent--
Source                                        Local Costs  Foreign Costs  Total
GOB                                               177.6          -          177.6
The Asian Development Bank (ADB)                     -         72.0 1/
The Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Devel-
opment (ADFAED)                                    -         25.0         25.0
Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA)                                            _          20.0         20.0
Islamic Development Bank (IsDB)                      -         16.0          16.0
overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
(OECF)                                            -          60.0         60.0
Saudi Fund for Development (SFD)                    -          85.0         85.0
International Development Association (IDA)                    15.0         15.0
Total                   177.6       293.0 1/     470.6 1/
1/   US$2.0 million of the proposed ADB loan will be used to refinance an
existing ADB technical assistance loan which was provided for project
preparation. Hence, the difference in project costs and total financing
availability.



(iv)
Estimated Disbursement:                      FY83         FY84         FY85
(Proposed IDA Credit Only)
Annual                        3.0         10.0          2.0
Cumulative                    3.0         13.0         15.0
Economic Rate of Return:         19.0%
Staff Appraisal Report:         No separate IDA Staff Appraisal Report was
prepared.  ADB's Appraisal Report, which is
used as a basis of this report and is cir-
culated separately, is entitled: "Appraisal
of the Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Project in
Bangladesh" (Report No. BAN:Ap-35) dated
October 1981.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A CHITTAGONG UREA FERTILIZER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh of SDR 12.8 million (the
equivalent of US$15.0 million), on standard IDA terms, to help co-finance
a Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Project with the Asian Development Bank (ADB;
US$72 equivalent), Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development (ADFAED;
US$25 million equivalent), the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA; US$20 million equivalent), the Islamic Development Bank (IsDB; US$16
million equivalent), the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF;
US$60 million equivalent), and the Saudi Fund for Development (SFD; US$85
million equivalent). The contributions of all co-financiers will be provided
to the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) on concessional terms. ADB will be the
lead co-financing agency and will coordinate the supervision of the project;
this report is mainly based on ADB-s appraisal of the project. The proceeds
of the proposed IDA credit, as well as the proceeds of funds provided by
other co-financiers, would be relent by GOB to the Chittagong Urea Fertilizer
Limited (CUFL) for 15 years including 5 years of grace at 12% per annum
interest. CUFL would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Current Economic Situa-
tion and Review of the Second Five-Year Plan" (Report No. 3309-BD, dated
February 23, 1981) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
Its economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the
struggle for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and
devastating floods in the early 1970s. Production in both agriculture and
manufacturing fell drastically and only recovered to pre-independence levels
in the mid 1970s. The terms of trade deteriorated. Inflation, declining
real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and political instability
added to the difficulties. In these early years, Bangladesh's policy makers
were by nec-'ssity largely preoccupied with matters of relief and rehabili
tation and the need to shape a national government out of a provincial ad-
ministration. The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to be scrapped and
replaced by a scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcore Programme"
(FY76-78) in response to the enormity of the country-s difficulties.
4.        Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of devel-
opment. Between FY75 and FY80, GDP increased by about 5.5% p.a. despite



- 2-
several serious setbacks in agricultural production. Output in manufacturing
(as measured by the production index for large and medium-scale industries)
rose by about 7.5% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking
place outside the jute industry. Although shortfalls in domestic foodgrain
supplies and increases in international petroleum prices led to a deteriora-
tion in the balance of payments in FY80, which was accompanied by some acceler-
ation in domestic inflation rate in FY81, the concluding years of the decade
witnessed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy measures
to attain longer-term development goals. These included a strengthening
of budgetary policies, improvements in agricultural and food distribution
policies and steps to promote a more active role by the private sector in
developing the economy.
.
5.        The past few years have also brought significant political change.
From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh was governed under martial law. In
elections held in February 1979, 29 political parties and groups contested
300 seats in the new National Assembly. Roughly two-thirds of the seats
were won by the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) headed by President Ziaur
Rahman, who had won the presidential election in June 1978. Thirty additional
seats, reserved for women, were subsequently filled by the BNP. Following the
convening of the new Parliament in March 1979, martial law was lifted and a
new cabinet appointed. In May 1981 President Ziaur Rahman was assassinated.
The Vice-President, Mr. Justice Abdus Sattar, was named Acting President
and subsequently won the presidential elections held on November 15, 1981.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        The economic consolidation during the second half of the past
decade was followed by continued improvements in production in FY81. Favor-
able weather and several years of stepped-up provision of agricultural inputs
helped turn the foodgrain supply situation around. Rice production reached
a record 13.7 million tons--an increase of 9% over the disappointing FY80
level--while wheat production continued to expand rapidly, totalling 1.2
million tons. As output in industrial and service sectors also increased
substantially over their FY80 levels, overall GDP growth for the year is
estimated to have been of the order of 7.5%. While the recent increase in
agricultural production can be partly attributed to favorable weather, a
significant part of the increase is due to Government policies in increas-
ing investment in irrigation, improving distribution of inputs especially
through increased private sector involvement, and substantially increasing
the Government foodgrain procurement program.
7.        Notwithstanding these improvements in production, Bangladesh
experienced growing financial difficulties during FY81. Sharply higher
petroleum prices, declining export prices for jute goods and a shortfall
in commodity aid availabilities below the Government's expectations af-
fected the balance of payments. The shortfall in aid receipts, an unan-
ticipated shortfall in debt service payments from public enterprises, and
substantial expenditures of food procurements which were necessary in order
to maintain incentive farmgate prices in a record crop year also affected



- 3 -
the budget. A budget deficit of Tk 5 billion, equivalent to about 2 1/2%
of GNP at market prices, emerged in FY81. As a result, credit ceilings
for June 1981 established in consultation with the IMF in the context of
the EFF arrangement were exceeded by a substantial margin and the EFF arrange-
ment was temporarily suspended. An IMF mission visited Bangladesh in November/
December 1981 and a follow-up mission is scheduled for late January 1982, to
review the Government's plans to restore financial stability and to discuss
the possible resumption of Fund assistance.
The Balance of Payments
8.        Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive
structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid.  Export earn-
ings in FY81 represented a mere 6% of GDP and less than 30% of the import
bill.  Moreover, Bangladesh's exports continue to be dominated by raw jute
and jute goods, which together account for two thirds of total export earn-
ings. A sharp decline in export prices of raw jute and jute goods and of
major non-traditional exports, notably leather and fish products, meant that
exports in value terms stagnated in FY81, although increasing substantially
in volume terms. Imports, hawever, rose rapidly through FY81 in value terms,
as a result of increased costs of crude petroleum and petroleum products
(although the volume of these imports increased very slowly since the early
1970s they now account for 20% of import payments), and capital goods imports,
which have risen rapidly in recent years and currently account for 26% of
total imports. Bangladesh's terms of trade, mainly as a result of higher
petroleum import prices and the sharp decline in export prices noted earlier,
deteriorated in FY81.
9.        The current account deficit--US$1.45 billion in FY81--has been
considerably smaller than the trade deficit, due mainly to the rapid growth
of workers' remittances from the Middle East; these receipts are now the
second most important source of foreign exchange earnings. The payments
gap was largely covered by aid disbursements estimated at US$1.15 billion,
close to half of merchandise imports. Although project aid disbursements
increased substantially, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive
capacity, there was, as noted earlier, a crucial shortfall in commodity aid
availabilities and new commitments. Bangladesh also made considerable use
of IMF resources, including initial drawings on a SDR 800 million EFF ar-
rangement which became effective in December 1980 and which was recently
temporarily suspended.
10.       The balance of payments outlook for FY82 remains difficult.  While
a significant increase in export earnings seems unlikely, Bangladesh again
faces the unwelcome prospect of limited commodity aid availabilities. Given
the tight foreign exchange position, imports will have to be reduced below
FY81 levels in real terms with consequent detrimental effects on production,
especially in the manufacturing sector. Gross reserves in October 1981 were
around US$130 million, the equivalent of three weeks imports; there appears
to be little scope for running down reserves further or for substantially
increasing short-term borrowing to tide-over present payment difficulties.



- 4 -
11.       Debt service payments totalled US$94 million in FY80 and US$110
million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio, about 11.6% in FY80 fol-
lowing some debt relief measures undertaken by various donors, increased
to about 13.2% in FY81. The debt service ratio might exceed 20% by the
mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and aid is
provided on concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and disbursed
external public debt amounted to just under US$3.5 billion as of December 31,
1980 with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 28.1% of the
total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of the Bangladesh's total
debt service payments; because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
Public Finance
12.       Government finances which had improved considerably in FY79 deter-
iorated in FY80 and FY81, partly as a result of expenditures for investments
in foodgrain stocks, and lower than expected contributions by the major public
sector corporations to the revenue budget. Faced with the choice of cutting
back development outlays or resorting to bank financing well in excess of
established credit ceilings, the Government chose to reduce the development
budget by about 13%. Nevertheless, the final deficit for FY81 substantially
exceeded revised forecasts and necessitated bank borrowing of about Taka 5
billion. The budgetary situation is expected to continue to be tight in FY82.
The severe balance of payments situation will have a substantial impact on
tax revenues while the continued need for large government food grain pro-
curements will add to financing requirements. Even with major efforts to
mobilize additional budgetary resources, a reduction in development expendi-
tures of at least 15% below budgeted levels will be necessary to contain the
budget deficit to manageable proportions.
13.       The Government has shown a growing awareness of the need to improve
the financial performance of the public sector enterprises and utilities and
to reduce major subsidies. In recent years, GOB has raised foodgrain ration
prices and a number of utility rates and commodity sales prices of public
sector enterprises. In some cases, these price adjustments only kept pace
with inflation, but in others--notably fertilizer and foodgrains--they
served to reduce the unit subsidy in real terms. Petroleum product prices
have been raised by roughly 140% since November 1979. Nevertheless, follow-
ing the depreciation of the taka, further adjustments will be required to
eliminate the subsidy on this account.
14.       Foodgrain prices remained stable during FY81, but the cost of
other essentials continued to increase and pushed the general cost-of-living
index up by about 9% for FY81 as a whole. Measured by the implicit GDP
deflator, aggregate inflation--which had spurted from a rate of 6.5% in FY79
to 17.3% in FY80--declined substantially in FY81 to only about 8%. However,
as a result of the rapid expansion in credit in FY81 and the decline in food
production in FY82, inflation has accelerated during the first few months of
FY82 and is now running at an annual rate of about 15%. Tight controls were
placed on credit growth in the early part of FY82 in order to re-establish
financial stability and, as a consequence, the rate of inflation is expected
to slow down.



- 5-
Development Planning and Policy Issues
15.       The Second Five-Year Plan (issued in draft form in May 1980)
accords high priority to three major goals: (i) achievement of self-
sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production
targeted to increase to 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the
population growth rate with a view to bringing down the net reproduction
rate to unity by 1990; and (iii) progress towards mass literacy through
free universal primary education. Priority is also to be given to energy
development, particularly through accelerated exploitation of known reserves
of natural gas.
16.       The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is
considerable. Yields and cropping intensities are well below potential
levels, fertilizer application rates are modest, and surface and ground-
water resources permit a substantial expansion of irrigation. There is
large unsatisfied demand for irrigation. Where irrigation is available,
the increase in fertilizer use and the shift to high-yielding varieties
of rice and from dry season rice to wheat have been widespread and rapid.
The positive developments in Bangladesh agriculture over the past few
years justify some optimism concerning the ability of the country to
achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains in the foreseeable future.
17.       The Government has formulated, with assistance from IDA, a
Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which provides an investment
portfolio geared towards the attainment of the SFYP target of 20 million tons
of foodgrains. While this target is feasible, its achievement will depend
considerably on the allocation of sufficient resources to provide needed
inputs to farmers and to permit the private sector to play an expanded role
in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural implements and inputs.
Other necessary requirements are adequate levels of foreign aid to finance
imported inputs, improved extension services and training, and appropriate
producer incentives.
18.       Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far, especially with regard to birth control efforts which have generally
suffered from poor implementation and have had only limited success. Recently,
however, birth control activities within the Government have been coordinated,
while training programs for field staff have been revised and are now, for the
first time, considered adequate. GOB is now preparing, with bank assistance,
a medium-term implementation plan for the population sector.
19.       The third major objective of the SFYP is the attainment of general
literacy. The planners recognize that it will take longer than five years,
but they have set themselves the ambitious target of introducing universal
primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of primary-school age
by 1985. This program is to be supplemented by a national non-formal mass
education scheme for those already past primary school age. IDA is assisting
GOB in preparing a medium-term plan for the education sector.



- 6 -
20.       A Plan aimed at effecting significant departures from past trends
will place severe strains on financial resources and managerial skills. A
major challenge which the Government is now facing is to translate the
objectives of the SFYP into an operational implementation program on an
annual basis. The Government is now revising the draft SFYP, but more work
and considerable discipline will be needed in identifying core programs and
projects and protecting them to the extent possible in a situation of re-
source scarcity. A critical factor will also be the extent to which project
implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate improvements
can be made, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would
be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes
that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed on the
private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities such
as education and rural development should be carried out in a decentralized
fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots partici-
pation. 1/
21.       Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by GOB,
IDA and other organizations have concluded that existing trade and indus-
trial policies have distortionary effects on resource allocations within
the industrial sector. The Government is now preparing a program for trade
and industrial policy reform which is expected to lead to a medium-term
program of actions to be pursued across a broad front, including modifications
in the tariff structure, the pattern of domestic indirect taxation, investment
incentives, export policies and the mechanism for industrial promotion and
planning.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
22.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971. In addition, as of October 31, 1981, 54 new credits have been
approved, totalling US$1632.7 million; of these, US$665 million have been
for import credits (ten imports program credits and two fertilizer imports
credits). Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and disburse-
ments as of September 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing proj-
ects. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and three
investments (for a shipbuilding company an investment promotion company and
a leather factory) have been approved.
23.       The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(18 of the 43 new projects approved since independence, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the Govern-
ment-s priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects
1/   A review of the (draft) Second Five-Year Plan is contained in the
Bank's 1981 economic report, No. 3309-BD, dated February 23, 1981.



that provide agricultural inputs, including fertlizer, fertilizer transport,
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage facilities.
In addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being placed upon com-
plementary infrastructural projects in sectors which facilitate agricultural
development or which reduce bottlenecks interfering with the economy-s overall
performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA plans to emphasize rural
electrification and elimination of shortages of generation capacity or dis-
tribution facilities which have been a major impediment to utilization of
existing industrial capacity.
24.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the ten imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the economy,
program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA operations
in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two fertilizer
production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project, several DFC
and small-scale industry projects and three IFC loans.
25.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this a high
priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive capacity. IDA has
made two credits available in support of the GOB's population program,
which is now making some progress. Improved education and availability of
trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field has emphasized
agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary education.
26.       Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satis-
factorily. Project disbursements have, however, lagged behind expectations,
owing largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
are serious constraints that include a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA and
GOB have given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision in
order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assistance
both under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to improve
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
27.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order to
direct IDA lending to sectors where the percentage of foreign exchange costs
is relatively low, local currency expenditures also are being financed in
certain priority areas such as agriculture and rural development, including
small-scale and cottage industries.
28.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a dia-
logue between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and devel-
opment strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of external
assistance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities
have concentrated on food policy, irrigation strategy, industrial investment
strategy, and increased domestic resource mobilization and have been under-
taken in the context of the recent detailed review of the Government-s Second
Five-Year Plan.



-8 -
PART III - THE FERTILIZER SECTOR
Background
29.       Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for 55%
of GDP, over 75% of the labor force and, directly or indirectly, over 90% of
the country s exports (mainly jute and jute manufactures). Bangladesh has a
gross area of 35 million acres, of which about 22.5 million acres are under
cultivation at a cropping intensity averaging close to 150% in recent years.
Foodgrains, mainly rice, comprise the major agricultural crops, contribute
about 35% of GDP, and constitute the principal source of income of subsistence
farmers. Rice and, to a lesser exent, wheat provide almost 85% of the calorie
and 70% of the protein intake of the population. The size of the grain crops
determines the need for foodgrain imports which increased from less than
0.6 million tons in FY61 to over 1.5 million tons annually during the
1970s.
30.       Due to heavy population pressure on limited land, there is vir-
tually no possibility of achieving substantial acreage expansion in Bangla-
desh; arable land per capita is only 0.34 acre. Thus growth in food and
other agricultural production depends upon the increased and complementary
use of modern inputs--fertilizer, irrigation, HYV seeds, and pesticides--
and upon improvements in cultivation and farm management practices. The
Government has set an official target of achieving foodgrain self-suffi-
ciency by 1985, which would require average annual output growth rates of
about 6%. This is an ambitious goal, but it is considered to be achievable.
It will require: (i) adequate and timely supply of fertilizer, diesel fuel,
seeds and pesticides; (ii) better utilization of existing irrigation systems
and equipment; (iii) expanding investments in quick-yielding low-cost small-
scale irrigation, drainage and flood control facilities; (iv) maintenance of
incentive prices for foodgrains and improvement in the foodgrain procurement
and marketing systems; (v) strengthening of extension services and suppor-
tive applied research; (vi) improved provision of institutional credit;
(vii) increased utilization of private financial and managerial resources in
agricultural input delivery, servicing and utilization; and (viii) improved
project planning and implementation. These requirements have been incorpor-
ated in the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (see paragraph 17), now
under implementation, and actual input supply and output performance during
its first year, FY81, have been very good (see paragraph 6). Various ongoing
IDA assisted projects are aimed at supporting the achievement of the food
self-sufficiency goal; the proposed project is directed at providing suffi-
cient fertilizer to sustain the progress after 1985.
Fertilizer Consumption in Bangladesh
31.       Chemical fertilizer has been used progressively on a large scale
in Bangladesh since its introduction in 1958. The principal fertilizers
used in Bangladesh are urea (46% nitrogen nutrient), triple superphosphates
(TSP; 46% phosphate nutrient), muriate of potash (MP; 60% potassium nutri-
ent), and the recently introduced Diammonium Phosphate (DAP; 18% nitrogen



- 9 -
and 46% phosphate nutrient). In FY80, urea accounted for 64%, TSP and DAP
for 29%, and MP and micronutrient fertilizers for 7% of the fertilizer used.
Fertilizer is used by all categories of farmers in Bangladesh. Available
statistics indicate that fertilizer is used by as many as 65% to 70% of
owner-cultivators and between 45% and 65% of tenant farmers.
32.       Since 1966, fertilizer consumption has increased at an annual
average rate of about 16%, reaching 840,000 tons in FY80. Fertilizer
consumption should continue to increase rapidly. Present average applica-
tion rates--about 24 lbs of nutrient per gross cropped acre--are among the
lowest in the world, and the incremental output response to fertilizer use
will remain high. It has been estimated that--based on current cropping
patterns, and with adequate flood control and irrigation--the application of
the agronomically recommended optimal quantities of fertilizer in Bangladesh
would require between 4.5 and 5 million tons of fertilizer per year. Although
the incremental productivity of fertilizer rises with the provision of com-
plementary inputs, (HYVs, pesticides, irrigation and flood control facili-
ties) an increase in fertilizer application alone, without any additional
other inputs or changes in cultivation practices, will result in substantial
initial yield increases for more than half of the present rice and wheat
acreage. In order to achieve the target of 20 million tons of foodgrain
production under the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) aggregate
fertilizer requirements for FY85 are estimated to be on the order of 1.9
million tons--equivalent to an annual increase in consumption of about 17.5%
per year over the FY80 consumption level of 840,000 tons, i.e. slightly above
the average growth rates from FY66 to FY80.
Domestic Fertilizer Production
33.       In 1981 fertilizer was produced at two urea plants at Ghorasal and
Fenchuganj and at the TSP complex in Chittagong. These plants have a combined
installed capacity of 490,000 tons per year (tpy) of urea, 13,200 tpy of
ammonium sulfate and 152,000 tpy of TSP. The nitrogen production is based on
domestic natural gas and the sulfate and phosphate production on imported
sulfur, currently from Iraq, and rock phosphate, from Jordan and Morocco. All
of these plants are operated by Government-owned corporations.
34.       Production from these plants has been erratic and below expectations,
but has shown improvement over the past three years from 256,000 tons (39% of
capacity) in FY78 to 431,000 tons (66% of capacity) in FY80. In FY81, produc-
tion declined somewhat to 415,000 tons: 336,000 tons of urea (69% of capacity),
9,100 tons of ammonium sulfate (69% of capacity) and 70,000 tons of TSP (46%
of capacity), largely due to equipment breakdowns. A program for removing
bottlenecks to efficient production is being financed under IDA Credit No.
1023-BD, Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project, approved by the Board in
May 1980. In addition, under a UNDP-financed project, a contract has been
signed with UNICO International of Japan to provide operations assistance to
the Ghorasal and Chittagong plants and to train managerial, supervisory,
skilled technical and operating staff.



- 10 -
35.       A fifth plant financed by IDA (Credit 527-SD) and nine other donors,
has recently come on stream at Ashuganj. The plant, designed to produce about
520,000 tpy of urea, encountered substantial initial delays and cost overruns,
but was inaugurated in December 1981 and urea production has started.
36.       Agreement has also been reached with the People's Republic of China
for additional facilities for the production of 110,000 tpy of urea to be
set up at Ghorasal, with Chinese technical and financial assistance. The
plant is expected to come on stream by mid 1984. However, even with this
additional capacity and improvements in the existing ones, Bangladesh will
need additional fertilizer to sustain its food self-sufficiency program.
Urea Supply and Demand
37.       Although steps are being taken to move towards a more balanced
consumption of fertilizer nutrients, because of domestic availability of raw
material feedstock (natural gas) and a growing experience in its production,
urea is expected to continue dominating fertilizer usage in Bangladesh in
the forseeable future. Of the 875,000 tons of fertilizer consumed in FY81,
urea accounted for 560,500 tons or about 64%. Consumption of urea in the last
five years has grown at an average annual rate of 12.5%, a growth rate which
is expected to be maintained through to FY83. Increases beyond the FY83 level
are projected at 10% per annum, which will bring urea requirement in FY90 to
about 1.53 million tons.
38.       With the improvements expected under the Fertilizer Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 1023-BD), capacity utilization at existing plants should
improve. With the coming on stream of Ashuganj and the proposed Chinese
assisted plant and this project, Bangladesh would have urea production capacity
of approximately 1.7 million tons by FY86. However, future supply of locally-
produced urea will depend on the performance of the existing urea plants
(Fenchuganj and Ghorasal) and capacity utilization build-up of the Ashuganj
plant, the proposed Chinese assisted plant and this project. The proposed
project is expected to come on stream in November 1985, at an initial capacity
utilization of 50%, increasing to 75% the second year and stabilizing at 90%
thereafter. Based on this and the projected capacity utilization of the
other plants, the projected local supply/demand balance of urea is projected
to remain in deficit through 1984/ 5, moving into surplus for the three years
1985/6 through 1987/8 and back into deficit thereafter. Taking into account
the world urea situation and the geographical position of Bangladesh there
would be no difficulty in exporting any surplus. In fact, IFC, together with
a group of private investors, is examining the possibility of establishing
an entirely export-oriented urea plant at Chittagong under the ownership of
a new joint venture company, Karnaphuli Fertilizer Company Limited.
Marketing and Distribution
39.       The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), an
autonomous agency under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, is respon-
sible for the procurement, distribution and wholesale marketing of agricul-
tural inputs, including fertilizers, seeds, irrigation equipment and diesel



- 11 -
fuel, and various types of agricultural machinery. While the major con-
straint to increased fertilizer consumption has been inadequate supply,
the fertilizer distribution system has also been handicapped by inadequate
planning and coordination and the lack of transport and storage facilities.
An IDA-financed fertilizer marketing study, completed in 1977, provided
the basis for BADC to formulate a comprehensive and improved marketing and
storage program. This program includes a USAID-financed project for con-
struction of additional storage capacity and a phased program to develop
greater private sector involvement in fertilizer distribution.
40.       Marketing.  Until recently, BADC's marketing system limited private
participation to the retail level. In 1978, backed by the USAID Fertilizer
Distribution Improvement Grant, BADC introduced wholesale and retail compe-
tition among fertilizer dealers--private and cooperative--in a pilot project
in the five districts of Chittagong Division which account for about a third
of total fertilizer consumption. Since July 1980, the new system has been
extended throughout the country. The new marketing system has enjoyed a
successful beginning and has reduced BADC's costs of multiple handling,
transport and losses.
41.       Transportation.  The transportation system has been a constraint
to fertilizer availability and use. In order to expedite fertilizer move-
ment and distribution, IDA is assisting in the financing of a fertilizer
transport project (Credit 1096-BD) to: (i) improve landing and storage
facilities at two ports to serve as transit centers for the entire north-
west section of the country; (ii) dredge the channel at Chittagong port in
order to raise the maximum limit of fertilizer (and other cargo) that ships
can bring into the port; (iii) improve the railway fertilizer handling
facilities; and (iv) improve contracting procedures for fertilizer movements.
The feasibility of bulk handling and bagging facilities for imported ferti-
lizer has been under review for some time, since ocean shipping and port
handling in bulk form would give significant savings. An IFAD Fertilizer
Sector Program Loan approved in December 1979 includes financing of a pilot
project at Chittagong which would upgrade existing jetty facilities to handle
small bulk ships.
42.       Storage.  BADC bases its present and future storage needs on
having inventories equivalent to five months of expected offtake for imported
fertilizers and three months of expected sales for domestically produced
fertilizers. On this basis, the stockholding requirements would rise to
600,000 tons by the end of FY83 and to about 800,000 tons by the end of FY85
if consumption develops as estimated and required in the context of the
Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (see para 32). Projects are underway
to expand BADC's own storage capacity as well as increase storage capacity at
various factories under construction. Total storage capacity available by
1985 (including rented and factory capacity, but excluding supplies in tran-
sit) would be about 808,000 tons. As transportation capacity improves and as
more of the total urea requirements is met from domestic production rather
than from imports, it should be possible to reduce the buffer stocks that need
to be kept within BADC warehouses and thereby reduce the costly burden on the



- 12 -
distribution system. Furthermore, additional private storage should become
available with greater reliance on private wholesalers under the new market-
ing system.
Fertilizer Pricing
43.       Farmer demand for fertilizer depends largely on the ratio between
the expected output price at harvest time and the cost of fertilizer that
will make fertilizer use sufficiently rewarding financially for the farmer
to take the risk of purchasing and applying it. In Bangladesh, droughts and
floods make fertilizer use a more risky undertaking than in many countries.
The impact of successive increases in fertilizer prices on the trend of
farmer use of fertilizer must be monitored carefully.
44.       Since its introduction in Bangladesh, fertilizer has been subsi-
dized to promote its use. BADC receives a subsidy from the Government to
cover the difference between its procurement and distribution costs and its
sales revenues. The subsidy thus defined has risen rapidly in recent years
and the burden on the Government has remained substantial. In connection
with the Fertilizer Imports Credit (Credit 944-BD), IDA and GOB have agreed to
review, at the request of either party, but in any case at least once a year,
the effect of fertilizer price movements on the level of the subsidy so as to
ensure continued progess towards elimination of the subsidy by June 30, 1985.
As a result, the Government has increased its fertilizer sales prices to
reduce the subsidy from 42%. in FY80 to 33% in FY81. A further increase in
fertilizer sales prices by an average of about 21% was announced in December
1981, thus lowering the unit subsidy to 28% in FY82.
45.       The level of subsidy reduction is linked to the Government procure-
ment prices for foodgrains. Under Credit 944-BD, the Government has agreed
to set foodgrain procurement prices at levels judged to provide adequate
production incentives to farmers and to review at the time of each increase
in fertilizer prices whether or not such prices might require adjustment.
In June 1979, the ratio of the paddy and wheat procurement prices to the
fertilizer sales price was about 1.3. As a result of subsequent increases
in fertilizer and procurement prices the present paddy/fertilizer price ratio
has been reduced to about 1. The present paddy/fertilizer price ratio is
considered adequate to continue to make the use of fertilizer attractive;
for comparison, the present ratio in India is about 0.40, and in Pakistan
is about 0.55.
Credit
46.       Generally, availability of institutional credit does not appear
to be a major constraint to increased fertilizer use. Institutional credit
for fertilizer is provided primarily by six commercial banks and one agri-
cultural bank under a liberalized short-term credit program introduced in
FY78 and designed to increase the use of agricultural inputs. The share of
the program going to small farmers has proved less than originally intended.
To increase access to credit by small farmers, the banks have opened more
rural branch offices and have improved staff training. The Government has



- 13 -
also employed consultants, financed under the First and Second IDA Technical
Assistance Credits (409-BD and 622-BD), to recommend measures for longer-
term improvements in the agricultural credit system. Several experimental
projects to provide credit to small farmers and sharecroppers are in progress,
but their results are not yet available. The recently approved IDA assisted
Agricultural Credit Project (Cr 1147-BD) would help strengthen the agricul-
tural credit system and expand access to credit by small farmers.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History and Location
47.       In November 1976, the Asian Development Bank provided Bangladesh
with an engineering loan of US$2.0 million equivalent to carry out the
feasibility study and detailed engineering for (i) the development of the
Bakhrabad gas field and transmission line to supply gas to end-users in
Chittagong, Bangladesh's leading commercial and industrial center; and (ii)
an ammonia-urea complex that would use part of the gas from the Bakhrabad
field. UNICO, a Japanese consulting firm, was contracted to provide the
technical services. Following completion of the feasibility study in late
1979, GOB requested IDA to consider financing, and mobilizing and coordinat-
ing other donor assistance, for the gas development and transmission project;
IDA appraised the Bakhrabad Gas Development Project in January/February,
1980 and the credit (Credit 1091-BD), was approved by the Executive Directors
in December, 1980 with co-financing from OPEC and OECF. The ADB was requested
to perform a similar role for the ammonia-urea complex (the proposed project).
48.       The ammonia-urea complex was appraised by the ADB over a 10-month
period beginning February 1980. Because of its linkages with the gas develop-
ment and transmission project, IDA had followed its inception and subsequent
preparation very closely, particularly during the appraisal of the Bakhrabad
Gas Development Project (Credit 1091-BD). Negotiations for the proposed
credit were completed in January 1982.
Project Description
49.       The project consists of (a) design, engineering and construction
of (i) a 1,000 tons per day (tpd) ammonia unit; (ii) a 1,700 tpd urea unit;
and (iii) utilities, offsite and ancillary facilities; (b) construction of
office and plant buildings and a staff housing colony, including community
facilities; (c) supply of construction equipment for building the plant;
(d) retention of a technical advisor to assist and advise on design, procure-
ment, construction and startup of the facility; (e) a management advisory and
operational services team to assist in the management, operation and mainte-
nance of the plant during the initial three years after commissioning; and (f)
training inplant and abroad of key plant personnel.



- 14 -
50.       The proposed project will be located south of the Marine Academy
in Chittagong, on the opposite side of the Chittagong port. The site was
selected after extensive evaluation of alternative locations, taking into
account the soil conditions, effects of possible earthquakes, ease and cost
of distribution of the project's output, availability of skilled manpower
and infrastructure, and access to international shipping for potential
future exports of urea from Bangladesh. The selected site is in a relatively
undeveloped region of the Chittagong District and is easily accessible to the
domestic fertilizer markets. By waterways, the urea output of the proposed
project can be transported to the western districts of Noakhali, Barisal and
Patuakhali and to the ports of Khulna and Chalna for distribution to the
southwest and northwest regions of Bangladesh. The construction of a 5 km
road to link the Project site with the Patiya-Anwaro highway, now under
construction, will enable urea to be transported by road to consuming areas
in the Chittagong district.
Raw Material and Utility Requirements
51.       The principal raw material required by the project will be natural
gas from the Bakhrabad gas field. The gas is to be used both as a feedstock
and as fuel for the plant. The maximum daily gas requirement for the plant
is estimated at 55 million standard cubic feet (MMSCF). The already proven
gas reserves at Bahkrabad would be sufficient to support the projected
total gas requirements of the plant and other gas end-users, at least until
the year 2000. The gas to the proposed project will be delivered via a
161-km long, 24 inch-diameter transmission pipeline to the Chittagong City
Gate Terminal, from where gas will be distributed to the proposed project
and other gas end-users in the Chittagong area. The IDA-financed gas system
project is being implemented by the Bakhrabad Gas System, Ltd. (BGSL). After
initial delays caused by rains and some material shortages, project imple-
mentation is proceeding satisfactorily and is expected to be completed by
June 30, 1984.
52.       The project entity, Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Limited (CUFL),
will enter into a long-term gas supply contract with BGSL on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The contract will obligate BGSL to complete
the development of the related gas system project before the completion of
the proposed project (expected by December 1985) and to give priority to this
project in allocating gas from the Bakhrabad fields; Government has also
provided an assurance to this effect (Section 3.03 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement and Section 2.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement). The
execution of this contract will be a condition for credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
53.       Other major requirements of the plant are steam, power and water.
Steam for the urea unit and for other purposes such as plant start-up will
be supplied by gas-fired boilers. The plant will be equipped with two 12
MW generators to provide its own captive power. Additionally, the plant
will be connected to the national grid for standby use prior to completion
of plant construction (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
54.       The plant and the housing colony will require about 1,050 cubic
meters of water per hour. The nearest reliable source of water of acceptable
quality would be at the confluence of the Karnaphuli and the Helda rivers
about 25 km north of the selected site. A pipeline route has been selected,
and the Government and CUFL are in the process of finalizing the acquisition
of the right-of-way for laying the pipeline; GOB and CUFL would agree to
complete the acquisition by December 31, 1982 (Section 3.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.08(b) of the draft Project Agree-
ment). All other lands, properties and rights of way necessary for the
construction of the plant will be acquired by CUFL as a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 5.02(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost
55.       A detailed breakdown of project cost is presented in the Project
and Credit Summary. Total financing required for the project, including
physical and price contingencies, pre-operating expenses, permanent working
capital and interest during construction, is estimated at about US$467.6
million, of which US$290.0 million or 62% is in foreign exchange and US$177.6
million or 38% is in local currency. The base cost estimate is calculated
in April 1981 prices. Price contingencies on the foreign component were
based on estimated international inflation rates of 9% in 1981, 8.5% in
1982 and 7.5% in 1983 through 1985; price escalation for local costs was
based on estimated inflation rates in Bangladesh of 12% in 1981 and 10% per
annum thereafter. 1/ The working capital requirements are calculated on the
basis of 90% operating level needs, and are estimated at US$35.1 million with
a foreign exchange component of US$5.3 million. Interest during construction
is calculated at 12% per annum on the foreign loans, which is the rate at
which GOB will pass on the foreign contributions, including the proceeds of
the proposed IDA credit (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Financing Plan
56.       Seven co-financiers would finance the US$290 million equivalent
foreign exchange cost of the project. These funds, including the proposed IDA
credit, would be relent by GOB to CUFL for a term of 15 years, including 5
years of grace, at 12% per annum. This is expected to result in a slightly
positive rate in real term over the medium term. CUFL would bear the
foreign exchange risk. The local cost component will be provided by GOB from
its annual development budget as equity to CUFL to be used to finance local
currency expenditures. GOBs contribution will amount to 38% of the total
project cost. The project components and proposed contributions of the
co-financing agencies are as follows:
1/   Although the inflation rate in FY82 is expected to be around 15%, as
indicated in paragraph 14 above, these price contingencies are considered
adequate because (i) local costs associated with the project (including
civil works) are not expected to rise so rapidly as the general price
level (consumer price index) and (ii) the inflation rate is likely to
slow down as a result of Government-s policy measures aimed at financial
stabilization.



- 16 -
US$
Million
Source             Equivalent             Items to be Financed
Asian Development Bank          72       Service fees for General Contractor,
(ADB)                                  Technical Advisors, and Operational
Management Advisory Team, civil works,
some offsite facilities and administra-
tion building, catalysts and chemicals,
working capital and freight.
Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab         25       Water treatment plant, water intake
Economic Development                   pipe, construction equipment, spares
(ADFAED)                               and freight.
Canadian International          20       Steam generation facilities, ammonia
Development Agency                     storage and refrigeration facilities,
(CIDA)                                 maintenance equipment, spares and
freight.
Islamic Development            16        Power generation and distribution
Bank (IsDB)                            facilities, air and inert gas
facilities, spares and freight.
Overseas Economic              60        Urea unit including services (lump-
Cooperation Fund                       sum basis), material handling equip-
of Japan (OECF)                        ment, spares and freight.
Saudi Fund for                 85        Ammonia plant, jetty, buildings and
Develiopment (SFD)                     structures, spares and freight.
International Develop-         15        Site preparation, construction
ment Association (IDA)                 equipment and freight.
Total Foreign Exchange        293.0 1/
1/   $2.0 million of the ADB's proposed loan of US$72 million would refinance
an existing ADB technical assistance loan made for the preparation of
this project. This amount is excluded from the cost estimates presented
in the Project Summary.
Project Implementation Arrangements
57.       The Implementing Agency.  The proposed project will be implemented
(over a 53 month period) and operated by the Chittagong Urea Fertilizer
Limited (CUFL), a recently-created limited liability company under the
Bangladesh Companies Act. The company is wholly-owned by the Bangladesh
Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC) on behalf of GOB. Its authorized
capital is $187.5 million and will be subscribed to by the Government. Pay-
ment will be made when capital is required to pay local currency expenditures



- 17 -
on the proposed project. CUFL's Articles of Association were approved by
GOB in October 1980. CUFL's Board of Directors will be appointed by GOB,
and will have not less than five and not more than eight members. The Board
of Directors of CUFL is the policy-making body; the Managing Director is the
Chief Executive and will be responsible for the day-to-day operations of
the company. Any changes in this position and those of the Project Director
and Finance Director of CUFL would be subject to prior consultation with IDA
(Section 3.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement). While CUFL will improve
its technical staff capacity through a comprehensive training program (see
para. 61), it plans to draw technical and managerial support from BCIC, the
GOB-owned chemical industries holding corporation, and other fertilizer
companies in Bangladesh. At full operating level, CUFL will employ about
1,300 people. To assist in implementing the project and in efficiently
operating the plant in the initial years following its construction CUFL
would engage the services of a General Contractor, a Technical Advisor and
a Management Advisory and Operational Services Team (Sections 2.03 and 2.09
of the draft Project Agreement). Details of their functions are described
below.
58.       The General Contractor.  The General Contractor, whose qualifica-
tions and contract terms shall be satisfactory to IDA, will be engaged by
CUFL after international competitive bidding. The general contractor will
have overall responsibility for the construction and commissioning of the
project. His responsibilities will include, but not be limited to (i) provi-
sion of process licenses, and basic and detailed designs of the ammonia unit
and all off-site and ancilliary facilities; (ii) management of procurement
for all materials and equipment for the ammonia unit and for all off-site
and ancilliary facilities; (iii) supervision of erection and construction of
the entire integrated plant, including the urea unit, and all civil works;
(iv) testing, start-up, and the commissioning of the entire integrated plant,
including the urea unit; and (v) training of CUFL personnel. The General
Contractor will be paid on a fixed fee plus reimbursable cost basis for its
services. Equipment and materials will be procured by the General Contrac-
tor on behalf of CUFL in accordance with the procurement procedures of the
respective co-financiers. Civil works, construction and erection works
contracts for the project will be awarded by CUFL under separate contracts.
The General Contractor will, however , supervise such works. To meet OECF
requirements for its funds to be utilized for financing the urea unit on a
lump-sum basis, CUFL will engage a sub-contractor who will be responsible
for providing the process licenses, basic and detailed engineering designs,
supply of equipment and technical supervision for the erection of the urea
unit under the overall coordination and supervision of the General Contractor.
59.       Technical Advisor.  UNICO International of Japan is being retained
as Technical Advisor (i) to assist CUFL in the preparation of process speci-
fications and bidding documents for the general contract, pre-qualification
of contractors and selection of the General Contractor; and (ii) to provide
CUFL with management and technical advisory services during the project
implementation period. Provision of 274 man-months to cover these services
is included in the total project cost.



- 18 -
60.       Management Advisory Team.  CUFL will engage a Management Advisory
and Operational Services Team with experience in the technical management of
ammonia-urea fertilizer plants to assist CUFL in managing and operating the
plant for at least the initial three years of its operation (Section 2.09 of
the draft Project Agreement). It is envisaged that a small group of expatriate
management and operational advisors would be required to assist CUFL to reach
and maintain the production rate of the plant at about 90% of rated capacity.
An input of up to 288 man-months by the team of expatriate experts is estimated
to be required for assisting CUFL in the efficient operation and maintenance
of the Plant and for providing on-the-job training for CUFL's managerial and
technical staff.
61.       Employment, Training and Operating Management.  About 240 of the
1,300 persons to be employed by CUFL would be managerial and administrative
staff, and the remaining would be plant personnel and other supporting staff.
More than half of the plant personnel would be technologists, technicians and
skilled workers such as engineers, chemists, fitters, mechanics, welders and
electricians. The rest of the plant personnel would be semi-skilled and
unskilled laborers required for tasks such as materials handling and bagging.
CUFL will recruit all of the key technical staff during the construction phase
of the project, and will provide such staff with the necessary training prior
to the start-up of the plant. Training programs would be drawn up by CUFL's
General Contractor in close cooperation with the Technical Advisor. The
programs will be carried out mainly in the Ashuganj and Ghorasal fertilizer
training centers but will also include intensive training abroad for selected
staff in fertilizer plants similar to the proposed project. Arrangements for
this training would be made by the General Contractor as part of its contrac-
tual responsibility.  In addition, the General Contractor in consultation with
UNICO will be required to organize on-the-job training for CUFL staff during
construction and initial operation of the plant. The training program for
technical staff would be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1984 for approval
prior to its implementation (Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
Coordination Among Co-financiers
62.       A Memorandum of Agreement between the co-financiers sets out the
agreed arrangements for coordination among co-financing agencies. While IDA
will retain the right to supervise the project, in order to minimize informa-
tion demand on GOB and CUFL and to develop joint and consistent approaches
to the project by co-financiers, ADB will monitor and channel information
regarding the project and its progress, as well as organize review missions
of co-financiers on a regular basis. In the course of these missions, the
status of compliance with the Credit covenants, latest budgetary cost esti-
mates, status of implementation schedule, the performance activities, and
projected disbursements of the project will be reviewed. ADB will also
arrange joint meetings among co-financiers as and when necessary for taking
steps for jointly resolving any problems. A separate agreement will be
signed between IDA and ADB outlining the role ADB would play in administer-
ing the proposed IDA credit. ADB would undertake inter alia to: (a) review
contracts for civil works and equipment supplies under the proposed IDA
credit to ensure that the procurement procedures in these cases followed
IDA's Guidelines; and (b) review disbursement applications and advise IDA
of approvals for disbursement.



- 19 -
Procurement and Disbursement
63.       Procurement of goods and works to be financed under the Credit by
IDA will be in accordance with IDA's guidelines. Contracts for the procure-
ment of goods and civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000
or more will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
Local bidders would be given the usual margins of preference. Bidders for
civil works, construction and erection contracts will be prequalified before
bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Contracts for
the procurement of goods and civil works estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$200,000 will be awarded on the basis of limited international
tendering. Disbursement would be made against 100% of foreign expenditures
and 65% of local expenditures for civil works and against 100% of foreign
expenditures for imported goods and 100% of local expenditures ex-factory of
locally procured equipment.
Auditing Requirements
64.       CUFL will furnish to IDA within 45 days after the close of each
of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of CUFL (i) an unaudited
quarterly financial statement; and (ii) a written statement by an authorized
financial officer of CUFL setting out the status of compliance with the
financial covenants agreed upon between CUFL and IDA. Within six months
after the close of each fiscal year, CUFL will further submit to IDA finan-
cial statements audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA (Section
4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Financial Targets
65.       Current ex-factory urea prices administered by the Government are
based on production costs in the fertilizer plants now in operation. The
prices do not allow sufficient provision for depreciation on revalued assets
and are often inadequate to meet debt service obligations of fertilizer plants.
Under the IDA credit for the Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project
(1023-BD), the Government has agreed to review, at least once a year, the
ex-factory prices of all fertilizer plants and establish such ex-factory
prices for the following year to enable the facilities operating efficiently
(defined as 80% capacity utilization) to (i) obtain revenues sufficient to
cover operating and administrative expenses, including adequate provisons for
maintenance, depreciation, taxes and other levies; and (ii) provide a net
income after interest and taxes which will yield a reasonable return agreed
upon between Government and IDA on the revalued equity; a rate of return of
at least 10% was agreed upon for this purpose. The Government has agreed to
make the above pricing mechanism also applicable to the proposed project
(Section 3.05(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement; Section 4.03(f)(ii)
of the draft Project Agreement). To further ensure sound financial operations
of the project, CUFL has undertaken (i) after the commercial operation date,
not to incur any long-term debt, if after such occurrence the debt equity
ratio will exceed 60:40; or the debt service ratio will become less than 1.5
times; (ii) prior to the commercial operation date, not to make expenditures,
or commitments for expenditures for capital additions except expenditures
required for the project; (iii) for the three-year period following the



- 20 -
commercial operation date, not to make any expenditures or commitments
except: (a) expenditures required for operation of the plant; (b) investment
in short-term marketable securities solely for the purpose of temporarily
employing funds at the time not required to be held as cash; (c) other
expenditures or commitments for expenditures not exceeding in the aggregate
the equivalent of US$3 million in any fiscal year. Finally, CUFL will not
pay any dividend or make any other distribution with respect to its share
capital if, after giving effect to such action, the current ratio would be
less than 1.5 (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
66.       The project will increase Bangladesh's domestic fertilizer produc-
tion and directly reduce the country's import requirements. The net foreign
exchange savings resulting from the project, after deduction of principal
payments and service charges on the foreign funds and deducting the foreign
exchange components of operating cost, are estimated at US$114 million a year,
in 1981 dollars. The increased domestic production will also help ensure a
continuous and secured supply of fertilizer, thus allowing Bangladesh to
pursue its agricultural growth targets with more certainty. The Government
has put a heavy emphasis on agricultural stability and growth, and stepped-up
fertilizer production will play a key role in increasing agricultural output
by improving yields. In fact, by 1988 when the project reaches full capacity
operation, it alone will provide 37% of the forecast domestic urea supply and
36% of forecast urea consumption. Direct employment created by the project
will be about 1,300 permanent jobs. The investment cost per permanent direct
job is about US$350,000. At the peak period of construction activity, more
than 3,000 people will be employed for project implementation. Furthermore,
it is conservatively estimated that through secondary and tertiary employment
creation effects, the project will generate some 4,000 jobs in the transport
and service sectors. The local erection and civil works contracts will also
have a positive impact on the local economy. Installation of a large fer-
tilizer complex in the area will help attract small and medium scale service
industries needed to provide maintenance and other services for the complex,
and the road connection can assist in the industrial development of that area
of Chittagong.
67.       The economic rate of return on the project is estimated at 19%.
ADB's economic analysis uses the official exchange rate at the time of
appraisal (Tk 16.00 per US$1.00) and assumes an opportunity cost for gas
based on the value of crude oil alternative source of energy when the gas
is exhausted in 30 years time (US$1.44 per million BTU in 1985 prices). For
the purposes of sensitivity analysis, IDA staff have used a shadow exchange
rate of Tk 20.00 per US$1.00, and have conservatively assumed a higher
opportunity cost for gas (US$5.4 per million BTU in 1981 prices) based on the
calorific value equivalent of fuel oil at present prices. Based on these
assumptions, the economic rate of return would be 14%, which is satisfactory.
Using a shadow exchange rate of Tk 20.00 per US dollar and placing a value of
US$3 per million BTU on the natural gas, the economic rate of return increases
to 22%; on the other hand, if project completion were delayed by one year and
capacity utilization of the plant builds up substantially more slowly, under
the IDA sensitivity analysis the economic rate of return for the project



- 21 -
could fall to 5.4%. Based on an ex-factory price for urea of $280 per metric
ton for the domestic market and $330 per metric ton for the export market in
1985 constant values, the financial rate of return of the project is estimated
at 11.7%.
68.       Other than the operational risks inherent in all chemical industries,
which for this project are expected to be minimal because of the adoption of
technology commercially proven both in developed and developing countries,
the main risks facing the project are possible implementation delays, low
capacity utilization and unsatisfactory financial performance resulting from
Government pricing policy. IDA, ADB, the other co-financiers and GOB have
sought to minimize the possible risk of implementation delays by the adoption
of the implementation arrangements described above. The risk of low capacity
utilization is expected to be minimized by the inclusion of provisions for a
training program for CUFL staff and employment of expatriate management and
operational advisors during the initial three years of operation. Satisfac-
tory financial performance of CUFL would be largely dependent on implementa-
tion of a pricing mechanism which allows for timely price adjustments during
periods of rapidly rising production costs. This risk is expected to be
adequately met by the proposed agreements with the Government, which will
allow CUFL to earn a minimum agreed return on its equity.
Environmental Safeguards
69.       Statutory regulations for industrial pollution control in Bangladesh
are in the process of being enacted; their standards are expected to follow
closely those adopted in developed countries. The project will be designed
in accordance with acceptable standards of pollution control, including those
related to solid, liquid and gaseous emissions. Since natural gas from
the Bakhrabad gas field is virtually sulfur-free, atmospheric pollution is
expected to be minimal. Solid emission from the prilling of urea will be
minimized through the installation of a dust removal system. Liquid effluent
from the plant will be treated in waste water treatment units before being
discharged into the Karnaphuli river. Under these circumstances, the adverse
effect of the project on the environment is expected to be negligible.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Limited (CUFL) and the Recommenda-
tion of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Additional conditions of credit effectiveness are: (a) that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between GOB and CUFL has been executed; (b) that all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB loan agreement and those of other
co-financiers have been met; (c) that GOB has entered into a supply contract
with Balkhrabad Gas System Ltd; and (d) that CUFL has acquired lands and
properties required for the construction of the plant.



- 22 -
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
January 15, 1982



- 23 -
Page I
TABLE 3A
BANGI.DESB - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHLEET
BANGLAMESH                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ.                                                       MOM.)  H  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL  144.0                          H~~~~~~~~OST RECENT  WV INCOME            MIDDLE INCONE
AGRICULTURAL     97.3             1960 /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 4 PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                30.0       50.0      90.0             232.3                  1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAHS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      ..       32.0/e   40.8              499.4                  1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 53491.0    68117.0  88934.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.1       7.6      10.8              17.3                    40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                  148.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                    338.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED              2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. M0.                    371.5      473.0    617.6              153.6                   373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   561.9     702.2    888.6              360.3                  2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       44.3       46.3      43.5              37.4                    39.8
15-64 YRS.                       52.5       51.0      53.9              59.2                   56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 3.2        2.7       2.6               3.5                     3.5
POPULATION GROWTR RATE (PERCFNT)
TOTAL                            1.9        2.4       3.0               2.1                     2.3
URBAN                            3.6        6.3       6.8               3.4                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.2      47.6      43.5              27.7                    29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.5      19.9      15.7              10.2                     7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.5        3.1       2.8               2.5                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..      429.5   1143.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        ..       8.9              20.4                    44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)       106.0      101.0      88.0             107.1                   123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
EOQUIREMENTS)                 85.0       85.0      91.0              98.6                   112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        43.0       43.0      58.5              56.9                    62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      9.0        9.0       9.0              14.2                    19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    24.9      23.5      18.7              14.6                     4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   42.6      44.9      48.8              57.7                    64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           .-      153.0    130.0               89.1                    50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      45.0      53.0              30.1                    45.9
URBAN                             ..       13.0      15.0              65.8                    68.0
RURAL                             ..       47.0      55.0              20.1                    34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        6.0       5.0              17.6                    53.4
URBAN                             ..         ..      40.0              71.0                   71.0
RURAL                             ..         ..        ..               4.8                    42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            ..     8427.2/c  8775.0            3857.7                  4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       ..    91872.9  56876.6             6411.8                 2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             *-     6610.0/d  4402.0            1132.8                   588.5
URBAN                             ..         ..    637.6              322.3                   579.6
RURAL                             ..         ..  23754.3             5600.5                  1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                       5.9/      5.9
URBAN                             ..        6.17      6.1
RURAL                                          5. 97  5.9
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URBAN                             ..         ..
RURAL                             ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URBAN                             ..        3.O/e
RURAL                             ..         ..



- 24 -
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                  MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC                ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0         52.0      72.0                 85.9                     99.8
MALE                  66.0         68.0      103.0                94.4                     100.6
FEFALE                26.0         34.0       40.0                64.5                      98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   8.0         19.0      22.0                 38.0/aa                  53.5
MALE                  14.0         29.0       32.0                34.61am                   58.4
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0       11.0                18.0/ma                   48.6
VO(ATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.0        1.0                 3.8                      21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..         49.0      44.0                 32.8                     34.2                                   -
SECONDARY                             ..         26.0      24.0                 19.9                     31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         21.6/f       23.0       26.0                52.8                      86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.4       0.4                  1.7                     12.7
RADIO KECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          6.0       6.0                 35.3                    174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..       0.4                  3.7                     50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..        4.3                14.6                    106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                 3.4                       4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19251.6        23611.0   31390.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         16.6      17.4                 29.3                     37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               86.8         85.9      74.0                 69.8                     50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.3          3.5      11.0                 14.1                     21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.7       35.3                39.7                     40.2
MALE                                  58.7         55.9      56.5                 51.5                     49.8
FEMALE                                11.4         11.9       12.7                23.3                     31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4        1.3                 1.1                       1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST $ PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/g         16.7/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5/          42.3/h    38.0/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/           7.9/h     8.07..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9/          19.67.h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     139.0                134.1                    248.6
RURAL                                 *-           *-     111.0                111.6                    193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  ..                    249.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  ..                    234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      86.0                41.7                      21.2
RURAL                                 *-           *-      86.0                 51.7                     32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
jc   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d Government hospital establishments only;  /e 1973;
if 1962; /g 1963-64; /h 1966-67; /i Estimated percent of national income.
May, 1981



P.ne 3
DEFINITIlON OP SOCIAL UI20IATOAS
Nets.   Although tba data  -r  draw  fro .s......  ge-rlly judged the mest  uthorittiv- and reliable, it shold also ha  uted that they  ay not be in.te-
aati-sly .amp...bl. beacon of the leek of  tnaadadtesd dafiitiom   end ...n.ePt. used by different noutri.a Ia  ollec.ting the data.  The data ore, none-
thbl.... u...ufl to dewnoiba ocd.re of esgatude. indicate trends, mo  obhooteri .... etain naJor differanos  hstwsano..u.toie..
Trha redfreno   gmeup. Al  (1) the asm  ooutry group of the eubjeot  -utry end (2) A ouutry group with a..eeh.r highe-  -vrge Iocon  thao the coutry grou.p
of the eubist .outry (eatapt for 'Capital surplus Oil gaorsr"  rop eh... "Siddla Intn  North Afrion sod Middlo host" Ia cho... h..a... of stonOsrr
sone-uw1t.ral affimitigs).  1n th. r.fareno   grop data the avrages sre popultion wighted arithmetic wean. f. oneah hidicator nod cho   only  hen
mejority of the aentrlsin. a. group ba. data fo  that indi.tatr.  Sinu  the  ong   of nontrina amog tics todiostora depends oo the evail.bility of dote
sad In eat -uif.-. oatlen  -ne  be meeroisad ha ..s.ltig ov            sofon  idc tor0   unhr   These a--rae  ar  .nly uaa fut to c-p.riog the  .nlu. of
em  Sedhaste  An A ties smeg tho coutty end reference gan,ups.
LAIM AREA (thousand eq.k..)                                                                       yopniatio  per Hospital Bed -  cta.t1 urh-r  oaf rural - Pop.lution (tota.1
fetal - Tona-lsrfeos sraa coprising land Area and inland waters,                                   urba.  ad rura) divtd.d by thiar rep-cti- rasher of honpita1 beds
Aalrteu1tr.1 - Eatimt. of  -giatue   m   uad tenporrily or permanetly                              urilable In pbhi~ to   d private gnenl1 and epe-iolcod hospitl1 andr
for  r pa.pastrns, market and kitobn gard-n  or to lie fallow; 1979 data.                       habillition. cetr ..hopit.l. one ost.blishnot. pormanetly ntaffed
by on lea..t nor phynician. Eatoblish ..nta providing pnintip.lly ounto-
GNOP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNOP pea capita esetmat.. At oufoet maktn pro-, -a1-                         dia1lvra an. non included.  Runul boapitele. howve. - toolade health
oolat.d by sam    -renioo method an World lank Atlas (197y-79 basis); 1960,                        and  ad iol1 centvos nun p-naaet7y  tof fed by a phyeiaio  (hut by A
1970, amd 1979 data,                                                                              medical ...sai.tt  noose., midife. etc.) which of fr io-patiet Atoem-
dation and provide a limied range uf medical feciliti.a. P00 tiatin-
UUERT CagglgrIOTIa PER CAPITA - dAau1  -osuptlon of  -nmroha1  -eagy (coal                           tioal prpo.... urben huapital. inolud. WHO. pri.cipal/ge....al hospitels,
and lignite.  ps  -la.wtuel1 gas and hydra,-.1nalrn an  gathorsa  blc-                             and rura  b.spit.14 bI ..  on   -Ioa  hoapitala nod  adloal and eatenity
trinity) I. kilogoam   of  -ea   quivalent pwr onpits; 1960. 1970,..ad 1979                        nenteo.  Spocielle-d huapit.l.oare holuded  01y undar total..
dana.                                                                                           Admissions per B.apit.l led - Toto1 number of adminion  to or dinohoegos
fruw hospitals dtitdnd by the nenher of beds.
POPOUL0OO AND VITAL STATISTICS
Tonal Peel.tlem. Xid-YeAr (thoesaads  - As of Suly 1; 1960. 1970, and 1979                    HOUSING
Orba Peulaten  pnroat P toal)- Pti.oef arben t  total population;                       A household' ouninnf a group ufp individua            .t0ls  h o  livig qeatera
difgfen-t deiiiu f tI        ban  reaw may aff..t aompsbility of data                           end their main  -I.l.  A hoarder or lodger way or way not be iooladed In
smoe  wemtnies; 1960, 1970. end 1979 d.ta,                                                      the household for atatistioul porpusen.
a                    ~~~~~~~~PwruLatIo  Prelmetiom                                                                    Averaeouber uf rer-In  par noun~- total, other, and rural - Avrage  o
P.:! atin ha  ea  2000 - Curret popolatie. proj.otinus Ale bs..ed to 1980                       bar of paa.... per noon   in 011nro  end auralvocpiod caeoa
ttL pouaitio  by a4e and sen sad their mortality and fertility ranes,                       dwellings,  -ap-civ-ly.  Dwolli.ge en lude soo.--ponan    ntutnoad
Ponj.etion pasmtare for  -otaity astes cempfis  of three lsvsl  nasu-                         onucopied yarns.
lag lfe sapstotay at birth lneagwith  -awtoy's per ..pita imomeAarw  to 11tiecoicy (ecn   fdolua   tol.t ubo.adrua
lee,aad Pals  lifs sapsotamy stbileinig An 77.) years.  The pana-                         Cnotoa   wlig   ihontiiyi   iigqatr   apretg
moans fo  frtility r.te also hav  than. level  assuing derline in                             of tot1, urban, and renl1 dealioge re-pe-tinely.
fsreIlityaooo,rdcog no Inow - eval sad past f-mily plaing  arfi een,
Zsoh tou_toy is then assigned .   of thass nin. ..ebiwtione of mentality                  EDUCATION
snd fertility trends fea proj.otioa purposes.                                               Adluetad E-11leet Satios
StatiosaY PoPnlstion - In.  . ettionry Ppoplatica then Is me growh  ino.                        Pnr=ey schol -  onl  wl  end fenal  - Gr... ttn1, wale end Pestle
the birth rate Ia  quaI tn the death fete, and slew the Aga enutarto a-                         enrolmen  of al  agr n.t abe primary leve  as perc..otago  of ras:pootiv-
mains te...nt_t.  ThIs Is sohieved only after frtility rates d-eliec tn                         prleary arhctl -ag  pepulations; onrualy iacludee childre  aged 6-Il
th. neplareet Isoa  of -mit net reprodmetian reta, when enb genwetia                            years but adjusrtd for diPff.enat lengths of priwary educa.ti.n; for
of wmnrnpl.... itself samtly.  The  tnetinnry ppulation  J.s. was                                nn,;toite with universa  ed...tinc   -rlen  way exted 100 Porrot
eimated"onthe basis of the pnojantsd ohar-taristio  of the ppalatiec                            aos som  Pupile ore   ln  on ebo-  tho official  ubool ege.
ha th. yea  2000, and the rate of denlina of fsatility rane no ospleo-Ocodr    ho-                                  itl. wale and female -Cnpoted oeabone;ercondary
met banl,                                                                                       edcto  rqie  at lean  fnnr yasne of approvd priseny Ins..tinolo;
year statinay pnp.lathan Is reached - The yenr when stsnin y poplation                             provides getaril  vocaional, on teaher tuloinog i-et-tion  frPpi
te hsbee   ena.oulyo  12 to 17 year  of age; rcr-epcod-tc   lvrs                                                                                              . r  gnrlly
PeIaultiosDenity                                                                                     metudad.
Pe s. -.  - Mid-yasa pPopuation poe squa   kilomtar (100 heotares) of                         VI,ica:rtica arllsat I contet of ..... davy  - Voca.tiona  institutions
t00.1ara  1960. 19710 sd 1979 data.                                                             inu.tehIon, indoetli.l, or other_p'r-Arn  which oper.n  isdtpond-
Pee so.  .. amnrnl .oe  land - Computd ma abve for agiutrl.lad -                                   snly  r us deporrots of secon dary Intuto .
eey; 1960. 1970 snd 1970 date.                                                                Pu _tiltasor ratio - primary, and ..... dary - Total  trdenta enrolled In
'PIalatio  AL, Onrutnap  vAsreet) - Childeen (0-16 pemos), warkiag-ag. (15-                          prtway and  -ncodsry lo-ol  divided by tobers of teachers ha the
64 year). adrtirsd (65 y9ao  and  vw)As perosntsgs  of eld-yan  popu-                              urpoin leae
lation; 1960  1970. sa  1979 dana.                                                              Adult liteacrar  pe-et) - Litarate adults (nblo to ted and write)
Pena.tlon Growh late isan_t) -ttnsl1   Annas  growth rates of tote1 mid-                             asp-rnetsgo of tvtn1 adult population egod 11 years and over.
year poltiou' fo  1950-0. 1960-70. ad 1970-79.
PPacclt=onOn hO RAts _ergan  - urban - Aan1a growh retas of  nban pupo                        CM      ONPIS
lanitn  for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-79.                                                    Passsnar Core (P.. thnueand Popenltioo)- peseg               lcr  comprise eaton
Crud. girth lens fpr thasand) - dAssllr    itsprtosn   fsdpa                                        sentn    esta   ight poras ..c.ud..               awb1coces  hearses and
po aian; 1960.1970. end 1979 data,                                                           -iiay vehils
Ceeds Death ltferth_use'a, - Aen1a  datba per thousan ds of mid-year                            RadioI          1 Isoivrebe   thousan d aer:latina) - All typ.on  f r-oi-vfosPr radio
Pop.lattam; 1960. 1970. and 1979 dana.                                                          b..adoat  no  anRa1 public  arthounuod of popu lation; secludeson
Orome Reoedmetian lata - A-..sge nuber of daghner  A   -as  will bea  I.                           Iic..ns.d r-nivere In coutries and In Pera  h.a. r.gi.tl.tien of radio
bnr --rI rprsdooti- period if she sapAri-a    p-eea  AS.-spenif it fan-                         a-te wa  In effet;idate for r..ot years way met ha  nWpgrabls siss
tiliap rae; usealy fiws-pee acacags sadhasIn10.  1970. sd 1979                     eatc triw   abolishd liasic
Tesil Planins- AttstOr. Anual (honeods   A-oAnul nmber of a...apeers               TV tci-wer p-loa        - th _aa   ou   ltio    -;T r Mrdirer. foo broadcas.t to
nfA  biet=tosoald-noe  medr ..aspi... of eatiwna  feed.il7 PI_'ng prga.gntlpbi   a   busdppltion  onoude Aorli-.od TV ae...i-ers
_aiyPasm   - _sr  (esanen  of meaisd mws   - P-rntass of manind                           hacutaics and in years wh- nottainof TV nete  n  ha  fcfot.
-    of thild-hesrig eg. (15-44 years) who u.. birth-control danic..o.sna    Cousot   e tthesadtotlaie                                              ISow  th  -orge nit-
.lI marid woman In saeg            -gop.                                                        caaI.tion o.f"dailyn1  gnR.-   IntrntnwPapr", def inedh. Aupevidica1
publication de   Pe  -rlaily uc  nceding geerlros   It Ia  -ousidne
F000 ANDS NUTRITION                                                                                  no hr "daily" iftlit  por   tlatPfourniearek
Loden of food Predutioc ewn Carits (1969-71-100) - ledw  of pan capita aune                     Cinew  Aon1a AttsedAno- po ~~Capita Os  Y-o  - la..dIuo the cubAr of
pr-d-vtha of all fund  _oadities,  Panduotien snldes seed and f sad and                         tickate sld during tho your, incldio adinsico ..  t  driv-ia, cinca
is . on..a.ede  year basis.  Cua-ditis cove  pliesry goods (e.g. sagero.n.                      andme     uIs
inentad of sugar  which ste  dibls snd ...ntein etrints (e.gS.cfe  and
tea Ars  ncldad ).  Agge.sgta prudctoni   of eank inany is basedfo                          10.00  FORCE
nutiow1 erera   producer pra   eItb,, 1961-65.  1970  . an  9197  deta.                       Total Laobo Porco (th-uads) - 0 conieAllly  -ci-o paruona, inclodiog
p-Pan xits supl   f  sorasl          :rat uf r .. ir_nt   -_Computed Pra                        amn  fortesandi nsployd hoc noc"lgda   oswvs   tdn                      t.
oncog  sqoivlent If net food auppliss avalable ha -outry per caplta                           covering  po aiouf all ages.  Defintosi   aiu   on                         t
per dAy.  A-Ilable supplies copris  dometic plondutie..  faporos lass                         not coparable; 1960. 1970 end 1979 data.
eapnder, and cagsIn stak.  Nt supplies enoladeanimal fee.  used.                             F_enl fon_r_t) _ PF_al  igo   oc   nprerg ftotal labor forro.
quanitis ued  n fod poweea. ad loss.. In dis tributIo.Oqaie                         aiotr  orcol-Lbofrei  favt. icretry.  otn   n
ate  moe etimated by  1.0 hosd on phy.iloloite   -,d. for norma ati-                          fisiga  p--crgs of  -ct1 lubor for-; 1960. 1970 and 1979 data.
vity and health to0sidening emirometaltmp1            tu    bey esights, ae                  nusr (otet  - "abcr forro In elig, co.tetrctioc, ean.cntoriof
and se  di.t.ibution of population , and a11wieg 10 peroot for _ase  sad eleoticity, caner und sue as perContago of tonal labor f.ro.; 1960.
houshold level; 71961-65, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                 1970 and 1979 data.
yco citad nuPIyf  rsnrla lana own day) - Protein runneor of per capits                      PeticiratiorSt  (tece2          -  oa.  ah oad fmal  - Pa'tioipatioo or
Ist supl  oflPond pea dsy.  iNt enpply of food isrdefim   As abv.t.R.                         aolivity ratesar  comptedatcl  mae,adof-swa   labori 00e
quirenets Pot all coeee    stablinhd by USDA proide formtn,                                    o onoso  total  wlc and fen1l  p.pol.tit Ifalaget respotiroy
alwosof 60 gram  of ttns1 protein pot day and 20 gram  of animal end                     1960. 1970:. adl19t79 dat.  Thestsro buse.d on ILl'  purtioipattonrn.to
pulse pratein. of which 10 nra  shoald he snllpoeo:Tensn-rflctning age-sea                                                    ofotue   the populatiot, and loag than ttend.  A
ens -r lnr tha  those of 75S ta  of total proteIn nod 23 gaeo                             e   siae   r   inecnanno
animal protein as anavr.ge for the world. poeposed by PAO Ia the Third                      OttEeh-a Doroodnc   ttic  - Satin of  .popletior ucdr 15 and 65 nod ove
b'rld Pood Survy; 1961-65. 1970 and 1977 dsa                                                  to  tha aotu   ahv  fnrc_
Pan cap itak -rorni   mmly f- ani_al andeue- Pactei. spply of food do-
rie   fo   exa  -ead pulses In gr-  per day; 1961-65. 1970 and 1977 data.            INCOME DISTRIBlliOb
Child bases 1-1Mrait, Patn (am  thouand) - Annua dateh  po- thaceond ic                         I'ercetatag ofPIaelca   bt   0cn ndbd        cardb   ih
ago 9-wp 1-i years, no childaeo in thi  age group; for meetdeveloping  -00                          eoet  iot. 1--pon brtr pican -hi; Iocat  ud)             p    dv bye hOipc-t
Orias dmna derived frow liPs tabl.a; 1960. 1970 s.d 1979 dsta                                   ofpbonbod
U61TO                                                                                           POVERT'Y TARIOT GROUPS
Lifs taoattsme  An bitrh (Y.-.) - Av-ag  nuber of year  of lif  raining                         The following  -altae  arc vary app-iontacrsnu    of povoty le-al,
an; biotb; 19,60.R 1970 sad 1979 data.                                                            sad uhold he intorprtad with cc...id-ralocuio
In st Motlity Pts   a  tbmuend  - dA-u   deaths oP infants under one year                      OsiE   e  booePvnrIcm   nol(O                         aio     ra   n   ua
olf spa pan nheued  Ivo birth..                                                                  Abeoluto Povorry Incow  lc-'el I.trhar locoso lvo  bt1o uhich a aiti-.l
Acesta SaPs. Water! br toe .f sonltiA              I otl arha, and  -ura  - Nu-.                -ritivn..llyodaquate  door pi-oo ....ctia1 cco.-fod roquivam ts Is cot
her of pwapl  (total, uran    drua) with r-              b        ..he  toe  atsf.lodhr
wotar supply (hald-s treate  suface waters or untreated ht  -ccot:.tAmiod                     tetifte bolatv..        et  oonlyl(S  00c   ia     ra   n   uo
water saa  as that from  prtotetd horbhole, springs, an=                                           tAd saiaywll)O  sRolativ- Povety icm   levl.   L In one-thr  ofaeaeprcpita)-l--  
p_nc_tngas: of their ecepanti,  popatious.  It an urban arnanhi                                 pIInicm    frocory    raolvli   aia     o   h   oa
fonti  or  tandPaet 1oatsd not  -oa  than 200 eatsrs from    h... war bc                        lo-a with adjustmet for h'gn  cor nf livin  in  rbo  areas
ooadrd as heing  ithin asasooble  ros  of that hoas..  In rura  stm                       eiee Palto   eo  Absgo~ltr- Pvert  Incmeleve  (porcont)-ore
besaal a..n.. wold imply that the ho...wif. on woehen  of abshonsh..          d              adrtl-rce    of popoltilot (rbat ned rro1) who are "absolute
dt  o  have t  spend A disploportiosote part of thc day In fetching thc                         pur"
fsm.ly's oner e        _ds
N.mbar of p.op1o (total, urban, sad  rurl  srve  by   --catdhisposalss
Ioonas   of  hir r-potiv- poua       En.Ocreta di..p ..lImay include
ths I c llecio  sad disposal, with or aithout treatmen, of human osc-n Oonm    ord Social Pain DirIioo
nod  wsewnaby  -ua-b-u  systa  or th. usa oP pit privi.. and st-r roctt   Oaalyutuucd  'rc7-ti... Doparrat-
PoruitIa our Phy.ici.. - FPup1ltin dIie   Y nme   fpntcu    l
Osnqaiidfrom A sedi-l scoo aI  emi-rsity leel
pooaIpaer gor,isa Paran   - Popul.ting divided by eumber of pratitiog
_ln end Pal   gradmat  nre,p..ntioul nurses.. ad ass istant nuress.



-26-                                                               Annex I
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:            92.9 million (January 1981)
GNP Per Capita:        US$120 (FY80)
Amount          Average Annual Increase (1)         Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
(million US$         (in constant FY75 prices)                   (in current prices)
Indicator                                        in current prices)
FY80           FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-80         FY60       FY70        FY75       FY80
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                               11,346             4.0     -0.6         5.7        100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0
Agriculture /a                                       6,085             3.1      -1.3         3.6         59.9       56.9        62.5       53.6
Industry /a                                          1,383             7.9      -3.2         5.9          7.7        9.6       11.3        12.2
Services /a                                          3,877             4.9       3.3         9.0         30.1       30.0       26.2        34.2
Consumption                                             11.466             4.4      -0.7        5.2         92.4        92.8      100.0      101.1
Gross investment                                         1,660            10.9    -10.9        13.5          6.9        11.3        7.0       14.6
Exports of goods & nfs                                     820             0.8    -11.7         4.0          10.0        8.3        3.1        7.2
Imports of goods & nfs                                   2,600             8.8    -12.0         5.3          9.3        12.5       10.1       22.9
Gross national savings                                      36            26.5    -17.7        -8.4          0.9         6.1        0.6        0.3
Amount                                              Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)
(million US$                                                   (in current prices)
in current prices)
FY80                                              FY73       FY75       FY79       FY80
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                    719.2                                               100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0
Primary                                            198.0                                                 40.6       34.2       35.7       32.1
Manufactures                                       521.2                                                 59.4       65.8        64.3       67.9
Merchandise imports                                 2,352.0                                                100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0
Food                                               691.0                                                 44.1       41.5       16.1       29.4
Petroleum                                          390.0                                                  3.2       11.1       11.5       16.6
Machinery & equipment                              491.0                                                 13.8        9.6       25.0       20.9
Other                                              780.0                                                 38.9       37.8       47.4       33.1
FY74       FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78        FY79       FY80
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE (1972/73=100)
GDP Deflator                                                             140.6       240.5      183.1      177.2      203.6       216.8      254.4
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                                   7.9661    8.8759   14.8521   15.4667   15.1215   15.2228   15.4779
Export price index                                                        104.4      126.0      108.3      118.7      129.6       165.6      207.1
Import price index                                                        153.0      186.5      179.4      173.7       172.7     205.5       241.5
Terms of trade index                                                       68.2       67.6       60.4       68.3        75.0       80.6       85.8
As % GDP
(at current prices)
FY73       FY75       FY77       FY80
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                                      5.0        5.4        9.5        10.4
Current expenditure                                                                  6.5        4.5        7.8         7.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                         -1.5       +0.9        +1.7        +2.8
Capital expenditure                                                                  8.8        3.1        9.5         13.3
Foreign financing                                                                    7.1        2.4        6.0         8.2
1960-70    1970-75      1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                                                       4.2       -0.7          5.8
GNP per capita growth rate(%)                                                             1.5       -3.3          3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (%)
/a At market prices.
= not available
not applicable
ASADD
July 15, 1981



- 27-
Annex I
Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYIENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
Actual                                           Est.            Projected
FY74       FY75        FY76     FY77         PY78        FY79        FY80         FY8-1        FY82        FY83
BAL4NCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods & services                       -573      -1,031      -  901      -426      -  870      -  947      -1,640       -1,859        -1,920      -2.180
Exports of goods & services                          403         453         454       514         559         690         809          833          980       1,120
Imports of goods & services                         -976      -1,484      -1,355      -940      -1.429      -1,637      -2,449       -2,692       -2,900      -3,300
Net transfers                                            19          34          62        81         113         140         163          219          262         320
Current account balance                               -554        -997        -839      -345        -757        -807      -1,477       -1,640       -1,658      -1,860
Direct private investment                                                                                                      20           25           30          40
MLT loans (net)                                        276          498         498       238         398         420         581          659          750         850
Grants & grant-like flows                              169          383         243      253          386         555         601          700          750         800
Other capital flows (net)                               51         267           45      -65         -52          -44         133          236           97         220
Change in reserves (- = increase)                       58        -151           53      -81          25        -124          142           20           31         -50
International reserves (end of period)                 115         266         213       294         269         393          251          231         200         250
Reserves as months of imports of next year            0.93        2.36        2.72      2.47        1.97        1.93         1.12        0.96         0.73        0.83
Actual
FY74       FY75        FY76       FY77        FY78       FY79         FY80
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                      168.6       383.1      243.5      252.7       385.7       555.2       600.1
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                     287.4       518.9      563.5      268.3       435.3       476.8       631.4
Concessional                                         201.4       458.4      533.0      244.1       400.8       456.4       601.6
Bilateral                                          150.4       342.8      389.9      144.0       261.9       212.6       272.7
IDA                                                 51.0       112.5      127.8       86.1        88.2       152.5       152.1
Other multilateral                                    -          3.1       15.3       14.1        50.7        91.3       176.9
Non-concessional                                      86.0        60.4        30.4      24.1        34.5        20.4         29.8
Official export credits                             40.6        45.2       16.5        5.6         1.7         3.3        16.8
IBRD
Other multilateral                                   5.4         0.3        1.1        0.5         0.5         0.1         0.3
Private                                             40.0        14.9       12.8       18.0        32.3        17.0        12.7
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed (end of period)   492.8    1,352.6   1,795.9   2,051.5    2,569.2    2,949.2    3,215.6
Official                                           383.3    1,232.8   1,689.0   1,939.8    2,435.6    2,808.3    3,068.8
IBRD                                                -         54.9       54.9       54.9        54.9        54.9        54.9
IDA                                              105.6       255.3      379.8      465.9       554.2       706.7       858.8
Other                                            222.8       922.6   1,254.3   1,419.0    1,826.5    2,046.7    2,155.1
Private                                            109.5       119.8      106.9      111.6       133.6       140.9       146.8
Undisbursed Debt                                     580.8    1,019.4       947.5   1,015.8    1,335.4    1,659.1    1,716.7
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service pa.yments                          18.0        31.3       87.4       58.5        69.3        95.1        93.7
Interest                                             7.3        10.1       21.9       28.4        32.1        38.1        43.3
Payments as % exports                                  4.5         6.9       19.3       11.4        12.4        13.8        11.6
Payments as Z GNP                                      0.2         0.2        1.2        0.9         0.8         1.0          0.8
Average interest rate on new loans (%)                 3.2         2.0        1.7        1.6         1.5         1.4         1.4
Official                                             2.9         2.0        1.6        1.5         1.3         1.4         1.2
Private                                              5.1         2.3        7.8        6.4         6.2         6.1         6.9
Averageomaturity of new loans (years)                 26.1        35.5       41.6       40.1        37.7        35.9        33.6
Official                                            28.3        35.8       42.2       40.8        38.6        36.3        34.2
Private                                             13.3        15.3       11.3       11.0         9.5        14.8        19.3
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (%)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                      -          4.0        3.0        2.6         2.1         1.8         1.7
IBRD disbursements/totl gross disbursenents            -           -          -          -           -           -           -
IBRB  debt service/total debt service                   -           -         1.8        5.6         4.8         4.1         3.7
IDA DOD/total DOD                                     21.4        18.3       21.1       22.7        21.6        24.0        26.7
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements           17.7        21.7       22.7       32.1        20.3        32.0        24.0
IDA debt service/total debt service                    1.3         3.1        2.5        5.3         5.4         4.6         6.0
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of FY80
TERM STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (%)
Maturities due within 5 years                                                    12.2
Maturities due within 10 years                                                   36.5
Interest structure of debt outstanding (%)
Interest due within first year                                                    1.6
= not available.
ASADD
July 15, 1981



28
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                             US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 19 credits fully disbursed                     54.90   639.75       -
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                      -       14.00      0.85
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                          -      21.00      1.39
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)            -      25.00      2.77
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                       -       7.50      2.64
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II              -      20.00      7.04
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                -      62.00      6.33
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                         -      15.00      4.22
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                -       27.00    14.86
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation               -      22.00      9.56
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training -         12.00      4.99
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                  -      16.00      6.90
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank             -      25.00      5.85
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                  -      16.00      3.66
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                  -      21.00    13.71
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research             -      10.00      5.36
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II          -       5.00      2.82
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                               -      21.00    14.81
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II               -      25.00    20.82
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                       US$ million /a /b
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II           -        7.00    4.20
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research             -        6.00    3.48
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control        -       19.00   15.58
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III          -       10.00    6.98
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries             -        6.00    5.32
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training               -      25.00   22.39
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family Health II -          32.00   29.84
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                  -       28.00   27.81
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                   -       22.00   14.96
944    1979   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports                -       25.00    0.03
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                 -       25.00   24.02
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                       -       10.00    9.56
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII              -       50.00    7.47
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                    -       37.00   23.20
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II        -      20.00   19.61
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                -       29.00   29.00
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                -       20.00   19.61
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation            -      11.00   10.87
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II             -      25.00    1.87
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                    -       40.00   38.97
Total                                                54.90  1,451.25  443.35
of which has been repaid                               -        0.40    -
Total now outstanding                                54.90  1,450.85  443.35
Amount sold                             0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       54.90  1,450.85
Total undisbursed                                      -      443.35  443.35
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
7H   See Part B for IDA Credits expressed in SDRs.



_30 _                       ANNEX II
-30  -               ~~~~Page 3
B.   STATEMENIT OF IDA CREDITS EXPRESSED IN SDR (As of September 30, 1981)
Credit   Fiscal                                               Amount in SDR Million
Number    Year      Borrower      Purpose                     Original  Undisbursed
1065     1981       Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry III    26.7            26.7
1071     1981       Bangladesh   Imports Program IX             49.5         23.7
1091     1981       Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development   64.7            63.8
1096     1981       Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport
Project                   19.1         19.0
1117     1981       Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II   40.2            40.2
1124     1981       Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV        12.9         12.9
1140 1/  1981       Bangladesh   Hand Tubewells                 14.8         14.8
1147 2/  1981       Bangladesh   Agricultural Credit            32.6         32.6
Total                                                   260.50        233.7
of which has been repaid                                0.00           -
Total now outstanding                                   260.50        233.7
Amount sold                                  0.00
Total now held by IDA (in SDR)                          260.50
Total Undisbursed                                                     233.7
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Became effective in October.
C.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTIMENTS -/(as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ Million
Ykear           Obligor                Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding          Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                          1.20    0.36    1.56
1980      IPDC                            DFC                -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                      1.20.   1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -           -        -
Total commitments now held by IFC                            1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                            0.65    1.05    1.70
3/   The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1981    Asia Leather Industrial
Company Ltd.                Tannery            2.1       .2     2.3



31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
D.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation of the tubewell component is complete and a PCR
has been issued. However, the credit remains open to permit completion of a
delayed pilot command area development component which is also being financed
under the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Improvements have been made in procurement and installation of
processing equipment, and in completion of civil works and land development,
with the exception of 8,000 tons of additional storage, for which bids are
being evaluated. Construction should be completed by December 1981. Similar
progress is being made in completing the Seed Certification Agency (SCA) com-
ponent. However, the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) component
remains behind schedule due to inadequate funding. The contract grower scheme
continues to make good progress: wheat seed sales have exceeded appraisal
estimates. However, paddy seed sales remain well below appraisal targets
because of poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved varie-
ties for multiplication. Consultants have already submitted recommendations
for improvements in seed distribution and marketing. The Seed Certification
Agency would be further strengthened through an intensive training programme
currently being prepared. GOB made full ADP allocations for SCA and BRRI to
permit completion of their FY81 work programs.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project design has been modified and the Closing Date extended
to June 30, 1984, to permit the irrigation of a wider area while retaining
the number of primary pumping stations and sluices included in the original
project. Civil works in the original project area are completed. About
735 low lift pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season irrigating about
30,000 acres. However, extension and cooperatives staffing constraints
continue to inhibit full utilization of existing irrigation facilities.
They are, however, improving.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall project implementation is about 2.5 years behind schedule
with about 50 percent of works completed. Construction contracts for remaining
structures were awarded by WDB in early 1981. Works on embankments, a major
project component, have not started. The current project cost estimates
prepared by WDB are about 30 percent higher than the appraisal estimate.
WDB has been urged to adopt additional cost saving measures, with particular
regard to the requirements for the embankments, which are likely to be sub-
stantially reduced and eliminated from the IDA Credit. Without embankment
construction, the project is expected to be completed in June 1983.
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project:  USS16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
After initial difficulties, project implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily with project management much improved. The supply of irrigation
equipment and inputs is now satisfactory and the rural works program is making
good physical progress. However, contract supervision and maintenance of com-
pleted works need improvement. GOB has requested that the credit closing date
be extended by one year to allow use of project savings (about US$5 million)
on an expansion of existing components in the present project area.
Cr. No. 724   Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. All 10,500 pumpsets
have been procured. About 55% of the pumpsets have already been sold. The
construction of workshops is proceeding with a modified program and workshop
equipment has been ordered.
Cr. No. 725   Muhuri Irrigation Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule. Recent
delays were experienced because of equipment break downs, lack of heavy equip-
ment for excavation, and heavy rains. This has been resolved through the
purchase of new equipment and the renting of others. Construction works
of Feni Regulator considerably improved. Prequalification documents for the
closure dam and embankments, the only remaining major works, have been issued,
and tender documents are being finalized. A revised cost estimate shows a
10% increase over the appraisal estimates.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977;  Effective Date:  January 6, 1978;  Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 60 to 100% in most areas. Main achievement
of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation throughout
Northwest. Some delays have been experienced due to late release of local
funds by the Government.
Cr. No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date:  April 14, 1978;  Closing Date:  June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. As expected, higher jute production forced marginal
jute farmers to switch to rice production in the aus season. Consequently rice
production has increased. IDA credit on lending problem has also been solved.
Staff travel allowance is inadequate and that is hampering production credit
recovery effort. Local fund allocation is also inadequate. A review mission
is now in the field to evaluate the project's progress.
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
project's 145,000 ton procurement storage component is now progressing satis-
factorily, but the storage rehabilitation and relief storage programs have
only now been taken up. Quality control operations are yet to be improved,
and paddy dryers still need to be procured. Consultants have been engaged for
engineering, quality control and paddy drying; and the pilot marketing project
is doing well at the Muktagacha Thana Central Cooperative Association, the
first one to participate in the project. The project is now anticipated to be
completed by December 31, 1982, six months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is satisfactory. The BARC headquarters
building has been completed and is occupied. Construction and farm develop-
ment at the three regional stations is progressing slowly. The BARC research
grant scheme is in operation and the consultants appointed to advise BARC on
procedures for financial planning and recording and for research monitoring
and evaluation have completed their work. A total of 31 students have been
sent abroad for PhD training.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three sub-projects financed under the project, Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) are expected to be completed on schedule in
mid-1983. Delays have been experienced, however, in the implementation of the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). Agreement has recently been reached on
retirement of the embankment and disbursement for this part of the project is
expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
A 45 ha. site has been acquired for the construction of the central
carp hatchery facility, the designs for which have already been prepared and
approved by IDA.
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project:  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects have been approved to date. Construction
has been completed on nine subprojects, and tendering is in progress on the
remainder.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Orders placed for 3,000 two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs
(Phase I of the sales program) were delivered in October 1980. Orders have
also been placed on the remaining 4,000 LLPs. Sales for the first phase has
begun with about 1,000 LLPs sold. A detailed project Action Plan has also
been prepared.
Cr. No. 1042 Mangrove Afforestation Project: US$11.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress is satisfactory. The Project Director and all key
personnel are in post. The PTU consultant has been appointed; his first visit
is scheduled for August/September 1981. It has been agreed that SPARRSO (for-
merly Bangladesh Landset Programme) should undertake the 5 year Remote Sensing
Programme and a draft scheme has been prepared; Landset imagery tapes obtained
in February will be processed shortly; aerial photography will be completed at
the end of the year.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 1140 Hand Tubewells Project: US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective. IDA has extended effectiveness
period and has established November 10, 1981 as later date. Progress towards
meeting conditions for effectiveness is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1147 Agricultural Credit Project: US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 9, 1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This Credit has become effective very recently.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland,
UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the
IDA credit. The project is about three years behind schedule because of the
additional site works required to protect the proposed plant from earthquake
risks and initial delays in the placement of orders and construction planning.
Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency fluctuations,
supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained. Plant mechanically
practically completed. Despite continuing minor commissioning problems,
production of urea is expected to start around end 1981, slightly later than
anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, and total projects costs
are likely to be close to that approved at the time of IDA supplementary
financing.
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 30, 1981, disbursements were about US$19.2 million.
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion. The project was fully committed by the commer-
cial banks in July 1980.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 944   Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
As of September 30, 1981, disbursements were about US$24.97 million.
In total, the Credit will have financed the imports of about US$70,000 t urea
and 40,000 t TSP. The credit was closed on June 30, 1981 and payment for
commitments in the pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
As of September 30, 1981, US$42.53 million had been disbursed.
Cr. No. 1023 Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved.
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr. No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date:  November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
As of September 30, 1981 US$23.13 million had been disbursed.  The
credit was closed on June 30, 1981 and payment for commitments in the pipeline
will continue.
Cr. No. 1065 Small-Scale Industry III Project: US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit became effective on January 15, 1981. As of July 15,
1981 US$1.2 million had been committed.



37
ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 1071 Ninth Imports Program: US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
As of September 30, 1981 disbursements were about SDR 25.8 million.
Cr. No. 1117 Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project: US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
This Credit became effective on August 12, 1981. As of September 30,
1981 US$21.7 million had been committed.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407   Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project financed completion of the construction of the Bangladesh
Agricultural University (BAU), a fellowship program for BAU and building of
five new and equipping of eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics).
The credit was closed on December 31, 1980. It is estimated that about US$1.4
million will be cancelled during November 1981 as soon as payments of existing
commitments in the pipeline are made. Project costs (in dollar terms) are
close to appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation. At credit closing
the technical education (polytechnics) component was completed in most respects
but the BAU continues with the construction of the auditorium, student hostels
and other non academic buildings. The government has committed itself to
the completion of this project from its own resources. Efforts to arrange
for architectural supervision financed under a T.A. credit are underway.
A Technical Education consultant is currently in the field assisting the
government to prepare a project completion report.
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date:  June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of the civil works associated with the training
institutions is about 85% complete and about 95% of the equipment has been
procured, although training programs are running at 75% of trainee capacity.
The physical aspects of the project are generally on schedule. However,
the recruitment of consultants, to assist in implementation of studies and
in developing training programs has been delayed by about two years, largely
because of the ineffectiveness of the National Committee on Rural Training
(NCRT). IDA has agreed to finance the cost of local consultants to assist
the NCRT in performing its functions. These consultants have already produced
an interim report. Part I of the Agricultural Management Training Institute
courses, organized by Coverdale consultants for training staff has been
completed, and the program will continue to completion in March 1982.



- 38
ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date:  November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project was declared effective on November 5, 1979. Short
courses of about six months duration have replaced longer programs at four
technical training centers, and will be offered at the five TTCs to be
constructed and equipped under the project. A team of ILO trade training
consultants is assisting project development, and a project related fellowship
program of overseas training is available to Government and industrial officers.
Additional staff have been appointed to manage project implementation, though
some delays are occurring in reaching agreed staffing levels. Efforts are
also being made to increase recruitment and improve retention of skilled
instructors, which is essential to project success.
Cr. No. 1054 Fourth Education (Primary) Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project was declared effective on December 1, 1980. Activities
planned for the first year (1981), i.e. staff training, base-line evaluation,
materials production (textbook, girls uniforms) and distribution and the
formation of school Management Committees are underway and progressing
steadily. Delays in two areas, evaluation and physical construction, have
been identified. The remedial steps introduced by GOB and UNESCO (evaluation)
will, however, minimize the delays.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date:  September 25, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31,
1981
Except for Part A (Training and Service Facilities), implementation
of five of the project's six main parts was completed in mid-1980. The only
major problem delaying project completion, in respect of which the original
Closing Date was extended by one year to December 31, 1981, is the slow
implementation of the Training and Service Facilities part of the project.
Although 6 of the 21 facilities are now fully completed and 7 more are
expected to be completed between July-September, 1981, a second extension
of the Closing Date may be needed to permit full project completion and full
disbursement of credit proceeds.



39
ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Except for the first tranche (1979/80) of the Family Welfare
Centers' component, project execution effectively commenced only in July,
1980 and, in relation to the original four year implementation period, is
currently about one year behind schedule. While the impact of this delay
on two parts of the project (Information, Education and Motivation (IEM)
and Research and Evaluation) is not significant except in terms of credit
disbursements, the civil works components of the service delivery and
training parts of the project are experiencing problems owing not only to
delayed implementation but also to proposed budget cuts, revised building
design standards, and domestic and international price inflation. Solutions
to these problems are currently being discussed with the Government.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims is in progress. The Closing Date of
the credit extended to March 31, 1981 has been extended to December 31, 1982
to enable the use of uncommitted credit balance to cover short term protective
Feni Bypass pavement work, and to meet the cost of eligible components of the
arbitration. Significant failures have appeared on Feni Bypass. GOB and IDA
are investigating causes of the failures and possible remedies.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit
of September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Credit effectiveness was three and a half months behind original
schedule. Spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and
cargo handling have been ordered, and bid documents for telecommunications
equipment are ready and awaiting clearance by TTB.  Lists of spare parts
for BIWTC cargo vessel have been prepared and most items have been ordered.
Consultants appointed to carry out studies on IWT sector, fleet scheduling
of BIWTC and accounting systems for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their
reports. Implementation of the recommendations of the accounting studies
is in progress. At the request of the Borrower the closing date has been
extended to December 31, 1982.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979;  Effective Date:  August 29, 1980;  Closing Date:  June 30,
1984.
Implementation of the project has been delayed as a result of the
Borrower's failure to make timely recommendations for award of construction
contracts. Since these contracts were scheduled to commence early October
1980, at the beginning of the construction season, the project has been
delayed by about two years and completion by the anticipated completion
date of May 1983 is no longer possible. Completion by the Credit Closing
Date of June 30, 1984 is possible but is dependent on much improved Borrower
performance and avoidance of further unnecessary delays.
Cr. No. 1096   Fertilizer Transport Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This Credit became effective on July 24, 1981. Contract for trial
dredging at Chittagong for which retroactive financing has been approved,
has been under execution since April 1981 and is progressing satisfactorily.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous
delays in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone
cables and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced
in completing the local construction and installation of the systems. TTB, a
Government board since April 1979, is making significant progress in organizing
its finances and accounts, and in managing its operations and development. TTB
funds have until recently all been deposited in an overall Government account.
This was changed and, since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank account to
which all funds are deposited and withdrawn. Thus, TTB has achieved a level of
financial autonomy that will permit it to adjust its development program within
the overall framework of the agreed budget. Training on commercial accounts
is about to be completed and commercial accounts will be prepared from FY82/83
onward. In general, financial performance of TTB is reasonably good. Cove-
nants under the project are now being complied with. TTB has recently taken
final procurement action to commit the funds remaining under the project.
Works related to last procurement will be completed by June 1983. Adequate
actions as would be required to further improve TTB's management, operations
and development capability, will be considered under the proposed third tele-
communications project.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 14
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Pro ject:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
35 subprojects, totaling about $9.0 million have been approved and
a further 10 subprojects, totaling about $9 million have been approved in
principle.  Those that are finalized first would be considered under this
credit (with the remainder being funded under the recently approved Fourth
Technical Assistance credit).
Cr. No. 1124 Fourth Technical Assistance Project: US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1981. A number of
proposed subprojects have been agreed in principle and steps are being taken
to secure consultant services.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been ap-
pointed as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about
one year behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps
for the project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Develop-
ment Board) to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To
improve the situation, local consultants have been appointed in September
1981.
Cr. No. 1091  Bakhrabad Gas Development Project:  US$85.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Pipeline design and preparation of procurement documents is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. After initial delays due to unseasonal rains and
materials shortages, BK-2 well has been completed. Production tests confirm
the adequacy of reserves of the Bakhrabad gas fields, and the procurement
of materials and services for the pipeline portion of the project has been
authorized. Pipeline materials and construction contracts are expected to
be awarded in time to complete crossings and other preliminary phases during
the 1981/82 dry season and the entire pipeline the following year.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 15
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA's consulting engineers have virtually completed design
and it is expected that procurement will be completed by end 1981. Physical
progress is one year behind schedule. Early delays resulted from slow start-
up and sluggish procurement but are currently due to land acquisition problems
and shortage of local currency with which to pay civil works contractors.
Cr. No. 1001 Second Chittagong Water Supply Project: US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm
is now in place and design is now progressing satisfactorily. Selection of
a second consultant for a sewerage/sanitation study is now in progress. An
expatriate financial adviser has taken post and is proving effective. Pro-
curement has started but implementation will be about 1 1/2 years behind
schedule.



- 43 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
CHITTAGONG UREA FERTILIZER PROJECT
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare project       : 48 months
(b)   Project prepared by                 : GOB with assistance
from consultants
(c)   First presented to IDA              : August, 1979
(d)   Preparation mission                 : September, 1979
(e)   Departure of ADB appraisal mission : February, 1980
(f)   Completion of negotiations          : January, 1982
(g)   Estimated date of effectiveness    : Within 90 days of
credit signing
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) A Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government (GOB) and
the Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Ltd. (CUFL) will have been
executed (para. 70);
(b) All conditions of effectiveness related to the agreements
of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and other co-financiers
will have been met (para. 70);
(c) Government will have entered into a long-term gas supply contract
with Bakhrabad Gas System, Ltd. (BGSL) (paras. 52 and 70); and
(d) CUFL will have acquired all lands and properties required for
the construction of the plant (paras. 54 and 70).



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Other Conditions:
(a)   CUFL would engage a General Contractor, a Technical Advisor
and a Management Advisory Team with qualifications and
terms and conditions of contract satisfactory to IDA (para.
59 and 60); and
(b)   CUFL would be allowed to charge prices that would enable it
to earn a reasonable return on its equity agreed upon between
Government and IDA (10%). To ensure a sound financial position,
CUFL would also observe other financial performance criteria
agreed to under this project (debt equity ratio of 60:40, debt
service ratio of 1:5 and investment limitations (para. 65).



