Document of                  FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2429-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SMALL FARMER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT:
LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
December 6, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their officisl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(At the time of Appraisal and Used in this Report)
US$ 1            =     Pesos 7.25
US$ 1 million    =     Pesos 7.25 million
Peso 1           =     US$0.14
Peso 1 million   -     US$137,931
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
All in metric system
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
EDC    -   Estates Development Coordinator
CIDARE -   Committee on Infrastructural Development for
Agrarian Reform Estates
FMG    -   Farm Management Groups
LBP    -   Land Bank of the Philippines
MAR    -  Ministry of Agrarian Reform
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SMALL FARMER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT:
LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:      Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP) and various executing
agencies for infrastructural works.
Amount:           $16.5 million
Terms:            20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
7.35% p.a.
Relending Terms:  $12.5 million of the proposed loan would be relent to LBP
on the same terms and conditions as those of the Bank loan.
Project
Description:    The project is designed to increase agricultural productiv-
ity and expand rural employment opportunities among the
small-scale farmers, most of whom are beneficiaries of
Government's ongoing agrarian reform program. It would be
implemented primarily by LBP, would benefit about 28,000
rural families, and would include: (i) production and
marketing credit mainly for rice, corn and vegetables;
(ii) term credit for light farm mechanization, post-harvest
facilities, backyard livestock and poultry and cottage
industries; (iii) strengthening of LBP's field operations;
(iv) minor infrastructural works in selected agrarian
reform areas; and (v) studies aimed at better understand-
ing of the socio-economic conditions of small-scale
agriculture. Incremental employment is estimated at
11,900 man-years and additional production of goods and
services at $15.4 million at full development, resulting
in foreign exchange savings of $8.8 million annually.
Attainment of higher crop yields, loan repayment, and LBP's
limited experience in agricultural credit are the main risk
factors. Against these risks, strengthened field level
technical assistance and organizational measures adequate
to promote higher yields and ensure satisfactory loan
collections have been incorporated in the project design,
and the scope of the project kept modest.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local       Foreign       Total
--- - --- ($ million)
Seasonal credit                        4.1          3.7          7.8
Term credit                           13.6          4.4         18.0
Field support services                 1.2          0.1           1.3
Minor infrastructure                   2.9          2.5           5.4
Studies                                0.1            -          0.1
Total base costs                   21.9          10.7         32.6
Physical contingencies                 0.4          0.4          0.8
Expected price increases               2.5          1.1          3.6
Total project costs                24.8          12.2         37.0
Financing Plan ($ million):
Subborrowers    LBP    GOP        IBRD      Total
Seasonal credit               -         7.8     -           -        7.8
Term credit                 1.8         7.0      -      12.3        21.1
Field support services        -         1.1      -       0.1         1.2
Infrastructure                            -    2.8       3.9        6.7
Studies                       -           -     -        0.2        0.2
Total                  1.8        15.9    2.8       16.5       37.0
Estimated Disbursement /1
-    ------ ($ million) -------- --
Bank fiscal year          79          80            81         82
Annual                  1.0         4.0           6.5       5.0
Cumulative              1.0         5.0         11.5       16.5
Rates of Return:  The weighted average economic rate of return for the
project as a whole is estimated at 47%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 2189-PH, dated November 27, 1978



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THF P'?ESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A SMALL FARMER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT:
LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $16.5 million
to finance a project aimed at providing credit, infrastructure and support
services to small-scale farmers, most of whom are beneficiaries of Government's
ongoing agrarian reform program, and to small rural enterprises. The loan
would be for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 7.35% p.a. About $12.5 million of the proceeds of the proposed loan
would be on-lent to the Land Bank of the Philippines for the credit and
support services components of the project on the same terms and conditions
as those of the Bank loan. The Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk. The remaining $4.0 million would be used by the Government for infra-
structure.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977
and its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
SecM-PHL77-2 dated October 27, 1977. A basic economic report, entitled The
Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development (SecM-76/366), was
previously distributed to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.         During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5-1/2%. However, with more effective economic
management the rate of growth could have been higher. The benefits of growth
were also distributed relatively unevenly, both with respect to regions and
income classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably satisfactory,
repeated food deficits were experienced. The growth of productive employment
opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion of the labor force. Low
levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public expenditure for necessary
infrastructure and social services. Poor export performance combined with
heavy import dependence of domestic industry led to chronic weakness in the
balance of payments.
4.        The growth of the Philippine economy accelerated to an average
annual rate of 6.5% in the 1970s. Fluctuations, however, have been signifi-
cant. In the period 1970-72, when the effects of a balance of payments
stabilization program initiated in 1970 were being felt, the economy grew
less rapidly. Economic growth was unusually good in 1973 as sharply higher
prices for traditional export commodities stimulated demand. The export-led
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that contained in
the President's Report for the National Extension Project (Sec M/R78-237)
which was approved by the Executive Directors on November 7, 1978.



income boom of 1973 was followed by an investment boom, which, together with
favorable sugar prices, temporarily sheltered the economy from the world
recession, and real GNP growth was maintained at 6% in 1974-75. The first
half of the 1970s also saw favorable structural changes in the economy, the
most important of which were an increase in the level of public investment,
financed in large part by a greater tax effort, an acceleration of export
growth, the achievement of self-sufficiency in foodgrains, a shift of the
domestic terms of trade in favor of agriculture, and the slowing of the
population growth rate.
5.        The collapse of sugar prices in late 1975, following earlier declines
in the prices of other major export commodities, altered the external situation
dramatically. The terms of trade dropped by 23% in 1975 and, as a result,
the current account deficit rose to 6% of GNP. To maintain the momentum of
growth and investment, the Government adopted a policy of increasing capital
inflows in the near term to finance the expanded current account deficits
while accelerating export growth in the longer term. In 1976-78, the economy -
led by non-traditional exports, agriculture and construction - has continued
to grow at 6% per year. Unfortunately, much of the stimulus from an expansion
in export volume was offset by further deterioration in the terms of trade.
Total fixed capital formation increased only marginally due to sluggish
private investment activity and the conservative monetary-fiscal policy
adopted by the government.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
recently set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call
for acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of more productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance
of payments, and increased development in rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes strategies for development in each of the country's thirteen regions.
In general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the
Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's
basic economic report, although investment, manufacturing output and exports
are projected to grow more rapidly than visualized therein. It should be
feasible to accelerate the overall growth rate to 7% as the terms of trade
stabilize, but more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to do so,
and efforts need to focus on improving the efficiency of investment.
Agriculture
7.        During the early 1970s agricultural production grew at an average
rate of 4-1/2% per year. In the grains subsector, the Government's policy
has been to end rice imports through irrigation development and the improvement
of supporting services. During the past three years, the Philippines has been
self-sufficient in foodgrains and actually has exported over 100,000 tons of
rice. The overall performance of the agricultural sector was exceptionally
strong in 1976 as production increased by 8%. In 1977 and 1978, rice and
corn production continued to grow at a satisfactory rate; however, the major
traditional export crops, particularly sugar, experienced a slowing down of



- 3 -
production because of low world prices. Overall, the output of the sector
increased at a rate of 5% in 1977-78.
8.        Despite the recent successes in foodgrain production, which are
partly attributable to good weather, rice and corn yields remain well below
the potentials of modern farming technologies. This is largely die to land
tenure patterns (discussed in Part III), weak extension services and insuffi-
cient production credit. The Government, however, gives high priority to
agriculture and rural development. It has undertaken a number of steps to
increase the availability of irrigation and supporting services, and it has
also expanded programs to improve living conditions in rural areas, including
rural electrification, health and family planning, and rural roads.
Industry
9.        During the 1960s, Philippine industrialization was promoted by high
tariff protection and subsidized finance, and consequently industrial growth
was primarily in the area of import-substitution with a high capital intensity.
Performance was disappointing with respect to employment, exports, and the
overall rate of growth of output. In the early 1970s the Government floated
the exchange rate, which then depreciated significantly, and started correcting
tariff distortions by simultaneously reducing the number of items subject to
the highest protective rates and also limiting the granting of tariff exemptions.
Further efforts to reduce remaining biases in favor of import-substitution
and capital intensity will still be needed, however, to accelerate the rate
of industrial growth as projected in the Five-Year Development Plan.
10.       Manufacturing industry has grown at a relatively slow average rate
of about 6% in the 1970s. Moreover, due to the slow increase in national
income and demand because of the decline in the terms of trade in the last
three years, manufacturing growth has also slowed, and investment has stagnated.
On the other hand, industries producing nontraditional exports have expanded
rapidly from a very low base, as their exports increased more than fivefold
in the five-year period 1973-77, in response to exchange rate adjustment and
special measures designed to alleviate existing restrictions on imports and
thus reduce the bias towards production for the domestic market. As noted
above, further efforts in this direction will be needed if industrial exports
are to continue to grow at a rapid rate. The construction industry which
expanded rapidly between 1972-1976 as a result of relatively construction-
intensive public investment and large tourism investments in the Manila area,
grew at a rate of only 6% during 1977-78 due to the slower pace of private
and public investment activity.
Employment, Incomes and Population
11.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-77, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. Particularly
noteworthy was the growth of employment in manufacturing, which essentially
stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually during 1975/77, resulting
in part from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However,
because manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and
services continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the growth in total employment.



- 4 -
12.       Recent trends in income distribution are mixed but, on balance,
positive. Due to the improvement in agriculture's terms of trade, the growth
of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages following the
devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975,
the ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from
0.48 in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975.  Real per capita consumption increased by about
2% annually in 1971-75. Hence, real incomes in rural areas, where most of
the poor live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes
have remained about the same. Household budget data, which are probably not
entirely accurate, indicate that the share of family incomes received by the
poorest 40% of families, who are primarily rural, increased from 12% in 1971
to 15% in 1975. The income share of the top 20% have remained about the
same, while that of the middle income families declined correspondingly.
Although the magnitude of these trends may be overstated by these data, the
general direction of the trends is consistent with other information.
13.       The population is estimated at 45.5 million in 1978.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active family planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program faces the
increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated propor-
tion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning increased
from 20% in 1974 to 27% in 1977. However, by East Asian standards, this
index should still be considered as relatively low.
Investment and Savings
14.       Due largely to the buoyant export performance in 1973 and the
subsequent increase in incomes, investment boomed in 1974-75. Private
investment rose from 14% of GNP in the early 1970s to 20% in 1975. Public
investment was raised from 2% to 4% of GNP with the growth in revenue from
international trade taxes, improvements in tax administration, and improved
project implementation capacity. Subsequently, public investment has been
raised further to an estimated level of 6.3% of GNP in 1978. The private
investment rate, on the other hand, has fallen somewhat to an estimated 18%
of GNP, and its revival has been an important short-term problem. Furthermore,
the high incremental capital-output ratio, the relatively modest growth of
manufacturing output and employment, and the structural underutilization of
capacity in some industries suggest that the efficiency of investment also
needs to be improved.
15.      Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. In 1977-78, gross domestic savings reached a level of 26%
of GNP and financed about 85% of total investment, with the balance coming
from foreign savings. In order to increase the efficiency of financial
markets in intermediating between savers and investors, the Government has
made significant improvements in financial policy. Organized banking institu-
tions have been strengthened. Interest rates were realigned in 1976 and,
again, in 1977 to encourage a greater flow of financial savings into time and
savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes, and to reduce



the spread between borrowing and lending rates. However, further reforms
are required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency
resources and to alleviate the bias of the present interest rate structure
towards investments with a relatively high capital intensity and a low capital
efficiency. Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to
the credit-short agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs
of medium- and small-scale industries. However, a deterioration of loan
recovery rates has been experienced by all government financial institutions
and credit programs. The Government has already taken a number of steps
to improve collections; however, further efforts in this direction are
!ecessary to improve financial discipline and ensure an adequate flow of
credit to the productive sectors without burdening the public finances.
Government Expenditures and Revenues
16.       Public expenditures and revenues have historically claimed a much
smaller share of national resources in the Philippines than in many other
developing countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure
averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly low at about 2%
of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were
dominated by general administration and social services, particularly
education. This situation had resulted from a variety of factors including
difficulties in raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the
public sector. Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to
correct the situation and has raised both the overall level of expenditures
and the shares going to economic services and public investment. By 1978
government expenditures had reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and public
investment, which has risen rapidly in the last three years, equaled about
6% of GNP.
17.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. In the short term, needed revenues have been raised
through revisions in indirect taxes. In the long term, structural changes are
to be made to raise the built-in elasticity of the tax system, to reduce distor-
tions in economic incentives and dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade, and to improve equity by increasing the proportion of
revenues coming from direct taxes. The Government has increased the ratio of
domestic taxes to GNP through new tax measures and vigorous efforts to
improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance, but much of the
success in mobilizing revenue from domestic sources has been offset by a
sharp decline in the yield of export taxes and import duties due to cyclical
fluctuations. Total tax revenues, which had been raised to 13.6% by 1975,
fell to 12.8% in 1977 and increased only slightly, to an estimated 13%, in
1978. Greater resource mobilization by government financial institutions and
government corporations, whose investment programs have grown rapidly, is
also needed.



-6-
External Trade and Capital Flows
18.       To meet the acute balance of payments problem in 1975, which
largely resulted from the decline in terms of trade, the Government drew down
its international reserves, obtained loans under various IMF facilities, and
expanded its borrowing program to finance necessary imports. For the longer
term, the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export growth both to
hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute terms, while
letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the debt service
payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
19.       In spite of a further deterioration in the terms of trade, the
current account deficit has behaved as anticipated over the last three years
- averaging $1.0 billion per year but declining from 6% of GNP in 1976 to an
estimated 4% in 1978. Export volume, although constrained in 1978 by the
depressed sugar market, increased substantially over the three-year period
as a whole. Import payments, after growing slowly in 1976 and 1977,
accelerated with the recovery of private investments in 1978. To finance the
current account deficits, net capital inflows were nearly doubled from the
1975 level of $580 million to an average of $1.1 billion per year in 1976-78.
Most of the inflow came from medium- and long-term loans. About two thirds of
this was from public loans, a reflection in part of increased disbursements
from official sources. Recently, the Government has also taken advantage of
liquid conditions in international capital markets to prepay some commercial
debts and obtain new loans with longer maturities and lower interest rates.
As a result of increased borrowing, the debt service ratio has risen from 16%
in 1975 to 18% in 1977.
20.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
initial years of the Plan period, import volume will have to grow at a
similar rate, and a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year will
be required. Assuming continued efforts to promote exports and sound debt
management, the overall level of external debt of the Philippines is expected
to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio of debt service payments to
exports of goods and nonfactor services is expected to average around 20%, of
which half would be public debt service, during the Plan period (1978-82) and
to decline thereafter.
21.       In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensu-
rate with the level of development expenditures required during 1978-82 and
that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits, the Government
sought commitments of official assistance of $750-800 million in 1978 at the
last meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines, held in Tokyo in
December of 1977. This amount has been made available. However, since many
of the projects planned for financing from external sources have a low foreign
exchange component, some local cost financing is necessary, in appropriate
cases, to meet the Philippines' external financing requirements.



-7-
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
22.       As of September 30, 1978, the Philippines had received 56 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,725.4 million and
four IDA credits amounting to $60.2 million. At that date, IFC investments
totalled $88.4 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is about 11% and its share in total debt service is about 5%.
These ratios are expected to increase to about 12% and 5%, respectively, by
the end of the present decade. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits,
Bank loans and IFC investments as of September 30, 1978, as well as notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure
which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank Group lending.
In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irrigation system to
increase food production and to credit programs to support food grain produc-
tion and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree farming production.
Support has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in
low income areas. The Bank Group has also provided large amounts of assistance
in developing power and transportation to provide the basis for future growth
of the productive sectors. Substantial improvement in basic infrastructure
has been needed to compensate for many years of past neglect due to low
levels of public expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank's main
thrust has been on strengthening the capacity of public and private development
finance institutions with increasing attention given to meeting the needs of
small and medium industries. In the social sectors, the Bank Group has
provided support for education programs designed to improve the quality of
primary and secondary education and to meet trained manpower requirements in
agriculture and industry. In urban areas, assistance has been provided for
water supply projects and for programs to upgrade slum living conditions and
to develop low-cost sites and services. Support has also been provided to
the Philippines population program through assistance for the construction of
multipurpose rural health units and for training of family planning staff.
24.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project comple-
tion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are likely
to be in line with appraisal estimates. However, the overall rate of disburse-
ment is marginally below what would be expected given the generally good
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the President's
Report for the National Extension Project (Sec M/R78-237) which ws approved
by the Executive Directors on November 7, 1978.



- 8 -
project implementation, and the Government is currently reviewing disbursement
performance on an agency-by-agency basis to identify possible reasons for
disbursement lags and to find appropriate solutions.
25.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricul-
tural and rural development will account for the largest part of future
lending with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program also
provides for several needed new initiatives, including support for strength-
ening the national agricultural extension service through the recently
approved loan and a first loan for developing multiple cropping systems in
rainfed areas, where there is substantial rural poverty. Increased assistance
will also be provided for integrated rural development projects which will
support the Government's objectives of redressing regional imbalances in
income. Substantial assistance will also continue to be given to industry
with considerable attention given to expanding the development of labor-inten-
sive, small and medium industries outside of the Metropolitan Manila area.
The share of lending for social sector projects is expected to continue to
increase primarily as a result of greater emphasis on construction of urban
water supply and sewerage systems and further assistance for slum upgrading
and low-cost sites and services projects. The Bank Group will continue to
provide support for improving the quality of education and for expanding the
Government's population program in rural areas. While the Bank Group will
continue to provide support for transportation and power infrastructure
needed to support the Philippine development effort, the share of Bank
lending for these sectors will decline somewhat in the years ahead primarily
because alternative sources of financing are available to finance a large part
of the power generation program.
26.       As noted in Part I, the Philippines has experienced a serious
deterioration in its international terms of trade in the last several years
which has necessitated substantial foreign borrowing. While the overall
level of debt remains manageable, the Philippines will need to obtain some
foreign assistance on concessional terms in the near term to support its
expanding development program.  In view of this consideration, the per
capita income of the country and the generally good management of the economy,
a limited amount of IDA financing has been included in the Bank Group's
overall lending to the Philippines.
27.       This is the fourth loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year. Loans for urban development, small-scale industry, popu-
lation and highway projects are expected to be ready for presentation in the
next several months.



-9-_
PART III: THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
28.       Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippine economy;
it accounts for about one third of GDP, slightly more than one half of total
employment, and nearly two thirds of foreign exchange earnings. About 70% of
the population lives in the rural areas, with 60% directly dependent on
agriculture.
29.       Structurally, Philippine agriculture is overwhelmingly small-scale,
the average land holding being about 3.6 ha. Nearly three quarters of
[he cultivated area is devoted to cereals, notably rice and corn; other
principal crops are sugar, coconuts, abaca, pineapple and tobacco. Livestock
are widely kept, commonly as backyard enterprises, while fruit and vegetables
are a significant source of income in areas close to urban centers.
30.       As stated in Part I, agricultural production has grown at an average
rate of 4-1/2% p.a. in the 1970s. After recovering from severely adverse
weather conditions during 1970-73, the sector grew at over 5% p.a. since 1974.
The high growth rate resulted particularly from record rice and corn harvests,
reflecting increased use of production inputs under Government-sponsored
credit and technical assistance programs, better weather conditions, improved
irrigation facilities, and more favorable producer prices. Over the past
three years the Philippines has been self-sufficient in foodgrains and has
actually exported over 100,000 tons of rice. The sector's performance has
also contributed to a more favorable growth rate of the rural family's income
compared to that of the urban family. Nonetheless, the majority of the
Filipino poor remain in the rural areas.
31.       Agricultural development in the Philippines depends critically on
increasing productivity of the already cultivated lands. The available
technology has considerably raised production potential of the irrigated
lands and appreciable progress has been made towards full exploitation of
this potential. No comparable technological base exists for improving crop
yields in the non-irrigated and upland areas where corn predominates. But
some opportunities exist in such areas and elsewhere for diversification
into livestock and poultry, fruit and vegetables, and cottage industries.
Increases in corn production have hitherto depended on expanding cropped
area; however, the long-run development will be determined by the development
of high-yielding and disease-resistant hybrids.
Government Objectives and Strategies
32.       The Philippines Five Year Development Plan (1978-82) places emphasis
on food production, agricultural diversification, reforestation, and more
rigorous linkage between agriculture and industries. The major national
objective is to increase rice and corn production. Based on a growth rate of
3.8% p.a., rice production is projected to reach a sustained self-sufficiency
level by 1982 and to provide a substantial exportable surplus by 1990. But
corn production will remain in deficit relative to domestic consumption for a
much longer period. The Government is particularly concerned about improving
the conditions of smallholders. To achieve these objectives the Government has



- 10 -
intensified its efforts in agrarian reform, construction of rural infra-
structure, including irrigation, and in the provision of supervised credit
programs and improved extension services.
Agrarian Reform and Project's Target Group
33.       About 53% of the rice and corn farms in the Philippines are under
tenancy cultivation. Since 1972, Government policy has aimed at establishing
family-owned smallholdings as the foundation of Philippine agriculture,
primarily as a way to increase equity and productivity, and all rice and corn
lands were declared subject to agrarian reform under Presidential Decree No.
27 of October 1972. The reform consists of two parts: Operation Land
Transfer, covering 759,000 ha and 393,000 tenants; and the Leasehold Enforce-
ment Program, covering 664,000 ha and 521,600 tenants. Operation Land
Transfer applies to all tenanted rice and corn farms of more than 7 ha; the
tenant becomes owner-cultivator upon agreeing to purchase and amortize the
land over a period of 15 years. Leasehold Enforcement involves rental
payment as opposed to sharecropping, and better tenure security for the
tenant.
34.       The Ministry of Agrarian Reform (MAR) is responsible for the over-
all administration and implementation of the program, while the Land Bank of
the Philippines (LBP) is concerned with the financing of land acquisition
relating to the Operation Land Transfer in addition to assisting the reform
beneficiaries through seasonal and term credit.
35.       Completion of the land transfer was originally expected to require
only five years from October 1972. But after a brief rapid pace during
1973, the implementation slowed considerably, principally due to: poor
land survey and records causing long delays in title documentation; prolonged
haggling over land valuation; inadequate institutional framework and resources
within MAR; and opposition by the landlords. The progress has, however,
improved since mid-1977.
36.       As of March 1978, the farms compensated by LBP amounted to 96,200
ha involving 49,900 tenants. Of these, 37,600 tenants have signed undertakings
to amortize the purchase of their lands signifying completion of the transfer
process, although actual title is given to the new landowner only upon
completion of his payment to LBP. Thus, while the implementation may
continue to be slow, a significant number of farmers have already become
owner-cultivators. Their average landholding is 1.9 ha, devoted mainly to
rice production, and their average per capita income is about P 800 ($110)
compared to the estimated poverty line income of P 1,124 ($155) for the
rural Philippines. These farmers need specialized attention to move them to
the point where they can be self-sustaining after the severance from the
landlords upon whom they previously depended for a wide range of assistance,
which included credit and farm management advice.
Agricultural Credit and the Debt Problem
37.       The period 1970-73 was one of severely adverse weather conditions,
causing a substantial fall in rice production. To counteract the decline in



crop production, the Government launched massive supervised credit programs in
1973, notably Masagana 99 for rice and Masaganang Maisan for corn. The
programs succeeded in reaching a vast number of small-scale farmers as well
as in boosting total production. However, after only a brief period, these
programs experienced a sharply declining trend with regard to the number of
borrowers and loans granted. For example, Masagana 99 fell from the peak of
468,000 borrowers and P 716 million ($99 million) loans granted in the 1974
main cropping season to about 73,000 borrowers and P 135 million ($19 mil-
lion) of loans in the 1977 main cropping season.
38.        Poor loan repayment has been the major problem facing these credit
programs. The causes thereof are many and diverse but they include inability
to repay due to crop losses and, generally, the over-stretching of the credit
delivery and recovery system in pursuit of emergency production targets.
Several hundred thousand farmers are now carrying past due debts, in some
cases well beyond expected annual income and correspondingly large numbers of
farmers have been disqualified from receiving further formal credit. Now
that rice production is no longer a crisis issue, the Government policy is
shifting to more selective lending based primarily on the debt repayment
capacity of the would-be borrowers, coupled with more rigorous technical and
supervisory support. The proposed project would be guided by this new
policy.
Farm Mechanization and Post-Harvest Facilities
39.        Animal traction (carabaos) and manual labor, upon which the majority
of the small-scale farmers in the Philippines depend, entail several drawbacks.
Although under-employment is widely spread in rural areas, labor bottlenecks
are a constraint during the land preparation, planting and harvesting seasons
- especially in areas where multiple cropping is practiced. The carabaos
(water buffaloes) are disadvantaged by inability to work for long hours
without prolonged rest intervals, susceptibility to diseases which may strike
in a critical period of the cropping cycle, and inability to cope with
dryland tillage. An increasing proportion of farmers is therefore turning
to light mechanization (power tillers), either self-owned or on the basis
of custom service.
40.        While estimates vary considerably, a significant share of grain
production in the Philippines is lost annually due to improper handling and
inadequate post-harvest facilities - especially for drying, threshing,
storing and transporting the produce. The heaviest losses are attributed to
poor drying, particularly during the wet season. In addition to physical
losses, insufficiently dried grains fetch lower prices. While at the national
level the milling capacity is underutilized, its geographical distribution
leaves some areas without conveniently located facilities.
Farm and Off-farm Diversification
41.        The prevailing overwhelming dependence on rice cultivation may not
be an immediately serious issue in areas with adequate irrigation which facili-
tates more or less continuous employment. But in the rainfed areas and those



- 12 -
with inadequate irrigation, notably the upland areas, the need for diversifi-
cation is urgent and imperative. Various diversification opportunities
exist, especially the cultivation of high value crops such as vegetables,
development of backyard livestock and expansion of cottage industries.
42.       Provided credit and technical advice are made available, backyard
piggeries, poultry keeping and to some extent beef cattle, offer ample
opportunities for additional farm incomes among small-scale farmers in the
Philippines.  Pigs are widely kept, with 80-90% of the pork consumed in the
country coming from small backyard pig enterprises; experience in pig husbandry
is correspondingly widespread. A range of farm by-products is available
which, with supplementary feed, provide an adequate diet. Backyard beef
cattle account for 70% of the national cattle population but development
has been constrained by insufficient supply of fattening stock, poor husbandry
and management regimes, and deficient marketing facilities in the more remote
rural areas.
43.       Development constraints are less binding for poultry compared to
other livestock, particularly since it is much easier to import foundation
stock for which local multiplication facilities are well established. While
the usual poultry diseases are prevalent, preventive measures are readily
available and widely used. Feed supply is not a major problem and would
progressively become less so as the country moves towards self-sufficiency in
feedgrains production. The number of large-scale poultry producers, fully
vertically integrated and using modern production techniques, has been rising
steadily. In some cases, these large producers provide marketing outlets for
the backyard enterprises aimed at the more sophisticated urban markets.
44.       The need for expanding cottage industries in the Philippines is
underscored by the mounting number of landless people and the high growth rate
of the labor force (2.6% p.a.). The country has a long tradition of a variety
of cottage industries, the most important ones being needlecraft, woodwork,
fibercraft and embroidery. The National Cottage Industries Development
Authority provides the required training and general promotional activities.
The majority of these enterprises are based on locally available materials
and produce mostly for the domestic market. However, exports have grown
rapidly from P 129,000 (about $17,000) in 1970 to P 1.1 million (about $150,000)
by 1975.
Infrastructure
45.       Some of the agrarian reform areas (about 15-20% of the areas
selected for assistance under the proposed project) are seriously handicapped
by infrastructural deficiencies, particularly with regard to irrigation,
feeder roads and flood control. Most of these deficiencies can be alleviated
with minor civil works. Although inadequate groundwater surveys and poorly
defined water rights inhibit expansion of pump irrigation, there is good
scope for increasing low lift pumps tapping surface water sources. While
such works may be crucial to the well-being of affected communities, they are
typically so small and scattered that they have not been included in the
national programs of the responsible line agencies.



- 13 -
Experience with Past Lending
46.       This would be the first project financed by the Bank through the
Land Bank of the Philippines. However, agricultural credit and infrastructural
works are being assisted by several Bank-financed projects, notably the
Fourth Rural Credit Project (Loan 1399-PH) and the Rural Infrastructure
Project (Credit 790-PH). Implementation of the Fourth Rural Credit Project
was slower than anticipated in the first nine months after it became effective
on June 2, 1977 due to difficulties in supplier accreditation and qualifica-
tion of on-lending banks. Although demand for tractors under the project is
still slower than expected, the overall performance has improved significantly.
Credit 790-PH became effective on July 21, 1978 and the project is in the
initial stages of implementation. The proposed project would be complementary
to these projects in that the credit components would be geared to the lower
strata of small-scale farmers who are not adequately served by ongoing credit
programs, while the infrastructural components would cover areas hitherto
consisting of privately owned estates and therefore not sufficiently pene-
trated by the network of public infrastructural facilities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
General
47.       The objective of the proposed project is to increase rural incomes
by enhancing the productivity of small farms and generating off-farm employment
opportunites. A key feature would be the coordinated delivery of technical
assistance, improved infrastructure and credit to beneficiaries of the
agrarian reform program. Development efforts in the selected project areas
would be based on a careful assessment of needs by farmers and the field
staff of concerned agencies. While the project would be small in relation to
need, the complexity of issues to be addressed, the poor financial condition
of most potential beneficiaries, and the limited field capacity of the Land
Bank require cautious initial efforts. However, the project scope, which was
determined after a preliminary survey of the farmers' needs, has been designed
to reflect the current and planned capability of the Land Bank and the
absorptive capacity of the beneficiaries while the manpower and financial
commitments have been kept to levels which are replicable on a wider scale as
experience and proficiency increase. Support would also be provided for the
Land Bank's ongoing traditional small-scale credit activities wherein credit
is extended for investments not constrained by infrastructural or managerial
deficiencies.
48.       The project was prepared by the Land Bank, with the assistance of
Bank staff. It was appraised in May-June 1978 and negotiations took place in
Washington, D.C. in November 1978. The Philippine negotiating team was led
by His Excellency Eduardo Z. Romualdez, the Philippine Ambassador to the
United States, and the Honorable Basilio Estanislao, the President of the
Land Bank. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2189-PH dated November 27, 1978)
is being distributed separately. Supplementary Project data are given in
Annex III.



- 14 -
Project Area
49.       The project would be spread virtually throughout the country but
concentrated in some areas, notably Central Luzon, in keeping with the
geographical distribution of the agrarian reform program. On the basis of
development potential, existing infrastructure, contiguity and closeness to
existing or planned Land Bank field offices, 60 areas have been selected
for concentrated development support.
Project Components
50.       These would include:  production and marketing credit; term credit
for light farm mechanization, post-harvest facilities, livestock development
and cottage industries; and financing of minor infrastructural works, Land
Bank's field support activities, and action-oriented studies on the socio-
economic conditions of small-scale farmers.
51.       Production Credit.  In many cases, short-term credit for fertilizers,
agro-chemicals, seeds and labor is the most critical need of the small-scale
farmers. The project would provide such credit primarily for rice, corn and
vegetables over an area expected to grow to about 30,000 ha in the third
year. Individual loans would be based on a farm plan and budget, and
limited to the repayment capacity of the borrower.
52.       Marketing Credit.  This would aim at expanding the modest marketing
credit now provided by Land Bank (LBP) to cooperatives and private dealers
handling small farmers' produce, mostly rice. The practice of advancing
funds to farmers against deposit of stocks would be encouraged, thus enabling
farmers to postpone sales pending better seasonal prices.
53.       Light Farm Mechanization.  The project would finance locally
manufactured power tillers of 7-10 hp, as well as small irrigation pumps of
4-inch diameter. Other minor items, such as sprayers and hand tools, would
also be included as needed.
54.       Post-harvest Facilities.  These would include:  portable rice
threshers powered by a 10 hp engine; portable rice driers equipped with a
3 hp engine; and small rice mills and warehouses in areas not serviced by
existing facilities. The project would also finance light cargo trucks of
0.5 to 1.5 tons, and agricultural, machinery repair and maintenance workshops.
55.       Backyard Livestock.  This would include backyard piggeries, broilers,
layers, ducks, and beef cattle. The actual size and type mix of these
sub-projects would vary considerably but typical investments would be for:
two sows and 15 fatteners for piggeries; 200 layers and 100 broilers for
chicken sub-projects; 200 ducks; and one breeding cow and three fatteners for
beef cattle.
56.       Cottage Industries.  The indicative sub-projects envisaged are:
concrete products; embroidery and garments; fibercraft; and charcoal making.



- 15 -
57.       Minor Infrastructure.  Although there are a number of ongoing
infrastructural programs, some of which are Bank-supported, the component is
provided for in this project to facilitate the execution of works which are
too small and scattered and have not been included to date in the budget of
implementing agencies. It is estimated that the works calling for attention
under the proposed project would involve about 120 km of feeder roads, flood
control structures covering about 2,700 ha, and rehabilitation of irrigation
systems on about 4,100 ha.
58.       Strengthening LBP Field Operations.  It is considered essential for
LBP to strengthen its presence in the field to ensure the effectiveness of
its credit delivery and recovery operations. The number of field represen-
tatives, to be known as Estates Development Coordinators (EDCs), would be
increased under the project, and one EDC assigned to each project area
covering 300-500 farmers. Their responsibility would be primarily in finan-
cial supervision and management but would also include coordinating the
activities of the various field agencies serving the farmer. The project
would also provide for the strengthening of ancillary staff such as loan
appraisers and examiners. Because of the lead time necessary to ensure staff
availability at the commencement of the project, LBP recruited and trained 30
EDCs with effect from April 1978. The costs thereof are essential prepara-
tory expenses and retroactive financing of up to $120,000 is, therefore,
proposed to cover the costs primarily of training and service vehicles
(Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       Socio-economic Research.  Improvement in the implementation of
small farmer development programs in general and credit programs in particular
calls for a better understanding of the social and economic circumstances of
the beneficiaries which determine their decisions with respect to credit and
technology. The project would, therefore, finance action-oriented studies to
be undertaken by the University of the Philippines, in order to identify
measures to improve small holder credit and extension effectiveness. This
would include: credit development mechanisms, marketing arrangements and the
role of local institutions in the development of agrarian reform estates.
Cost Estimates and Financing
60.       The total project cost is estimated at $37 million, with a foreign
exchange component of $12.2 million. The total cost estimates include
physical contingencies at about 2% (mainly for infrastructural works) and
price contingencies at 9% of the base costs. The proposed Bank loan of
$16.5 million, would finance about 46% of total cost, including $4.3 million
of local costs. Justification for local cost financing is given in para 21
above. The balance of the costs would be financed by sub-borrowers, the Land
Bank, and the Government.
61.       The proposed loan would be made to the Republic of the Philippines
and would have a term of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at
an interest rate of 7.35%. The Government would on-lend the equivalent of
$12.5 million of the proceeds of the loan to LBP for the same term and at the
same rate as the Bank loan for use in the term credit and supporting activities



- 16 -
of the project for which LBP is responsible. Onlending by LBP would be not
less than 12% p.a. Term loans would carry an additional 2% service charge on
outstanding balances. Considering an average inflation rate of about 7%
during the past three years and the fact that the rate of inflation is not
expected to exceed this within the next three years, the onlending rate
represents a positive real rate of interest. Eligibility criteria, categor-
ies of lending, and subloan terms and conditions are set out in a document
entitled "Credit Terms and Condition." This document has been approved by
LBP Board and would not be amended without prior consultation with the Bank
(Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement).   The balance of the proceeds
of the loan ($4.0 million) would be provided by the Government to its line
agencies responsible for the execution of infrastructure works under the
project. Subloans and other project expenditures would be committed over a
period of three years and disbursed over three and one half years.
Procurement
62.       Goods and services under the credit component of the project and
equipment for LBP field offices would be purchased through normal commercial
channels from responsible suppliers with adequate service facilities. For
all such contracts costing above P 10,000, three price quotations would be
solicited. Procurement of these items would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding as individual contracts would be small and bulking of
contracts would not be practicable because they would be widely dispersed
geographically and phased over time. Service vehicles for LBP field staff
would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory
to the Bank. Foreign suppliers are well represented in the Philippines and
parts and service facilities are satisfactory. Civil works pertaining to
infrastructure, which would be small (usually less than $100,000) and scat-
tered, would be executed either by force account by the responsible line
agency, or where possible by contract awarded under local procurement pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank. Training, research and consultant studies
would be carried out by the University of the Philippines at Los Banos,
subject to Bank approval of curricula, terms of reference, and conditions of
employment.
Disbursement
63.       Disbursement would be made against (a) 65% of LBP's term loans
disbursed; (b) 100% of foreign exchange cost if vehicles and equipment are
directly imported, 100% of ex-factory price if they are locally manufac-
tured, and 60% if locally procured; (c) 55% of civil works expenditures; and
(d) 100% of consulting services for training and research.
Organization and Management
64.       Except for the infrastructural works to be executed by the appro-
priate line agencies, the project would be implemented by the Land Bank of
the Philippines (LBP), which was established by Republic Act No. 3844 in
1964; its authority and mandate were considerably broadened by Presidential
Decree No. 251 in 1973. In addition to the general powers vested in it under
the Corporation Law and the Central Banking Act, LBP is specifically authorized



- 17 -
to accept deposits, issue debt investments, extend loans and guarantees,
invest in commercial paper, and act as trustee. Its credit activities may -e
"for the establishment, development or expansion of agricultural, industrial,
home building or home financing projects or other productive enterprises."
Its primary responsibility is to serve as the financial arm of agrarian
reform, to make cash payments and to issue bonds to former landlords, to
effect and hold farmers' amortization agreements and to provide credit in
support of the productive activities of beneficiaries. Its commercial
banking activities are intended to generate revenue to offset a portion of
the public sector cost of agrarian reform.
65.       At the end of 1977, LBP had financed land transfer covering 96,000 ha
with about 50,000 tenants, of which 38,000 had legally committed themselves
to purchase their lands, at a total cost of P 663 million ($91 million).
Efforts to pursue agrarian reform and commercial banking objectives through
a common network of branches have proven unsatisfactory. LBP has therefore
begun to establish low-cost field offices in rural areas to serve the credit
needs of small-scale farmers in contrast to Bank branches which are located
in urban centers where commercial banking opportunities are more available.
66.       LBP's lending operations are guided by three orders of preference:
first are agrarian reform farmers and former landlords/LBP bondholders; second
are borrowers engaged in businesses beneficial to agrarian reform farmers;
while the third consist of commercial and industrial clients (prime borrowers
to whom LBP lends for the purpose of generating regular income to offset part
of the agrarian reform costs). Nearly 76% of loans granted in 1977 went to
the third group, but, as LBP's field strength increases, the portfolio is
expected to shift to a target ratio of 35:35:30.
67.       LBP's lending to agriculture started in 1974 but has grown rapidly
from P 1.2 million ($0.2 million) in 1975 to P 79.3 million ($11 million) in
1977, reflecting LBP's commitment to expand its agricultural lending. While
this remains relatively small compared to the total agricultural credit in
the country, its significance is enhanced by the fact that it is directed
primarily to the lower strata of small-scale farmers. Loan repayments have
been satisfactory, especially for agricultural loans in respect of which the
delinquency rate fell from 9.5% in 1976 to 7.5% in 1977; this compares most
favorably with the prevailing situation in the Philippines where the
delinquency rate is generally greater than 25%.
68.       Financial Structure and Performance: LBP's authorized capital is
P 3 billion ($414 million) of which paid-in capital, wholly govermental, was
P 1.1 billion ($152 million) at the end of 1977. The other major source of
funds is deposits, which amounted to P 963 million ($133 million) at that
date, of which about 95% were deposits of various government agencies. Total



- 18 -
assets of P 3.2 billion ($441 million) are held primarily in marketable
securities (44%), loans and advances (25%), and government bonds (12%).
LBP's overall financal condition is satisfactory with a debt-equity ratio of
1.6:1, debt-servicing ratio of 1.8:1 and liquidity ratio of 2.2:1 at the end
of 1977. The high liquidity ratio reflects LBP's policy of maintaining a
substantial reserve against an upsurge in land transfer operations. Net
earnings dropped slightly to P 58 million in 1976 but rose to P 64 million
in 1977.
69.       Organization, Structure and Staffing.  LBP's governing body con-
sists of the Minister of Finance (Chairman), LBP's President, the Minister of
Agrarian Reform, and the Minister of Labor. Following a period of rapid
expansion since 1974, LBP reorganized its structure during 1977/78 for the
purpose of consolidating its position and reorienting its operations more
rigorously to the needs of the small-scale farmers. In addition to improved
delineation of functional responsibilities, provision was made for establish-
ing low-cost field offices to serve farmers and a new department (Field
Operations Development, headed by a Vice President) has been created for the
purpose of administering the expanded agricultural lending program, and
supervising the growing portfolio of farmers' undertaking to amortize land
purchases.
70.       LBP's staff numbers 700 people, including a sizeable cadre of well
qualified, experienced and well motivated personnel. However, the rapid
expansion since 1974 resulted in critical staff shortages at all levels. Of
particular importance to the proposed project are the posts of field represen-
tatives (Estates Development Coordinators), project appraisers and loan
examiners. LBP has recently succeeded in increasing the number of EDCs and
other critical staff to a level that would ensure efficient launching of the
proposed project. Efforts are continuing to fill all the major vacancies.
71.       Project Management.  The Field Operations Group (FOG) would imple-
ment the project, with Estate Development Coordinators (EDC) taking charge
of the day-to-day operations at the field level. An assurance has been
obtained from LBP that its organizational structure with respect to the Field
Operations Group would not be materially altered without prior consultation
with the Bank (Section 3.03 (c) of the draft Project Agreement).
72.       EDCs would constitute the most critical link between LBP and the
farmers. In addition to being responsible for financial management and the
day-to-day operations of the project, they would play a vital role in
coordinating the activities of the other field agencies. An assurance was
obtained from LBP, during negotiations, that LBP would adequately staff its
field offices in accordance with a staffing plan acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.03(a) of the draft Project Agreement. The Ministry of Agriculture
would be wholly responsible for substantive technical extension duties.
It would provide the required extension staff in project areas in accordance
with the Memorandum of Understanding signed between the Ministry and the Land
Bank on July 5, 1978 (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
73.       The overall planning and coordination of the infrastructure works
would be carried out by the Committee on Infrastructural Development for
Agrarian Reform Estates (CIDARE) which consists of LBP (secretariat), and
representatives of the Ministry of Agrarian Reform, Ministry of Local
Government and Community Development, National Irrigation Administration,
Ministry of Public Works, Bureau of Public Highways and the Ministry of the
Budget. Detailed planning and implementation would be the responsibility of
the relevant line agencies. A memorandum of agreement among members has been
signed, which sets the specific responsibility of member agencies.
74.       Staff training, research and studies would be undertaken by the
University of the Philippines at Los Banos (Centre for Policy and Development
Studies) under terms of reference and employment of consultants satisfactory
to the Bank.
75.       Project Monitoring and Evaluation.  In addition to routine report-
ing of project progress, LBP would conduct baseline surveys on economic and
financial conditions of the beneficiaries and would undertake periodic assess-
ment of incremental benefits to subborrowers. An assurance was obtained
from LBP that this will be done in accordance with a program acceptable
to the Bank (Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement).
Benefits and Justifications
76.       The project would directly benefit about 28,000 rural families, the
majority of whom live below the established poverty threshold. It would
generate additional production of goods and services, valued at P 111.5 mil-
lion p.a. ($15.4 million) at full development, the nature of which is well
in keeping with the national objectives for self-sufficiency in basic food
commodities and increased rural employment. Incremental employment would
reach the equivalent of 11,900 man-years in the sixth year and thereafter,
consisting of unskilled jobs and, therefore, providing employment opportuni-
ties suited to the rural poor and the landless. The incremental rice and
corn production would result in foreign exchange savings of about P 64 mil-
lion ($8.8 million) annually.
77.       With the exception of an 8.5% rate of return for power tillers,
some important benefits of which have not been quantified, subprojects show
financial returns in excess of 22% and economic rates of return, aggregated
for the various major subprojects categories, in excess of 14%, and, in some
cases, over 100%. The weighted average economic rate of return of the
project is estimated at 47%.
78.       One institutional impact of the project would be the strengthening
and expansion of LBP's agricultural credit delivery and recovery operations;
it is expected that this would result in improved collection of payments
due not only in respect of the loans under the project, but also of the
land amortization receivables in connection with the agrarian reform. The



- 20 -
project's direct impact on LBP's financial condition would also be favorable,
with positive net earnings from the third year, while the cash flow, assuming
the recent debt collection rate continues, would be cumulatively positive
after the fourth year.
Risks
79.       The main factors which would entail significant risks are loan
collection, the difficulties encountered by extension officers in stimulating
increased crop yields, and LBP's limited experience in agricultural credit.
The first two factors are interrelated as actual yields would affect the
ability to repay loans. This underlines the critical importance of the field
extension services and the timeliness of financial support; it is therefore
expected that the risks associated with these factors would be substantially
reduced by the proposed measures to strengthen LBP's field support staff in
coordination with the other field agencies especially the Ministry of Agricul-
ture's technical extension staff. The scope of the project has been intention-
ally kept modest in recognition of LBP's limited experience, the inherent
complexities of small farmer development programs, and the prevailing credit
conditions in the rural Philippines. It is well within LBP's existing and
planned capabilities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and LBP, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the loan are referred to in
Section III of Annex III. The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Republic of the Philippines and LBP is an additional condition of effec-
tiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.02 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
December 6, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INfl'.ATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PHILIPPINES                                               /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Xlt.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             300.0                                                    SAME         SANE     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      85.6                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   140.0       230.0      450.0            616.0      432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      147.0        301.0     326.0            522.0       251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         27.4         36.9      44.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 25.3          27.6       29.8             30.1       24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        91.0        123.0     148.0            156.8        42.7         50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0         472.0     520.0            794.8        95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.7         45.6      42.9             40.8        44.9        42.9
15-64 YRS.                          51.6         51.6      54.2             55.4        52.8        53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7          2.8       2.9              3.2         3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.0          3.0       2.8              2.3         2.7          2.5
URBAN                               4.0          4.0        3.9             5.1         8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.1         44.2       43.8             34.6       42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      17.9         13.2       10.5              8.7       12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5 /f       3.3        3.1              2.6        3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       191.7     750.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           2.0      25.0             22.1        14.2         20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              99.1        100.0     110.8            106.8       104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    83.0         86.0      87.0            108.7        99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           44.0         45.0      50.0             57.7        56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0 /R      22.0      19.2             17.0        17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       9.0          6.6        7.5              4.0        7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    49.4          55.6      58.5             59.0        53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            84.6         81.0      72.0             44.0        82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         36.0      50.0             21.9        31.1        56.8
URBAN                                ..         67.0      82.0             58.3        68.5        79.0
RURAL                                ..         20.0      31.0              9.8        18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         57.0      56.0             28.6        37.5        30.9
URBAN                                ..         90.0      76.0             66.6       69.5         45.4
RURAL                                ..         40.0      44.0             14.8        25.4        16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..           ..    3130.0           4103.1     9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       3840.0    2180.0           1520.2     2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1180.0        850.0     640.0            657.1      786.5        493.9
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..           145.5      278.4        229.6
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..          1011.8     1358.4       2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..         ..            19.0        19.2        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.8          5.9        ..              5.2         ..          5.2
URBAN                                ..          6.2        ..              5.2          ..         5.0
RURAL                                ..          5.8        ..              5.4         ..          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          2.3        ..               ..         ..          2.0
URBAN                                            2.1        ..               ..        2.3          1.5
RURAL                                .           2.4        ..               ..          ..         2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              17.0        23.0       31.0             39.1       28.3         64.1
URBAN                                ..        60.4         ..               ..         ..         67.8
RURAL                                ..          7.0      10.0              ..        10.3         34.1



ANNEX I
Page 2  of  4  pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
?EILIPPINES                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) La
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                95.0        114.0     105.0             95.6       75.8         99.8
FEMALE               93.0        113.0     103.0            93.7        67.9        93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 26.0         50.0      56.0             43.3       17.7         33.8
FEMALE               25.0        50.0       57.0            38.6        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 14.0           ..        ..             11.3        7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0        29.0      29.0             30.0       34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                         27.0         33.0      31.0             25.4       23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        71.9        82.6      87.0             84.0       63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TRDUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         8.0       8.0              9.3        7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        22.0         72.0        *-             97.6       71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4        10.0      17.0             21.8       14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  17.0        14.0       18.0            25.9       16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ArTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6           ..       7.6              4.6        1.6          4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10100.0      12400.0   15400.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   34.4        33.1      32.7             33.2       28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              61.0        55.0      52.6             48.4       54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.2        15.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.8        36.6      35.3             38.9       37.8         33.8
MALE                                 52.1        48.6      47.1             48.6       50.3         48.1
FEMALE                               27.4        24.4      23.3             28.4       20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3         1.5       1.3              1.2        1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.8           ..        ..             17.3       19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  56.2         54.0      53.3             45.6       48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2          3.6       5.5              6.5        5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.9         11.7      14.7             17.3       15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     180.0            140.8      155.9        191.9
RURAL                               ..           ..     155.0            112.8       97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..               ..      143.7        319.8
RURAL                               ..           ..      87.0             76.8       87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      26.0             27.7       22.9         19.8
RIURAL                               ..          ..      40.0             40.4       36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle Income
($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  1950-55;   /g  Av. 1960-62.
September 1978



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ million      _            1966-71            1971-76              1977
GNP at Market Prices             20,596        100.0           5.1      .         6.6                 6.3
Gross Domestic Investment         6,220         30.2           5.9               12.5                 2.7  -.
Gross National Saving             5,393         26.2           2.4               10.8                12.4
Current Account Balance            -827         -4.0
Exports of Goods, NFS             4,021         19.5          -0.5                5.6                20.9
Imports of Goods, NFS             4,788         23.3           4.1                6.5                 3.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added                   Labor Force                   V. A. per worker
US$ million            %        Million          %              US$               %
Agriculture           5,826              28.1          7.7         48.1               757           58.4
Industry              7,195              34.7         2.2          13.8            3,270           252.2
Services              7,724              37.2         5.4          33.7             1,430          110.3
Unemployed               .                .           0.7           4.4
Total/Average    20,745               100.0        16.0        100.0             1,297           100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                        Central Government
(P billion)           X of GDP             (P billion)            % of GDP
1977          1977           1971          1977          1977           1971
Current Receipts           22.7          14.8           11.3          20.0           13.1           9.2
Current Expenditure        19.3          12.6           10.1          16.9           11.0           7.6
Current Surplus             3.4           2.2            1.2           3.1            2.0           ,1.6
Capital Expenditures        5.4           3.5            1.6           5.1            3.3           1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1972       1973       1974       1975       1976        1977
(P billion outstanding end period)
Money Supply                            6.5        7.3        9.0        10.3       12.1        14.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector            3.9        2.4        2.0        5.8         8.9        11.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector          12.6       16.2       24.2       28.5        33.6        38.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                      11.5       10.1        9.0         8.9        9.2         9.7
General Price Index (1972 = 100)  100.0          117.8      155.3      167.6      180.1        196.2
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                     6.8       17.8       31.8        7.9         7.5         8.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector           -2.1      -38.5      -16.7      190.0        53.4        23.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector          21.7       28.6       49.4       17.8        17.9        13.1
/a  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVEKAGE 1975-77)
1975    1976    1977                                     US$ million    %
(US$ million)
Coconut Products                    591       22.1
Exports of Goods, NFS          3,076   3,330   4,021   Sugar Products                         536       20.0
Imports of Goods, NFS          4,116   4,383   4,788   Forest Products                        288       10.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)  -1,040  -1,053    -767   Mineral Products                         438       16.4
Fruits & Other Agric. Products    196          7.4
Interest Payments (net)          -53    -185    -320   Other Manufacturers                    622      23.3
Other Factor Payments (net)   -149    -138                 Total                            2,673      100.0
Net Transfers                    318      269      260
Balance on Current Account    -924  -1,107    -827   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977 /c
US$ million
Direct Foreign Investment         125     144      216
Net MLT Borrowing                                        Public Debt, including Guaranteed         3,656
Disbursements                  677   1,407   1,229   Nonguaranteed Private Debt                  2,907
Amortization                   318      368      544   Total Outstanding and Disbursed           6,563
Subtotal                     359   1,039      685
Other Capital (net) /a           -80    -236      +90   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977 /d
Increase in Reserves (+)        -521    -160       164
Public Debt, including Guaranteed           7.8
Gross Reserves                                           Nonguaranteed Private Debt                  9.8
(end year) /b                2,080   2,206   2,263   Total Outstanding and Disbursed              17.6
Net Reserves
(end year) /b                  265      105     269
Petroleum Imports                710      801      859
IBRD/IDA LENDING, September 30, 1978 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                 IBRD    IDA
Annual Averages       End Period   Outstanding and Disbursed              499.3   29.4
1976     1977    1978/e  Aug. 1978    Undisbursed                           1,105.0   30.8
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed   1,604.3   60.2
US$1.00 =  P   7.446    7.407    7.375    7.371
P 1.00  =  US$ 0.134    0.135    0.136    0.136
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities, use of IMF credit, and errorg
and omissions.
/b  Reserves of the Central Bank and commercial banking system.
/c  Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
/d  Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.
le  Eight months only.



ANNEX II
Page I of 14 pages
THE STATIIS oF BANK (GROUP OPERATIONS TN THE " -APPIIES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of October 31, 1978
Loan or
Credit                                                            Amounts ($ million)
Number      Year       Borrower          Purpose              Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Sixteen loans and two credits fully disbursed                252.4    19.5
720-PH     1971                         Rice Processing
''             and Storage       14.3                 2.3
809-PH     1972    National Power
Corporation       Power               22.0                 3.9
349-PH     1973    Republic of the
Philippines       Education II                 12.7        2.7
B91-PH     1973            "            Fisheries            11.6                0.7
939-PH     1973                         Ports                 6.1                1.3
950-PH     1973                         Second Highways   68.0                   6.9
984-PH     1974                         Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation         9.5                4.7
998-PH     1974            "            DFC-DBP I            50.0                4.6
1034-PH    1974    National Power
Corporation      Power                61.0                8.3
1035-PH     1974    Republic of the
Philippines       Population          25.0                16.4
1048-PH     1974            "            Shipping             20.0               13.8
1052-PH     1974    Philippine
Natjonal Bank   DFC                   30.0                15.1
1080-PH     1975    Republic of the   Tarlac
Philippines         Irrigation        17.0                 9.2
1102-PH     1975                         Rural
Development       25.0               19.4
1120-PH     1975                         Small and Medium
Industries        30.0                6.8
1154-PH     1976                         Magat
Irrigation        42.0               27.4
1190-PH     1976                         DFC-DBP II           75.0               43.7
1224-T-PH  1976             "            Education III        25.0               19.3
1225-PH     1976                         Livestock II         20.5               10.6
1227-PH     1976                         Chico Irrigation  50.0                  46.9
1272-T-PH  1976                          Manila Urban         10.0                7.8
1282-PH     1976            "            Manila Urban         22.0               17.2
1269-PH     1976                         Second Grain
Processing        11.5               11.5
1270-PH    1976             "            Second Fisheries  12.0                   9.0
1353-PH    1977             "            Third Highways    95.0                  87.9
1367-PH    1977             "            Jalaur Irrigation 15.0                  11.9
1374-PH     1977            "            Fourth Education  25.0                  22.2
1399-PH     1977    Central Bank of   Fourth Rural
the Philippines   Credit              36.5               29.0
1414-PH     1977    Republic of the   National Irriga-
Philippines         tion Systems
Improvement       50.0               42.9
1415-PH     1977                         Provincial Cities
Water Supply    23.0                 21.4
1421-PH     1977                         Second Rural
Development-
Land Settlement 15.0                 14.8
1460-PH     1977    National Power
Corporation       Seventh Power       58.0               57.7
1506-PH     1978    Republic of the   Smallholder Tree
Philippines         Farming            8.0                8.0
1514-PH     1978    Philippine
National Bank   DFC (PDCP)            30.0               30.0
1526-PH     1978    Republic of the   Second National
Philippines         Irrigation
Systems
Improvement       65.0               65.0
790-PH     1978    Republic of the   Rural Infra-
Philippines         structure                  28.0      28.0
S.8-PH     1978    Republic of the
Philippines      Education             2.0                2.0
1547-PH     1978    Republic of the   Rural Electri-
Philippines         fication          60.0               60.0
1555-PH     1978    Philippine
National Bank   DFC-PIS0              15.0               15.0
1567-PH    1978    Republic of the
Philippines      MAGAT II            150.0              150.0
1572-PH     1978    Republic of the   Industrial
Philippines         Investment III  80.0                 80.0
1615-PH *  1978    Republic of the   Manila Water
Philippines         Water Supply-II 88.0                 88.0
Total                                            1,725.4    60.2  1,123.4
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                         121.2        -
Total now outstanding                            1,604.2    60.2
Amount sold                         22.3
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                  13.1              9.2        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                                  1,595.0    60.2
Total undisbursed                                1,092.7    30.7  1,123.4
a   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of September 30, 1978
Fiscal                                                      Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                15.0      4.4      19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                        8.0        -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                   -      4.0       4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                           4.5        -       4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                   0.8      0.4       1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                   -      2.2       2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation               6.2      2.1       8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                15.0        -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9      0.3       2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5        -       1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5          0.5       2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2        -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                 7.0        -       7.0
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6      0.2       2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2       3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                    3.5       -        3.5
1978         Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.  2.1           -        2.1
Total gross commitments                      73.1    15.3       88.4
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                        27.7    12.0      39.7
Total commitments now held by IFC            45.4      3.3      48.7
Undisbursed                                   5.1        -       5.1



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1978 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is financing the diversion of water from the Aurora
basin into the Pantabangan reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for
30,000 ha of rice land in Central Luzon. Although the need for foundation and
abutment area grouting on the two diversion dams was more extensive than
originally expected, progress on the transbasin diversion has been excellent.
Diversion of 75% of Aurora water, on closure of the first dam in July 1975,
was an early benefit for the Central Luzon rice growing area. The second dam
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
was closed on April 1, 1976, about one year ahead of schedule. In the service
area, lack of competition and high bids delayed awarding of contracts, but
five small local construction firms are now at work. Urgent work is being
done by government forces. Project costs have increased about 54% over
appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid inflation. Although there
are added benefits from early diversion resulting in additional water for
irrigation sooner than planned, and nearly 5,000 ha have been added to the
project, the rate of return is expected to fall from 17% at appraisal to
around 14%. The Credit has been fully disbursed and disbursement on the Loan
has begun. Because of delays in completion of civil works in the Penaranda
service area, full disbursement is not likely to be completed until mid-1979
and the Closing Date has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is providing long-term credit to the private sector
through the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for marine and inland
fisheries development. The Loan became effective on December 5, 1973. It is
fully committed, and is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date
(June 30, 1979). DBP has had difficulty in setting up a benefit monitoring/
evaluation system on its own, but it is now seeking local consultancy assistance.
Although not entirely satisfactory, loan collections have been considerably
better than for most of DBP's agricultural operations.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and to extend irrigation
to 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Upgrading of project roads
and construction of new roads also are included. In addition, the project
provides for a groundwater irrigation pilot project, a National Irrigation
Systems Improvement Study (NISIS), and a water management training program.
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining work is
under way. General progress, although slower than originally estimated, is
improving. Progress on the groundwater, water management training and NISIS
components of the project is satisfactory. Due to the necessity of adding
drainage systems not included originally, completion of the project is now
expected to be delayed until the end of 1980.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out rural devel-
opment on the island of Mindoro. Progress in the implementation of irrigation



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
systems and on the improvement of the port of Calapan is now accelerating.
Progress has also been made on the Mangyan (Minority) Assistance Progur.r,
reforestation of watersheds and drainage of schistosomiasis affected areas.
The construction of roads has now begun after delays caused by the unsatisfac-
tory performance of a number of contractors. Disbursements, which currently
stand at 39% of projections, are lagging behind physical accomplishment due to
difficulties encountered in prompt processing of force account work and in
coordinating disbursement requests between agencies. Steps are now being
taken to streamline disbursement procedures.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on engineering and economic evaluation studies of the
proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by local
contract and force account for rehabilitation and new construction of canals,
drains and access roads is progressing well. The water management training is
continuing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to increase domestic production of livestock
products. Despite a relative slowdown in lending over the past year, the
project remains several months ahead of schedule and would be fully disbursed
well before the Closing Date of June 30, 1982. The demand for piggery and
poultry subloans has exceeded appraisal estimates, but lending for beef cattle
development lags behind due to problems of land tenure, financial incentives,
technical knowledge and pasture development. The Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP), the project executing agency, has strengthened its technical
supervision of subloans, but further improvements are required in its management
information system and loan collection performance.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
The Erosion Control Study and input-output monitoring program
are progressing satisfactorily. Although construction is nearly a year
behind schedule, sufficient equipment has been delivered so that force
account work can now proceed rapidly. Also bids have been opened for the
first major construction contract, and this construction should soon be
started.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully commiLted.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines (DBP) to assist in increasing fish production for
domestic consumption. Fishing vessels, iceplants with cold storage, a slipway,
and new and rehabilitated milkfish ponds are being financed under the project.
The loan became effective on November 15, 1976. Subloan approvals by DBP were
ahead of schedule in the first half of 1977, but have slowed down considerably,
due to problems in procurement procedures for fishing vessels, and DBP's
increased emphasis on loan collection. The procurement issue has been resolved
and the project is expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Detailed design for a major part of the works has been completed.
Contracts have been awarded for the procurement of equipment and vehicles.
Contracts for the improvement and enlargement of existing main canals of the
four systems are being awarded and construction has begun. The overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides medium- and long-term credit through partici-
pating banks to finance farmers and local entrepreneurs for farm mechanization,
livestock, fisheries, and cottage and agro-industries. The project became
effective on June 2, 1977. With the recent increased participation of many
rural banks, commitments have recovered from an initial low rate.  However, a
shortfall in commitments of as much as 20% may still be experienced because of
a decline in demand for four-wheel tractors without compensating growth in
demand in other subloan categories. In order to determine what changes in
project design or duration may be needed to ensure effective use of project
resources unlikely to be committed to this category of subloan, the Central
Bank is conducting a comprehensive reassessment of the lending program to be
reviewed with the next supervision mission.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Topographic surveys and mapping have been completed ahead of schedule.
Project works are slightly behind schedule; however, with strengthening of
design teams in the regional offices, a major part of the design would be
completed before the end of 1978.  Construction activities during 1977/78 dry
season are limited to the improvement of secondary laterals and the construc-
tion of service roads along these laterals in the Ilocos subproject.
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve its National
Resettlement Program through technical assistance, organizational changes and
pilot programs to provide infrastructure and agricultural support services in
three settlement areas. The loan became effective on October 27, 1977. Proce-
dural problems concerning budget releases and staff appointments have adversely
affected progress in project implementation and have resulted in the execution
of most scheduled events being about a year behind schedule. However, progress
in detailed planning and design is generally satisfactory and the Government
has taken steps to resolve budgetary difficulties.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is a continuation of the US$2 million Bank-financed Tree-
farming Pilot Project (Loan 998-PH), with additional project components in
large-scale plantations, forestry research and planning. Operations have begun
for most project components. Although the large-scale plantation component is
below target because of insufficient seed supply and managerial constraints,
no delaying effect on project completion is anticipated. Initial budgetary
deficiencies are expected to be overcome at the latest by the second year.
Due to the early stage of the project, disbursements have not yet begun.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: $65 Million
Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is assisting the Government to improve and develop irri-
gation systems on 80,900 ha, control schistosomiasis and strengthen the National
Irrigation Administration regional offices. The Loan Agreement was signed on
March 15, 1978 and became effective on June 12, 1978. The project is in its
initial stages of mobilization and preconstruction activities. Topographic
surveys and mapping are ahead of schedule. Improvement of main and secondary
canals is expected to start in November 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
Credit No. 790      Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The credit is financing the construction and improvement of basic
infrastructure in six provinces chosen on the basis of low level of per capita
income and inadequate infrastructure. The infrastructure funded includes
communal irrigation systems, improvement of ports, health stations, rural
water supply and village roads. The credit was signed on April 21, 1978.
The Project is in its initial stages of mobilization and preconstruction
activities. Construction work on communal irrigation systems and village
roads has started.
Loan No. 1563-PH   The Magat River Multipurpose Project-Stage II; $150 Million
Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 24, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project will assist the Government through completion of Stage II
of this project, to provide water to irrigation systems and improve systems
operation on 102,000 ha. Preconstruction works have been completed and works
on dam foundation grouting, drainage gallery tunneling and river diversion
tunnels are underway and expected to be completed by 1979. The civil works
contract for the main dam has been awarded and the contractor is in the
process of mobilizing staff and equipment.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: July 15, 1979
Progress has improved on civil works construction for both General
Santos and Cagayan de Oro, and the delays reduced to two and five months
respectively behind schedule. Work is now 65% completed at General Santos and
40% at Cagayan de Oro. About 180 m of the new quay at General Santos and 60 m
at Cagayan de Oro, have been turned over to the Philippine Ports Authority
(PPA) and are now in use.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
While over 95% of the construction program has been successfully
completed, one of nine national roads is behind schedule due to difficulties
experienced by the contractors in prosecuting the work. For this reason,
project completion is expected to be delayed 24 months beyond the appraisal
schedule. UNDP-financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975,
detailed engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) in August
1976, and detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project in
October 1977. Weighbridges for axle load control has been procured, civil



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
works for permanent weigh stations are underway and the axle load control
program is scheduled for initial implementation by August 1978. The total
cost of the project has increased substantially (about 32% above the appraisal
estimate) due to the oil price increases in late 1973, delays in project
execution, and continuing inflation.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness:  January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the Develop-
ment Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries for the
acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and conversions.
Commitments were initially slow because of lack of demand from the private
sector due to the lengthy period required for the processing of loans, restric-
tive collateral requirements by DBP, and unfavorable lending terms offered by
DBP in comparison with those extended by other lending institutions in the
Philippines. However, these problems have now been resolved and subloan
commitments are expected to be fully made within the next six months.
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Contracts have been awarded for all national roads and contractor
mobilization is underway. Consultants for supervision of construction have
been appointed and have established themselves in the field. The technical
assistance advisors for maintenance improvement and road restoration have
been appointed and took up their duties beginning in September 1977. The
training advisors were appointed and began work in July 1977. The consul-
tants for the road and ferry feasibility studies have been appointed and
began work in November 1977. Consultants for workshop design and construc-
tion supervision have been appointed and began work in May 1977. After
a delay of about 12 months, the road maintenance and road restoration program
is now beginning to be implemented with planning of road restoration proj-
ects underway, contracts for 8 out of 28 workshops awarded, procurement con-
tracts for maintenance equipment, spare parts, tools and machinery being
prepared and normal maintenance activities being organized. Overall, project
costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates but indications are
that project execution will be delayed by about 12 months due to late start
of some critical activities.
Education Sector
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions, curric-
ulum development, and new technical and vocational institutions in rural



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
areas. Physical progress is now good under the project and disbursements have
reached 75% of planned levels. All of the 32 project institutions have been
completed and three fourths of the technical assistance program has been
completed. Cost overruns of 13% are expected in dollar terms because of
inflation and earlier lack of cost control over civil works; the amount of
equipment purchased has been reduced to compensate for cost overruns. The
fellowship program is behind schedule, and will extend two years beyond the
Closing Date. Savings in the Third Education Project will finance the balance
of the program.
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Implementation is
proceeding on schedule, and project costs are well within appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is assisting the Government in developing agricultural
education and training. It includes assistance for: specialized facilities
for forestry, animal science, and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural
college in the Visayas; and training for extension workers and farmer leaders.
Implementation of the project is generally on schedule, with the exception of
civil works contract awards which have been delayed by about four months because
of delayed government clearances. Project costs are within the appraisal
estimates.
Loan No. S-8-PH Educational Radio Technical Assistance; $2 million loan of
April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The proposed project is assisting the Government to develop and evalu-
ate the cost effectiveness of educational radio in inservice teacher training
and primary classroom teaching. The loan became effective on August 22, 1978.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan is financing: (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan areas, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area.  Construction



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
on 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan is nearing completion. The
high school and health clinic in Tondo have been constructed and the subdivision
of lots in the Tondo priority area is also nearing completion. The progress of
the project is generally satisfactory. A paper on the status of this project
was submitted to the Executive Directors in December 1977.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan is financing: (a) water supply improvement and expansion
in six provincial cities; (b) feasibility studies for water supply improve-
ment in ten additional cities; and (c) feasibility studies for Manila sewerage.
There has been a delay of about 2 months in the preparation of detailed designs
for the construction of water supplies to six cities. This loss of time is
expected to be made up in the coming months. The preparation of feasibility
studies for 10 cities is on schedule as is also the Manila Sewerage Design Study.
The Government is also taking action for the training of staff in the design of
small community water supplies.
Loan No. 1615   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of July 26,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
This loan is assisting the Government to provide safe water for an
additional four million people in Metropolitan Manila, as well as improve the
service to some 3 million who are inadequately served at present. The Loan
Agreement was signed July 26, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296 of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation to finance
the second unit of 150 MW at the Bataan thermal power plant, expansion
of the transmission system in Luzon and consultants' services. The project
was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule. Due to cost overruns,
a part of the transmission project was transferred to the Sixth Power Project.
The actual project cost as finally constructed is about US$59.3 million - an
increase of about US$11.0 million over the original estimates. The closing
date of the loan has been postponed from June 30, 1978 to December 31, 1978
to allow full disbursement of committed funds. Credit 296-PH was fully
disbursed in April 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consultants'
services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977. The trans-
mission facilities will now be completed late in 1980, more than two years
behind schedule. The revised cost of the project is estimated at US$113.8
million, an increase of about 24% over the original estimate (US$92.0 million).
The cost overrun for the foreign exchange component is US$4.3 million (7%).
The closing date of the loan has been postponed from December 31, 1978 to
June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for completion of the transmission
systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will include the expansion of the transmission
system in Luzon, a load dispatching center, consultants' services for manage-
ment improvement and a tariff study. The loan became effective on January 6,
1978. Progress on works is generally satisfactory, but, because of each
action by Government and the National Power Corporation (NPC) with regard to
tariff increases, the rate of return covenant is unlikely to be met.
Loan No. 1547   Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project will help finance the 1979/80 rural electrification
program of the National Electrification Administration. The loan became
effective on August 17, 1978. Procurement action is under way.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The proceeds of the loan are on-lent by PDCP to financially and
economically viable industrial subprojects. As of November 2, 1978,



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
total commitments reached US$25.28 million. Commitments and disbursements
have been slower than originally expected because of the poor investment
climate which prevailed until 1977 in the Philippines. Business activities
have picked up in 1978 and the loan is expected to be fully committed by
early 1979. Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully disbursed. After a
slow start, commitment and disbursement of funds under the Industrial Guarantee
Loan Fund are now proceeding well. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative
Program ($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrifica-
tion Administration is, because of its experimental nature, facing management
and staffing problems. Disbursements on this component have therefore been
slow. Overall progress of the project is, however, satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance the foreign exchange component of medium
and relatively large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were
initially much slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the
industrial sector as a whole, have recently improved. The Executive Directors
approved a proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and
medium industries on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement
to this effect was signed on March 16, 1977. As of October 13, 1978, the
allocation of $50 million for medium- and large-scale industry had been fully
committed. In addition, $13.9 million had been disbursed against the allocation
for small- and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1514   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines; $30 Million
Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan was signed on February 9, 1978, and became effective June 23,
1978.
Loan No. 1555   Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO); $15 Million
Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 12 1978
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Proceeds of the loan are relent by PISO for financing the foreign
exchange component of imported capital goods and services for eligible
productive enterprises in the Philippine private sector. As of October 31,
1978, commitments for subloans totalling US$8.05 million had been made.
Since the pace of commitment is much faster than anticipated during loan
appraisal, the loan is expected to be fully committed by early 1979. Overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1572   Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines; $80 Million Loan of
June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15, 1978;
Closing Date:  June 30,_1982
This loan was signed on June 6, 1978. It became effective September 15,
1978.
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
mnent of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are ahead of schedule in all 12 regions. The civil works component
is behind schedule but is expected to be completed ahead of the appraisal
report timetable due to simplification of construction design. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX III
PHILIPPINES
SMALL FARMER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project            About ten months
(b)  The agency that prepared the project :    Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP)
(c) Date of the first presentation to the
Bank and date of the first Bank
mission to consider the project              July 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission                                 :   May 5, 1977
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations           November 21, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness                March 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained from the Government that the Ministry
of Agriculture (MA) will provide technical field staff to project
areas in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement signed between
LBP and MA on July 5, 1978 (para. 72).
Assurances were obtained from LBP that:
(a) terms and conditions of credit and investment subloans would not be
materially altered or abrogated without approval by the Bank (para. 61);
(b) LBP will not materially alter its organizational unit responsible for
project implementation without prior consultation with the Bank (para. 71);
(c) LBP will adequately staff its field offices in accordance with
a staff plan acceptable to the Bank (para. 72); and
(d) LBP will carry out with monitoring and evaluation of the project
activities in accordance with a program agreed to by the Bank.
(para. 75).






.l8R   13740
1160                                                   t20                                                    1240                                                     JtJL1 1J7Y i
CLASSIfICATION Of PROVINCES
BY CEOGRAPHIII-AL REGIONS
tLOCOS                    WESTERN VISAYAS
1 Ilocos Norte           37 Akrern
2 Abra                   38 Capiz
3 I oo  U                39 Antique
2tP  vi tlor;rw5ur       ~~40 tIlonilo e                                      azo*
4 Mountain               40 Nero jl    i[et
5 La Union               4NTRAVeiStaYAS                                                                                  PHILIPPINES
6 Bengue                 4 CeNTALVSAA
7 PaNaanan        43 Negrot Oriental 
CAGvAYAN VALLEY  44 BohQo 45                                                               ESTATE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
9 Cp~ya,r                 EAST7ERN VISAYAS
10 KatinoqApayao   46 Nort SarAt                                                                   CONCENTRTION AREAS
11 loebela                47  aa                                       Babsyna Chapnn,,
123 jIe                   48 Eastern Samar                            '          ,                            6       ESTATE DEVELOPMENT CONCENTRATION AREAS
13 Nueva Vizcaya          49 LeyN                                 
14 Qssrsino               50 Sjhe4n Leyte               9l0              /                                            PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
CENTRAL LUZON              WESTERN MINDANAO                                                               .  .  .    iNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
15 Nueva Ecnla            v1 Zemboene del Nosle )or                  s     4 sose
16 Tarlac                 6   asa~   e  o
17 Z2S,bolers             S     rNangadl Sur                    2   I    '       
tt3 Pampeo8epira          54 SU1.                                                                                                                               J
19 Bulacon                           del   r                  3          io
20 Baln                     NORTHERN MINDANAO                                           L
SOUTHERN TAGA LOG    56 S,igw d                                                  sNn 12  /
21 Ouezon                 57 Camiguin                                    >4S     e      *753
23 cavite                 68  A usan del Norte     Fe%a*d  0,li
24                        59  Mi La0is Oriental50   lE    150   7116  250   260
24Laguna                                                  - -aem7   13enel    14
10  25 6e1e.n1                60 lelwamis Occictental                                                                               ItLO46ER                                   10
26 Marinduquse             61 Lesos dot Norte               DI                                                                   KIL1OMETERS8
27 Misdoro Oieltat        62 Lanae det S., AjhO &         u0                                                                           toManel YL,  MiL2Sl
28 Mind=oro Oc,Cioentie    63 Bukidnon                                                                                               MILESo ij 
29 Rombirn                64 Agusar. del Sur            )LT
30 p3aawan                65  usTivao del S.,
BlO(XL                    SOliTHERN MIANDANAO          A  s I
31 Camarnserse  Norte      66 Magumrdanao              e     oe     ~     2
32 Camarines Sur          67 North Cotealo        0 .                                                              f
33 Cabandoenes             68 0ayeo                        2                                                    P HIL/P P/Ni   S E A
34 Albey                   8Dtc351~l~3 
35 Soresgon                7D0 Daao detSur So-                    2
35 IMsIate                 71 Suh an Kudarat           '              ,                  -        ;tt
72 Soutsh ColeatStcal N,                                                Be ,  32
<,tr.r>,   + \  A irri l
>   X    2t \ ~    (~r  \mx   340 os-Pirt
1f20                S EA                                              'H         S  '-i   d,       /)  )                                                                            5,'70
\\         'Xt3os   V0SSAYA/   d. f                         1 48
Pa  t ps y Golf         , AQg9C /,    I
720   , Pi rous-apei   V                     I/            (      ,(t  |/    80gl tO1.
PA  WANt                                    o/                  ,     W v                               .it
2>                                             /                                -\ CpNCl)uteM    ANAO SEA     f  
ilif>4'>   g9--  \   04 ioaP    '
sourH   CHIAIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~poo~~'.    sgO  
t\--- Ao\J-J;g                         64
_rt3   072                                                                     r   z       -,<1  J   \         3      _____vif                                rf3.~~~~~~~~~~~~3  IS/
63     I
W                                                         r       t~~~~~~<2mWan5~~~~s,s--  Moro Gn!tf  4 66  (     /      '41        /
(      0~~~~~~A 6
(aal~~~~~~~~> ~~71
VN  AM                       wa                                                                                                          --'
OSOts  S@e<AF                                                                    OSELSE         SEA 
A.X Ap4A                                    0 O           .
,_ t&; \ a t~~~~130                                                                                  24                                                       126t0



