CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1646 PH
Project Agreement
(Small Farmer Development - Land Bank
of the Philippines - Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Dated January 26, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1646 PH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 26, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Land
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of the Philippines (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixteen million five hundred thousand dollars ($16,500,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only
on condition that the Land Bank agree to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;  *
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Land Bank, part of the proceeds of
the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made
available to the Land Bank on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS the Land Bank, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Land Bank shall carry out Parts A, C and D
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate


﻿- 2 -
administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist in carrying out those Parts
of the Project for which the Land Bank is responsible, the Land
Bank shall, as and when it deems necessary, employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Land Bank undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Land Bank to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Land Bank
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Land Bank shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
Parts A, C and D of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Land Bank: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A, C and D of
the Project (including their cost and the benefits to be derived
from them), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in Parts A, C
and D of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in Parts A, C and D of the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any


﻿-3-
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning Parts A, C and D of the Project,
their cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
them, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of Parts A, C and D of the
Project, but in any event not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Land Bank and the Bank, the Land Bank shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of Parts A, C and D of the Project, their cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from them, the performance by
Land Bank and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
(d) The Land Bank shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Land Bank and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 2.06. The Land Bank shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Land Bank shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Land Bank shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress
of Parts A, C and D of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Land Bank shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A, C and D of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the Land Bank
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Land Bank shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that all conveniently available farm support facilities


﻿and equipment are used before credits under Part A.3 (b) of the
Project are granted.
Section 2.09. The Land Bank shall: (i) establish and maintain
a program satisfactory to the Bank to monitor and evaluate the
Project, and (ii) submit periodic reports to the Bank on the
implementation of such program.
Section 2.10. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Land Bank shall cause the principal amounts of credits extended by
the Land Bank under Part A.3 of the Project: (i) which have been
repaid to the Land Bank by the sub-borrowers, and (ii) which are
not required by the Land Bank for repayment to the Borrower under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to be used for the provision of
additional credits under Part A.3 of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Land Bank
Section 3.01. The Land Bank shall at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs, plan its future development and
maintain its organization and its financial position all in
accordance with appropriate financial and administrative practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Land Bank shall extend credits under Part A.3 of the Project,
in accordance with the Credit Terms and Conditions.
Section 3,03. The Land Bank shall, in carrying out Part C of
the Project:
(a) adequately staff its field offices with competent staff
in accordance with a staffing program satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) allocate annually sufficient funds in accordance with
a financing plan satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) implement the Special Order of the President of the Land
Bank No. 273 dated September 18, 1978 (as authorized by the Land
Bank's Board of Director Resolution No. 78-140 dated May 30, 1978)
on its organizational structure and delegation of authority, and
. change said Special Order with respect to its Field Operations
Group only after prior consultation with the Bank.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Land Bank shall maintain separate records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations in respect of each
Part of the Project for which the Land Bank is responsible.
Section 4.02. The Land Bank shall: (i) have such accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning such accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of the Land Bank thereunder shall terminate on the date
on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify the Land Bank there-
of.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Land Bank:
Land Bank of the Philippines
6th Floor
B. F. Condominium
Aduana, Intramuros
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:                     Telex:
LANDBANK                           2679 LBP PH
Manila
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Land Bank, may be taken or


﻿-7-
executed by its President or such other person or persons as
he shall designate in writing, and the Land Bank shall furnish
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Eduardo Z. Romualdez
Authorized Representative


