Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
%A-AI 32-,c 3 --M
Report No. 8205-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
APRIL 23, 1990
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korean Won (W)
US$1.00 = W 692
(March 1990))
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
March - February
ABBREVIATIONS
APC       - Academic Promotion Committee
ARPD      - Academic Research and Promotion Division
EFB       - Education Facilities Bureau
ELPD      - Education Loan Projects Division
EPB       - Economic Planning Board
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
KEB       - Korea Exchange Bank
KOSEF     - Korea Science and Engineering Foundation
KRF       -  Korea Research Foundation
MOE       - Ministry of Education
MOST      - Ministry of Science and Technology
O&M       -  Operation & Maintenance
OSROK     - Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
PCR       -  Project Completion Report
PCC       - Project Coordinating Committee
PMO       - Planning and Management Office
PPAR      -  Project Performance Audit Review
R&D       - Research and Development
S&T       -  Science and Technology
STEB      -  Science and Technology Education Bureau
UEO       - University Education Office



FOR OP aCIAL L
KOREA
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................................iii
I. TRENDS IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT .1
II.  SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH IN THE UNIVERSITIES.                      2
A.   Graduate Education in Science and Technology.                        2
B.   Financing and Selection of Research Projects.                        3
C. Research Evaluation.                                                   6
D. Relevance and Quality.                                                 7
E.  Bank's Role in Education and Research.                                8
-III   THE PROJECT10
III.  TH    ROJECT..................................................  1
A.   Origin of the Project ................................... 10
B.   Project Rationale, Objectives and Scope ................. 10
C.   Project Design and Description .......................... 11
IV.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION                 .     .      12
A.   Costs ................................................... 12
B.   Financing ............................................... 15
C.   Project Management and Implementation ................... 16
D.   Environmental Impact .................................... 19
E.   Impact on Women ......................................... 19
V.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ........................................... 20
A.   Benefits ................................................ 20
B.   Risks ................................................... 20
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                    .       .        20
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited
Korea during June 1989 and an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. W.E. Rees
(mission leader), S. Z. Sung and J.J. Stewart (consultants), which visited Korea
during October 29 - November 10, 1989.
ThL document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
TABLES IN TEXT
4.1  Summary of Project Costs by Component ........................  13
4.2  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure ..........  15
4.3  Financing Plan....------------------------------------------   18
3.4  Project Expenditure by Procurement Category..................
ANNEXES
1.   Criteria for Selection of Participating Universities
2.   Criteria for Selection of Research Projects
3.   Guidelines for Allocation of Loan Proceeds
4.   Terms of Reference for the Project Coord4natfng Comit-1Fee
5.   Chart - Procedures for Selection of Research Projects
6.   Chart - Organization of the Ministry of Education
7.   Detailed Project Costs
8.   Project Expenditures by Year and Recipient
9.   Implementation Schedule
10.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11.   Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP



- iii -
KOREA
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower           : Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries      : Selected universities
Amount             : US$45.0 million equivalent
Terms              : Repayable in 15 years including 5 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate
Re-Lending Rate       To public universities as budget transfers from the
Ministry of Education (MOE) and to private universities
as subloans by the Government for 15 years including 5
years of grace at one-half of the Bank's interest rate.
Project
Description         The overall objective of the project is to assist
selected universities in broadening and deepening their
basic research programs in priority fields in science and
technology in order to strengthen their capacity to
support technological innovation. The project also aims
to strengthen science teacher education through enhancing
research capacity in this field which in turn would
strengthen the base of science education in the secondary
schools. The project would include specialized equipment
to be financed by the Bank (US$45.0 million including
contingencies) and comnlementary inputs related to the
equipment to be financed by the Government (US$15.0
million). The proposed project would finance:
(a) equipment for graduate schools to assist in strength-
ening the research capacity of individual departments of
science and engineering; (b) equipment for use in joint
research projects involving more than one university to
increase the scope for research cooperation among insti-
tutions; and (c) equipment for departments of science
education to strengthen research in areas of pedagogy and
in particular science subjects. The Government would
finance complementary inputs related to making the equip-
ment operational and maintaining it thereafter, namely
transportation and installation costs, O&M and consum-
ables.
Benefits and Risks:  The project would strengthen the capacity of selected
universities to support technological innovation in
priority fields by enhancing their ability to undertake
basic research. This in turn would help to reduce



- iv -
Korea's dependence on imported technology and in the
longer run strengthen its ability to maintain the pace of
industrial development and remain competitive in export
markets. The project would also strengthen science
education in the universities, leading in time to higher
quality training for science teachers which in due course
would strengthen the base of science education in Korea.
There are no major risks associated with the project.
Project Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total
----- US$ million -----
Institution
Graduate Schools of Natural Sciences               3.8       13.1    16.9
Graduate Schools of Engineering                    3.8       13.1    16.9
Joint Research Facilities                          2.4        9.1    11.5
Departments of Science Education                   1.3        4.4      5.7
Baseline Cost                               11.3       39.7    51.0
Contingencies
Physical                                        0.5        2.0     2.5
Price increase                                  1.6        4.9     6.5
Subtotal                                     2.1        6.9     9.0
Total Project Cost /a                       13.4       46.6    60.0
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
----- US$ million -----
Government                                     13.4        1.6    15.0
IBRD                                            -         45.0    45.0
Total                                       13.4       46.6    60.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                                 1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996
----------- US$ million ----------
Annual                                  3.0   11.0  17.0   9.0   4.5   0.5
Cumulative                              3.0   14.0  31.0  40.0  44.5  45.0
/a Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$3.6 million.



Economic Rate
of Return:       Not applicable.
Map:   IBRD No. 22115



KOREA
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
I. TRENDS IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
1.1      The restructuring of Korean industry towards technology-intensive
production over the past two decades has required a rising commitment to
investment in research and development (R&D). The increase has been dramatic,
with expenditures on R&D rising from 0.3% of GNP in 1973 to 2.42 in 1988, a
level not appreciably below those of the advanced industrial countries. It is
planned that the proportion will increase further to 3Z by 1991 and 52 by
2001. In the early years, investment in industrial R&D was led by the public
sector research institutes, with the private sector and especially the univer-
sities playing relatively minor roles. In 1976, the public sector research
institutes accounted for 72Z of total R&D expenditures compared with 25% for
the private sector and 3% for the universities. By 1986, the provision of tax
and other financial incentives to the private sector to encourage R&D invest-
ments lhad increased its share of total R&D expenditures to just over 702 with
the research institutes accounting for about 20% and the universities 10%.
1.2      In recent years, industrial restructuring towards more technology-
intensive production has also moved Korea from a stage characterized by the
local assimilation and improvement of imported technology, to one which is
emphasizing increasingly the pursuit of indigenous teclnological innovation.
During the period of technology assimilation, Korea concentrated on mastering
production technologies and the need fur technological innovation was modest.
But as Korea continues its industrial development towards technologically
sophisticated, higher value-added production this trend must be accompanied by
a strong commitment to create the capacity for technological innovation and to
support the programs in basic research which underlie it. Reinforcing this
need is the growing reluctance of leading industrial countries to continue
exporting advanced tectnology to an increasingly successful competitor.
1.3      Investments in basic research have increased rapidly in cecent years,
with total expenditures almost tripling between 1983 and 1987, although basic
research as a proportion of total R&D expenditures has remained almost
constant in this period at about 17%. Nevertheless, this proportion compares
favorably with the major industrialized countries whose expenditures otl basic
research as a proportion of total R&D expenditures in 1986 were: USA, 12Z:
Japan, 13%; Federal Republic of Germany, 19%; and France, 212. It is planned
that basic research will account for 20% of total R&D expenditures in Korea by
2001. The universities have the prime responsibility for basic research
programs according to the Government's research policy which calls for a rough
division of responsibility for R&D activities between the universities (basic
research)l/ and the research institutes and industry for applied and
developmental research. The universities account for 49% of expenditures on
1/ The universities do not focus exclusively on basic research.
Expeuditures by research activity in the universities in 1987 were:
basic, 772; applied, 18Z; developmental, 5%.



- 2 -
basic research but it is industry that dominates the research sector
accounting for 222 of basic research, 56Z of applied research and 79Z of
developmental research.
1.4      The rapid rise in overall R&D expenditures from Won 16 billion in
1973 to Won 1.9 trillion in 1987 was accompanied by a much smaller but still
substantial growth in the number of researchers, which Increased from 6000 to
53,000 in the same period. This implies a significant increase in annual
expenditures per researcher - in fact an increase of nearly 14 times was
achieved during the period. The stock of researchers has also increased in
quality, at least in terms of the proportion of researchers with graduate
degrees, which increased from 46? to 53? between 1977 and 1987. In terms of
numbers, graduate degree holders more than quadrupled.
1.5      The foregoing trends reflect a policy in technology development which
calls for a rapid increase in R&D investments, a dominating role for industry
especially in applied and developmental research, a significant role for the
universities in basic research and a strong commitment to train the research
personnel necessary to support the R&D expansion. These policies have, for
the most part, been successful but the weakest link lies in the universities.
While the universities have a preponderance of g.aduate R&D personnel, limited
research funds have kept per capita ressarch spending at only about one-
quarter that of industry and the -esearch institutes. In the universities,
94? of researchers have graduate degi-ees, compared with 67Z in the research
institutes and 22% in industry. About 50% of all graduate R&D personnel are
working in the universities. Per capita research expenditures of research
staff are about US$70,000 in the institutes and industry, compared with just
over US$17,000 in the universities.
1.6      Financial constraints have also led to shortages of research equip-
ment in the universities and this has hampered both the quality as well as the
quantity of research. However, there is an improving trend. In recent years
greatly increased public and private support for university research has led
to a rapid rise in expenditure per researcher - since 1981 such expenditures
have more than tripled. The Bank has also played a role in this improvement
under the second education sector loan (2427-KO) which assisted in strengthen-
ing research and graduate programs in science and technology in the universi-
ties.
II. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH IN THE UNIVERSITIES
A. Graduate Education in Science and Technology
2.1      The foundation of Korea's research effort lies in its graduate pro-
grams in science and technology, the products of which largely determine the
quality and direction of research activities.2/ In line with the pursuit of
2/ The other source of high-level R&D personnel is the government-
subsidized program to repatriate Korean scientists and engineers living
overseas, mainly in the United States. The annual flow of returnees is
currently about 150-180. This program was assisted under Loan 2427-KO.



increasing technological sophistication in recent years, graduate programs in
science and technology have expanded rapidiy. Between 1982 and 1988, the
number of graduate programs increased by over 40% and enrollments rose at a
similar rate; enrollments in doctoral programs increased at a higher rate of
nearly 60% during the period. The output of candidates with graduate degrees
in science and engineering has increased at an even higher rate--nearly 2.4
times between 1982 and 1988. Again doctorates showed a still higher increase-
-about 3.2 times during the period. These trends are indicative of the strong
emphasis Korea is giving to producing the high-level R&D personnel necessary
to support ambitious plans for technological development. The particularly
high rates of increase in doctoral enrollments and graduates reflect both the
priority for pursuing state-of-the-art technology as well as strengthening the
faculty in graduate schools of science and technology.
2.2      The rapid expansion of graduate programs in recent years has led to
some qualitative problems which the Government is currently addressing.
Standards are uniformly high in only a relatively small number of universi-
ties. Elsewhere many graduate programs are undersize in terms of enrollments
and faculty and therefore lack the "critical mass' to be viable teaching and
research units. Graduate programs averaged 15 students in 1988, unchanged
trom the situation in 1982. This means that as the number of programs
expanded rapidly in the '80s, there was little concentration on expanding
large programs but rather a proliferation of small ones. The Government is
now pursuing a policy of concentrating resources in a limited number of
graduate schools to ensure high quality and cost effective performance in
teaching and research.
2.3      The quality of faculty is improving at least in terms of the numbers
holding doctorates. Currently, about 62Z of graduate school faculty have a
doctorate compared with around 50% in the early '80s. This improvement has
benefitted substantially from the Government's repatriation prograr.I
(para. 2.1). Contact hours for faculty have traditionally been very high in
Korean graduate schools of science and engineering, averaging around 12-15
hours per week. However, the average had been reduced to about 11 hours per
week by 1987 through expanded faculty recruitment programs and a target of 10
hours per week is expected to be achieved by 1990.
B. Financing and Selection of Research Projects
2.4      There are two major sources of financing for university research
programs in Korea - the Ministry of Education (MOE) and the Korea Science and
Engineering Foundation (KOSEF) under the Ministry of Science and Technology
(MOST). These agencies contribute about equally to research financing which
has grown rapidly in recent years as indicated below:



- 4-
Universitv Research Funds (Won billion)
1985      1989       Multiple
MOE        4.7       19.0          4.40
KOSEF     4.5        20.3          4.50
TOTAL     9.2        39.3          4.27
The MOE allocates funds for research to the following three categories:
1.   to the universities directly for reallocation by university admini-
strations to individual professors;
2.   to the universities for reallocation to selected university -
affiliated research centers; and
3.   to individual or groups of professors who are awarded grants directly
on the basis of approved research proposals.
The relative shares of the research budget allocated to the three recipient
groups remain fairly constant from year to year. In 1989 the proportions were
322, 41% and 27Z, respectively. Funds are allocated according to a mechanism
explained below, which in general is working satisfactorily.
2.5      Responsibility for the research budget within MOE lies with the
Academic Research and Promotion Division (ARPD) which compiles requests for
research financing from the universities (categories 1 and 2) and balances
these in aggregate against the amount it considers feasible to allocate for
individual requests under category 3. This exercise takes place within a
total research budget ceiling provided by the Planning and Management Office
(PMO) of MOE. The ARPD is assisted in its allocation of research funds by the
Acad2mic Promotion Committee (APC), consisting at present of 35 professors.
The APC is considered to have a strong influence on the distribution of
research funds. It makes recommendations on funds allocation by discipline
and field of research for the three categories and therefore determines the
relative share of these categories within an annually increasing envelope. As
noted above these shares have remained fairly constant in recent years. The
APC is well-informed regarding national priorities in research in science and
technology as defined in the long-term plans of the Ministry of Science and
Technology (MOST). Familiarity with these plans also keeps the more astute
university administrators and professors informed of national priorities, thus
enabling them to formulate relevant proposals. The result is an overall
research program which is reasonably consistent with national priorities.
2.6      On receipt of the research budget from MOE,3/ the university presi-
3/ The research budget as proposed by ARPD is reviewed and adjusted as
necessary by PMO and then approved by the Minister for Education. IL
then passes to the Economic Planning Board (EPB) for review and
approval and ther to the State Council for approval before being
debated and approved by the National Assembly.



- 5 -
dent, usually in consultation with his deans, allocates research funds under
category 1 among the various faculties and individual researchers. Although
there are no uniform criteria for allocation applied nationally, due regard is
given in most universities to the qualifications and competence of researchers
and the merit of their proposals in relation to the research priorities of the
faculty and university. Less latitude exists for the allocation of research
funds to university-affiliated research centers under category 2. These have
typically been identified by the universities in their original requests to
MOE and the research grants are usually made on an earmarked basis to par-
ticular research centers. The alloCation of funds to individual researchers
under category 3 is the responsibility of the Korea Research Foundation (KRF)
which acts as the agent for MOE. KRF publishes annually a notice to
universities requesting research proposals from individual professors for
possible MOE funding. Proposals are subject to an administrative review which
includes the qualifications of the professor and a peer review by two outside
experts each of whom assigns a score. A supplementary review is held if there
are significant differences in these scores. An overall committee recommends
awards on the basis of the scores.
2.7      The typical MOE research grant, whether awarded by KRF or allocated
by the universities, is about Won 4 million or about US$5,800. Support for a
joint research project is more typically in the range of Won 8-10 million.
Joint research proposals are usually submitted by two or more researchers in
different disciplines in the same university or by a university professor and
one or more researchers in a private research institute. Multi-year projects
have to be re-funded each year but this generally does not pose any problems
of funds availability. Research funds provided by MOE are used to finance
software items, mainly consumable materials and financial support for graduate
students. Although MOE funds cannot be used for the purchase of equipment,
they can be used for the purchase of spare parts. The latter increases the
control a researcher has over his work by obviating the need to obtain parts
through more lengthy centralized procurement procedures.41
2.8      KOSEF was established in 1977 to provide research grants for basic
and applied research, mainly in the universities, and to finance graduate
research fellowships and grants for advanced study abroad. KOSEF is funded
mainly by budget allocations through MOST (73%) with additional income derived
from an endowment fund and donations. KOSEF employs rigorous selection proce-
dures for financing research projects and regularly reviews major research
fields to ensure that the overall direction of its research funding is consis-
tent with national priorities as defined in MOST's science and technology
plans. KOSEF finances two types of research - individual grants to university
researchers and grants for mission-oriented research undertaken by research
teams on a research topic predetermined by KOSEF in conjunction with MOST.
2.9      In the case of individual research grants KOSEF invites proposals
from university researchers. Each proposal is then sent to three experts who
review it in terms of standard criteria related to the relevance of the
proposed research, the qualifications of the researchers, the adequacy of
4/ However this advantage can be offset if local suppliers do not maintain
adequate stocks of parts (para. 2.17).



research facilities, etc. The results of this review are then sent to
specialist panels of 5-7 experts in a given discipline. There are 17 such
panels servicing KOSEF and they are responsible for providing a complete
review of all research proposals and a list of recommendations, grotped by
discipline, for financing. Selected proposals are then sent to KOSEF's
Program Development and Review Committee for final decisions. In making its
decisions the Committee also takes into account broader criteria such as the
balance between engineering and basic sciences and the relative priority of
different scientific disciplines. Similar procedures are followed in the case
of mission-oriented research, which currently accounts for about two-thirds of
KOSEF-financed research. However, research topics have already been
identified by KOSEF in consultation with MOST and proposals from research
teams must conform with the list of topics.
C. Research Evaluation
2.10     The evaluation of research projects assisted by MOE funds allocated
directly to the universities, is the resDonsibility of the universities them-
selves. There are no standard evaluation procedures in force and practice
varies from institution to institution. However there is a strong tendency
for evaluation to emphasize the numbers of publications resulting from
research projects with increasing weight being given to whether the paper was
published in a university's own publication, in a Korean journal or in an
international journal. Thus a journal's decision to publish acts as a proxy
for evaluating the quality of a research project with the highest merit being
awarded to papers published internationally. In engineering, especially in
more complex projects, evaluation criteria also include the numbers of patents
issued and the numbers and amounts of commercial contracts awarded. For some
projects, where appropriate, the impact of the project in furthering the edu-
cation of graduate students is also taken into account.
2.11     The KRF is responsible for the evaluation of all research projects
for which it awarded MOE financing. Publication of a paper in a professional
journal is sufficient evidence of success for KRF and no further evaluation is
required. Papers that are not published however, are subjected to rigorous
scrutiny by the two experts assigned by KRF to evaluate the project when it
was in the proposal stage and who originally recommended its financing by MOE
(para. 2.6). The paper is evaluated on the basis of the degree to which the
stated objectives of the project were achieved and a grade of A, B, or C is
assigned to it. Papers given a C grade are reviewed by a second committee of
experts which decides whether the grade is appropriate or should be lowered to
a D. The president and respective dean of the university in which the
research was conducted are notified by KRF of the projects assigned grades C
or D. In addition, KRF publishes for the universities and MOE, an annual
listing of all projects assigned C or D within the year. A researcher respon-
sible for a C rated project is wa_ned by KRF that his performance must improve
if he is to continue to be considered for future MOE research assistance. A
researcher responsible for a D rated project is declared by KRF to be ineli-
gible for MOE research financing for five years.
2.12     For KOSEF-financed individual research grants, there is no formal
requirement for a final evaluation. KOSEF requires copies of any publications
resulting from research. If there are no publications, KOSEF notes this on



the record of the researchers and this is taken into account in any future
applications for research funding. For mission-oriented research projects, a
final report is prepared by the project team, reviewed by KOSEF and forwarded
to MOST.
D. Relevance and Quality
2.13     Research in the universities takes place within an overall planning
framework which is formulated by the Ministry of Science and Technology.
MOST's planning function involves the preparation and implementation of a five
year science and technology (S&T) plan which complements the five year
national economic plan. The close links between the two plans ensure that the
S&T plan reflects the country's economic and development priorities and also
that the economic plan takes full account of the investment requirements of
science and technology. MOST is also responsible for long range planning and
strategy in S&T to the year 2000. Major priority areas have been identified
in which R&D investments will be concentrated such as microelectronics,
specialty chemicals, biotechnology, etc. The long range plan provides the
framework for the five year plans which in turn define the R&D programs
necessary to meet the long-term objectives.
2.14     Reference is made to planning objectives during the selection of
research projects and this ensures a degree of relevance to national needs
(para. 2.5). University research which is carried out within the context of
the program of "national projects' is highly relevant to overall objectives in
science and technology. This program, financed by government and industry and
carried out by public and private research institutes in conjunction with the
universities, was initiated in 1982 and focuses on developing technology in
key strategic areas which are beyond the capacity of industry alone. National
projects are carefully targeted on priority areas of technology development
according to a list of appropriate research topics which is prepared annually
by MOST. The latter is also responsible for obtaining Government approval of
the projects and for providing the Government's share of financing.
2.15     It is difficult to assess the overall quality of research in the
universities because each university is responsible for evaluating its own
research projects and there are no standard procedures in force throughout the
university system (para. 2.10). However, there is no doubt that the R&D
effort in Korea has made a vital contribution to the country's rapid
industrialization and within this context the universities have played an
important, if subsidiary, role. The universities bring to research the major
advantage of a highly qualified staff--around 60% of all R&D personnel with
graduate degrees are university faculty. In addition the financing of univer-
sity research is improving. Whereas limited research funds kept per capita
research spending at only about one-quarter that of the national research
institutes and industry, in recent years greatly increased public and private
support for university research has led to a rapid rise in expenditure per
researcher--since 1981 such expenditures have more than tripled. Thus the
combination of improved financing for a highly qualified research staff can be
expected to raise the quality of research.
2.16     On the other hand, several factors tend to detract from increasing
the quality of research. Contact hours for faculty have been traditionally



- 8 -
high in Korean graduate schools although the situation is improving
(para. 2.3). The number of graduate students being supervised by faculty
members varies widely but can be as high as 15 graduate students under the
supervision of one faculty member. There is a tendency for the burden to be
higher in the less-prestigious universities than in the major universities.
Nevertheless this burden is generally carried only during the eight-month
teaching year which is divided about equally between teaching and research.
During the remaining four months faculty are expected to devote most of their
time to research. Thus faculty spend about two-thirds of their time on
research activities.
2.17     Support services, especially access to computers, is generally
adequate but the quality and quantity of laboratory equipment is less so.
Traditionally, Korean universities have relied upon foreign loans to finance
equipment and thus have improved the situation in recent years especially
through Bank loans and bilateral assistance from Japan. Nevertheless, the
need to keep up with rapidly changing technology requires the continuous
updating of laboratory equipment and this is not being achieved in many
universities. The lack of spare parts also poses a problem. Researchers
often underestimate the needs for parts replacement in their research
proposals and funding of parts then becomes difficult. In addition many parts
have to be imported and, since profit margins on parts are low, local
suppliers often do not maintain adequate stocks leading to significant delays
for researchers as parts are sought overseas.
E. Bank's Role in Education and Research
2.18     The Bank has assisted Korea's technology development efforts through
substantial support for the development of technical and scientific education
and research.5/ Bank lending has been consistent with Korea's needs and prio-
rities in education and has closely paralleled the increasing sophistication
of Korean industry. It was recognized that the restructuring of industry
towards more skill-intensive, high-technology production would require the
continuous expansion and upgrading of technical skills. Thus as industry
developed towards greater skill-intensiveness, Bank assistance to education
moved from support for craftsman and technician training through professional
engineering education to graduate engineering programs and associated research
activities.
2.19     The Bank's initial involvement in the sector under four loans/
credits, focussed on the development of vocational and technical education at
the secondary and postsecondary levels to strengthen the base of the system
for producing technical personnel. Project performance audit reports (PPARs)
for these projects concluded that they were in general well-conceived and
successfully implemented. The reports also concluded that future projects
would benefit from: (a) advanced project preparation before approval; (b)
improved local management procedures to expedite procurement; and (c) greater
focus on policy-analysis and evaluation. These lessons were built into the
5,; The Bank has also provided major support to technology development
through directly financing R&D programs, strengthening intermediaries
which finance R&D and providing credit for industrial development in
general.



two subsequent operations which were policy-oriented sector loans.
2.20     The first education sector loan (Loan 1800-KO) concentrated on
upgrading junior technical colleges and university colleges of engineering and
management through the supply of equipment, staff development and institu-
tional improvements in curriculum development, manpower planning, equipment
maintenance and academic accreditation. The PPAR for the loan (Report No.
7252; May 24, 1988) indicates that the major lessons learnt were: (a) a stable
and responsible sector management agency was the key to successful implementa-
tion of the sector program; (b) the sector approach led to a quicker and more
sustainable development of institutional capabilities; and (c) the additional
time required for preparation was repaid in terms of more efficient implemen-
tation.
2.21     The second sector loan (Loan 2427-KO), which incorporates these
lessons, supported improvements in graduate education in science and engineer-
ing, upgrading secondary school and college science programs, expanding gra-
duate research programs and improving sector management, manpower monitoring
and strengthening the financial base of private educational institutions.
Implementation of the loan was satisfactory and it closed on schedule (June
30, 1989) with its major policy objectives having been achieved. A project
completion report (PCR) for the project is currently under preparation. The
Bank's positive role in Korea's education sector is documented in the OED
report titled Review of the Impact of World Bank Lending for Educational
Development in Korea (Report No. 5950; December 4, 1985).
2.22     The Bank's shift towards supporting research activities which was
initiated with assistance to graduate research programs in the universities
under Loan 2427-KO was continued under the first Technology Advancement Pro-
ject (Loan 3037-KO).  This proiect is strengthening the R&D capacity of two
national research institutes which are focussed on assistance to small and
medium industries. The project also strengthens education in an undergraduate
center of excellence in science and technology through enhancing the ability
of senior students to participate in research projects. The Second Technology
Advancement Project which follows a similar design is ready for Board presen-
tation. The project includes assistance to three national research institutes
which focus on national standards measurement, genetic engineering and the
development of energy and natural resources; it also assists in strengthening
the research capability in a center of excellence in graduate education in
science and technology.
2.23     There has been, therefore, a consistent theme to the Bank's
assistance for education in science and technology as a means to supporting
the overall policy of technology development in Korea. The Bank's efforts
have followed three distinct phases beginning with project support for the
expansion and quality improvement of vocational and technical education which
focussed on the training of skilled craftsmen and technicians. The Bank then
turned its attention to sector lending as a means to strengthening the policy
framework in education in science and technology, improving the quality of
engineering and science education at the undergraduate and graduate levels and
strengthening the research environment in the universities. Bank assistance
is currently in a third phase which has reverted to project lending and gives



- 10 -
emphasis to research activities in support of industrial R&D. The project
approach is deemed appropriate again because a satisfactory policy tramework
has been established for education in science and technology, with assistance
from the Bank's two sector loans. A similar situation exists for policies in
technology development in general which have evolved over time with support
from the Bank through industrial/technology development and finance operations
accompanied by extensive sector work.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
3.1      The Government included the project in its FY90 list of projects
suitable for external financing and formally asked the Bank for assistance in
December 1988. A Bank mission identified the project in March 1989. Most of
the preparation work was completed by the Government according to guidelines
formulated by the Bank. The project was preappraised in June 1989 and
appraised in October - November 1989.
B. Project Rationale, Objectives and Scope
3.2      Bank support for technology development in Kcrea during the last
decade has focussed mainly on financing R&D projects through financial inter-
mediaries, strengthening those intermediaries and the development of technical
and scientific education. More recently the Bank has started to assist R&D
activities in the universities and the national research institutes. This
support served Korea well as it mastered the assimilation of imported techno-
logy. But with the increasing reluctance of the advanced countries to export
technology to Korea, which is seen as a rising competitor, the development of
a capacity for indigenous technological innovation and a commitment to the
basic research programs which underlie it are becoming essential if both the
pace of industrial development and competitiveness in export markets are to be
maintained. The proposed project would assist the universities in strengthen-
ing their ability to undertake basic research in science and technology,
thereby enhancing their capacity to support the development of innovative
technology. The project has been designed within a sound policy environment
which was developed with considerable assistance from the Bank's two education
sector loans (1800-KO and 2427-KO) which addressed policy issues in education
for science and technology and strengthened research programming. The project
would continue the assistance to graduate programs and research in science and
technology started under Loan 2427-Ko and the assistance to strengthening
science education also included in that loan.
3.3      The overall objective of the project is to assist selected universi-
ties in broadening and deepening their basic research programs in priority
fields in science and technology in order to strengthen their capacity to
support technological innovation. The project also aims to strengthen science
teacher education through enhancing research capacity in this field which in
turn would strengthen the base of science education in the secondary schools.



- 11 -
The project would finance specialized equipment through the proposed Bank loan
and complementary inputs (O&M, consumables, etc.) to be financed by the
Government.
C. Project Design and Description
3.4      Korea's universities and colleges which number about 110 (80Z
private), enjoy a large degree of operational autonomy under the overall
budgetary and planning authority of the Ministry of Education. Budgets are
formulated by the universities and reviewed and consolidated into a higher
education budget by MOE which covers the public universities and government
support to private universities. MOE then makes appropriate recommendations
to the Economic Planning Board. The higher education budget is processed
through the State Council and ultimately approved by the National Assembly.
The autonomous nature of the universities precludes MOE from directly
selecting the universities which would participate in the project. MOE
believes, however, that in the interest of equity, all universities should
have a chance to be selected to participate in the project. Therefore
objective criteria of selection are needed which would apply to all
universities and would permit selection, from within the universities, of
graduate schools of science and engineering, joint research facilities and
departments of science education which are the ultimate beneficiary
institutions under the project. Furthermore, given the diversity of research
activities at the graduate level, which vary widely by discipline and research
topic, equipment requirements for graduate schools and joint research
facilities are more effectively identified as components of research projects.
Thus research projects generate equipment lists. Given the many competing
proposals for research constantly under review in the universities, suitable
criteria would also be required for selecting research projects to be financed
in the institutions to be assisted under the proposed project. This approach
has the advantage of giving the responsibility for identifying research
projects to those best qualified to do so, namely the universities.
3.5      Thus under the process to be followed in this project, equipment
lists would be derived from the research projects selected from within the
participating universities. Determination of the equipment to be financed by
the Bank would follow three stages: (a) selection of participating institu-
tions; (b) selection of research projects from within these institutions; and
(c) formulation of equipment lists related to the approved research projects.
This process will require two sets of criteria as indicated above. First,
criteria to select participating institutions have been drawn up and include
such quantitative measures as size and quality of staff, enrollments, research
activities, etc. (Annex 1). Second, criteria have been formulated for the
selection of research projects, including associated equipment lists, within
the participating institutions. These include relevance of research to
national and institutional priorities, adequacy of staffing, facilities and
consumable materials, appropriateness of equipment to research design,
utilization of graduate students, etc. Research proposals would be evaluated
by panels of experts (para. 4.7) which would assign points to the proposals in
accordance with the above criteria. Research proposals would then be eligible
for financing in order of priority consistent with the assigned points (Annex
2). Guidelines would also be applied to the allocation of loan proceeds in
terms of the distribution of funds between types of project institution,
regions and public/private universities, and ceilings for the numbers of



- 12 -
schools would be included to ensure a reasonable concentration of funds. A
minimum allocation per institution would also be applied to ensure that an
adequate research impact would be achieved (Annex 3). During negotiations,
the Government agreed that project institutions and research projects would be
selected and loan proceeds allocated among institutions according to criteria
and guidelines acceptable to the Bank.
3.6      The amount of equipment to be financed by the loan (US$45 million
including contingencies) has already been determined by the Government and
represents a fixed amount within the foreign borrowing program. The equipment
forms the core of the project but in order to ensure that it is utilized
effectively, complementary inputs must also be supplied. These would be
financed by the Government and cover transportation and installation of equip-
ment, O&M and consumable materials. The Government would also finance contin-
gencies related to these components. Bank-financed equipment would be concen-
trated in four areas--graduate schools of natural sciences and engineering,
joint research facilities and departments of science education. Equipment for
the graduate schools would assist in strengthening the research capacity of
individual departments of science (estimated cost including contingencies
US$15 million) and engineering (US$15 million). Joint research facilities in
science and engineering providing common access to researchers from different
universities would also be strengthened through the supply of equipment under
the project (US$10 million). This would also lead to increased research coop-
eration between universities. In departments of science education, equipment
would strengthen research in areas of pedagogy and also in particular science
subjects (US$5 million). This would lead in due course to the production of
science teachers with a firmer understanding of teaching methods in science
and also a stronger grasp of their individual subjects.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
4.1      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$60.0 million
equivalent net of duties and taxes. The estimated cost by project component
is summarized in Table 4.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 4.2.
Detailed costs by component and category are given in Annex 7 and project
expenditure by year and recipient in Annex 8.



- 13 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign
Won Billion            US$ Million         as Z of
Institution          Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign Total   Total
Graduate Schools of
Natural Sciences         2.6     9.1    11.7    3.8    13.1   16.9          78
Graduate Schools of
Engineering              2.6     9.1    11.7    3.8    13.1   16.9          78
Joint Research
Facilities               1.6     6.4      8.0    2.4      9.1   11.5        79
Departments of Science
Education                0.9     3.1      4.0    1.3      4.4    5.7        77
Baseline Cost    7.7    27.7    35.4   11.3    39.7   51.0           78
Contingencies
Physical                 0.4     1.4      1.8    0.5      2.0    2.5       80
Price Increase           1.2     3.4      4.6    1.6      4.9    6.5        75
Subtotal            1.6      4.8      6.4    2.1      6.9    9.0       77
Total Project Cost /a    9.3    32.5    41.8   13.4    46.6   60.0            78
/a  Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$3.6 million.



- 14 -
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Foreign
Won Billion            US$ Million        as Z of
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign Total   Total
Equipment                 -       26.6    26.6    -       38.4   38.4      100
Equipment trans-
portation and
installation            1.4     0.2      1.6    2.1      0.2    2.3        9
Operation and
maintenance             2.8      0.4     3.2    4.1      0.5    4.6       11
Consumable materials      3.5      0.5     4.0    5.1      0.6    5.7       11
Baseline cost           7.7    27.7    35.4   11.3    39.7   51.0         78
Contingencies
Physical                0.4     1.4      1.8    0.5      2.0    2.5       80
Price Increase          1.2     3.4      4.6    1.6      4.9    6.5       75
Subtotal                1.6     4.8      6.4    2.1      6.9    9.0       77
Total Project Cost        9.3    32.5    41.8   13.4    46.6   60.0         78
4.2      Base costs are estimated at March 1990 prices.  Equipment costs are
equivalent to the loan amount fixed in the foreign borrowing program inclusive
of conti.ngencies. Transportation and installation costs are based on recent
experience with these activities in universities and research institutions in
Korea. The initial supply of consumables and the costs of operation and
maintenance were estimated according to standard procedures in use in these
institutions. Duties and taxes, allowing for exemptions, are estimated at
US$3.6 million.
4.3      The contingency allowance of US$9.0 million (about 18Z of baseline
costs) includes contingencies for unforeseen physical conditions and for esti-
mated price increases. Physical contingencies were estimated at 5Z of base-
line costs for equipment, consumable materials and O&M expenditures. Price
increase contingencies were calculated for both local and foreign costs in
accordance with the following expected annual average price increase
percentages; foreign cost, 7.2Z in FY90 and 4.4Z p.a. thereafter and local
cost, 5.02 p.a. throughout. Accordingly, aggregated price increases are
estimated at about 121 of baseline costs plus physical contingencies.



- 15 -
4.4      The foreign exchange component of US$46.6 million (about 782 of total
estimated project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the following
foreign exchange percentages: eq,uipment - 100Z, transportation and installa-
tion - 1O, consumables - 1OX, dnd O&M - 102.
B. Financing
4.5      The proposed loan of US$45.0 million equivalent would finance about
97% of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project or 751 of total
project costs net of duties and taxes. The Government would be responsible
for the remaining 252 or US$15 million equivalent. The loan amount is limited
to US$45.0 million by the foreign borrowing program and is therefore less than
the foreign exchange cost of the project. The loan would finance 100% of the
baseline cost of equipment plus all contingencies related to the equipment.
Equipment procured under the project for the private institutions would be
financed on the basis of subloans by the Gove.nment to the institutions on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The terms of subloans would be
the same as those for the Bank loan except that the Government would subsidize
half the Bank's interest rate. This subsidy is justified on the basis of the
benefits gained from improving basic research programs which would accrue to
society in general. The above terms were applied successfully under Loan
2427-KO. Loan funds for the public universities would be passed on as budget
transfers by MOE. Loan funds are expected to be allocated in the proportions
201 for private institutions and 80% for public institutions.
Table 4.3:  FINANCING PLAN
Category of Expenditure               Government         IBRD        Total
-US----_--u$ million-----------
Equipment                                  -             38.4          38.4
Equipment transportation
and installation                          2.3            -            2.3
Operation and maintenance                  4.6            -             4.6
Consumable materials                       5.7            -             5.7
Contingencies                              2.4            6.6           9.0
Total                                 15.0           45.0         60.0
Recurrent Expenditures
4.6      When fully operational, the project would generate recurrent costs
for consumable materials and O&M estimated at US$4.0 million p.a. This would
be spread over approximately 50 institutions thus averaging about US$80,000
per institution. These additional expenditures could be accommodated by the
institutions without difficulty.



- 16 -
C. Project Management and Implementation
4.7      Overall responsibility for project management would lie with the
Education Facilities Bureau (EFB) of MOE - an agency which has gained conside-
rable experience in implementing Bank projects through its responsibility for
earlier Bank projects including the two sector loans (1800-KO. 2427-KO).
Physical aspects of the project would be handled within EFB by the Education
Loan Projects Division (ELPD) including relations with OSROK for equipment
procurement. Assistance on educational issues would be provided by the
University Education office (UEO) of MOE and on research issues by the Science
and Technology Education Bureau (STEB) and UEO. The University Education
Administration Division (UEAD) of UEO provides the administrative linkage with
the universities. The Academic Research and Promotion Division of UEO
together with the Science Education Division (SED) of STEB provides the
research linkage with the universities. These three divisions with 10, 8, and
13 staff respectively, would perform the additional tasks generated by the
proposed project without the need to recruit additional staff. The same
applies to EFB presently with 42 staff, including 11 staff in ELPD. A Project
Coordinating Committee (PCC), with suitable terms of reference (Annex 4).
would be responsible for general oversight of the project. Chaired by EFB and
including senior officers of UEO and STEB, the PCC would provide policy advice
and resolve any major problems which might arise during project
implementation. It would begin to function immediately after loa:i signing.
The PCC would also be responsible for advising the Vice-Minister, MOE on the
selection of participating universities and research projects to be included
under the project. The PCC would be advised on the selection of research
projects and associated equipment lists by expert panels with variable
membership determined by the field of research under discussion. The panels
would review research proposals, rate them according to the selection criteria
and make appropriate recommendations to the PCC. The Vice-Minister, MOE,
would have final approval on the selection of institutions and research
projects. These procedures are represented diagrammatically in Annex 5. An
organization chart for MOE is given at Annex 6.
4.8      The Education Loan Projects Division would be responsible for routine
correspondence and reporting to the Bank, and for financial and disbursement
matters. ELPD would also act as the link between the project institutions and
OSROK on equipment procurement matters. ELPD has played this role in previous
Bank projects and is staffed with experienced procurement personnel. However,
the bulk of the work in equipment procurement would be undertaken by OSROK,
which is also highly experienced in procuring equipment under the Bank's
international competitive bidding procedures. On the basis of equipment
specifications provided by the institutions through ELPD, OSROK would prepare
bidding documents, invite bids, evaluate them in conjunction with ELPD and the
institutions and make contract awards with the agreement of the institutions.
The universities would be responsible for installation, initial testing and
operation of the equipment, unless specified in the equipment contract that
the supplier would perform this task. The universities would also be
responsible for maintenance and repair of the equipment including acquisition
of spare parts, accessories and consumables, beyond the items and services
initially supplied under the contract. The Bank would supervise the project
twice yearly around March and September coinciding as far as possible with
preparation of the semi-annual progress reports (para. 4.15). Overall



- 17 -
implementation issues would be handled by the task manager with technical
aspects being the responsibility of a consultant technical educator.
Status of Project Preparation
4.9      The advanced stage of project preparation would allow implementation
to commence immediately after loan signing. Criteria for the selection of
universities to be included in the project and for the selection of research
projects from these universities, together with guidelines for the allocation
of loan proceeds, have been prepared and are accepta'le to the Bank. The PCC
has been identified and agreed terms of reference spezified. Project manage-
ment authorities have been identified and competent staff are available to
handle implementation activities.
Procurement
4.10     Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 4.4.  About 852 of the
equipment would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
procedures in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Equipment items in con-
tracts valued at less than US$200,000 may be procured through international or
local shopping up to a limit of US$6.8 million. Local equipment manufacturers
would be extended a 15? preference margin, or the prevailing customs duties,
whichever is the lower, on bid evaluation under ICB. Transportation, opera-
tion and maintenance costs of equipment would be financed by the Government
under local procedures. Installation costs and costs of consumables, if not
included in the equipment contracts, would also be financed by the Government.



- 18 -
Table 4.4: PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
Total cost
including
Category of expenditure              ICB     LCB   Other /a   N/A   contingencies
_____-------- (US$ million) --------------
Equipment                            38.0     -      7.0      -           45.0
(38.0)         !7.0)                 (45.0)
Equipment transportation              -       -               2.7          2.7
and installation                                           (0.0)        (0.0)
Operation and maintenance             -       -      -        5.5          5.5
(0.0)       (0.0)
Consumable materials                  -       -      -        6.8          6.8
(0.0)       (0.0)
Total                          38.0      -     7.0      15.0        60.0
(38.0)         (7.0)    (0.0)        (45.0)
/a Includes international and local shopping.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the loan.
4.11     In accordance with successful practices for procurement under ICB
used in recent education projects in Korea, OSROK will not be required to
refer equipment contracts to the Bank for prior review before making contract
awards. However, complete bidding documents including commercial terms,
schedule of requirements and technical specifications will be sent to the Bank
for reference and record before each invitation to bid. Bid evaluation
reports, documents and contracts will be retained by OSROK for selected ex-
post review by Bank missions. However, copies of bid evaluation reports and
two conformed copies of contracts would be sent to the Bank for its records.
Disbursements
4.12     The proposed loan of US$45.0 million would be disbursed over a period
of 5.5 years (Annex 10). This corresponds to the standard profile for
education projects in Korea which is 5.5 years. The completion date of the
proposed project would be June 30, 1995 and the Closing Date, December 31,
1995. Disbursements would be made on the basis of (a) 10OX of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment or the ex-iactory cost of locally
manufactured equipment; and (b) 65Z of the cost of other local expenditures
for equipment. Disbursement applications involving equipment contracts
exceeding $200,000 equivalent will be fully documented. For disbursement
against equipment contracts below $200,000, reimbursement would be made
against statements of expenditure for which full documentation would be



- 19 -
retained in the project institutions, for review as requested, by visiting
Bank missions. Administrative and accounting capability is adequate to
support the SOE procedure.
4.1<     To facilitate disbursements, a special account, maintained in US
dollars would be set up at the Korean Exchange Bank (KEB) in an amount of
US$3.0 million to cover the estimated average amount required to finance pro-
ject expenditures for the next four months. Applications for replenishment of
the special account would be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis, or
whenever the amount requested exceeds 50Z of the initial deposit, whichever
comes first.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.14     In order to monitor engoing progress in implempntating research pro-
jects under the project, the progress reports (para. 4.15) would include every
12 months, the following indicators for each year of the project: number of
research projects approved; amount of investment; number of research projects
completed; total number of publications; number of puolications in
international journals; and number of patents awarded. Since research grants
selected under the project would be awarded to individual, or groups of,
professors, it is appropriate that KRF undertake evaluation of the results of
research projects according to the standard procedures KRF uses to evaluate
research awards under Category 3 (para. 2.11). During negotiations, the
Government agreed to utilize KRF for the evaluation of research projects.
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
4.15     MOE would maintain project accounts in accordance with sound account-
ing practices. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that
audited accounts and financial statements would be sent to the Bank within six
months of the end of each financial year. The Government would submit semi-
annual progress reports to the Bank in about March and September, provide
status reports for visiting missions, and, within six months of the Closing
Date, submit a project completion report.
D. Environmental Impact
4.16     The project will not have any negative impact on the environment.
The equipment to be supplied under the project will be located in properly
designed laboratories which operate under standard safety procedures.
E. Impact on Women
4.17     The project would have its strongest impact on women through its
support for improving the quality of research in the departments of science
education. To the extent that improved research will lead to better quality
instruction in the departments and since women comprise 482 of enrollments in
science education departments then, over time, the project should help to
produce better quality female science teachers. On the other hand, improve-
ments in research capacity in the graduate schools of natural sciences and
engineering will have a relatively small impact on women since they comprise
only 11Z of enrollments in science and engineering programs.



- 20 -
V. BENEFiITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1      The project would strengthen the capacity of selected universities to
support technological innovation in priority fields by enhancing their ability
t. undertake basic research. This in turn would help to reduce Korea's
dependence on imported technology and in the longer run strengthen its ability
to maintain the pace of industrial development and remain competitive in
export markets. The project would also strengthen science education in the
universities leading in time to higher quality training for science teachers
which in due course would strengthen the base of science education in Korea.
B. Risks
5.2      There are no major risks associated with the project.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1      The Government has agreed to the following:
(a) project institutions and research projects would be selected and loan
proceeds allocated according to criteria and guidelines acceptable to
the Bank (para. 3.5);
(b) audit reports would be submitted by the Government to the Bank within
six months of the end of each financial year (para. 4.15);
(c) semi-annual progress reports would be submitted to the Bank around
March and September and status reports provided to visiting missions
(para. 4.15); and
(d) within six months of the Closing Date, a project completion report
would be submitted to the Bank (para. 4.15).
6.2      During negotiations, an understanding was reached that the Government
would utilize KRF to evaluate the results of research projects included under
the proposed project (para. 4.14).
6.3      Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$45.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Korea
for a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
KOREA
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
Criteria for Selection of Participating Institutions
For an institution to be eligible for receipt of loan funds under the project,
it must meet the following criteria:
A. Graduate Schools of Natural Sciences and Engineering
(i) The school must be a constituent part of a national, public or
private university.
(ii) Size. The graduate schools of natural sciences must have at
least three departments; the graduate schools of engineering
must have at least four departments.
(iii) Staff. The three or more science departments must include at
least 15 faculty members with doctoral degrees and at least 5 in
each department; the four or more engineering departments should
have at least 20 faculty members with doctoral degrees and at
least 5 in each department.
(iv) Student Enrollment. The graduate schools in the year 1989 - 90
must have enrolled at least 60 students in masters' and doctoral
programs in natural sciences and 80 in similar programs in engi-
neering; graduate programs must have been in operation for at
least three years as of March 1990.
(v) Research Activities. Departments must show evidence of receipt
of research grants awarded by KOSEF or other research funding
institutions and demonstrate a record of publication in profess-
ional journals.
Note. Following experience under Loan 2427-KO, the above
criteria may be relaxed somewhat for private universities.
B. Schools of Science Education
(i) The school must be a constituent part of a national, public or
private university.
(ii) Size. The school must have at least two departments of science
education which were in operation before March 1990. The
school's parent institution must have been in operation for at
least three years as of March 3V90.
(iii) Staff. The two or more departments of scienc education must
each include at least two full-time faculty members qualified to
teach subjects in science education.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(iv) Student Enrollment. Each science education department must have
enrolled at least 20 new students in the academic year 1989-90.
C. Joint Research Facilities
(i)  The facilities must offer common research opportunities in the
natural sciences and engineering and have access to university
libraries for interchange of academic information.
(ii) The common facilities must be equipped for research in priority
fields such as new materials, semi-conductors, bio-engineering,
optics, etc. and must be open to researchers from any univer-
sity.
(iii) The university library associated with the common researcn
facilities must give appropriate emphasis to science and engi-
neering and be linked to other libraries in order to facilitate
the flow of research information.
D. All Institutions--Regional Distribution
Selection of institutions in accordance with the above criteria will
also reflect a regional distribution so as to conform with fThe Guidelines for
Allocation of Loan Funds" para. (c), (Annex 3).



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KOREA
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
Criteria for Selection of Research Projects
For the Universities Science and Technology Research Project, review
and selection of research projects would be based on the following:
Category             Suggested Maximum points to be awarded
I.  Research proposal                              50
II. Primary investigator(s)
and support                                    40
III.  Facilities                                      10
Total                                     100
The subheadings for each category are as follows:
I. Research Proposal
(a) purpose and relevance to national and institutional priorities;
(b) content;
(c) approach and methodology;
(d) duration of research;
(e) list of research equipment required and outline specifications, rele-
vance, appropriateness and whether there are alternatives; and
(f) cost estimate.
II. Primary Investigator(s) and Support
(a) qualifications and experience of primary investigator(s);
(b) adequacy and quality of support staff; and
(c) availability of graduate students.
III. Facilities
(a) status of existing facilities in related field(s);



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(b) availability of relevant supporting facilities at departmental level,
and in the university; and
(c) need for special rooms and/or special arrangements, e. g. ultra-high
voltage supply, low temperatures, etc.
Details on point awards related to the subheadings should be further consid-
ered, discussed and modified after initial operation.



ANNEX 3
KOREA
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
Guidelines for Allocation of Loan Proceeds
The following guidelines would be used by the Government for the
allocation of loan proceeds to participating universities:
(a) Overall Allocation of Loan Funds. It is expected that overall allo-
cation would not exceed: $15 million for graduate schools of natural
sciences; $15 million for graduate schools of engineering; $10
million for joint research facilities; and $5 million for schools of
science education.
(b) Concentration of Funds. Within the above ceilings, it is expected
that there would be no more than 20 graduate schools participating in
science and 20 in engineering; 10 centers having joint research
facilities; and 10 schools of science education.
(c) Regional Distribution of Funds. For graduate schools of science and
engineering and joint research facilities, at least 302 of their
share of loan funds would be allocated to universities outside the
Seoul area. For schools of science education, the proportion would
be at least 502 to be allocated outside the Seoul area.
(d) Participation of Private Institutions. About 202 of total loan funds
would be allocated to private universities.
(e) Maximum and Minimum Allocation per School. In order to ensure a
reasonable concentration of funds to participating schools thereby
achieving a significant research impact while ensuring a reasonably
equitable participation in the project, the following allocation
limits would be followed:
School                  Maximum            Minimum
Graduate natural sciences       $3 million       $0.75 million
Graduate engineering            $3 million       $0.75 million
Joint facilities                $2 million       $1 million
Science education               $1 million       $0.5 million



ANNEX 4
Page 1
KOREA
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Protect Coordinating Conmiittee
1.       The Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) of the Ministry of Education
(MOE) would consist of the following members:
Director General, Education Facilities Bureau (EFB) (Convenor)
Director General, University Education Office (UEO)
Director General, Science and Technology Education Bureau (STEB),
and co-opted memberu as required.
2.       The PCC would meet at least once in every quarter and more often, if
necessary. The presence of two of the three above mentioned members (exclud-
ing co-opted members) would form a quorum.
3.       The PCC would be responsible for general oversight of the IBRD
project, provide policy advice to MOE and resolve any major problems which
might arise during project implementation.
4.       The Education Loan Project Division (ELPD) of EFB would act as the
secretariat for the PCC.
5.       ELPD would invite proposals for research projects from the partici-
pating universities, collate them and submit the proposals to PCC for review.
6.       The PCC would appoint as many expert panels as needed for the review
of research project proposals. Each expert panel would report to the PCC and
make recommendations to the PCC for acceptance or rejection of such proposals.
Accepted proposals would each be assigned points, not exceeding 100, in
accordance with the Criteria for the Selection of Research Projects.
7.       The PCC would rank the accepted proposals according to the point
rating and make recommendations to the Vice Minister of MOE in accordance
with:
(a) the Procedures for the Selection of Research Projects; and
(b) the Guidelines for the Allocation of Loan Proceeds to finance
proposals selected and approved by the Vice Minister of MOE.
8.       The universities would be responsible for implementing research
projects to be included under the Bank-assisted project. They would keep the
PCC informed of progress in research activities at such times as the PCC may
require. The PCC reserves the right to terminate loan financing for a
research project if, in consultation with the university authorities, it is
deemed that the project should not be continued.



ANIIX 4
Page 2
9.       The PCC would receive from KRF evaluation reports of completed
research projects through its secretariat (ELPD). The PCC would make recom-
mendations, if necessary, to the Vice Minister of MOE for disseminating
research results to other instItutions or to induistry for application and
development.   All fees from licenses, patents, etc. which might result from
the research projects would accrue to the university responsible for the
research project.



KOREA
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
Procodurs for Scilon of Resoarch Proloes
r lesearch propos -al
pwt*.rstles            inviled to eAUbMdi
ZIL
UrIer_i_                 odllcatlan
preprares  t*r
and subfmits               tone
research proposal              re
~NO
PCC appoint1
Expert Panel to              Nmees
Irview                    m croned ia
proposals                 \      0
YES
PCC reviews              Expert Pan H
Panel's                     tad
recoamendalbons           raes propoasa
I   PCC makes
roecommendaisf
to Vkce-ler >
Urmver611y
hfemenl6
rese arch pfo Necl



KOREA
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
Organization of tho Ministry of Education
EicS
Public rntormatinn ay                                    t    Tecdioe             Education Faciles,   tjvrsty Ecation
Education Baa eau    Education Bateau            ueU        JOfc
School              Vocationa         FwAtis P                 hUermy dnato
Emergency Planning                            Administration         Education                                    Amstratlon
Of ficer                                   oivision              Oivhn                                         Offier
_____________              School Finance       Sciece Education       Education Loan
1                     ~~~~~~~~~Division      cwision               Proect             tmuvsrslty Educatio
Inspector    [                            C'is in ot_Affairs Ot
Cmivsory            ASOi" Cioege            Eiisont              Oaton
Education           Administrative        Management
Oiviska              Division              OiviSon             N8tkws7 Education1
General__Services_                                            A,iikr Colege        School Beddin         _________
Division                                Early Chilhuood      AcdmcfaisCntcio
Division_____                          Education Offticer        ecf                 Constru_ _                   _
( Planning &       fSupervion &   1Teache Atafat                                        Non-formal &ivriy dcto
Management Ofic      Text1okintramtkfIonmalsraio
Mangemt O e           Compiati  Otficer                               Bureau      |    Education Bureau !Divi
- E l                 .            Il1                                          tiersity Education
Plannin &  Textbook                                        Man-Formal           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Finance Division
Offin e          Tetboo       | 1Chief Supervisor for     Teacher Affaik          EducatlO7                    Education
Budget                   Offierficon     Education Research         DivkisnPrmon    nEduca sion              IIies     dcto
_____________         _____________ *_______               _     __ A|| e   aTci | |t n Sro tIon    T oche|  Acadamic  Affairs
Legal Affatrs      Sn7r oodnator e     ICtilef Supervisw for hlPro-Service Teacher   Non-Sevice Teacher          Divsin                   I
Mamentrativer          Curriculum         aI Edsucation   |       Education             Education             Su A dem irss
ManagemstOffcer Development  Doral Edu nDivism n
Of ficer                                                                               Mngnn
Legal Af fairs     Senior Coordinator    Chief Supervisor fo    In-Service Teacher    internatioalDiiso
Officer           for Himnarities        Instruction        Education Divisic-i     Education &
& Arts                               _______               Cooperation Divisio      Academic Research
______________                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~& Promotion Division
Chief Supervisor for   Teacher Welfare     Ovwersee Residents 
Student GoidaSnce    Student Guidance          Division          Education Division|
for  Social Science  __t___ ___t__        ___ ___ ___ __
I ___ .__  .____                                                                               Offcer
Senior Coordinator
for Natural Science
EK/W46166a



KOREA
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
Detailed Proiect Costs
(Won million)
Equipment
transportation              Consumable       Total Cost
Institution                                Equipment   and installation    O&M       materials    Won H       US$ M
Graduate Schools of Natural Sciences          8,822              529        1,056        1,320     11,127    16.9
Graduate Schools of Engineering               8,822              529        1,056        1,320     11,727    16.9
Joint Research Facilities                     6,019              366          722          876      7,983    11.5
Departments of 9cience Education              3,010              181          362          444      3,997      5.7
Baseline Cost                          26,673            1,605        3,196         960      35,434    51.0
Contingencies
Physical                                1,333               80          160         198       1,771      2.5
Price increase                          3.274              224          451         553       4,502      6.5
Subtotal contingencies                  4,607              304          611         751       6,273      9.0
Total Project Cost
Won million                         31,280            1,909        3,807       4 711      41,707
US$ million                           45.0              2.7          5.5         6.8                60.0



KOREA
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Expenditure by Year and Recipient
Base Costs (Won million)          Total Cost
Schools                                 90191  91/92   92193   93/94  94/95  95/96   Won m   US$ m
Graduate Schools of Natural
Sciences                                820  2,780    4,504  2,316  1,203  104        11,727  16.9
Graduate Schools of Engineering           820  2,780    4,504  2,316  1,203  104         11,727  16.9
Joint Research Facilities                 568  1,848    3,017  1,633    820   97          7,983  11.5
Departments of Science Education          285    925    1,508    819    36v   91          3,997   5.7
Baseline Cost                       2,493  8,333   13,533  7,084  3,595  396         35,434  51.0
Contingencies
Physical                               124    417       676    354    180   20        1,771   2.5
Price increase                          59    603    1,640  1,250    834  116         4,502   6.5
Total Project Cost                  2,676  9,353   15,849  8,688  4,609  532         41,707  60.0
Foreign Exchange                    2,089  7,271   12,360  6,775  3,583  387         32,465  46.6



KOREA
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
Imphemontatlon Schedule
CY       199t 199            ,192           1993         1 9- 4   .  1995 -N6
bant FY    90        91         92             _         9           95          96
-u oere(CY)    1 2  3 4  312  3 4 1  2           4 1   2_i- 2  3  4  1 2 34  1 2
SELECTION OF D4STITUTIONS                                     -                                                  f--
PROCESSING OF RESEARCH PROPOSALS -
Proposabl Rei_ved
Proposal RedWed
Proposal Aproved
EQUWMENI PROCUREMENi.
Preaation of Equlmpnt Lists
FapeticAtod                                                      L1
Preparaton of BIdding Docunmen
BkdS Invited 
BIks Invited
Bkds Evaluated
Contracts Awarded
Equ9mnt Deliered, neded a Teetd
Warranty Period                                                                -m-                     
LOAN PROCESSING & GENERAL UILtENrAT NO   -
Negoetions
oad Presentato                                          *
Establshn  tof Proect Coordnhg Conun_ttee
Geeal Prcremeno  Notce Ad*eu|lsed
Project Compileton Date
Project Closing Date
Projc Compfleton Repont
MP .4It0C



ANNEX 10
KOREA
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
Disbursements
IBRD fiscal                Amount per         Cumulative           Disbursement
year & semester             semester       Amount        z          profile /a
--- (US$ million) --------                  (Z)
1991
1                            3 /b           3          7                1
2                            0              3          7                3
1992
1                            5              8         18                5
2                            6             14         31               10
1993
1                            8             22         49               23
2                            9             31         69               44
1994
1                            5             36         80               70
2                            4             40         89               81
1995
1                            3             43         96               92
2                            1.5           44.5       99               97
1996
1                            0.5           45.0      100              100
La Standard disbursement profile for education projects in Korea.
lb Initial deposit in Special Account.



ANNEX 11
KOREA
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project rile
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Pubsector
A-l* Introduction to Science and Technology - Republic of Korea, MOST, 1988
A-2* Korea - Sector Survey of Science Education, IBRD, January 12, 1982
A-3* Impact of World Bank Lending for Educational Development in Korea: A
Review, IBRD Report No. 5950, December 5, 1985
A-4* A Study on the Long Term Development Plan of Graduate Education in the
Field of Science and Engineering in Korea, MOE, July 1985
A-5 A Study on the Optimal Standards for Higher Education Facilities in
Korea, KCUE, April, 1985
A-6 A Study on the Efficient Expansion Program of Educational Equipment and
their Quota System and Common Utilization Plan, MOE, December 26, 1987
A-7 The Feasibility Study on the Promotion of Research and the Expansion of
Research Facility in the Areas of Advanced Science and Technology, MOE,
May 1985
A-8 A Study on the Expansion Plan of Research Facilities in Gradute
Education, MOE, April 1986
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1 Universities Science and Technology Research Project, MOE, June 1989
B-2 Equipment Needs Program, NOW, October 1989
C. Selected Working Papers
C-1 IBRD Working Paper - Equipment
* - to be found in the Project File for the First Technology Advancement
Project (Loan 3037-KO).



IBRD 22115
.                                      .. .                                                    ,
S         __             DEMOCRATIC   PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC                        I                     Ii
CHINA        5                                         OF  KOREA                              .)                              U
t S                          g      A      hwR  9-  >              \               | i ~~~~   ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~37'30  37'30 -
t 7[0P,t S                                     /    f       >        (          f  _S6kth                                     i3o
RIP  KOREA                                                                                                                                1311
13P OF
')REA       JAPAN                   Panmunjom                                                                                           38
. . ~~- 38'                           K t t 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 4  3-
.0~~~~~~~~,
_3r~~~~~~16                                                      L _rS-c)                                         L  
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y
ZL   Z Wnglu                  e           a s    f         (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poan
-36,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
XS 35.
4o              ~TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH PROJECT
Primary Roads
_ -                                                          -.----.     C Roilroods                      3,.
,. -   Railroads  Under  Construction
," _,Gw  +      RAijreports
UNIVERSITIES  SCIENCities
Province Boundaries
aN                                                                     Inte~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RnatirodUndeal stuto
ProvnceBoundaries
PRI&AW,  a__,_                                  ,                                                 -  -      International Boundaries
0     20    40    60    BP   100   120   140   '60
r  /    ) D OJ                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K;ItOMMTERS
e         70     40         60        so         I 00
135                                                        W'* 137                      135                          129-
FEBPRUARY I 990



