Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A4v Z9 . C0 -/A.
Report No. 7002-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOPT
INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
February 19, 1988
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
ihis document has a sestrd distibubtio and may be used by redpients only In Ithe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah
US$1.00          Rupiah (Rp) 1,650
Rp 1 million  = US$606
FISCAL YEAR
Arril 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer                     =     0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)              100 ha = 0.39 sq miles
1 hectare (ha)                        2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)                 =     2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)             =      1.10235 short tons (2,000 lbs)
0.9843 long tons (2,240 lbs)
1 cubic meter (cu m)                  35.3 cubic feet
INDONESIAN FIVE-YEAR PLANS
Repelita IV                     -     Fourth Five-Year Plan, 1984-89
Repelita V                      -     Fifth Five-Year Plan, 1989-94
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPE)A     -  Provincial Level Planning Agency
BPKP        -  Directorate of State Accountancy
BRI         -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
Bupat::     -  District Administrator
DBH         -  Diameter at breast height
Depart:emen  -  Department, synonymous with Ministry in Indonesia
FAO         -  Food and Agriculture Organization
GOI         -  Government of Indonesia
GON         -  Government of Netherlands
HPH         -  Concession Agreement (Long-Term)
HPHH        -  Concession Agreement (Short-Term)
IUCN        -  International Union for Conservation of Nature
Kabupaten   -  District
KUPEDES     -  Small Scale Village Credit Program of BRI
MAI         -  Mean Annual Increment
MOA         -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF         -  Ministry of Forests
MHA         -  Ministry of Home Affairs
PH          -  Directorate General of Forest Utilization
PHPA        -  Directorate General for Nature Conservation
PLP         -  Soil Conservation Extension Agent
PPIU        -  Project Planning and Implementation Unit
PPL         -  Agricultural Extension Agent
PP          -  Presidential Directive for Implement-ng Statute
RRL         -  Directorate General for Soil Conservation and Rehabilitation
SK Menteri  -  Ministerial Directive (Surat Keputusan Menteri)
T"HK        -  Consensus Forest Land Use Plan
UNDP        -  United Nations Development Programme
UUPK        -  Basic Forest Law (UU No. 5/1967)
UU          -  Statute (Undang-Undang)



FOR OFFMAL UU ONLY
INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION ..........................se.......*o...                    1
II.  THE FORESTRY SECTOR ................1
Role in the Economy ..I..............                                   1
Forest Resources              .    ........... . ..****.......es        1
The Ministry of Forestry .       ...    ..........................      2
Forestry Planning and Land Use Policy ........................          3
Forest Utilization and Management .......         ......................  4
Nature Conservation *.o .............  ...* *.*....... eee.... *o*o** **  5
Watershed Conservation ...... .. .....oo**9.........*...***..**.*..     5
Processing, Markets and Exports ......o.             .........................  6
Fiscal Policy .....                                                8... ***so  ............  8
Forestry Products Trade Policy .. ** .....................              8
Sectoral Problems and Constraints ................ .............        8
Forestry Research   .....   ............0.....................    ...    10
Sectoral Objectives and Strategies ........oo ......................    11
Rationale for Bank's Involvement and Proposed Stralagy ........        11
III.  THE PROJECT .                                                           12
Project Objectives and Strategy          ......      ...........    12
Brief Project Description  ..  ....sa........o.....oo........          13
Detailed Projec  Description  ........o..*..o.....                     13
Policy, Planning and Investment Studies  .o..... ... .                 13
Forest Inventory .............. ....15
Forestry Research   .                                                  16
Wonogiri Watershed Conservation .J.. O..*... ..0.............          16
Nature Conservation  ...        .    .                                 17
IV.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING .                            ..........    18
Project Cost ....................se...ea                               18
Financing e .  s.......  o9......o  ...e.oe..                          18
Procurement ..  0...000....0......0.  0..*.O*                          20
Disbursement o..se.........es.............                             22
Accounting and Audits . .  .. .............................            23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs
T. P. N. Sinha (Mission Leader), John Spears (Forestry Advisor), Dirk Leeuwrik
(Senior Agriculturist), H. M. Kim (Economist), Brian Armitage (Forestry
Research Consultant), Aarne Nyyssonen (Forestry Training Consultant), and K.
D. Singh (Forest Inventory Consultant) which visited Indonesia in June 1987.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authoriation.



Page No.
V.  ORGANIZATION, MANAGEKENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ....................       24
The Ministry of Forestry ............*.......*****************         24
Other Agencies ..... I.     ............... ................    26
Project Implementation Plans and Status ....a.................    27
Monitoring and Evaluation      ...........     .......      ......    27
VI.  PROJECT IMPACT ..............................                 ....    28
Benefit/Cost Effectiveness of Institutional
Strengthening ........... oe,............. .....................    28
Benefits from Nature Conservation .........    ***.oo .............    29
Benefits from Watershed Conservatiot ... ......................    30
Role of Women....o..................00...*.*...0.......    32
Economic Analysis   .... .....*..**oo******o..o**.o.o ......    32
Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis ......................ooo......  32
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS AND ASSURANCES OBTAINED AT
NECOTIATIONS ..o...... o....... o.... ..oeeeo*e*a.e...... ..................... 34
TABLES IN THE TEXT
Table 4.1  Project Cost Suummary *... o..*o*.. .******e.**.*o.o* o.**e*      19
Table 4.2  Financing Plan ............. .....ooo.o...o............           20
Table 4.3  Procurement Arrangements o............................            21
Table 6.1  Field Crop Yields, Production and Incomes ..........4.....        30
Table 6.2  Off-farm Benefits from Conservation Structures ...ao.......       31
Table 6.3  Economic Rate of Return  ..o....oo..o......... ooo........        32
Table 6.4  Switching Values at 10Z OCC .............................         33
ANNEXES
Annex 1    Terms-of-Reference for Studies and Manpower Development Consultancy
Annex 2    Terms-of-Reference for Fore:it Inventory Consultancy
Annex 3    Project Cost Tables and Disbursement Schedules
Annex 4    Organization Chart and Implementation Schedule
Annex 5    Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 6    List of Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 19937 Map of Indonesia with Project Locations
IBRD 20232 Map of Wonogiri Watershed Conservation Area



INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumary
Bortower:          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:    The Ministry of Forests and about 50,000 farm families fn
Central Javja.
Loan Amount:       US$34 million equivalent.
Temas:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:    The proposed project would first, strengthen forestry
planning and management by:(a) developing appropriate
strategies for forest management including policies and
incentives for sustainable management of natural forest and
plantation development where appropriates and for limiting
the more destructive forms of shifting cultivation while
ensuring welfare of local people; (b) strengthening forestry
research through improved planning, management and funding
of adaptive research; (c) strengthening information for
subsectoral planning, through a forest inventory focused on
priority areas for forestry development; (d) improving MOF's
manpower development planning and training capacity; and
(e) preparing investment projects consistent with
subsectoral strategy recommendations. Second, it would
improve watershed conservation measures in the Upper Solo
(Wonogiri) watershed in Central Java, considered to be the
most critical watershed in Indonesia because of erosion and
high population density; this would include rehabilitation
of 22,000 ha of terraces and construction of associated
conservation of structures, planting 5,500 ha of community
forests on private lands, establishment of 3,500 ha of
conservation oriented forests on state land, and
strengthening of associated administrative infrastructure in
this watershed. And third, it would strengthen management
of five existing nature conservation areas, including buffer
zone development to preclude exploitation by local
inhabitants and technical assistance for developing models
for nationwide replication to preserve such areas on a
viable basis. Economic benefits are expected from: (a)
improved forestry management leading to a sustained longer-
term production from the forestry sector; (b) improved
investment planning leading to more efficient and higher
levels of output and incomes from the sector and better



- ii -
sustenance of the natural environment; and (c) improved soil
conservation leading to increased agricultural production,
longe; dam life and lower irrigation O&M costs in
Wonogiri. Watershed conservation activities will have an
EPR of about 22%. The main project risks would be
implementation delays due to counterpart budget
constraints. This risk would be reduced by seeking GOI
agreement on detailed counterpart funding. Another risks
could be delays in hiring of consultants and in in'ilementing
recommendations of strategy studies. The risk would be
reduced by agreeing with GOI on study TORs at appraisal,
hiring consultants for major studies before loan
effectiveness, involving GOI fully in carrying out the
study, and linking future Bank assistance to satisfactory
implementation of study recommendations.
Estimated Costs: /a
Local        Foreign  Total
------(US$ million
A. Institutional Strengthening
Forestry Inventory                          7.5        6.6     14.1
Forestry Research                           2.5        4.2      6.7
Studies, Planning and Monitoring            0.9        2.4      3.3
Subtotal                           10.9       13.2      24.1
B.   Conservation
Wonogiri Watershed                         18.9        5.3     23.3
National Parks                              3.4        3.0      6.4
Subtotal                           21.4        8.3      29.7
Base Costs                         32.3       21.5      53.8
Physical Contingencies                      2.4        1.2      3.6
Price Contingencies                         4.7        0.9      5.6
Total Project Costs                39.4       23.6      63.0
/a   Inclusive of taxes and duties in the amount of US$4.1 million.



- ih -
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign  Total
~-  -(11(   mlillion)------
Government                                     15.6          -      15.6
Others /b                                      10.3          -      10.3
Netherlanda                                     0.2         2.9      3.1
IBRD                                           13.3        20.7    34.0
Total                                39.4        23.6    63.0
Estimated IBRD
Disbursements:
Bank FY         1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   1996
--  -------                    $ million) …----- -             --
Aznual                2.0    3.3       4.7      5.7       5.8       5.3    4.2   3.0
Cummulative           2.0    5.3      10.0    15.7       21.5      26.8   31.0  34.0
Economic Rate
of Return:        22% for watershed conservation.  Not applicable for other
components
IBRD 19937
IBRD 20232



INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       This report apprAises the proposed Forestry Institutions and
Conservation Project in Tndonesia. This is the first project proposed for
World Bank financing in Indonesia's forestry sector, and was prepared by the
Ministry of Forests (MOF) with substantial assistance from FAO. Project
preparation was completed in May 1987, and the project was appraised in June
1987. This report summarizes the findings and conclusions of the appraisal
mission.
II. THE FORESTRY SECTOR
Role in the Economy
2.1       Indonesia is well endowed with forest resources which cover more
than half of its land area, and constitute the world's second largest area of
tropical forests after the Amazons. Forestry activities account for less than
3% of GDP in current prices and employ some 0.5 million persons, but the
sector is much more important in export trade where it contributes over 20% of
non-oil exports and is currently the most important source of such exports.
Forest products provide most of rural energy consumption through firewood and
charcoal, and housing construction material. Indonesian forests are also
important ecologically, constituting one of the world's most biologically
diverse areas with more than 500 species of mammals, 1,500 species of birds,
and 10,000 species of trees. These forests play a significant role in
protecting Indonesia's watersheds, preventing soil erosion and ensuring a
sustained flow of irrigation and drinking water for downstream population.
Forest Resources
2.2       Size.  Indonesia's forest area is variously estimated at between 100
and 144 million ha, with FAO ectimate at 113 million ha. Precise resource
data is not available and this is one of the most significant constraints
preventing proper development planning and management of the sector. Improved
resource assessment is an important objective of the proposed project.
2.3       Natural Forests.  Indonesian forests have been classified into six
major forest types, of which the tropical rain forest is the most significant,
covering three quarters of the forest area. This consists mainly of timber
species of the Diptocarpaceae family, in particular Siorea (Meranti),
Dipterocarpus (Keruing), Hopea (Merawan) and Dryobala.iops (Kapur). These
forests, particularly in western parts of the indonesian archipelago, are rich
in commercial species which average 50 to 90 m per ha, st diameter (DBH)
above 50 cm, out of a total volume of about 260 to 300 m per ha for all
species.  The average annual growth in the voluTe of commercial species in
natural forests is currently estimated at 1.1 m per ha. Indonesia's natural



- 2 -
forests are subdivided into four usage/conservation categories (para. 2.7), of
which the production forests account for about 44%. These for¶sts have the
potential, if properly managed, to produce 25 to 50 million m p.a. on a
sustainable basis, and to support US$2 to 4 billion p.a. in exports   However
this considerable resource and export potential is threatened because of
several sectoral problems (para. 2.20).
2.4       Plantations.  Indonesia has a long history of forest plantations
which were started in the 19th century. Currently the total area of
plantations is estimated at around 1.8 million ha, about half of which is
mainly teak. The next most important species planted is -;.he indigenous Pinus
merkusii, which covets 600,000 ha. Other planted species include Gmelina
arborea (with disappointing results, but warranting further research and
trials), various Eucalyptus such as E.deglupta, and Acacia mangium. They are
suitable for pulpwood, and with some work on tree improvement they could
perhaps produce rough lumber and plywood veneer logs for plywood cores. The
tropical pines, mainly P.caribaea and P.oocarpa, do not appear to have been
tried in comprehensive provenance trials in Indonesia. Apart from their value
for pulpwood, these species can produce good lumber and veneer logs.
2.5       Location.  Over 95% of Indonesian forests are in the sparsely
populated Outer Islands, with the islands of Kalimantan, Irian Jaya and
Sumatra accounting for most (over 80%) of the forest area. Production forests
in Kalimantan and Sumatra are the richest in commercial hardwood species, and
they account for over 75% of Indonesia's production potential for logs of
commercial spacies.
The Min£itry of Forestry (MOF)
2.6       The Indonesian Constitution (Chapter 14, Article 13) gives to the
State the authority to control land and natural riches for the welfare of all
Indonesians. Based on this authority and directive, the Basic Forestry Law
(UUPK) of 1967 gave the authority over Indonesian forests to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forests. In 1983, the Ministry was split and a separate
Ministry of Forests was formed with the authority to plan and manage
Indonesia's forestry sector. The Ministry has three Directorates-General
responsible for forest utilization, forest rehabilitation and soil
conservation, and nature conservation (Annex 4). It also has support agencies
for research and inventory, and a Secretariat-General responsible for
planning, budgeting and manpower development. MOF employs about 17,000
persons, most (6UZ) of whom are in the Directorate-General for Reforestation
and Land Rehabilitation. The responsibilities and staff of MOF have increased
rapidly, and there is a need to stren,then their capacity by establishing
appropriate policies and procedures for forest management, by strengthening
its information, planning and monitoring capacity, and by the development of
its manpower. The strengthening of institutional capacity is an essential
pre-requisite before MOF can assist in the efficient management of investmwats
in this sector. Development of an efficient training program is hindered by
the lack of a manpower development plan. The proposed project will assist in
preparing such a plan (para. 3.6). Forestry staff deployment also needs to be
improved by stationing more staff near forest areas, and the proposed project
will assist by providing appropriate infrastructure (para. 3.15).



- 3-
Forestry Planning and Land Use Policy
2.7       The Basic Forestry Law (UUPK) of 1967 recognizes that Indonesian
forests play several important roles, including production of logs and other
secondary forest products, protecting watersheds, conserving biological
diversity of flora and fauna, and conserving land which is to be later used
for agricultural production. It directs the Central Government to plan,
cla4sify and manage forest lands accordingly. To implement the Law, a
Presidential Implementation Directive (PP No. 33/1970) on forestry planning
was t sued in 1970 vesting the authority for preparing forestry land use plans
with che Forestry Minister. On the basis of this, MOF has prepared a
-.onsensus Forest Land Use Plan (TGHK) for each province, classifying forest
lands into the following four categories:
(a) protection forest, which accounts for 30 m ha (211 of forest lands),
has been set aside for the protection of critical watersheds, and to
prevent soil erosion logging is not permitted in these forests;
(b) conservation forest, which accounts for 19 m ha (13%), has been set
aside to protect biological diversity of flora and fauna, and in
these areas also logging or hunting is nit permitted;
(c) production forest, which accounts for 64 m ha (44X), has been
allocated for forestry production and the major portion (over 53
million ha) of this is under forestry concession arrangements (para
2.9), managed typically by the private sector under MOF regulations
and supervision; and
(d) conversion forest accounting for 31 m ha (22%) has been allocated
for agricultural production, and accordingly in these areas clear
felling of trees and conversion to agricultural usage is permitted.
2.8       Though the forestry land use policy is sound in that it recognizes
the multiple role of forest lands, including conservation and protection needs
for which one-quarter of Indonesia's land area (a third of the forest area)
has been set aside, the implementation of this policy and resulting TGHK
forestry land use plans need to be improved. The TGHK plan was prepared by
consensus between Provincial Agriculture, Forestry, Lands (Agraria), Public
Works, Planning (BAPPEDA) and Transmigration rg.acies, but was based on
out-dated maps and poor forestry and land resource information. Consequently,
some areas suitable for agricultural and forestry production purposes have
been put under the very restrictive protection/conservation classification,
whereas other areas that need to be protected have been put under less
restrictive classification. There is an urgent need to improve forest
resource information to provide a firmer basis for forest land use planning.
While soil survey for the Sumatra Island is being done under an ADB-assisted
Land Resource Evaluation and Planning Project and base maps with land system
information are being produced under the Bank-assisted Transmigration V
Project (Loan 2578-IND), there is still a need to improve information about
the standing volume of commercial species and forest productivity information
to provide the basis for forest land use planning. The proposed project will



- 4 -
assist in collection and interpretation of such information for forestry
planning.
Forest Utilization and Management
2.9       The utilization of production forests increased rapidly between 1968
and 1979, and log production increased from a level of 5.2 million cu m to
25.3 million cu m, at the rate of 15Z p.a.  Since then 'og production has
fluctuated in the 13 to 26 million cu m range in response to export demand and
trade policy (para 2.16). The forests also produce a range of secondary
forest products including rattan, fuel, wood/charcoal, silk, turpentine and
resins. Of tihese rattan is commercially the most significant with a
production of about 40,000 tons in 1985.
2.10      While all forest lands are owned by the State, the extraction,
processing and sale of logs from the forests is done mainly by the private
sector under forest concession arrangements. These concessions are of two
types. One, Hak Pengusahaan Hutan (HPH), is granted by MOF for a minimum area
of 35,000 ha and a max1immu period of 20 years.  Tre other, Hak Pemungutan
Hasil Hutan (HPHH), is granted by the Provincial Covernment for a maximum area
oi 100 ha and a period of two years. HPHH concessions are not of economic
size for any significant investment in log extraction and play a minor role in
forest production (less than 1OZ) and management. Forestry concessions under
HPH are more important and these cover 83Z of production forest area (53
million ha) with an average a-ca of about 100,000 ha per concession. The
concession agreement obliges the concessionaire to:
(a) conduct a forest resource survey and a feasibility study for the
extraction of logs and processing activities (if any);
(b) implement measures for forest protection;
(c) respect rights of indigeneous tribal population for collection of
forest products for their own consumption;
(d) prepare annual operational plans, along with five year and 20 year
management plans that are acceptable to GCO;
(e) follow MOF guidelines for log extraction, which in line with MOF
Decree of 1981 specify a 35 year rotat:ion period in natural forests,
extraction of trees with minimum diameter (DBH) of 50 cm, leaving
behind at least 25 trees per ha of commercial species with DBH more
than 20 cm to act as seed trees for natural regeneration;
(f)  restock forest through enrichment planting of commercial species
after logging;
(g) mark boundaries and develop suitable forest roads; and
(h) post a performance bond to guarantee compliance.



2.11      While the concession agreement does oblige the concessionaire to
follow environmentally sound logging methods for the sustainable development
of Indonesian production forests, in practice the implementation of forest
management policy and the compliance with concession agreements have been
poor. The concessionaires generally do comply with minimum diameter
restrictions, but they are less careful in their logging methods, which result
in substantial damage to the remaining forest. The proposed project will
provide technical assistance for recommending appropriate techniques and
incentives for improving logging.
Nature Conservation
2.12      Though Indonesia has classified a third of its forest area, some
49 m ha, as protection and conservation forest, these areas are coming under
population pressure. In some cases the biological diversity of Indonesia's
forests is also being threatened by uncontrolled and ill planned development,
The construction of new roads is bringing larger areas of the previously
inaccessible forest within reach of settlers. Consequently, settlers are
increasing'-y encroaching on conservation areas. Even where adequate legal
instruments exist for the control of encroachment, they are either not
enforced or only partially applied since they conflict with local or tradi-
tional customs. These problems could result in irreparable losses to both
Indonesia and the world community at large. Since sanctions have not
prevented encroachment, new approaches are required to protect conservation
areas, by promoting development and directing it in an environmentally sound
manner. To do this PHPA needs to strengthen its relationship and services to
the population in areas around the nature conservation areas, for instance by
creating buffer zones for the benefit of the local population. This will
create incentives for them to prevent encroachment by outsiders. PHPA should
also cooperate with local and international scientists to monitor and study
rare and endangered species in these areas, e.g. Komodo lizard in NTT, Bali
starling in Bali Barat, and Orang Utan, Sumatran tiger, and rhino in Sumatra,
So that it is better able to respond to any emerging problems threatening
their survival. For creating greater awareness, appreciation and support for
nature conservation in Indonesia, PHPA should strengthen its services and
facilities for local tourists at those national parks that are close to
population centers in Java and Bali. Management plans for these activities
have now been developed for the highest priority areas with help from
FAO/IUCN, and support for their implementation is proposed under the
project. The Bank will also be reviewing other options and the level of
funding for conservation as a part of its economic and sector work.
Watershed Conservation
2.13      Owing to population pressure, deforest-tion and increased
cultivation of annual crops on steep slopes, Indonesia is increasingly facing
problems of soil erosion, loss of productivity of agricultural land, siltation
of river basins and dams, flooding, and consequent environmental and economic
degradation. The problem is most severe in Java, but is also accelerating in
the Outer Islands. GOI with UNDP assistance has identified 81 watersheds of
which 36 are considered priority areas, and of these 22 are considered to be
in a highly critical condition. The conservation of watersheds poses
difficult problems. It is difficult to resettle population from the critical
stopes. The range of agro-forestry activities that can be done on the slopes,



-6-
which are financially viable and ecologically appropriate, are limited and
have to be developed through location-specific adaptive research. While
appropriate recommendations have been developed for several areas in Java,
further research in Outer Islands will be required. Support for agricultural
activities in several of these watersheds has been provided by USAID and the
Bank, in particular under the Upland Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 2474-IND). Experience with these activities have shown the' importance
of inter-agency co-ordination, strengthening technical support and involving
farmers in decision making. The proposed project will provide assistance for
improving inter-agency co-ordination (para 5.10), strengthening technical
support (para 5.8), and for implementing participatory planning of watershed
areas invoLving the participation of both the farmer and the technical
specialist (para 3.12). The technical support for soil conservation
activities is currently provided by MOF, and the technical support for
agricultural activities by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The Bank-
financed National Agricultural Extension II Project (CR 96$-IND) has already
strengthened technical support for agricultural activities in many of the
critical wvtershed areas, and the proposed project will strengthen the support
for soil conservation and watershed conservation activities in the Wonogiri
watershed in Cenitral Java, an area which is considered the most critical
watershed in Indonesia.
Processing, Markets and Exports
2.14      Wood Processing.  Indonesia's wood processing industry is dominated
b  sawmilling and plywood industries, which together produce about 12 million
m"  p.a. of processed wood products, with sawmills producing about 7 million m
p.a. The main problem in the sawmilling industry is the low economic
viability of some mills (30 to 40Z of the total) that are running at below 50%
capacity utilization due to a variety of reasons including management,
location, and the type of machinery in the mills. It is expected that
competition would force less efficient mills to close, while efficient mills
will continue to add c¶pacity. Indonesia's plywood industry with a production
level of 5.0 million m p.a. is more efficient and has good (80%) capacity
utilization. Partly due to the rapid increase in production and exports and
also market recession, the export price for hardwood plywood was depressed and
this war affecting industry profitability. Since Indonesia now accounts for
50 to 70% of the hardwood plywood export market, and the price elasticities of
demand and supply are typically between 0.3 and 0.7 (absolute values),
Indonesian manufacturers are finding it advantageous to limit export volumes
to support prices and profitability. GOI is now not permitting additions of
new plywood manufacturing capacity. Pr ces have consequently improved and
industry profits are improving. The plywood induutry also faces a shortage of
qualified t.echnicians, and has pragmatically employed expatriates to overcome
the shortage. This has helped in maintaining good quality and capacity
utilization. An ongoing Wood Industry Study financed under the Bank-supported
Bapindo V Project (Loan 2277-IND) is helping GOI identify key constraints in
the industry. The main recommendations are that: (a) forest concessions and
primary industries should function as integrated units until an efficient wood
distribution system is developed; (b) improving efficiency and capacity
utilization of the existing industries should be stressed before new capacity
is added; (c) secondary industry need not be integrated with forest



- 7 -
concessions and should be in locations nearer market; and (d) information and
log distribution should be improved. The consultaats are now helping GOI
develop proposals for implementing these recommendations.
2.15      Pulp and Paper Industry.  Indonesia currently has 32 pulp and paper
mills with an installed production capacity of about 0.9 million tons for
paper and 0.4 million tons for pulp. Between 1980-85, the growth in capacity
was dramatic for both paper (25Z p.a.) and puip (33% p.a.). Consequently
paper capacity is in excess of demand (0.7 million tons) and capacity utiliza-
tion is low for paper (but not pulp). The considerable excess capacity has
kept paper prices low and inefficient producers are going out of business (six
since 1984). In planning future investments in forest plantations for
supplying the pulp and paper industry, MOF must be careful to support only
those plantations that are within marketable distance of efficient pulp and
paper mills, to avoid the risk of having plantations for which the main market
outlet disappears after the trees have matured. Any feasibility study for
plantation investments must analyze market prospects, including prospects for
any pulp and paper mills that would purchase logs from the proposed
plantation.
2.16      Exporc Markets.  Indonpsia has emerged as the world's biggest
exporter of processed tropical hardwoods, and in 1986 its exports reached a
level of about US$1.7 biliion. The growth in exports has been rapid (30%
p.a.), and has been fueled mainly by the expansion of plywood exports, which
now forms two-thirds of Indonesia's wood product exports. The main markets
for Indonesian plywoods are USA, China/Hongkong, and Europe/Middle East, each
of which account for about a quarter of Indonesia's exports (including
re-exports through Singapore). Japan, though a potentially large market,
currently accounts for only about 10 of exports, due to tariff barriers of
17.5 to 20%. EEC employs tariff quotas. Other countries (Korea, Taiwan and
Australia) have tariff rates ranging between 25-31%, but these are less
impo.tant because of much smaller size of their Local markets.  For the
future, it is expected that growth of wood product exports will be 3 to 4%
p.a. in overall volume, though some segments such as furniture which are small
currently may show growth rates in excess of 10% p.a. The future export
marketing strategy of Indonesia should emphasize increasing export value
through increases in local value added and quality improvemrients.
2.17      Local Market.  Prior to 1980 the processed wood products went mainly
to local markets, which accounted for over 75% of total production. Since
then local consumption has increased at about 5% p.a., in line with tLae
general growth in local incomes, but the share of local consumption has
dropped below 50% owing to the mucn more rapid growth in exports. The
structure of local demand is the opposite of export demand, and is mainly for
sawnwood, which accounts for about 80% of the total demand for processed wood
products. This is typical of the pattern in lower to middle income
countries. In the next decade local consumption of sawnwood is expected to
increase by 2 to 4% p.a., and of plywood by 3 to 6% p.a.



-8-
Fiscal Policy
2.18      The level of tax collections from the forestsy sector is low, and
has declined from a nominal level of about US$20 per m of log production in
19P0 to a level of US$ 10 per m in 1984. The decline in real terms is
greater. The low level of taxes gives inadequate compensation to the
Government for the depletion of its valuable natural forest resources. By
pricing wood cheaply it also does nct give sutficient incentive to improve the
efficiency of utilization of wocd and wood waste. Preliminary analysis shows
t at the wood industry could withstand a doubling of tax level to tlS$20 per
m , though there is some concern that increasing taxes could affect incentives
in this export oriented industry. This issue has been discussed with GOI, and
MOF has formed a high level committee to review the level of forestry taxes
and fees. The Wood Industry Study has also recommended a review of forestry
sector taxes and fees. The proposed project will provide technical assistance
for reviewing fiscal policy in the forestry sector.
Forestry Products Trade Policy
2.19      Indonesia's trade policy for forestry products has been dominated by
uccessive bans on the export of primary products such as hardwood logs and
rattan. Starting in 1980, GOI started restricting log exports to encourage
local processing and employment creation, and by 1985 log exports were totally
banned. This decision has been controversial. On the one hand, log export
ban has been criticized for reductions in log pr3duction from a level of about
25 million m in 1980 to a level of 13 million m , two years later, and a
corresponding reduction in export revenues. Others have pointed out that the
drop was temporary, and that with the development of a relatively efficient
and export oriented plywood industry, log production and forestry sector
exports have recovered to former levels. Similarly, some have welcomed the
temporary reduction in logging due to log export ban as an environmentally
sound policy because of a concern about forestry resource depletion
(para 2.20). Forestry products trade policy will be reviewed under project-
sponsored forestry strategy studies.
Sectoral Problems and Constraints
2.20      Forest Resource Depletion.  While Indonesian forests are large,
there is a growing concern that the forestry resources are being depleted at a
rapid pace of about one million ha (1%) per annum. While the forests are
currently providing 25 million m3 p.a. and generating annual rent of US$750
million and exports of US$1.7 billion, at the current rate of depletion this
income stream will be exhausted in about 40 years. In addition to the loss of
timber, the loss of forest area also poses serious environmental problem
because of irreversible loss of the rich genetic diversity of Indonesian
forests, the erosion of soil, and siltation of dams and waterways. Some of
the contributing factors are discussed below.
2.21      Logging Damage.  Studies have shown that about 10 to 50X of the
remaining stand after logging is damaged due to careless logging practices,
and the loss of productive forest area is estimated at about 0.1 million ha
p.a. The proposed project will help develop guidelines and incentives for



improved logging prectices (para. 3.4), and would intensify forestry research
for developing improved techniques for the regeneration of logged-over forests
(para. 3.10).
2.22      Shifting Cultivation.  While traditional forms of shifting
cultivation, with rotations of over 20 years, are environmentally sound and
sustainable, the shorter rotation shifting cultivation is not. Because of
population increase in the Outer Islands of Indonesia, where most of the
forests are located, shorter rotation shifting cultivation is increasingly
leading to degradation of forest lands into low fertility grass lands
(alang-alang). The forest area lost due to shifting cultivation is estimated
between 0.3 and 0.5 million ha p.a. The proposed project will assist in
developing guidelines and action program for reduction in damage due to
shifting cultivation (para. 3.5).
2.23      Conversion to Agricultural Usage.  GOI has had an ambitious
transmigration program under which half a million families migrated to the
Outer Islands during the previous plan period (1980-84), and settled on
2.5 million ha of forest land. Similarly, other agricultural development
programs, such as the tree crop NES programs, have also led to the clearing of
up to 100,000 ha of forest land p.a. for agricultural usage. Recently, GOI
has slowed down these programs due to budget constraints. Still, it is
expected that conversion to agricultural usage will take up between 0.2 and
0.5 million ha of forest land p.a. While conversion to agricultural usage is
to some degree inevitable in the face of increasing population and demand for
food and agricultural commodities, such conversion needs to be well planned to
ensure that it does minimal damage to the environment. For instance, critical
wetlands which act as breeding grounds for large numbers of species of fish
and migratory birds need to be protected, and agricultural development should
be carried out in other areas. In addition, agricultural development strategy
should put less emphasis on increasing production through increases in area,
and more on increasing production by making better use of existing
agricultural areas through their intensified development and increases in
yield per unit area. This, for instance, is being done under the Bank
supported Fisheries Support Services Project (Loan 2773-IND) which will
increase shrimp proauction by increasing yields from existing ponds rather
than increase the area of shrimp ponds by converting critical wetlands. Under
the fisheries project some support is also being provided to the Ministry of
Population and Environment for developing agricultural development strategies
that will be less destructive of the environment. Similarly, under GOI's
Transmigration Program, there is greater need to emphasize increasing
productivity of existing areas (second stage development) and to put
relatively less emphas.s on creating new settlements. The Bank is supporting
such an approach through assistance for the preparation of the proposed
Transmigration VI Project, which will concentrate on second stage development
of existing transmigration areas. Yields from forest plantations also need to
be increased so that there is less pressure for logging of natural forests.
The proposed project will intensify forestry research for improving wood
plantation yields (para. 3.10). Forestry resource survey will also need to be
strengthened to improve decisions on the location of future agricultural and
forestry investments, and the proposed project will provide such assistance
(para. 3.8)



- 10 -
2.24      Forest Fires.  Because of increasing population near forests,
inappropriate forms of shifting cultivation, and also natural causes, forest
fires are increasing. Generally these fires do not spread far because of
humid conditions in tropical rain forests. But, in some years, unusually dry
conditions do cause extensive damage, as was the case in 1983/84 when about
3.5 million ha of forests in East Kalimantan were destroyed. In some areas,
the forest fires are deliberately started by encroachers to convert forest
land to grass lands for cattle grazing. Estimates of forest area lost range
between 0.1 and 0.2 million ha p.a. The encroachers are quite often brought
into the forests by ill planned roads. COI has now issued a decree which
requires environmental impact studies of proposed development projects, and
the Ministry of Population and Environment is reviewing such studies.
2.25      Encroachment and Poaching in Nature Conservation Areas.  While GOI
has designated some 19 m ha to conserve the biological diversity of flora and
fauna (para. 2.7.), and has laws and directives to protect endangered species
in thase areas, the implementation of these directives and laws needs to be
strengthened. GOI staff responsible for protecting nature conservation areas
often live far from such areas, and are poorly trained for such activities.
While the international community has been interested in the conservation of
nature in Indonesia, its assistance has often taken the form of supplying
experts. This has helped in producing a large number of useful studies,
research reports, and management plans for nature conservation areas, but
quite often these plans have not been implemented because of the problems
noted above. The proposed project will fill this critical implementation gap
by improving staff deployment, staff training and supervision (para. 3.15).
2.26      Forestry Research.  Prior to 1983, forestry research was done mainly
by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, and suffered because of the higher
priority given to rice research. Consequently, annual funding for forestry
research has been less than $2 million (0.2% of exports), one of the lowest
levels in the Asia-Pacific Region. The research is currently centralized at
Bogor in Java, and does not focus on basic technical issues concerning
forestry management problems of the Outer Islands where most Indonesian
forests are located. Therefore the current level of understanding about the
development and regeneration of tropical rain forests in Indonesia is poor,and
this hampers the ability of the forestry research service to offer effective
advice on techniques to support sustainable management of Indonesia's
forests. Furthermore, with increasing population pressures in the Outer
Islands and the inevitable reduction in production forest area, Indonesia will
have to supply larger quantities of wood from a smaller forest area. This may
eventually require the establishment of higher-yielding forest plantations in
the Outer Islands. To support this, forestry research must expand adaptive
trials for the screening of exotic speries. This would include fertilizer
trials, end use tests, and the measurement of yield, establishment cost, and
pest/disease vulnerability. Another priority area for research is the
regeneration and growth of natural forest under alternative logging and
management regimes. This would include measurement of regeneration on sites
with varying intensity of logging, levels of mechanization in logging and
skidding, and post-logging silvicultural practices. This will allow research
to advise the forestry service and concession holders on cost-effective
policies and techniques for the management of Indonesian forests, keeping in



- 11 -
mind financial, economic, ecological and anthropological concerns. Research
in these priority areas is constrained by a shortage of adequately trained
manpower, research funds and facilities in most Outer Islands other than
Kalimantan. The proposed project would assist in alleviating these
constraints. (para 3.10).
Sectoral Objectives and Strategies
2.27      In line with its broader economic development objectives, GOI's
objectives in the forestry sector are to:
(a)  improve the management of natural forests and plantations to sustain
their productivity for the future;
(b)  increase nonoil export revenues through increased exports of
forestry products;
(c)  improve the supply of industrial raw material and forestry products
for local industry and local consumption;
(d)  conserve watersheds to ensure uninterrupted flow of water for
irrigation and urban consumption; and
(e)  protect and conserve wildlife, genetic resources in natural forests,
and scenic and recreation areas.
Within the framework of the objectives and the national five-year development
plans (Repelita), MOF has formulated a number of programs and performance
targets in priority areas. The most important of these programs involve
forest inventory, nature conservation, watershed protection, plantation
establishment, research, training and administration development, for which
the proposed project will provide support.
Rationale for Bank's Involvement and Proposed Strategy
2.28      A strong forestry sector is important to the Indonesian economy
because of its role in export earnings and environmental protection. The
Bank's agriculture and rural development strategy had to date largely
concentrated on irrigation, tree crops and transmigration activities.
Involvement in these a_:ivities has clearly revealed their sensitive
inter-relationships with the forestry sector, and the need to address the
serious planning, management, nature conservation and watershed protection
problems of the forestry sector. Nature conservation, in particular, is
becoming a global issue, because Indonesian forests contain a significant part
of the world's biological resources, and their biological diversity is
threatened by developmental pressures. Therefore, the Bank has adopted an
assistance strategy which includes:
(a) strengthening nature conservation efforts by improving MOF
implementation capacity through improved deployment of staff, better
supervision and practical training;



- 12 -
(b) supporting watershed conservation efforts by developing and
implementing production techniques which are consistent with
environmental requirements, and which, at the same time, promote the
welfare of poor rural farmers who, because of their poverty, are
forced to encroach on critical watersheds;
(c) supporting policy improvements by strengthening GOI's policy
formulation efforts;
(d) improving the sector information base, so that policy choices are
made on the basis of sound information, and sectoral changes are
m_nitored and revealed in a timely fashion;
(e. developing improved and locally adapted techniques for the
management of forests and forestry investments in Indonesia by
strengthening forestry research;
(f) improving the quality of investment planning effort so that the
sectoral investments bring the intended benefits;
(g) improving policy and investment implementation capacity through
improved manpower development; and
(h) as sectoral policies, investment planning and implementation
capacities improve, the Bank's assistance strategy will begin to
emphasize funding of larger sectoral investment programs for
increasing forest production, improving sawmilling, improving wood
distribution, and increasing the local value added in the wood
processing sector.
III.  THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Strategy
3.1       The primary objective of this first Bank-assisted forestry project
would be to strengthen planning, management and conservation efforts in this
sector for maximizing long-term contributions from forest resources for the
welfare of the Indonesian people. Strategies to achieve those objectives
would include: (a) improving sectoral planning and management through studies
focussed on policies for improved forest management, while ensuring the
welfare of local people who derive their sustenance from the forests; (b)
strengthening sectoral information to provide an improved basis for
formulating sectoral plans; (c) improved planning and management of adaptive
forestry research in the OuLer Islands to improve productivity of natural
forests and plantations; and (d) 3trengthening of MOF's capacity for manpower
development planning and implementation. Critical conservation needs would be
addressed, particularly in catchment areas at greatest risk in Java, where
suitable technical packages have been developed and tested and where the
majority of the population is in the poverty group. Implementation of nature
conservation plans will be strengthened in areas which are particularly
important from species diversity point of view, and are particularly
threatened because of proximity to densely populated areas.



- 13 -
Brief Proj2ct Description
3.2       The proposed project will include the following components:
Institutional Strengthening
(a)  P                                            These will focus on
forestry management policies and incentives for sustainable
management of natural forest, including issues such as shifting
cultivation and plantation development as appropriate, including the
role of social forestry. Manpower development plan for MOF will
also be prepared. Following discussion of investment strategies and
agreement between GOI and the Bank, follow-up investment projects
would be prepared;
(b) Forest Inventory. The sectoral planning information base would be
strengthened through a national forest inventory focussed on
priority areas for development, and a system for regular updating of
this information to monitor change; and
(c) Forestry Research would be strengthened through improved planning,
management and funding of research mainly for natural forest
management, and tree improvement in the forest areas of the Outer
Islands.
Conservation
(a) Upper Solo (Wonogiri) Watershed Conservation. This will include
rehabilitation of about 22,000 ha of terraced lands and associated
conservation structure, planti.g of some 5,000 ha of fruit, fodder
and fuelwood trees on private lands, and 3,500 ha of conservation-
oriented forests on state land in Wonogiri. No resettlement will be
involved. Technical packages have been established and proven on
farmers' fields; and
(b) Nature Conservation. Management of five existing nature
conservation areas in East Java, Bali, North Sumatra, Aceh and North
Sulawesi would be strengthened through technical assistance, staff
training, and improved facilities.
Detailed Project Description
Policy, Planning and Investment Studies
3.3       In view of the increasing demand for forestry products, and concerns
about the sustainable supply of logs and other products from Indonesia's
forests, MOF plans to carry out studies focussed on strategies to ensure
sustainable development of Indonesia's forests. The studies will focus on
several areas, including policies and plans for improved management of
forests, shifting cultivation and strategies for avoiding more destructive
forms of such cultivation, manpower development plans to strengthen MOP
capacity to implement its policies and programs, and finally the preparation
of investmenl projects and programs consistent with proposed strategies.
These aspecLs are described in the following paragraphs in greater detail.



- 14 -
3.4       Forest Management Strategy Study.  The study will focus on forest
management and timber concession poli:ies and will suggest incentives and
control mechanisms for ensuring sustainable production from forests,
cozisistent with environmental considerations and the welfare of people who are
dependent on those forests for their sustenance (TORs in Annex 1). In the
first phase of the study, the current market and incentive framework would be
analyzed including the concession license tenure system, pricing and fiscal
policies, linkages between forest management and industrial utilization,
forest logging and harvesting systems. and their ecological, social and
silvicultural implications. The analysis will include assessment of policy
implementation capacity and potential for technical and administrative policy
changes that could lead to improved efficiency in thi. sector.  In order to
keep the study practical and implementation oriented, the feasibility and
impact of alternative strategies would be analyzed for three typical types of
concessions supplying (a) an integrated pulp and paper mill; (b) an integrated
plywood/sawmill; and (c) non-integrated processors. Following discussions and
review of first phase results, recommendations for long-term development
strategy would be formulated, followed by an action program for the next five
years including recommendations for policy changes. For this purpose, the
proposed project will include 110 man-months of internationally recruited
consultants and 165 man-months of locally recruited consultant assistance.
MOF has invited proposals from FAO for carrying out of forestry management
strategy studies, and signing of a consultancy agreement acceptable to the
Bank is proposed as a condition of Loan effectiveness. At negotiations, an
assurance was obtained that an action program for forestry development
strategy would be presented to the Bank by September 30, 1990 and following
discussions an acceptable action program would be adopted by March 31, 1991.
3.5       Shifting Cultivation Study.  In view of the growing problem of
shorter cycle non-sustainable forms of shifting cultivation, and widely
varying views about the magnitude and nature of the problem, the study will
initially assess the area under different forms of shifting cultivation and
evaluate the economic impact of such activity. The study will also describe
the practices of representative groups and their claims to land cultivation.
Based on this analysis the study will improve welfare by developing and
anialyzing alternative approaches for reducing environmental degradation and
resource depletion while promoting the welfare of local peoples. The
institutional and implementation arrangements would also be analyzed (TORs in
Annex 1). The project will provide about 24 man-months of internationally
recruited and 28 man-months of locally recruited consultant assistance. The
study recommendations will be presented to GOI and the Bank for discussion and
review by September 30, 1990, and finalized by March 31, 1991.
3.6       Manpower Development Plan.  The proposed project would assist MOF to
prepare a manpower development plan. This would include a review of the
current structure of the Ministry, preparation of a complete list of job
categories along with number of employees in each category and updated job
descriptions, preparation of staff skills inventory, and an assessment of
skill gaps, both current and future. Based on the assessment of needs, the
study will propose future manpower development strategy and an action plan for
addressirg both structural deficiencies and manpower skills gaps. About 36
man-months of internationally recruited consultants and 48 man-months of



- 15 -
locally recruited consultant assistance will be provided. Since the MOF would
nleed to update manpower development plans annually, its capacity for manpower
planning would also need to be strengthened by on-the-job training of
counterparts by study consultants supplemented by 30 man-months of formal
training.
3.7       Investment Planning.  It is expected that action plans from the
forestry strategy and planning studies will be available by March 31, 1990.
Following agreements on these action plans, the study teams will develop
terms-of-reference for more detailed planning of any investment proposals
contained in the action plans. It is expected that the preparation of
investment proposals will take 8 to 12 months, and after preparation the
proposals will be considered by the Bank for possible financing. Since the
efficiency of investments would depend on an appropriate policy framework, at
negotiations assurances were obtained that the detailed investment preparation
work will be started only after agreements are reached with the Bank on the
action plans developed under the main policy oriented studies described under
paras. 3.4 and 3.5.
Forest Inventory
3.8       In view oi the outdated and inaccurate forestry resource information
and the need to monitor changes in forestry resources on a regular basis, the
proposed project would assist GOI in carrying out a national forestry resource
survey. The survey would provide reliable estimates of standing -'olumes by
major forest types, species and marketing groups, and mark their location on
small-scale low-cost maps for use by both MOF and the private sector in
planning and administering proposals for forest utilization. The forest
resource information would also be used to develop longer range forest
management plans and policies.
3.9       To minimize the cost of forest inventory for Indonesia's vast forest
area extending over 144 million ha, a sampling approach will be adopted with
more emphasis given to areas that are important either because of high
potential for development or because of problems and pressures on the forestry
resources. A stratified sampling design will be adopted, with strata defined
on the basis of existing remote sensing images. In high priority areas, new
1:20,000 aerial photography will be obtained at systematically spaced
intervals with line spacing varying between 10 to 20 km. It is estimated that
7,500 line km will be flown. Field sampling will be done for calibrating
remote sensing and aerial photography data. It is expected that the number of
samples per million ha will range between 17 to 64. To facilitate forestry
management and development, stand and stock tables will be prepared by main
forest strata and geographic sub-divisions. This will show distribution of
volume by species and diameter classes and will be useful for guiding forestry
sector industrial investment and resource development decisions. About 110
man-months of consulting services and about 210 man-months of training will be
provided to assist in the implementation of the forest inventory component.
MOF has invited proposals from FAO and the signing of a consultancy agreement
acceptable to the Bank is proposed as a condition of Loan effectiveness.



- 16 -
Forestry Research
3.10      The project s-ill strengthen forestry research effort in the two
highest priority areas of (a) tree improvement research for increasing
productivity of forest plantations; and (b) development of applied technology
for the improved regeneration of logged-over natural forest. For this, the
project will support the development of the newly created forestry research
station in North Sumatra, and minor improvement of existing facilities at
Bogor and Samarinda. Research funds will be provided for research in those
two high priority research areas az several locations in Sumatra and
Kalimantan. Institutional arrangements for determining research priorities
will be strengthened (para 5.06). Management and effectiveness of research
effort will be strengthened by providing 84 man-months of internationally
recruited consulting services, 24 man-months of locally recruited consulting
services, and foreign training for about 40 research staff. Hiring of
consultants satisfactory to the Bank is proposed as a condition of
disbursement for this component.
Wonogiri Watershed Conservation
3.11      Soil Conservation Structures.  The project will strengthen soil
conservation efforts in the Wonogiri watershed, which is considered to be the
most critical watershed in Indonesia, because of heavy soil erosion and
siltation of the Wonogiri dam. For this the project will construct soil
conservation structures including 250 gulley head control structures, 1,300
small earth fill gulley plugs, 160 earth and rockfill gabion type check dams
(up to 4 meter height), and 40 small reservoirs. Sloping and grassing of
50,000 sq m of guiley sides will be done to prevent further erosion. About 10
km of eroding stream banks will be protected by construction of gabions and
about 50 km of roadside will be protected by reshaping of existing drainage
channels, grassing of banks, and providing channels with permanent drop
structures. These soil conservation structures will prevent worsening of
existing gulleys and will help to trap silt which is moving down from farms on
steep slopes in the catchment, to the Wonogiri reservoir. To prevent further
soil erosion and silt movement, the project will assist in planting of trees
on steeper slcpes and on strengthening on-farm conservation practices.
3.12      On-farm Conservation Practices.  The project will strengthen on-farm
conservation practices in the Wongiri area by improving existing terraces on
about 22,000 ha of erodable slopes, and providing them with stable waterways
and drop structures. To ensure that farmers take up on-farm conservation
practices, these practices have been formulated with a view to both increasing
farmer incomes in the short-term, as well as conserving soil for longer term
productivity. These agricultural practices involve growing of two crops per
year consisting mainly of maize with inter-crops of groundnut, rice or cassava
on terraces that are designed so that more moisture is retained during drier
periods and excess moisture drained off during wet season, in such a way that
erosion is minimized. These agricultural practices have already been tried in
farmer field conditions in the project area and found to be successful in both
increasing short-term farmer returns and improving soil conservation for
longer-term benefits. Continued development of location-specific recommenda-
tions will be carried on to improve end adapt existing technology to the



- 17 -
diverse agro-ecological conditions within the watershed. Following the
participative planning approach, this will be done with full farmer participa-
tion. To provide initial incentives to farmers for investing in initial
terrace improvements, and to overcome their natural risk aversion against
trying new technology, the project will provide in-kind direct subsidy
(fertilizer) on a declining schedule for three years to farmers who improve
terraces and follow recommended practices. This has been tried on a pilot
scale and appears to be the most successful approach in providing farmer
incentives. No direct in-kind fertilizer subsidy will be given after three
years because by then farmer incomes will have increased and the improved
practices proven, so that continuation of the subsidy will not be necessary.
After the three years, some farmers may need seasonal working capital credit,
which will be provided by the existing BRI network in the project area
following the KUPEDES scheme. Project extension activities will rely on
existing rural extension centers and on-going agricultural extension programs,
with some additions to extension staff strength (para. 5.9). Intensive
training for 230 project staff will be provided to strengthen technical
support (para. 5.8).
3.13      Community Forestry.  The project will assist in the planting of
5,000 ha of community forests in the Wonogiri area on private lands that are
steeply sloping and unsuited for other uses. Fast growing species suitable
for fuelwood, lumber and conservation, will be used. Project staff will
provide seed, seedlings and technical supervision for community forestry,
while local communities will provide labor for planting. The Wonogiri area
has a tradition of community self help organized by village head3, and the
project will use these traditional structures rather than impose new
structures. Because of community self help, planting costs will be low (Rp
0.25 million per ha).
3.14      Other Forestry.  The project will include the reforestation of about
3,500 ha of state forest land together with about 500 ha of conservation
forest planting on critical slopes on the Wongiri reservoir periphery.
Reforestation of state forests will include about 3,000 ha by direct hire
labor and 500 ha by farmers allowed to grow a crop in return for planting and
maintaining timber seedlings (the taungya system). The most important tree
planted will be pines, with smaller areas of mahogany, teak, acacia and
sonokeling. The conservation forest established on the reservoir periphery
will consist of quick growing and ground cover species planted by contract
labor.
Nature Conservation
3.15      The project will strengthen GOI's efforts to improve nature
conservation in Indonesia by strengthening such efforts at five sites that are
representative of the types of problems and opportunities faced by
conservation areas in Indonesia. Accordingly, two sites are in Java (Baluran
and Bromo Tenger), one in Bali (Bali Barat), and two in the Outer Islands
(Gunung Leuser and Dumoga Bone). The sites in Java and Bali are threatened by
high population densities of these islands, and therefore offer special
challenges in developing models for co-operative linkages between surrounding
population and nature conservation areas. The project will strengthen these



- 18 -
opportunities by encouraging local tourism and educational programs for
schools and community groups in the surrounding areas. For this the services
of a park interpretation specialist will be made available and visitor centers
constructed.. Park patrolling would also be improved by deploying more staff
near park boundaries. The approach at nature conservation sites in the Outer
Islands would be similar, but with more emphasis on research and monitoring of
valuable species, and patrolling to control poaching. At these sites staff
deployment would also be improved by building guard/ranger posts and housing
closer to the areas to be patrolled. The boundary demarcation will be
improved at sites such as Dumoga Bone and Bajuran, where demarcation has not
been completed. Additional staff is not needed, and improved management of
conservation areas will come through better deployment of staff, improved
training and supervision, and improved mobility. Management of conservation
will be strengthened by providing 42 man-months of internationally recruited
consultants and 34 man-months of foreign training. The consultants will also
provide on-the-job training of counterparts. Hiring of consultants satis-
factory to the Bank is proposed as a condition of disbursement for this
component.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Project Cost
4.1       The project is estimated to cost Rp 104 billion (US$63.0 million),
of which Rp 6.7 billion (US$4.1 million) would be in duties and taxes, and
Rp 39.3 billion (US$23.6 million) in foreign exchange (Table 4.1). Base costs
are calculated on early October 1987 prices based on recent contracts and
quotations. Physical contingency estimates for civil works and on-farm
improvements are estimated at 10%, and for other categories at 5%. Price
zontingencies are based on estimated annual local inflation o- 10% (1987), 5%
(1988), and 3.5Z (1989 onwards); and estimated annual foreign inflation of 3%
(1987), 1% (1988-90), and 3.5% (1991 onwards).
Financing
4.2       The proposed IBRD loan of US$34 million will finance 60% of total
project costs net of duties and taxes (US$4.1 million) and reserved
procurement (US$1.9 million). The loan will finance 88% of foreign costs and
about 34% of local costs, and will be at standard variable interest rate for
20 years with a 5-year grace (Table 4.2). GON has expressed its interest for
contributing US$3.1 million equivalent as an untied grant for the project.
Local contribution, net of duties and taxes, will be about US$22 million, of
which GOI will contribute US$12 million, and farmer in-kind contribution will
be US$10 million. Retroactive financing of up to US$0.5 million of expendi-
tures incurred after July 1, 1987 would be required.



Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Rp million                        US$'000               2 foreign   % total
Local    Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign       Total   exchange   base costs
Institutional Strengthening
Forestry inventory                    12,343.1  10,843.9   23,187.0   7,480.7   6,572.0  14,052.7          47           26
Forestry research                       4,229.8   6,899.4   11,129.2   2,563.5   4,181.4   6,745.0         62            13
Studies, planning and monitoring        1,395.8   3,965.8    5,361.6       845.9   2,403.5   3,249.4       74            6
Subtotal                           17,968.7  21,709.1   39,677.8  10,890.1  13,157.0  24,047.1          55           45
Forest Conservation
Wonogiri catchment                     29,711.1   8,714.6   38,425.7  18,006.7   5,281.6  23,288.3          23           43
National parks                          5,553.2   4,988.1   10,541.3   3,365.6   3,023.1   6,388.7          47           12
Subtotal                           35,264.3  13,702.7   48,967.0  21,372.3   8,304.7  29,677.0          28           55
Total Baseline Costs               53,233.0  35,411.8   88.644.8  32,262.4  21,461.7  53,724.1          40          100
Physical conzingencie-                    3,923.4   2,095.8    6,019.2   2,377.8   1,270.2   3,648.0          35            7
Price contingencies                       7,768.4   1,496.0    9,264.4   4,708.1        906.7   5,614.8       16           10
Total Project Costs                64,924.8  39,003.6  103,928.4  39,348.3  23,638.6  62,986.9          38          117



- 20 -
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN
(USS million)
IBRD      CON             GOI         Other local
Amount   X  Amount   Z  Amount    X   Amount   X    Total
Civil Works                       8.7   91    -       -   0.9        9      -      -    9.6
On-Farm improvements
and nursery                     5.5   57    -       -   0.1        1    4.0    42    9.6
Incremental working capital        -     -    -       -    -         -    6.3   100    6.3
Equipment, research, trials,
aerial photos & maps            9.9   91    -       -   0.9        9     -       -   10.8
Vehicles                           -     -   0.3    14   1.9       100      -      -    2.2
Incremental operating
costs                           2.3   16   0.4      3  11.8       81     -       -   14.5
Technica. assistance and
training                        7.6   76   2.4    24    -          -     -       -   10.0
Total                          34.0   54   3.1      5  15.6/a  25/a   10.3    16   63.0
/a   Includes duties and taxes.  Funds required net of duties and taxes are
US$11.5 million, or about 18X of total costs.
Procurement
4.3       Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3 and discussed
below.



- 21 -
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS /a
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
ICB      LCB      Other      NA      Total
Civil Works                                       9.6        -        -        9.6
(8.7)                       (8.7)
On-Farm Improvements nursery and         -                 10.3       -       10.3
research                                                (6.2)               (6.2)
Equipment                               3.7                 1.0       -        4.7
(3.4)              (0.9)              (4.3)
Equipment Hire, Aerial Photos           3.9       0.6      0.9        -        5.4
and Maps                             (3.5)    (0.6)    (0.8)                (4.9)
Vehicles                                           -        2.2       -        2.2
(0.0)              (0.0)
Incremental Working Capital &            -         -        -       20.8      20.8
Operating Costs /b                                                (2.3)    (2.3)
Technical Assistance and training        -         -         -      10.0      10.0
(7.6)    (7.6)
Total                               7.6      10.2     14.4      30.8     63.0
(6.9)    (9.3)    (7.9)    (9.9)   (34.0)
/a   Costs are inclusive of contingencies, duties and taxes.  Figures in
parentheses indicate expected disbursement from the proposed Bank loan.
/b   Includes maintenance contracts for project equipment and civil works.
4.4       Civil Works (US$ 9.6 million).   These consist of small office
buildings, housing and soil conservation structures, scattered over six
provinces of Indonesia. These works will be procured following LCB procedures
in which Eoreign contractGrs are eligitle to participate. LCB procedures are
justified because these works are small and scattered over a large number of
locations. While works to be implemented by any implementing agency over a
period of two years will be packaged together, this will still result in
contract sizes of less then US$2.0 million each.
4.5       On-farm Improvements and Nursery and Research (US$10.3 million).
Most of these improvements (87%) consist of terrace rehabilitation, and tree
planting to be undertaken by farmers on their own lands, and are not
appropriate for competitive bidding procedures. A small portion of the costs
(13%) will consist of tree planting and nursery activities of Government
agencies using hired libor at GOI's standard wage rate which is considered
reasonable.
4.6       Equipment (US$4.7 million).  Most of the equipment (79Z) will be
procured following ICB procedures in accordance with Bank Guidelines.



- 22 -
Off-the-shelf items, each of less than US$60,000 in value, will be procured
after inviting quotations from at least three suppliers. These will not
exceed US$1.0 million in total value.
4.7       Equipment Hire and Maps (US$5.4 million).  The project will need
copies of base maps and prints from negatives of high resolution satellite
imagery (SPOT) of forest areas (US$0.9 million). These are available with
GOI's national mapping agency, Bakosurstanal, and will be obtained by MOF at
cost. This procurement method is the most economic, considering the fact that
if MOF were to try to obtain new satellite imagery from outside sources the
cost will be several times higher because new negatives will need to be
prepared. In addition, the project will obtain aerial photographs of some
forest areas (US$3.9 million). These services will be obtained following ICB
procedures in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Helicopters will also need to
be hired (US$0.6 million) on a sporadic basis over a five year period for
transferring field survey crew to remote areas. Because the size of contract
is small and is unlikely to exceed US$0.2 million over any two year period,
LCB procedures will be followed, in which foreign firms will be eligible to
bid.
4.8       Vehicles (US$2.2 million).  Following GOI regulations, vehicle
import is not permitted, and the project will procure locally assembled
vehicles. Because of the reserved procurement these vehicles will not be
financed by the Bank. In addition, at negotiations, assurances were obtained
that vehicles will be provided in accordance with the schedule in Annex 4,
Table 1.
4.9       Other (US$30.8 million).  Consulting services (US$5.4 million) will
be procured following Bank Guidelines for hiring of consultants. GOI is
currently considering obtaining FAO assistance for hiring of consultants, and
the arrangements will be reviewed by the Bank. Training ($4.6 million) will
be at institutes acceptable to the Bank. The remaining costs are for
incremental salaries ($10.0 million), other incremental operating costs ($4.5
million) including maintenance contracts for civil works and equipment, and
working capital ($6.3 million).
4.10      Contract Review.  After an initial review of standard civil works
bidding documents by the Bank for LCB contracts, only bidding documents for
contracts estimated to exceed US$500,000 will be reviewed prior to issuance.
This will result in prior Bank review of seven documents covering about 75% of
the value of contracts. Similarly for equipment, all bidding packages
estimated to cost over US$300,000 will be reviewed prior to issuance. This
will result in Bank review of six documents covering over 80% of the value of
contracts. The remaining contracts will be reviewed on a random basis after
award of contracts.
Disbursements
4.11      Disbursements under the Bank loan are expected to be completed by
June 30, 1996, about eight years after Board Presentation (Annex 3). This is
somewhat shorter than the typical disbursement period for agricultural
projects in Indonesia, and forestry projects Bank-wide (para. 5.11).



- 23 -
4.12      Disbursements from the Bank loan will be made for:
(a)  91% of expenditures on civil works;
(b)  91% of expenditures on locally procured equipment (100% of local ex-
factory cost) or 100% of foreign expenditures on internationally
procured equipment;
(c)  91% of expenditures on equipment maintenance and hire, aerial photos
and maps;
(d)  100% of expenditures on technical assistance and training;
(e)  100% of payments to farmers for terrace rehabilitation and
associated waterways; and
(f)  91Z of expenditures for the establishment of forestry research plots
(including field trials), and nurseries.
4.13      Disbursements for training (US$4.6 million), payments to farmers for
terrace rehabilitation and waterways (US$4.9 million), and nursery and
research plots (US$0.7 million) will be based on Statements of Expenditures
(SOE). In addition, disbursements (US$3.3 million) for the purchase of items
of less than US$60,000 (para. 4.6) will also be on the basis of SOEs. These
SOEs will be prepared by MOF and detailed documentation will be kept at field
office at Solo and at headquarters in Jakarta. At negotiations, assurances
were obtained that these SOEs will be audited and the supporting documentation
will be made available to the Bank for inspection during supervision.
Disbursements for other components (US$19 million) or 56% of loan amount will
be based on fully documented withdrawal applications.
4.14      To facilitate disbursement administration, loan withdrawal
applications will be aggregated as far as possible, and will not be for less
than US$60,000 equivalent for reimbursement and US$10,000 equivalent for
direct payment. In addition, a Special Account (SA) will be set up in the
Bank of Indonesia (BI) with a maximum of US$1 million. Following GOI policy
that SA in foreign currency should not be set up, the proposed SA will be for
local currency payments only. Since most of project expenditures (over 60%)
will be in local currency, the benefits from the SA will be substantial. At
negotiations an assurance was obtained that GOI will set up a Special Account
in BI for disbursements from the proceeds of 'he Bank loan, following
procedures and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Accounting and Audits
4.15      Separate project accounts, clearly indicating the various sources of
receipts and expenditures by functional categories for their respective
project components, will be maintained by MOF, and by the Wonogiri project
office. The accounting and internal audit procedures of the implementing
agencies are satisfactory. Each agency has an internal audit office which
continuously audits its accounts. Strict budget control is maintained based
on standard unit costs, and expenditure beyond budgeted amounts is



- 24 -
difficult. As required by GOI regulations, agency accounts are audited
annually by the Directorate of State Accountancy (BPKP). Audits are usually
delayed due to shortage of accountants and auditors in Indonesia, and these
problems will be addressed by an Accountancy Development Project proposed for
Bank financing. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that unaudited
project accounts and SOEs will be submitted for audit and to the Bank within
five months of fiscal year-end, and the audit report made available to the
Bank within nine months of the fiscal year. The report would include a
separate auditors' opinion on SOE, verifying that the related expenditures
were made for the agreed purposes of the project.
V. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
5.1       General.  The project will be implemented for the most part by the
Ministry of Forests (MOF), with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) playing important roles in the implementation of
the watershed protection component.
The Ministry of Forests (MOF)
5.2       Coordination.  MOF will have the overall responsibility for project
coordination, and for this purpose a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) has
been set up, with the Minister as Chairman and the Directors General and
Agency heads as members. A project liaison office has been formed under the
Director of Planning. This office will help implementing agencies in: (a)
solving any problems concerning project accounting, budgeting and procurement
procedures; and (b) channelling disbursement requests and progress reports to
the Bank.
5.3       Strategy Studies.  The forest management strategy studies and the
shifting cultivation study will be coordinated by the Directorate General of
Forest Utilization (PH), and will be conducted with the help of consultants.
GOI has invited FAO to submit a proposal for carrying out of the study to be
financed by the proposed loan funds. Signing of an agreement satisfactory to
the Bank, is a condition of loan effectiveness. Interim results from strategy
studies will be reviewed by a steering committee which will have representa-
tives from MOF as well as other concerned agencies such as the Ministry of
Finance, Bappenas (Planning), the Ministry of Population and Environment
(KLH), and the Directorate General of Multifarious Industries. The Bank will
also participate in these reviews as a part of its loan supervision responsi-
bilities.
5.4       Manpower Development Planning Study.  The Directorate of Manpower
Planning within the Secretary General's office in MOF will be responsible for
preparing manpower development plans, with the assistance of two internation-
ally recruited consultants and two locally recruited consultants. For
preparing the manpower development plan, the Director of Manpower Planning
will form a manpower planning technical team with representatives from each
Directorate-General and Agency in MOF. An assurance was obtained that the
technical team will be established by September 30, 1988.



- 25 -
5.5       Forest Inventory.  The Agency for Forest Inventory and Land Use
Planning will be responsible for carrying out the national forest inventory
component, using the existing organizational structure. The Director of
Forest Inventory will act as Project Director, and will be assisted by a
Project Planning and Implementation Unit (PPIU). The PPIU has already been
established. The Agency has ten regional offices with adequate staff, and
these offices will assist in the implementation of the inventory. The
inventory consultants will organize seminars for further training of project
staff. The only incremental staff required are for computer assisted data
analysis, for which one systems engineer and six programmer/technicians will
be needed only after forest inventory data collection is completed. Therefore
these staff will be hired by April 1, 1990. To ensure that information is
responsive to user needs, at negotiations an assurance was obtained that a
national forestry information users group satisfactory to the Bank will be set
up by September 30, 1988 and maintained thereafter. The group will include
representatives of each of the Directorates General and Agencies in MOF, and a
representative of private industry. The group will meet as necessary, but at
least twice a year.
5.6       Forestry Research.  The forestry research component will be
implemented by the Research and Development Agency of MOF. To assist with
project implementation, a Project Planning and Implementation Unit (PPIU) has
been set up. PPIU is assisting in detailed design and procurement activities
for the proposed project. To assist with the setting up of research
priorities, and for coordination of research and development activities
undertaken by the Agency, Universities, private sector, and in some cases DC
RRL, a Forest Research Advisory Council will be set up which will include
representatives of MOF, universities, Bappenas and the private sector. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that a high level Forestry Research
Advisory Council, satisfactory to the Bank, will be set up by September 30,
1988. The Council will set research goals and priorities consistent with
forestry sector plans and strategies, and will allocate research implementa-
tion responsibilities and budgets. The Council will meet as frequently as
necessary, but at least once a year. The Council will be assisted by a forest
research policy analysis and development group which will act as its
secretariat and will be set up by September 30, 1988. The group will have
four professional officers, at least one of whom would have some competence in
economic analysis. Detailed annual research programs will be developed by the
agency, and will be sent to the Bank for review at least two months prior to
the start of each fiscal year. At negotiations, appropriate assurances were
obtained.
5.7       Nature Conservation.  The Directorate Ceneral for Forest Protection
and Nature Conservation (PHPA) within MOF will be responsible for implementing
the nature conservation component. Within PHPA, the Director National Parks
will act as the Project Director, and will be assisted by a PPIU (Nature
Conservation). The PPIU has already been formed. Current staff levels in
project national parks are adequate, and no additional staff will be required.
The main emphasis during project implementation will be on increasing the
effectiveness of project staff to implement the project better, and for this
purpose technical assistance will be provided.



- 26 -
5.8       Watershed Conservation - Technical Support.  MOF through its
Directorate General for Soil Conservation and Rehabilitation (RRL) would be
the lead agency providing technical direction in the project. Within RRL, the
Director of Soil Conservation will be responsible for supervision of technical
activities for watershed protection. Most of the technical activities would
be centered on the sub-Balai's office in Wonogiri and a post of Project
Manager (Technicai) with additional administrative and technical staff would
be established in this office to manage and coordinate technical activities,
including: (a) detailed conservation planning and design within the context of
a comprehensive watershed plan prepared by the Balai V office; (b) submission
of annual plans and budget proposals for conservation design and farmer
motivation activities; (c) training of PLPs and PPLs in conservation planning
and implementation; and (d) technical supervision of the construction of
conservation works. Intensive training of project staff at all levels will be
provided at the beginning of the project followed by continuous upgrading of
technical skills, especially for integrated watershed planning and the design
of conservation works. Consultants (45 man-months internationally recruited
and 48 man-months locally recruited) will be hired to strengthen technical
support for project implementation. Hiring of consultants, satisfactory to
the Bank and in accordance with the schedule in Annex 4, is a condition of
disbursement for this component. A liaison officer in MOF HQ will facilitate
communication between the Balai/sub-Balai office and agencies at the national
level in project matters.
Other Agencies
5.9       Watershed Conservation - Field Implementation.  The Ministry of Home
Affairs (MHA through its District (Kabupaten) level administration will be
responsible for field level implementation and co-ordination of watershed con-
servation activities, which are all confined in a single Kabupaten of
Wonogiri. The District Administrator's (Bupati's) office will have the main
responsibility for supervising and coordinating field implementation
activities of agricultural, forestry and public works staff, and for this
purpose a Project Manager (Field) will be appointed. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that Project Manager (Field) satisfactory to the Bank
will be appointed before September 30, 1988. Agricultural extension will be
the responsibility of agricultural extension workers (PPL) and soil
conservation extension work will be the responsibility of soil conservation
extension workers (PLP). The Project Manager (Field) will co-ordinate the
activities of agriculture (PPL) and soil conservation (PLP) excension workers
in the Wonogiri Watershed project area (para. 5.1C). He will ensure that PPLs
and PLPs work jointly during the initial period when soil conservation
structures are being constructed/rehabilitated. Current extens; .a staff
levels (60 PLP and 50 PPL) are inadequate for the more intensive extension
effort required to extend the new technology. An additional 50 PLPs and 40
PPLs will be posted in the Wonogiri watershed area for the duration of the
project. As conservation works are completed, PLPs will be progressively
moved out to other watersheds, leaving the PPLs to carry out agricultural
extension work.
5.10      Watershed Conservation-Coordination.  Since the implementation of
watershed conservation activities involves the activities of a large number of



- 27 -
agencies including Home Affairs, Forestry, Agriculture and Public Works, the
co-ordination of these activities will be specially important. Accordingly,
co-ordination structures will be set up at the District, Provincial and
National levels to co-ordinate watershed conservation activities. At the
District level the 3upati (D_trict Head) will be responsible for field
implementation, assisted by a co-ordination team headed by the head of
District Planning Agency (Bappeda-Level II) with members from all agencies
involved. Similar co-ordination structures will be set up at Provincial level
headed by Provincial Planning Agency, and at National level headed by the
Director-General of RRL in MOF, with the Director-General of Regional
Development in MHA acting as the alternate chairman. Amongst these co-
ordination structures, the field level co-ordination committee will be the
most important for ensuring smooth project implementation. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the District level co-ordination committee will
be set up before September 30, 1988.
Project Implementation Plans and Status
5,11      The project will be implemented over an eight year period, starting
April 1, 1988, with some components such as studies being completed in three
years, and others, such as watershed conservation being implemented over eight
years. The longer eight year period for watershed conservation is required
because of the need to train farmers to adopt new technology. The longer
period is consistent with the Bank's experience with similar projects in other
countries. Detailed terms-of-reference for key consultancies have been
prepared and agreed with GOI. Land for most of the civil works construction
is already available with implementing agencies, and for terraces with
farmers. The implementation schedule for key project actions, vehicle
procurement and additional staff required (Annex 4) have been discussed with
GOI and will be agreed at negotiations. Detailed design for first year civil
works have been completed, and for civil works construction in subsequent
years, the detailed design will be completed in each preceding year. The
detailed work program for agricultural activities in the Wonogiri watershed
was discussed during negotiations.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.12      Project monitoring will be done by Project Planning and
Implementation Units (PPIU), and these have been already created for all
project components. A project liaison office has been set up for overall pro-
ject monitoring and liaison with outside agencies. The PPIU and the liaison
office will issue quarterly progress reports showing physical achievements of
the project on indicators such as hiring of consultants, number of persons
trained, completion of interim and final reports on studies, establishment of
research plots, forest area covered by inventory, watershed area protected,
conservation structures, and infrastructure constructed. These reports will
also include explanations for major variations in plans, expenditures and
disbursements, as well as detailed plans for the next quarter and any
revisions in longer term plans.
5.13      Project evaluation will be done in several stages.  A mid-term
evaluation of the project will be started by September 30, 1991, and completed



- 28 -
by March 31, 1992. A project completion report (PCR) will be started by
March 31, 1997, and completed not later than six months after loan closing.
In addition to recording physical and financial achievements of the project
and explaining major deviations from plans, these evaluation reports will also
assess quality of project outputs and the benefits that would accrue from the
project. These reports will be prepared by the project liasion office with
assistance from PPIU, Bappeda Central Java, and consultants. Since evaluation
for the Wonogiri component will be specially complex because of the large
number of project participants (50,000 families), locally recruited
consultants will be employed to carry out a base line socio-economic sample
survey of Wonogiri watershed area, followed by sample surveys of project
participants every three years. At negotiations, assurances were obtained
that a base line survey will be completed by March 31, 1989, a mid-term
evaluation report by September 30, 1992, and a PCR not later than six months
after the loan Closing Date.
VI. PROJECT IMPACT
Benefits/Cost Effectiveness of Institutional Strengthening Components
6.1       The benefits from institutional strengthening components are
typically large relative to costs, but such benefits are often difficult to
quantify. Therefore, during the project preparation/appraisal stage special
care has been taken to ensure cost effectiveness of proposed investments for
institutional strengthening. For instance, the initial proposal for forest
inventory was for an investment of over US$60 million and required aerial
photographs of large areas of Indonesia's forests. During the preparation/
appraisal stage, the cost was reduced by over 75X by using efficient sampling
techniques and satellite imagery. Similarly, the cost of the forestry
research component was reduced by postponing lower priority activities.
6.2       While the benefits from institutional strengthening components are
difficult to quantify, some attempt has been made to relate the size of these
components to the size of sectoral assets and investments, which will benefit
from these components. In all cases, efficiency increases of one percent or
less are sufficient to justify the costs of these components, and it is highly
likely that actual efficiency increases due to project components will exceed
these levels.
6.3       Studies.  The forest management strategy studies will suggest policy
and incentives to ensure that Indonesian production forests, estimated at 40
to 60 m ha, continue to produce hardwood logs on a long-term sustainable basis
and in a manner consistent with environmental requirements and the welfare of
local populations dependent on those forests. These forests are currently
producing about 25 million cu m p.a. and generating annual rent of about
US$750 million, but in a manner that could completely exhaust this income
stream in about 40 years. Under these conditions, the value of the forest, in
present value terms, would be only about US$6.2 billion. However, with
improved policies and investments, these forests can produce 25 million cu m
p.a. and generate annual rent of US$750 million and exports of US$1,700
million on a sustainable basis. Under those conditions the present value of



- 29 -
future income from forests would be in the range of US$6.4 to 7.6 billion.
Clerly, the potential gain of between US$200 and 1,400 million in net rent is
very large when compared with the proposed cost of strategy studies of about
US$3 million and reasonable costs of implementing the strategy.
6.4       Forestry Research, The proposed investment in forestry research
will bring additional benefits by developing techniques for improved produc-
tivity of both natural and plantation forests consistent with environmental
and social welfare considerations. Under current silvicultural and logging
practices, the Indonesian natural forests are estimated to produce an average
annual increment of about one cu m per ha, which is far below the potential of
such forests. Considering that Indonesia's production forests are worth over
US$6 billion, even a one percent productivity increase due to improved
research efforts would bring benefits valued at about US$30 million in present
value terms. This is far in excess of incremental forestry research costs of
about US$7 million, and would produce an ERR tf more than 20%.
6.5       Forest Inventory.  The proposed strengthening of forestry resource
information would improve investment decisions in the forest based industrial
sector. The inventory will allow the Government and the private sector to
identify areas of the production forest that are specially rich in commercial
species, and relatively close to infrastructure for extraction purposes.
Similarly, investments in resource development would be most effective in
aras that are shown by the proposed resource survey and monitoring effort, to
be specially productive.  Between 1990 and 2000 over US$4 billion in forestry
sector investments are expected. Improved resource information and location
of investment will increase the effectiveness of this investment, and even
with a one percent increase in efficiency of these investments the benefits
from resource information will exceed the cost of obtaining such i.±forma-
tion. In addition, the forest inventory and monitoring information will
improve forest land use planning and management. It will provide an improved
basi for allocation of forestry land between competing forestry, agriculture
and conservation needs. By highlighting the magnitude and rate of changes in
forest areas due to encroachment, forest fires and illegal felling, it will
allow MOF to deploy its resources more effectively to prevent further
depletion of resources.
Benefits from Nature Conservation
6.6       The proposed investments in nature conservation will improve the
protection of several unique species of fauna and flora. This includes over
100 mamal species including Sumatran orang utan, Sumatran rhinoceros tiger,
banteng, siamang, clouded leopard and elephants. The avifauna includes the
endangered Bali starling. The nature conservation areas will also conserve
primary rainforests with a large variety of tree species, including commer-
cially important species such as Dipterocarpus spp. Preserving natural stands
of these species, which account for over US$1 billion p.a. in exports, is
important to act as a gene pool for tree breeding and tree improvement
programs, so that improved and higher yielding planting material are developed
for plantations as well as for enrichment planting in natural forest. The
Government is planning to increase the plantation area from the current 2 mil-
lion ha to 6 million ha, yielding about 40 million cu m of logs valued at over



- 30 -
US$2 billion p.a. If even 1Z of the incremental benefits were to be
attributed to conservation of gene pools, a very conservative estimate, the
US$20 million p.a. in incremental benefit is far in excess of nature
conservation costs of US$6 million, and this does not include additional
benefits from preserving plants which may in future be found to have medicinal
value.
Benefits and Economic Returns - Watershed Protection
6.7       The benefits from the watershed protection component, for the most
part, are more easily identifiable. These benefits are basically of two
types. First, the on-farm benefits which come from increased productivity of
farms operated by project participt its and which come directly as a result of
proposed project investments. The second type of benefits are the off-farm
benefits which accrue due to reduced siltation of the reservoir of the
Wonogiri multi-purpose ddm, and reduced siltation of downstream irrigation
channels. These benefits, associated investment costs and economic returns
are discussed below.
On-Farm Benefits - Field Crops
6.8       By improving their terraces, water channels and farming practices,
the project participants will be able to increase cropping intensity of farms
from an average level of 1.1 crops to 1.4 crops, and yields of upland rice,
maize, and cassava by about 70 to 80%, and of maize!groundnut crop (currently
101 of area) by 90 to 130X. The yield projections are based on actual
achievement under farmer field conditions in the project area. The yield
increases will be gradual and will take about four years to be achieved
because of the time required by farmers to learn new skills. For similar
reasons, the adoption of improved soil conservation practices will take about
six years, so that peak production will only be achieved by the tenth year of
the project (Table 6.1).
Table 6.1: FIELD CROP YIELDS, PRODUCTION AND INCOMES
Yields (tons/ha)                                  Increase in
Without      With        Incremental Production  Gross Income
(tons/ha)    project    Project            ('000 tons)          (Rp billion)
Paddy          1.2          1.7                7.4                   1.2
Maize          0.8          1.2               13.2                    1.6
Cassava        6.0          9.0               12.4                   0.5
Groundnut      0.4          0.7                3.9                   3.1
Total                                       36.9                   6.4



- 31 -
The project will increase production of field crops by about 37,000 tons. The
increased production will be marketed locally and in nearby Solo city.
Transportation network and marketing infrastructure in this densely populated
area is well developed and marketing of farm surplus will not pose any
problems. Due to this production increase, gross income from field crops will
increase by Rp 6.4 billion (US$4 million), and net income by Rp 5.5 billion
(US$3 million). These benefits will flow to about 50,000 farmers, a majority
of whom are in the poverty group.
On-Farm Benefits - Horticulture
6.9       Project farmers will harvest about 9,000 tons of fruits p.a. by the
tenth year of the project from some 880,000 trees they will plant in their
home gardens. Most of the fruits will be consumed locally and in nearby
population centers of Solo and Yogyakarta. The gross income from these fruits
will be about Rp 5.4 billion (US$3.3 million) p.a., and the net income Rp 3.3
billion (US$2.5 million) p.a.
6.10      The family incomes of project farmers will increase from Rp 0.9
million (US$548) to Rp 1.2 million (US$709), which will take average per
capita income from US$171 p.a. to US$221 p.a. Since most of the project
farniis are below the relative poverty level for Indonesia ($210 p.a.) and
about half will continue to remain below the poverty level, direct cost
recovery is neither viable nor advisable.
Benefits from Conservation Structures/Forestry
6.11      The off-farm benefits are substantial and come from four sources.
First, the check dams trap silt, and after 3 to 7 years a cultivable terrace
is created behind the dam. Second, the reduced siltation of the reservoir
allows the dam to produce hydroelectricity for a longer period. Third, the
reduced siltation also allows the reservoir to irrigate down-stream areas for
a longer period; and fourth, timber will be available from limited harvesting
of forests that are planted to reduce soil erosion. The present value of
benefits from these four sources are summarized below (Table 6.2).
Table 6.2: OFF FARM BENEFITS FROM CONSERVATION STRUCTURES/FORESTRY
Present Value of Net Benefits
Rp Billion            Z of Total
Check dams                       2.1                     16
Power generation                 0.3                      2
Downstream irrigation            9.4                     72
Forestry                         1.3                     10
Total                         13.1                    100



- 32 -
Role of Women
6.12      Women are involved in agricultural operations, in particular, in
tending home gardens for horticulture crop. Project extension effort for
horticultural activities wil'l be targeted at them. The women will also
benefit from horticulture production which will help diversify their food
consumption, improve nutrition and produce additional income for them.
Economic Analysis
6.13      BenLfits from project components for institutional strengthening
(strategy and planning studies, research, and inventory/resource survey) and
nature conservation are difficult to quantify. However, it is highly likely
that economic returns will exceed 20% p.a. (para 6.03-6.06). Benefits from
the watershed protection component are more easily quantifiable, and the ERR is
estimated at 22% p.a. (Table 6.3), and the NPV at 10% discount rate is
Rp 44 billion (US$27 million).
6.14      The benefit/cost analysis was conducted in border prices.
International prices have been converted to Rupiah at the current official
exchange rate. Local prices have been converted to border Rupiah using
appropriate conversion factors. A conversion factor of 0.65 was used to
convert market wage rate of Rp 1,250 per day for labor in Central Java to its
economic equivalent. Other local prices were converted to border Rupiah by
the general project conversion factor of 0.8.
Table 6.3: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF WATERSHED PROTECTION
ERR (2 p.a.)      NPV (Rp Billion)
On-farm Investments                26                  39.3
Off-farm Investments                14                  4.5
Total                            22                 43.9
Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
6.15      A switching value analysis of watershed conservation benefit and
cost streams (Table 6.4) shows that the ERR is quite robust.



- 33 -
Table 6.4: SWITCHING VALUES AT 10% OCC
Present value      Switching value
Rp billion              x
Off-farm benefits                               13                 -100
Benefits from Annual Crops                      46                  -89
Benefits from Home Gardens                      35                 -100
Total Benefits                                94                  -44
Off-Farm Investment Coste                        8                 +492
On-Farm Investment Costs                        45                  +92
Total Investment Costs                        53                  +78
Delay in Benefit Stream                          -              8 years
Even if off-farm benefits were not present or benefits from home-gardens do
not materialize, the watershed conservation investments would still have an
ERR higher than Indonesia's OCC or 10% p.a. The sensitivity is greatest to
benefits from annual crops, but these could be reduced by 89% without
affecting the viability of these investments. On a total basis, even if all
benefits reduce by 44% these investments will remain viable. Similarly even
if the total investment costs increase by 78% or the benefits are delayed by
up to 8 years the project will remain viable. The probability of this
happening is small.
6.16      On the institutional strengthening side, the main risk is whether
the policy recommendations of the forestry management strategy studies will
indeed get implemented. The risks are of two types. First, whether the local
institutions will be willing to accept sensitive policy recommendations that
may result from these studies. And, second, even if the recommendations are
accepted by GOI, whether they will indeed get implemented because of the
inherent difficulties of managing and controlling an arpa extending over tens
of millions of hectares.
6.17      To overcome the first risk, the study has been designed to involve
not only external consultants but also the various agencies which will be
involved in implementing study recommendations, including the private
sector. This will ensure that while study recommendations are being
formulated, diverse view points are fully aired, so that the final
recommendation is of better quality, and its rationale is well understood by
all parties. This will also ensure that policy implementav ion difficulties
are fully recognized during the policy formulation stage. This aspect has
been specially emphasized in study TORs. In addition, at negotiations,
assurances were obtained that an action program for forestry strategy
development will be presented to the Bank by September 30, 1990, and following
discussions, an acceptable action program would be adopted by March 31, 1991
(para. 3.4).



- 34 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS AND ASSURANCES OBTAINED AT NEGOTIATIONS
7.1       At negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a. an action program for forestry development strategy would be
presented to the Bank by September 30, 1990, and following
discussions an acceptable action program would be adopted by March
31, 1991 (para 3.4);
(b) the detailed investment preparation work will be started only after
agreements are reached on the action plans developed under the main
policy oriented studies described under para 3.4 and 3.5 (para 3.7);
(c) unaudited project accounts and SOEs will be submitted for audit and
to the Bank within five months of fiscal year-end, and the audit
report made available to the Bank within nine months of the fiscal
year. The report would include a separate auditors' opinion on SOE,
verifying that the related expenditures were made for the agreed
purposes of the project (para 4.13, 4.15);
(d) a Special Account will be maintained in BI for disbursements from
the proceeds of the Bank loan, following procedures and under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.14);
Ce) a manpower planning technical team will be established by Septem-
ber 30, 1988 (para 5.4);
Cf) a national forestry information users group satisfactory to the Bank
w1'  be set up by September 30, 1988 and maintained thereafter
(pare 5.5);
(g) a Forestry Research Advisory Council, satisfactory to the Bank, will
be set up by September 30, 1988 (para 5.6);
(h) a forest research policy analysis and development group will be set
up by September 30, 1988 (para 5.6);
(i) a Project Manager (Field) and the District level co-ordinating
committee, satisfactory to the Bank, will be appointed before
September 30, 1988 (para 5.9, 5.10); and
(j)  a base line survey will be comp.eted by March 31, 1989, a mid-term
evaluation report by September 30, 1992 and a PCR by the loan
closing date (para 5.13).
7.2       Signing of a consultancy agreement with the FAO or consulting firms
for forestry strategy studies and for technical assistance for forest
inventory satisfactory to the Bank, is proposed as a condition of loan
effectiveness (para 3.4, 3.9).
7.3       Signing of consultancy agreements for providing technical assistance
for forestry research, Uppe.- Solo (Wonogiri) watershed protection and nature



- 35 -
conservation components, are proposed as conditions of disbursement for the
respective components (para 3.10, 3.15, 5.8).
7.4       With the above actions and assurances, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan to GOI of US$34 million equivalent for 20 years with
a grace period of 5 years at the standard variable interest rate.



ANNEX 1
- 36 -                           Page 1 of 22
INDONESIA
FOREST UTILIZATION AND MANACEMENT IN INDONESIA
DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY STUDY
Terms of Reference
I. BACKGROUND
Indonesian's forests play a major role in economic development in
sustaining agricultural productivity and protecting the environment.
While logging for export has, in the past, been the major element of
Indonesia's forest industries subsector, the Government ban on log exports
which took effect in 1985, has shifted the emphasis to domestic processing.
Primary forest industries (pulp and paper, sawmilling and wood-based panels)
employed an estimated 160,000 persons in 1985. In addition, exports of
primary forest products, mainly plywood, were second only to oil in terms of
export revenues, earning some US$1.7 billion in 1986.
Forest Resources
A forest/land use plan (TGHK) has been formulated by MOF based on a
concensus agreement between agencies such as Forestry, Lands, Agriculture,
Public Works, Planning and Transmigration, with the following results:
Table 1
Classification                  Area (Millions of Hectares)
Protective forests                                30
Nature conservations                              19
Production forest                                 64
Conversion forest                                 31
Total forest area                                144
A total of 144 million ha of forest has been designated as official
forest land under the Basic Forest Law No. 5 of 1967, and the responsibility
assigned to the Minister of Forests. These figures are today accepted as the
best estimate but they need to be improved. About 15 to 30 million ha out of
a total of 64 million ha of production forests have already been exploited.



- 37 -                   ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 22
Despite the apparent abundance of Indonesia's forest resources
increasing population and constant pressure for conversion of forest land to
agriculture are today raising doubts about Indonesia's ability to meet the
rapidly rising domestic demand for industrial forest products (sawn lumber,
veneer, plywood pulp and paper). By the year 2020 preliminary calculations
suggest that the domestic market will be consuming all of the sustained yield
output from the natural forests leaving nothing for export. (see Table 2).
Table 2: INDONESIA - DOMESTIC SUPPLY AND DEMAND
SITUATION FOR INDUSTRIAL FOREST PRODUCTS
1985          2000               2020
Sawntimber (000m3)                        4,500          7,200              8,600
Plywood/panels (00m3)                    1,200          2,500              3,700
Paper, paperboard (OOOMT)                   680          1,220              2,200
Industrial roundwood equivalent
requirements to meet domestic
demand (OOOm3)                         26,000         46,500             63,500
Availability of industrial wood
from natural forest area of
60 million ha approx. operated
on a sustained yield basis             60,000         60,000             60,000
Surplus or deficit 000m3                +46,000        +26,500             -3,500
Source: IBRD Appraisal Mission Estimate.
Given Indonesia's commanding position in the tropical hardwood trade and the
potential of the forest resources to go on contributing to foreign exchange
earnings and economic development GOIs Ministry of Forestry plans to introduce
more intensive natural forest management and to establish fast growing planta-
tions. The current proposals are to convert about 10 percent of the
production forest area (i.e. 6 million ha) to fast growing industrial planta-
tions. About 1.4 million hectares of plantations have already been planted
(mainly teak in Java and in Sumatra).
Changing Structure of Indonesia's Forest Industries
Partly as a result of its log export ban the structure of
Indonesia's forest industries and the type of output have changed dramatically
in the last decade:



- 38 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 22
Table 3: FOREST PRODUCTS PRODUCTION
Industrial
Log              Log                  Production of:
Removals         Export       Sawnwo3d         P;neli         Paper
Year        ('000 m>)        ('000 m')    ('000 m          ('000 m        ('000 t)
1960           5,361              115         1,690                3           95
1965           6,113             300          1,790                4           15
1970          12,614           7,834          1,701                8           19
1975          18,781          12,884          2,415              108           46
1980          30,587          15,182 /b       5,322            1,012          231
1985          25,000 /a          nil          6,900 /a         4,983          499
/a Preliminary
Th Log exports peaked at 19.5 million m3 in 1978.
Sources: FAO Yearbook of Forest Products; Directorate of Forest Industries;
Indonesian Plywood Association; Indonesian Paper Association.
This changing structure and rapid expansion of industrial capacity
has led to concerns about the inefficient use of forest resource and the need
to review timber taxation structure.
Non Industrial Benefits from Forestry
In addition to the important industrial potential contribution that
Indonesia's forests can make to economic development thev are important for
many other reasons. Indonesian rain forests, accounting for about 10X of the
world's tropical rain forests, constitute one of the world's most biologically
diverse natural resources with more than 500 species of mammals, 1,500 species
of birds, and 10,000 species of trees. They protect numerous watersheds which
are important for supplying water to agriculture, urban and industrial
sectors. They provide a habitat for some 50 million people who depend on
shifting cultivation and the harvesting of minor forest products for food
fibre, medicinal product and for gerating income.
Forestry Institution. The Ministry of Forests (MOF) is responsible
for forestry sector planning and for the management of Indonesia's forests and
wildlife. The Ministry has three Directorate-General (DG) for: (a) Forert
Utilization (PH); (b) Reforestation and Land Rehabilitation (RRL); and (c)
Forest Protection and Nature Conservation (PHPA); and theree Agencies for
Research, Inventory and Training. The Ministry employs about 17,000 persons
and had budget of Rp.41,000 (US$36 million) in 1985/86 of which 68% was for
development. In addition to the Ministry, there are three state forestry
enterprises and 24 provincial forest services. The Ministry of Population and
Environment also has an advisory role on environmental issues affecting
Indonesian forests.



- 39 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 22
Sectoral Problems and Constraints
Depletion of Resources. Between 1968 and 1979, extraction of logs
from Indonesian forests accelerated from a level of 5 million m3 p.a. to
27 million m3 p.a. While a ban on log exports initially reduced extraction,
with the rapid development of wood processing industries, log extraction has
again reached a level of 25 million m3 p.a. Most of these logs are removed
from fragile tropical rain forests, and this has raised concerns about the
destruction of these forests and the impact on their biological diversity.
While the mean annual increment from Indonesia's production forest is esti-
mated at about 60 million m3 p.a. there is still a concern that because of
uncertainty about the effectiveness of forest management, forest resources in
more accessible areas are being depleted at a rate faster than the rate at
which the forest can regerrrate itself. The problem is compounded by the
conversion of forest land to agriculture, both by local cultivators and
development programs such as the Transmigration Settlement Program. While the
area cleared has been at the rate of only about 100,000 ha p.a. (0.lZ p.a. of
the forest area), there are international concerns about illegal logging and
the danger of forest fires caused by spontaneous settlers. The information
base in the sector is poor, and in the absence of reliable data, estimates of
damage are based on highly anecdotal and often unsubstantiated information.
Forest Management and Timber Concession Policies
Most of the production forest in Indonesia is managed by private
sector concessionaires under the supervision of MOF. Because of the extensive
nature of the forest and the shortage of trained staff, MOF has been unable to
supervise properly the operation of these concessions, nor has it been able to
establish the right incentives for the private sector to manage these conces-
sions soundly. A recent survey by GOI has shown that about 150 out of a total
of about 500 concessions, are poorly managed and many of these are under
concessionaires who have made little investment in processing. To give
concessionaires greater stake in the longer-term viability of the forest, MOF
is planning closer integration between processing plant and forest conces-
sions. The legal administrative and social implications of future concession
policy options are a key development strategy issue on whlich COI is seeking
World Bank and other agency advice.
Fiscal Policy. The level of tax collection from the forestry sector
is low, and has declined , frdm a nominal level of about US$20 per m3 of log
production in 1980 to a level of US$10 per m3 in 1984. The decline in real
terms is greater. The low level of taxes gives inadequate compensation to the
Government for the depletion of its valuable natural forest resources. By
pricing wood cheaply it also doe. not give sufficient incentive to improve the
efficiency of utilization of wood and wood waste. While a preliminary
analysis shows that the wood industry could stand a doubling of tax level to
US$20 per m3, the analysis needs to be confirmed. An on-going Bank financed
Wood Industries Study being conducted by Atlanta Consult from West Germany has
also recommended that a review of forestry sector fiscal policy be carried
out. The proposed development strategy study will carry out indepth analysis
of the likely impact on profitability o, logging sawmilling, plywood and
paper production given increased royalty fees and it will review policy



- 40 -                       ANNEX I
Page 5 of 22
options for ensuring that the fiscal policy is consistent with GOI's objec-
tives in the sector.
Improvement of Logging Methods and the Relationship between Logging and
Improved Forest Management
The approach recommended so far for improving natural forest manage-
ment is to improve logging methods and to ensure careful selection of trees
for cutting and felling in a way that will reduce damage to young regeneration
(This is a basic management principle of Indonesia's Selective Felling System
(TPI)). Many uncertainties prevail about the effectiveness of this system in
ensuring a second crop.
The Indonesian Selection System (TPI) permits the felling of desired
commercial species with diameters of 50cm above. It is essentially a
"toreaming" operation in which only the best trees are taken. Even so, 50-80
m per ha are removed during the first cut. The main area of uncertainty lies
in whether or not the remaining standing trees and young regeneration of less
valuable Dipterocap species will produce a significant crop in 35 years time?
Theoretically, the surviving trees over 20cm diameter will have
moved up a number of diameter classes as diameter increments of lcm/year have
been measured in these forests. Thus, the second cut should be about the same
volume as the first even though the tree diameter would be smaller than the
first cut, and the species may have changed in their proportions. Past
experience both in Indonesia and elsewhere as Nigeria, Malaysia and
Philippines seems to indicate that downgrading of dimension of logs and
species is inevitable after any first cut "creaming" of forest. In a limited
study by FRI Samarinda, reported in the journal WANATROP (volume 1 number 1
1986), the following information is quoted, referring to typical Dipterocarp
forest in E. Kalimantan:
Table 4
- Before logging average number of trees above 20cm diameter          62/h1
Before logging average volume of trees above 20cm diameter          105m /ha
- Trees damaged by logging (number)                                   14/ .a
Trees damaged by logging (volume)                                   22m /ha
- Trees removed by logging (number above 50cm diameter)               5/ha
Trees removed by logging (volume)                                   42m /ha
- Surviving trees (number)                                            45/ a
Surviving trees (volume)                                            75m /ha
The study shows that about 12X of the area is damaged by the heavy
logging equipment required for the first round of culting, and this area is
not likely to carry any significanLt growth by the time of the second cut in 35
years time.



- 41 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 22
The issues currently being investigated and on which this developing
study would focus concern the technical and economic viability and ecological
sustainability of various the TPI and other alternative logging and forest
management systems.
Need for Strengthening of Forestry Planning and Administration
Overall sectoral planning is the responsibility of the Directorate
of Planning in MOF. Planning capability is weak. A UNDP-funded and FAO-
executed project is helping MOF strengthen its planning capacity. The project
is helping MOF develop overall sectoral plans with special reference to
developing a model for rationalising the geographic distribution of forest
industry capacity, and evaluating alternative strategies for meeting future
demands through various combinations of natural forest anc plantation. The
proposed study would complement this ongoing FAO study by linking it more
directly to the forest utilization and management operations being conducted
by the Directorate General for Forest Utilization. Case studies of specific
concessions operations to be carried out by the Bank financed study will give
an opportunity to assess the implications of concession policy reform, changes
to fiscal and forest management policy and administrative arrangement for
improved revenue collection. It would link FAO's macroeconomic studies to
preparation of overall development strategy for the forestry sector and the
preparation of investment proposals for the coming Plan Period.
II. OVERALL OBJECTIVES OF PROPOSED STUDY
The overall objectives of this study are to review alternative
strategies and to make recommendations for long term development of the
forestry sector and to identify key areas of policy reform that could lead to
more efficient industrial operations and improved forest management. Based on
the recommended development strategy, the study would prepare investment
proposals for possible World Bank and/or other agency financing.
The study would cover all of Indonesian forest utilization sector,
including:
(a) Domestic marketing and export prospects for wood and major non-wood
forest products in the form of raw materials as well as in semi and
finished products.
(b) Forest utilization industrial processing options for all major
forest industries, in the other islands as well as on Java. This
would cover both HPH-based - and non-HPH based industries and
including the pulp and paper industry. This would build on the
information already developed in a separate World Bank financed
study on wood industries.
1/   Forest industries which concession licencies to operate in specific
forest areas.



- 42 -                        ANNEX I
Page 7 of 22
(c) Logging and harvesting development strategy for both wood and
non-wood forest resources in the other islands as well as on Java.
(d) Resource development options (natural forest and plantation based)
for all forests areas in the both in Java and in the other island.
(e) The institutional and policy framework for improved forest utiliza-
tion with special reference to policy reform in the areas of conces-
sion licence agreement fiscal pricing policy, and revenue collec-
tion.
The study will be divided into four parts:
Phase 1 - Analysis of the Current Supply/Demand and Forestry Development
Situation and of the potential for techr.ical and policy changes that
could lead to improved efficiency in the sector.
Phase 2 - Recommendations for long term development strategy to the year
2035.
Phase 3 - A recommended Action Programme for the coming 5 year Plan
Period with special reference to changes in forest policy that could help
to ensure an orderly transition towards the recommended development
strategy option.
Phase 4 - Identification of a specific project(s) suitable for World Bank
and/or other agency financing which would begin to implement the recom-
mended development strategy, and develop TORs for feasibility studies.
Phase 5 - Feasibility studies of selected projects.
PHASE I - ANALYSIS OF CURRENT SITUATION AND POTENTIAL AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT
Market Prospects
Utilizing, for the most part, existing sources of international and
locally available data, this part of the study would focus on analyzing
present and estimated future demand, both domestic (local and inter-island)
and overseas, for various forest products, wood and non-wood products, semi
finished and finished products. The study would determine the magnitude of
the present market and assess likely future growth of Indonesian forest
utilization sector products trade as a share of world trade. Market prospects
for various stages of utilization/processing of forest commodities would be
analyzed for the major overseas market of actual or possible relevance for
Indonesia. Indonesia currently has a 30Z share of the Southeast Asia hardwood
sawrn lumber market and 58Z of the hardwood plywood trade. The marketing study
will review long-term propects for sustaining exports to year 2035 taking into
particular consideration the changing structure of Japan's forest industries
and other emerging markets such as China, Korea and Taiwan. Also the likely
competitiveness of Indonesian producers compared with Malaysia, Philippines,
Papua New Guinea and other major tropical hardwood producers in the region.



- 43 -                ~~~~ANNEX 1
3Page 8 of 22
The marketing study would assess Indonesia's present and possible
future comparative advantages in producing principal forest product (both wood
and major non-wood prc.ict). These analyses would take into account the data
on production costs to be collected in Section of the study below. Also other
aspects that wn?r;,d affect the competetiveness of Indonasia producers such as
availability of raw material and other inputs, technology, management, quality
control, logistical management and distribution flows, fiscal incentives, and
availability of skilled labour. Also the comparative strength of Indonesia's
main overseas competitors.
The marketing study will give special attention to the prospects for
ensuring sustained future supplies of wood for the domestic market which will
reach about 60 million cubic meters of round wood equivalent by year 2020
(i.e., about the same amount as the Government's annual allowable cut from all
of Indonesia's Production Forest - See Tabie 2 above). The marketing study
will examine likely acceptability in the domestic market of the faster growing
plantation timber species that are being use for replacement of the natural
forest and make preliminary projections of the price differentials between
natural forest and plantation timber species used for production of lumber
veneer plywood and other wood-based panel products. The study will examine
the extent to which investment in an accelerated plantation program of fast
growing species could help to ensure sustained supplies of medium-lower grade
construction timbers for the domestic market thereby maintaining an increased
and sustainable flow of higher value natural forest hardwood, timber, veneer
and plywood for export through the next century.
The marketing study would give special attention to the market
prospects for ratta, vesins, fruits and other minor forest products that are
the basis for both subsistence and income generation for many forest develling
communities.
Structure of Forest Processing Industry
The study would collect and evaluate existing data on the production
and distribution of forest industrial processing plants by geographical
regions, including smaller rural industries. This data would be combined with
specific forest resource information as a basis for determining the scope for
close intergration between-processing plant and the forest areas that will
supply them. Also the need to maintain an assured log supply for smaller non
integrated sawnmills and other wood using industries.
This part of the study will be based mainly on the finding of
existing GOI studies and particularly the Bank-financed Wood Processing
Industry Sector study supplemented by recent evalu P ions carried out by staff
of the World Bank's Industries Project Department._   Also by the recommended
studies on Distribution Systems for forest products recomended in Section -
below.
2/   See Back-to-Office report of A. Ewing, January 27, 1987.



- 44 -                         ANNEX I
Page 9 of 22
Distribution System for Logs and Finished Products
In order to provide a basis for decisions relating to more optimal
geographic distribution of industrial processing capacity of above, the study
will provide quantitative estimates, for current and recent years, of the
logistical management and distribution system, and marketing channels of
forest products, including:
(a) Logs or round wood and processed wood products.
(b) Rattan products.
(c) Other major non-wood or minor forest products.
Estimates will be cross-tabulated by subsectors: wood, rattan, other
minor forest products, etc. by type, and by market (export or domestic), with
domestic market broken into main geographical areas.
The study will review the principal methods and costs/freight rates
of transporting products to main domestic and export markets. The adequacy of
rolling stock and vessels, and the logistics of infrastructure to handle these
shipments should also be assessed.
The study will quantify the approximate volume of end products along
the major transport routes, analyse the general efficiency of these opera-
tions, and identify these parts of the logistics chain which are major con-
straints to efficient distribution. The study would recommend investment and
adjustments to geographic location of industry that would result in an optimal
management and distribution system for forest products.
Forest Resources Supply Side Situation
The supply side of the study will include: (a) A review of existing
forest inventory data in Indonesia and other sources of information, present-
ing a sufficiently detailed picture of past current and potential future
supply patterns of logs and major non-wood products in the domestic and export
markets for the purpose of broad long range planning.
The study will assemble all information already available on the
physical area and availability of logs from:
(a) Natural forests; and
(b) Existing and planned future plantations.
The study will project approximate availability of logs based on
existing information to the year 2035, using plausible upper and lower level
estimates of supply based on existing inventory data and past logging
experience. The study will review GOI's ongoing and planned program of forest
inventory and that proposed for support in the IBRD financed forestry project
and make recommendations for intensifying inventory work in any areas the-t are
not adequately covered by existing or proposed inventory proposals. Special



- 45 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 22
reference will be given to limiting inventories only to those areas that are
justified for purposes of obtaining (a) an approximate overview of timber
availability for long range planning purposes, (b) short term more detailed
operational inventories covering only those areas that are likely to be logged
over in the coming decade.
The study will prepare a long term wood supply/demand balance to the
year 2035 giving special attention to the extent to which in order to ensure a
sustained and significant export trade, it will be necessary to supplement
natural forest log supplies with plantation grown timber.
Logging and Harvesting System
The study will assess the existing logging and non-wood extraction
or harvesting (exploitation) systems under the HPH-concession system (20 years
permit) the HPHH-system (2 years permit), clear cutting system (Java) and
using primarly existing sources of information and other related studies.
The study would evaluate and anlyze logging and extraction activi-
ties and recommend strategy to optimize logging and extraction methods, and
ways to minimize logging/extraction wastes, including improvement/new
approach/new methods of logging and extraction of major non-wood products,
i.e., rattan, gondorukem, sago, medicinal plant and other products, energy,
etc.
In carrying out this review of alternative logging methods special
attention will be given to the issue of ensuring logging systems that can help
to minimize damage to young regeneration and to ensure a sustainable forest
yield.
In relation to possible pricing policy reforms and adjustments to
logging methods that will lead to improved forest management, economic models
will be developed to demonstrate the likely effect on the delivered log cost
to mill site of the alternative logging/forest management systems working on
the hypothesis that restrictions on harvesting to ensure adequate young
regeneration raise per hectare log extraction costs (because fewer trees are
to be removed and because of the need for more careful felling to avoid
damaging young regeneration). Restricted harvesting will also increase the
transportation distance over which log will have to be moved from forest to
mill site. That could imply a larger radius of haulage in order to maintain a
mill of given size. This selective logging/management system will be compared
with the alternative option of increasing the felling area and replanting of
felled over areas.
Forest Management systems and their implications for concession license policy
The study will review the technical and economic data relating to
alternative forest management systems ranging from zero silvicultural treat-
ment through tArichment' planting and plantation forestry.
In particular this part of the study will examine the of technical
and economic evidence on the sustainability of the Indonesian Selective



- 46 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 22
logging system (TPI) compared with alternative for improving the survival of
Dipterocarp species by using a two story management system as involving
planting of light hardwood. The study will develop physical species with an
underplanted dipterocarp crop and economic data that will enable a comparison
to be made of the relative financial rates of return for various forest
management systems ranging from zero treatment through to intensive planta-
tions.
The ecological implication of these various forest management
systems will be reviewed in particular, the ecological sustainability of
plantation monocultures taking into account their likely, increased nutrient
drain compled to an assesment of the economic viability of maintaining plan-
tation productivity by periodic fertilizer application.
Concession Licence Tenure Systems
This topic will be approached in 3 ways:
(a) A review of current licences systems used in Indonesia;
(b) A review of international experienced of possible relevance to
Indonesia;
(c) Case studies of specific situations in Indonesia in which the effect
of application of different systems of licesing could be assessed.
The review of local systems would comprise an in-depth analysis of
the present status of Forest Tenure System (HPH Concession, HPHH permits,
industrial forest management in Java, and traditional tenure rights). The
review of overseas concession lease systems of possible relevance to Indonesia
would include in particular to Canadian experience where various forms of
licence have been tested over the last 30 years. As a starting point for
making recommendations concerning future developed strategy and as a way of
testing out the practicability and likely economic impact of possible
increases in royalty and/or other timber taxes.
In selecting local companies for detailed Case Study three typical
situation will be pursued:
(a) A non-integrated forestry/forest industries situation from which
logs are being supplied from a Government owned concession to
existing independent smaller sawmills, veneer or plywood mills. The
assumption is that in such situations the main responsibility for
forest management would probably lie with the government's Forest
Service. (Small scale sawmillers or independent logging companies
would be unlikely investors in long-term forest management).
(b) An integrated medium-sized forest industries complex (i.e., mill
linked to forest concession) probably located on Kalimantan produc-
ing primarily mechanical wood products (lumber, veneer, ploywood) in
a situation where the investment in logging equipment and associated
industrial plant is quite large (say over US$5 million) and where



-47 -ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 22
industrial enterprise management could be supportive of the need for
reinvestment in forestry.
(c) A large size integrated pulp and paper mill, e.g., in Sumatra in a
situation where the mill has a strong interest in developing a fast
growing plantation resource to sustain its future raw material
needs.
The Case Studies would cover the following main aspects in each of
study areas:
(a) A review of inventory data of the timber resources in the concession
(depending on the concession area selected for study some of this
information may already be available);
(b) A review of marketing prospects for the industrial enterprises (both
domestic and overseas);
(c)  For the integrated situations a review of future industrial process-
ing options (based on a review of inventory ard marketing data
above) including analysis of costs and benefits and financial
viability for industrial processing facilities likely to be in place
L-ve  the next 10-15 years;
(d) Examination of the key policy interventions that could lead to
assurance of a sustainable supply of raw material for industry via
improved forest management, and/or plantation development; and
(e)  A study of the necessary policy measures and investments that wLuld
be needed to protect the interests of local people living in the
concession and to assist them in development of marketing of minor
forest products.
Based on the above review and taking into account the findings of
pricing and fiscal policies studies in Section - below - the study will
recommend policy changes to the current concession license system that could
help to ensure more efficient industrial operations and improved forest
management.
Pricing and Fiscal Policies
As an essential input to the above study of concession licence
options it would be necessary to review the current royalty assessment timber
taxation and forest revenue collection systems. This topic should be related
to an analysis of logging methods and forest resource replacement costs.
The pricing studies to be carried out by the study team will examine
the incidence of stumpage and other taxes on logging, and timber manucturing
opeations. The Study Team economist will develop production cost profiles
for:



- 48 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 13 of 22
-    Independent logging
-    Sawmilling
-    Veneer/plywood
-    Pulp and paper operations
to test the sensitivity of operational profitability and competitiveness to
significant increases in stumpage fee and other taxes on natural forest
timber. Also the likely impact of deliberately increasing the differential
royalty between high and low value species. This part of the study will
develop recommendations for improved forest management concession license,
timber pricing and incentive policies that could encourage more intensive
sustained yield forest management by both public and private sector
agencies. It will review fiscal incentive mechanisms used in other countries
such as Brazil and Chile for encouraging private sector investment in forest
management and make recommendations on their relevance to Indonesian condi-
tions.
PHASE II - LONG RANGE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY OPTIONS FOR THE FORESTRY SECTOR
Based on market prospects of the forest utilization sector products
and commodities, availability of natural resources and technological and
managerial requirements, the study would establish medium-term, five years
(1989-94), and longterm, 35 years (1995-2030) objectives and priorities for
the various forest utilization and management sub sector/fields, including
wood and non-wood/minor forest products development.
The plan would include target growth rates for the princinal sector
products 'wnod, non-wood), geographical patter of production, the overall
investment requirements, and the implications for income, employment and
foreign exchange earnings, and environmental protection and management.
It would set out alternative development strategies that would achieve
GOT's development objectives under various assumptions relating to phasing of
relocation and raw investment in industrial processing capacity and in forest
management.
It would focus in particular on the issue of efficient economic
"zoning" of new investment, particularly as this relates to new largescale
plantation investment, so as to ensure concentration of forestry invest-ient in
locations close to industrial enterprises with expectation of long-term
sustained production and to market for industrial wood.
PHASE III - AN ACTION PROGRAM FOR THE COMING 5 YEAR PERIOD
In this part of the study a 5 year Action Program would be recom-
mended for the Government for and private sector to achieve the indicatives
targets/plans outlined in Part III above. The study would identify critical
constraints to the development of the forest utilization and management
sectors and make detailed recommendations on how to eliminate and minimize



- 49 -                         ANNEX I
Page 14 of 22
them. Similarly, the study would identify important positive measures that
government and private sector would need to take.
In particular the Action Program would identify and recommend policy
adjustments and investment programs that could:
(a) Rationalise distribution of forest ;ndustrial processing capacity
and pinpoint those geographic areas i which investment in more
intensive forest management would bt justified.
(b) Optimise inter-island and international shipping of both major and
minor forest products and identify potential areas for investment in
improved road rail or port handling facilities;
(c) Improve the concession licence framework to encourage integration
between large mills and forest concession whilst at the same time
ensuring a sustained flow of logs for smaller non integrated mills;
(d) Modify the tariff incentive and pricing policy framework for fores-
try with special references to measurer that could stimulate private
sector investment in forest protection; and;
(e) Lead to improvements in logging/harvesting/forest management systems
so as to maximise regeneration and minimise ecological damage;
(f) Facilitate institutional changes that would strengthen administra-
tion of timber concessions and ensure more effective revenue collec-
tion;
(g) Strengthen training and re-training of MOT staff to ensure effective
implementation of recommended development strategies;
(h) Strengthen data collection and dissemination of information on
pricing informatio and other key data;
(i) Strengthen technical assistance support for development of the
sector;
(j)  Recommend effective ways of mobilising capital for facilitating
orderly relocation of industrial capacity, and accelerated invest-
ment on key areas oF development such as particle board and other
waste residue based in particular for encouraging the production of
minor forest products such as rattan joining, furniture and other
products of smallscale woodworking industries.
IV. PRE FEASIBILITY CAPITAL STUDY OF RECOMMENDED PROJECT(S)
For specific projec.(s) that would emerge from the study as with
potentinl for development in the coming 5 Year Plan Period. The Study will
prepat:- _-liminary data on project acope, technical and economic viability
*nd on suggested institutional arrangements for project implementation.  It
would identify spccific policy changes emerging from thp main ntudy above that



- 50 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 15 of 22
could help to create a more favourable investment climate for the recommended
project(s). It would specify terms of reference for more detailed project
preparation studies of individual projects that would carry them on phase V
through to a stage ready for World Bank or other agency appraisal.
V. OUTPUT
The Study output will comprise four draft reports, correpsponding to
Phase I through IV of the above Terms of Reference. Each report would be
reviewed by the Steering Committee and the World Bank and the final report
would incorporate the comments received. The approximate time table for
submissions of the draft reports is outlined in the implementation procedure
section and in Annex 1.
Implementation of the Study
The study will be implemented by a joint GOI and foreign consultants
team. Responsibility for administration of the study and selection of GOI
experts and local consultants will lie with the Directorate General for Forest
Utilisation in the Ministry of Forestry working in cooperation with other
Directorates of the same Ministry. Responsibility for recruitment of indivi-
dual foreign consultants for organisation and management of field work and
production of the Final Report will lie with FAO. To facilitate administra-
tion of the foreign experts component and to ensure the possibility of secur-
ing the technical backstopping support of FAOs Forestry Department, a Trust
Fund will be established between GOI the World Bank and FAO. The fund will be
administered by FAO's Jakarta office. Recruitment of all foreign expert would
be in consultation with GOI's Ministry of Forestry and the World Bank.
Composition of the Study Team
The study team for phases I-IV will comprise experts covering the
folloving disciplines:
Forest economics (Team leader)
Data analyst anu Computer Programmer
Marketing expert with a specialised
Knowledge of the S. E. Asian tropical hardwood trade
Minor Forest product production and marketing specialist
Forest inventory expert
Logging and harvesting specialist
Silviculturies
Pulp and Paper expert 3
Wood based parely 3
Sawmilling expert 3
Ecologist
Sociologist
Instutional p3licy/training expert
Tenure and Resource Pricing expert
Sector S/D Modelling (econometrician)



-51-                           ANNEX 1
Page 16 of 22
About 110 - of foreign and 165 m  of local consultants will be
needed for Phase I-IV, costing US$1.7 million. Phase V is expected to cost
US$1.0 million. Formulation of a Detailed Work Program for each of the above
experts will be prepared by the Team Leader.
Steering comittee
An "Inter-departmental Steering Committee" would be formed to assist
and provide an overall guidance and direction for the study. A technical
subcomittee would be formed to supervise the implementation of the study and
liaise with all the parties concerned.



ANNEX 1
- 52 -                         Page 17 of 22
A STUDY OF THE IMPACT OF SHIFTING CULTIVATION
ON INDONESIA's PRODUCTION FOREST
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1. Justification of Project
1.1       Shifting cultivation, a practice encountered throughout Indonesia,
is most often equated with "slash-and-burn agriculture". Under this cultiva-
tion system, areas of primary or secondary forest are cleared, most of the
felled timber is burned, and food crops or other plants for subsistence use
are established. The burning is necessary to create a clean site and fertile
soil. The cleared site is usually cultivated for one or more years, until the
soil starts to loose its fertility or until weeds take over. In the past,
shifting cultivators abandoned such land and did not return until the forest
had regenerated and could be burned and cultivated again.
1.2       To ensure sustainable cultivation, it is estimated that about twenty
years of fallow are required for every year of cultivation, although this
varies considerably according to the type of soil. In recent times, however,
these rotation periods have become progressively shorter under the impact of
population pressures, thus reducing the ability of the land to regenerate.
Immigrants have also encroached on land under traditional forms of rotation
and in some instances have introduced new forms of cultivation incompatible
with sustainable land use. As shifting cultivation is also practiced by
families who plant crop in excess of their subsistence requirements and who
market the.r product, increasing amounts of land, particularly vulnerable land
on hillsides where drainage is best suited for food crops, are thus being
brought into the production cycle and more and more forest is being des-
troyed. The greatly reduced rotation cycles have led to serious degradation
of the quality of vast tracts of land throughout Indonesia.
1.3       As shown in Table 1, the Department of Forestry estimates that some
101 of total forest area in Kalimantan, Sulawesi and Nusa Tenggara is affected
by the acitivities of shifting cultivators. For Indonesia as a whole, FAO
estimates that some 13.5 million ha are in the shifting cultivation/fallow
cycle (about 11 to 12 percent oil the total forest area). This figure may
understate the magnitude of the problem and other observers have suggested
that the area might be in the order of 30 million ha. As many as 1.5 million
families engage in some form of shifting cultivation. It is not know with any
certainty how much new forest is actually put into agricultural production in
the process of shifting cultivation, but it may be on the order of 500,000 ha
annually.



- 53 -                       AN l 1
Page 18 of 22
Table 1: FOREST AREA AND FAMILIES IN SHIFTING CULTIVATION, 1984
Estimated            Proportion of      Number of    Proportion of
Area of    Total   Forest Area in    Families    Total Population
Shifting    Forest      Shifting       in Shifting    in Shifting
Island     Cultivation   Area       Cultivation    Cultivation    Cultivation
------'000 ha------  ----percent---   ---' OOC---  ----percent-----
(1)       (2)          (3)              (4)             (5)
Sumatra            924     30,2C8         3.1             262             4.9
Kalimantan       4,477     44,9t0        10.0             228            17.3
Sulawesi         1,352     12,-          10.5             244            12.7
Nusa Tenggara      568      5,547        10.2             251            23.0
Total            7,321     93,601         7.8             985             9.2
Source:  GOI/IIED Review "Forest Policies in Indonesia", Background Paper.
1.4       Shifting cultivation cannot be unambiguously defined; there are
innumerable different types of shifting cultivators and some are able to
ensure sustainable management practices while others are not. One factor
leading to increase in shifting cultivation may be the fact that conces-
sionaires can prevent the establishment of permanent crops within the
concessions. Whether the activities are traditional or not, however, it is
necessary to understand the social, cultural land tenure and economic factors
that motivate such practices in order to minimize their destructiveness.
2. Objectives
2.1       The lone-term obiective of the study is to reduce the pressures to
bring forest land under shifting cultivation, by promoting sustainable and
environmentally stable systems of agriculture under conditions of increasing
population density. The study will give special attention to production
forest areas in which the inflow of shifting cultivators along logging roads
creates localimed pressure on the forest land and makes the practise of
sustained yield forestry very difficult.
2.2 The immediate objectives are:
(a)  to assess the area under shifting cultivation by province;
(b)  to evaluate the economic impact of such activity;
(c)  to develop a typology of shifting cultivation and describe the
practices of representative groups and their claims to the land
under cultivation; and



- 54 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 19 of 22
(d) to document alternative approaches used in S.E. Asia for upgrading
oroduction systems in situ and stabilizing cultivation boundaries.
Based on this assessment the consultants would recommend ways to provide
subsistence cultivators with security of tenure and improved production
systems and discuss alternative approaches for reducing environmental
degradation with special reference tc the production forest areas while
minimizing any reduction in the welfare of local peoples.  T. carrying out
this study, the capacity of the Department of Forestry to understand and
address human and social issues will also be strengthened.
3. Project Design
3.1       It is a fundamental assumption of this study that shifting cultiva-
tors represent a very diverse group including sedentary agriculturalists
engaged in marginal shifting cultivation, immigrants seeking land for perma-
nent settlement, and traditional cultivators for whome shifting cultivation is
the basic mode of subsistence; and it is assumed that this diversity will both
permit and require a broad spectrum of programs if environmental degradation
is to be reduced. It is further hypothesized that the total ntumber of people
dependent entirely on shifting cultivation for their subsistence is smail, and
that these people cause relatively little harm to the environment. It follews
that programs to upgrade the production systems of largely sedentary agricul-
turalists, and to permit immigrants access to planned settlements mP-y do more
to limit resource depletion than past programs to relocate tradiLlonal shift-
ing cultivators from forest concessions. These hypotheses are subject to
review. Finally, the design of the study reflects the conviction that only
programs based on a sound knowledge of local people and designed in consulta-
tion with them will have a strong probability of success.
3.2       The proposed two-year study would be carried out by consultants
engaged by the Department of ForecLry and would consist of three phases. In
the first phase, backgrcind iniormation would be collected on the area under
shiftins cultivation, cl- zurrcnt rulez and regul^ti^ne ir.d!t-r rrgrar-i mrl y-
ing to shifting cultivation. An evaluation of the economic impact of shifting
cultivation would be carried out, and a typology of shifting cultivators would
be developed in consultation with 'Local officials. The second phase would
involve a detailed analysis of representative types of shifting cultivators,
description of traditional land rights (adat), and consultation with loval
people on appropriate methods of upgrading agricultural systems and limiting,
where possible, the need for shifting cultivation. In the third phase, policy
options would be developed, in consultation with Government officials and
local peoples, and the impact of proposed options evaluated. The final report
should indicate alternative strategies for minimizing environmental degrada-
tion, discuss their pros and cons and make specific recommendation on
strategies to be followed. It would identify potential projects or programs
sustainable for World Bank or other agency support in which the various
possible approaches to minimized impact of shifting allocation on forest
resource management could be tested.



ANNEX 1
- 55 -                        Page 20 of 22
4. Work Plan
4.1 Phase I: Background (6 months)
(a)  Analysis of Land Use DataData gathered by FAO and by the Land
Resources Development Centre (LRDC) under the World Bank-assisted
Transmigration III/V projects can be used to analyze the area under
shifting cultivation and to assess the amount of such land (i) in
Protection, Conversion and Production Forest; and (ii) under
different land forms, i.e. steep hills (with high erosion poten-
tial), flat lands, etc. LRDC data are only available for provinces
with transmigration potential, but these are also the most heavily
forested provinces. Data from this source are not available for
more densely settled areas such as NTT. If shifting cultivation is
a problem in these areas, the quality of existing data should be
assessed and recommendations made on further studies.
(b)  Other Data
Information should be collected on legislation relating to shifting
cultivation and on the history and impact of past programs intended
to address the problem. General information on land tenure, parti-
cularly among shifting cultivators, should be gathered. Also,
existing information describing different types of shifting culti-
vators should be collected.
(c)  Initial Assessment
An assessment should be made of the economic impact of shifting
cultivation in terms of losses to both the logging industry and to
agriculture as a result of environmental degradation and flooding.
The extent of the problem should be evaluated in different provinces
and the impact of apst programs in restricting shifting cultivation
should be assessed.
(d)  Preparation of Terms of Reference for Phase II
At the conclusion of Phase I, a draft report evaluating the impact
of shifting cultivation and presenting a preliminary typology of
shifting cultivators would be prepared. This would lead to detailed
terms of reference for Phase II which lay out a methodology for
further study.
4.2 Phase II: Detailed Study of Shifting Cultivators (12 months).
The main objectives of this phase of the study would be to develop a
more detailed picture of shifting cultivators in selected provinces; to
describe the pressures leading to shifting cultivation, and to describe and
evaluate land rights and the understanding local people have of them and to
examine the intcr relaticnships between shifting cultivation and production
forest management. The team of researchers would review with the people and



- 56 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 21 of 22
local officials, programs and policies which could potentially reduce the need
for cultivation in restricted areas or on steep slopes. To the extent
possible, the team should try to determine the area under shifting cultivation
by different kinds of cultivators, although this will be difficult. The scope
of work will be set out in terms of reference developed in Phase I (4.1 'd)
above), and will involve--to the greatest extent possible--an approach that
involves participation of the local people. The findings of this work will be
sunmarized in a set of background papers (with a summary report) 12 months
after this phase commenced.
4.3 Phase III: Preparation, Discussions and Revisions of the Main Report (6
months)
In Phase III, a draft report will be prepared which describes the
existing situation, identifies policy options and assesses their impact on
shifting cultivation and on the welfare of the groups involved. Ideally, the
team would recommend ways to restrict destructive cultivation among people who
have alternative sources of income, and to permit such cultivation where no
viable alternative exists. Special attention would be paid in the part of the
study to identifying the potential of industrial cost crop tree farming to
provide a livelihood for shifting cultivators along the lines of the success-
ful scheme in Philippines. In about month 15, the draft report including
assessment and options would be presented to Government. The report would
then be discussed with local peoples, Government officials, the Bank and other
interested parties, and revised in light of their recommendations and objec-
tions. A final report would be issued two years after the study commenced.
5. Outputs
5.1       At the conclusion of Phase I, a report addressing the following
broad topics will be prepared (for details, see section 4):
(a)  an assessment of svran tinder shifting cultivation and a review of
existing literature on the subject;
(b) preparation of a preliminary typology of shifting cultivators; and
(c) a methodology and terms of reference for studying these groups in
Phase III.
5.2       At the end of Phase II Background Papers should be produced on the
groups studied which identifies policy options and assess their impact on
shifting cultivation practices and the forest and on the welfare of the groups
involved. An executive summary will describe the findings of these reports.
5.3       At the end of Phase III a final report will be prepared which
incorporates in greater detail the concerns and recommendation of local
peoples, Government officials and other interested parties and which recom-
mends strategies which optimize the forest and social concerns. Phase III of
the report will identify provide situation in the production forest areas
where a project(s) couid be introduced to Lest ouL Lhe recummeIIdaLiunu uL' L;11
study. It will define the broad scope of such a project(s) possible phasing
and likely costs and return.



57 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 22 of 22
6. Institutional Framework and Staff Management
6.1       In order to maximize the utility of this study, MOF will identify
the appropriate Directorate or Directorates to be involved with human issues
in the design and implementation of Forestry Department policy. This
Directorate(s) will engage concultants and monitor implementation under the
guidance of a Steering Committee consisting of representative from MOF, MOPE
and Home Affairs.
Composition of Study Team
The team will comprise a blend of Indonesian and foreign experts
covering the following man description:
Man-months
Sociologist (team leader)                      Foreign exnert    18 mm
Legal expert with specialised knowledge
of local land tenure system                  Local expert        4 mm
Agronomist with specialised knowledge
of agroforests cropping system in rain
forest zones                                 Foreign expert      3 mm
specialist with knowledge
forest management system                     Local expert        3 mm
Economist Foreign expert                        3 mm
Sociologist                                    3 Local experts    9 mm
Agriculturist                                  Local expert        3 mm
Agricultural Economist                         Loal expert         3 mm
Total                                     Foreign            24 mm
Local                                                  22 mm
Total cost                                US$306,000



_58-                           ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR FOREST INVENTORY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
The Government of Indonesia (GOI) is negotiating with the World Bank
a $34 million loan, for a Forestry Institutions and Conservation (PIC) Project
of which the National Forest Inventory is a component.
Indonesia is one of the few developing countries in the world with
significant forest resources which, if properly managed, can contribute wood
and wood products on a sustained basis for national development as well as to
a growing world market. Thus, a development objective of the government is to
increase the contribution of the forestry sector to national social and
economic development through forestry land use planning which reconciles
conflicting claims on forest lands.
However, existing basic information on the physical and economic
dimensions of the resource is inadequate, and an information system supporting
forest land use and investment decisions does not exist. Consequently this
technical assistance component will support the collection of the inventory
data in general, but will stress the development of an information system to
facilitate forestry land use planning in particular. Along with the
development of the inventory database the project will develop the capacity of
the Ministry of Forests to use forest inventory information in an efficient
manner by establishing systems and procedures for managing the database
subsequent to its collection.
The inventory data will be stored on a Geographic Information System
(GIS), which is a database management system designed to efficiently manage
map-based data. The GIS technology is especially suited to forestry, where
production is area based and affected by complex interactions among factors
such as stand type, site, management treatment, etc. GIS technology is widely
used by forestry agencies in North America for storing, updating, retrieving
and analyzing inventory data as well integrating forestry data with other land
use data.
In Indonesia, a program to instull a comprehensive GIS in each
BAPPEDA has been initiated as part of the Land Resource Evaluation and
Planning Project (LREP) funded by the Asian Development Bank. BAKOSURTANAL is
the lead agency for the project. The GIS technology selected for the BAPPEDAs
is used increasingly by forestry institutions througlhout the world. The
forest inventory GIS to be developed under this technical assistance component
would be compatible with and complementary to the BAPPEDA system, and would
aim to integrate forestry within the overall national and provincial planning.



ANNEX2
Page 2 of 2
- 59 -
Objectives
The main objectives of the proposed Technical Assistance for the
National Forest Inventory component of FIC project are:
(i)   to develop an information system to manage the forest inventory data
and produce information products to support strategic planning
decisions;
(ii) to develop the capability of the Agency for Inventory and Forest Land
Use to maintain and update a forest inventory Geographic Information
System;
(iii) to improve the capability of the Agency for Inventory and Forest Land
Use to undertake inventory projects on an ongoing basis and produce
information products.
Inputs
1.       Personnel.  To assist in the implementation of the National Inventory
component of the FIC project and to establish a Forestry Management Information
System, the following inputs will be required:
- 110 man-months of international personnel, and
- 24 man-months of specialist consultants.
A detailed description of the Personnel Inputs is included in Appendix 1.
2.       Training.  Two study tours will be arranged for a study of
applications of national inventory and Geographic Information Systems in
countries that are advanced in the field:
A three month fellowship will be provided with a view to undertaking
a pilot study of a selected area in Indonesia Digital Image Analysis
and Geographic Information Systems.
3.       Equipment.  The consultants will prepare a GIS requirements study and
system specifications. Procurement, installation and maintenahee will be the
responsibility of the Government of Indonesia. A preliminary list of the
equipment is included in Appendix 2.
Reporting
The experts and consultants performing services in the Technical
Assistance Component will submit a comprehensive technical report on their
activities which will foriO  L-he basis of for future continuat"on of activities,



- 60 -
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 8
PERSONNEL INPUTS
To assist in the implementation of the National Inventory Component
of the project, the following international and national staff will be
provided:
1.  International Technical Personnel (Total 110 m/m)
(a) Team Leader (Inventory/Remote Sensing Specialist)    38 m/m
(b) Biometrics/Data Processing Specialist                   24 m/m
(c) Digital Image Analysis Specialist                      24 m/m
(d) System Design/Software/Geographic
Information System Specialist                          24 m/m
110 m/m
2.  Consultants (Total 24 m/m)
(a) Specialist in Digital Image Processing                  8 m/m
(b) Specialist in Inventory Design/Remote Sensing           8 m/m
(c) Specialist in Geographic Information Systems            8 m/m



- 6-
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 8
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Post 01            : National Forest Inventory
Title              : Inventory and Remote Sensing Expert
Duty Station       : Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia
Duration          : 38 months
Qualifications    : The incumbent will have a high level academic qualification
and Experience       in forest inventory and remote sensing and at least 20
years practical relevant experience. He/she will be
fluent in English and have the ability to communicate and
work with people of different cultural backgrounds.
Duties              In consultation with the National Project Director, the
Expert will advise on all aspects of forest inventory and
remote sensing. Specifically, he/she will:
(a) make a detailed conceptual plan for all the technical
components of the project;
(b) prepare a report on user's data requirements followed
by specifications of the national forest inventory,
expected maps, output tables and database;
(c) finalize, in cooperation with the consultants, design
of inventory and mapping, and a manual of inventory
and remote sensing procedures;
(d) produce, in cooperation with the Biometrics and Data
Processing Specialist, a comprehensive report on the
current state of forest resources, past studies and
future prospects;
(e) guide the establishment of the geographic information
system and promote the use of the national forest
inventory by governmental and non-governmental
agencies in development planning;



- 62 -
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 8
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Post 02            : National Forest Inventory
Title              : Biometrics and Data Processing Expert
Duration           : 24 months
Qualifications    : The iticunbent will have a high level academic degree
and Experience       (preferably a PhD) in biometrics combined with several
years experience in forest inventory, data processing and
statistical analysis. The person will oe fluent in
English and have the ability to communicate and work with
people of different cultural backgrounds.
: Under the direct supervision of the team leader and in
close cooperation with other members of the project, this
expert will perform the following duties:
(a) prepare a -comprehensive plan for analysing and
processing the statistical data of the project:
lb) prepare a system design for data processing;
it) astist in the development of volume functions and
yAeld models;
i   kr-itnt the data processing plan;
V,z) ?     1 he counterpart in applications of computers to
t4yirl forest inventory problems;
4?i , rpNie a comprehensive short report on statistical
ca4d     processing techniques used by the project and
fnYie't the softitre if not already done, for future
rft,v+e and use.



- 63 -
Appendix 1
Page 4 of 8
TEM  OF REFERXNCE
Post 03            : National Forest Inventory
Title              :Digital Image Analysis Specialist
Duration           :24 months
Qualifications    : Tne incumbent will have a high level academic
and Experience       qualifications in digital image analysis biometrics and at
least S years experience in applications of digital image
processing techniqtes to forestry on an operational
basis. The person will be fluent in English and have the
ability to communicate and work with people of different
cultural backgrounds.
Duties               Under the direct supervision of the team leader and in
close cooperation with other members of the project, this
expert will perform the following duties:
(a) prepare a master plan for the development of the Image
analysis techniques applied to forestry In Indonesial
(b) conduct a pilot study to test the methodology and
finalize an operational manual for digital image
analysis techniques for the chosen hardware and
software;
(c) train the counterpart staff to operate the equipment
and operational basis and develop a production
scnedule. Various aspects of the training program are
given in the annex attached.



- 64 -
Appendix 1
Page 5 of 8
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Post 04            : National Forest Inventory
Title              : Software and Information Syst'2m Expert
Duration           : 24 months
Qualifications    : The incumbent will have a high level academic
and Experience       qualifications in either forestry or computer science and
at least 3 year practical experience with geographic
information systems as applied to forestry. The person
will be fluent in English and have the ability to
communicate and work with people of different cultural
backgrounds.
Duties               Under the direct supervision of the team leader and in
close cooperation with other members of the project, this
expert will perform the following duties:
(a) prepare a comprehensive plan for the establishment of
a GIS Unit within the Inventory and Land Use Planning
Agency of the Minist:y of Forests;
(b) review the GIS database design prepared by the
Geographic Information system consultant and modify
the database after consultation with counterpart staff
and the project personnel;
(c) supervise the installation of the system hardware and
install the GIS software;
(d) implement the GIS Unit Establishment Plan;
(e) train the counterpirt in the applications of GIS and
applications of the GIS to forest invenLory data;



- 65 -
Appendix 1
Page 6 of 8
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Post 05            : National Forest Inventory
Title              : consultant - Forest Inventory/Remote sensing Design
Duration           : 8 months
Qualifications    : The incumbent will have a high level academic
and Experience       qualifications and several years of practical experience
in design of national forest inventory in tropical
environments. The consultant will be fluent in English
and have the ability to communicate and work with people
of different cultural backgrounds.
Duties             : Under the direct supervision of the team leader and in
close cooperation with other members of the project, this
expert will perform the following duties:
(a) review the national forest inventory specifications
and user's needs, and prepare a sampling design for
data collection and analysis;
(b) prepare statistical procedures for the development of
volume and growth functions;
(c) prepare a detailed short report on the statistical
techniques used in the project and train the
counterpart staff in their use.



- 66 -                       Appendix 1
Page 7 of 8
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Post 06            : National Forest Inventory
Title              : Consultant - Digital Image Analysis
Duration           : 8 months
Oualifications    : The incumbent will have a high level academic
and Experience      qualifications and several years of operational experience
in installing, operating, and supervising an image
analysis system. He will be fluent in English and have
the ability to communicate and work with people of
different cultural backgrounds.
Duties             : Under the direct supervision of the team leader and in
close cooperation with other members of the project, this
expert will perform the following duties:
(a) prepare a plan for installation of the digital image
analysis system (DIAS) in the project;
(b) make any modifications to the DIA system requirements;
(c) organize a pilot study on DIAS as applied to forestry;
Cd) train the national staff in DIAS;
(e) organize training course and seminars on DIAS;
(f) write a short report on his activities.



- 67 -
Appendix 1
Page 8 of 8
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Po'st 07           : National Forest Inventory
Title              : Consultant - Geographic Information Systems
Duration           : 8 months
Qualifications    : The incumbent will have a high level academic
and Experience       qualifications and several years of operational expsrience
in installing, operating, and supervising a geographic
information system. He will be fluent in English and have
the ability to communicate and work with people of
different cultural backgrounds.
Duties             : Under the direct supervision of the team leader and in
close cooperation with other members of the project, this
expert will perform the following duties:
(a) prepare a plan for installation of the geographic
information system (GIS);
(b) make any modifications to the GIS system requirements;
(c) organize a pilot study on GIS as applied to forestry;
(d) train the national staff in GIS;
(e) organize training course and seminars on GIS;
(f) write a short report on his activities.



- 68 -
Appendix 2
PRELIMINARY SPECIFICATION OF EQUIPMENT
The major equipment requirement for the project im comprised of a
Digital Image Analysis System and a Geographic Information System.
1. Hardware
(a) Supermicro or minicomputer;
(b) Image Analysis Workstation
- Processor/Keyboard/Color Monitor
- Image Displayed System
- Digitizing Table
- Pen Plotter
- Printer
- Color Hardcopy
- Mass Storage Unit
(c) Airconditionert
Cd) Voltage Regulator.
2. Software
(a) Geographic Information System and Database Management System;
(b) Digital Image Analysis and Remote Sensing Software;
(c) DIA - GIS Interface Software.
0092K



- 69 -                         ANNEX 3
IIDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Project Costs Financing Plan and Disbursement Schedules
Project Costs
Table    1   Sumary Accounts by Year - Base Costs
2   Sumary Accounts by Year - Total Costs
3   Summary Accounts - Breakdown (US$)
4   Project Components by Year - Base Costs
5   Project Components by Year - Total Costs
6   Summary Account by Project Component
7   Sectoral Strategy
8   Manpower Development
9   Shifting Cultivation
Disbursements
Table   10   Disbursement Projection
11   Disbursement Category Limits



AM=E 3
- 70-                                                         Ta     3 I
Fortstry Institutions ad  Conrvatiou  Project
Sury  Acconils by Yar'
lw*iah MhlIicion)
Base Coots                                    Forlgn Erhe_e
is"      196I     1990     1991     1992     1993    19i4    19      Total        S      Awmt
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL Mt S
BUILDINGS                                     2.494.9  2. 667. 8    663. 1   409.2    45.3           4-           -  6. 40.3    29.6   1. 919. 2
IOADS                                           840.0    617. 0    28.4       7. S     1. 4       -       -       -   1 694.3    29.6     501.U
IEINITIES AND OTHERS                          1006.   1. 332.5  1. 777.9    967.1    516.6                -         -       a,600.8    29.6   1. H8. 
Sub-Total CIVIL IORKS                            4. 341. * 4,817.3  2. 669.3  1. 383.9    563.2      -               -  13. 775.4    29.6  4. 079. 7
B. On-Farm Improvimnts
SOIL CONSERVATION LAUOR                          45.0    404.9  1.439. 5  2.789. 0  3.058.9  2. 199.2     -       -  9.96. 4      0.0       0.0
FORESTRY M1D NURSERY                            197.6   417.8   '63.9    743.0   498.1   255.0            -       -  2.67595    19.7      52?.2
Siu-Total On-farm Ilprovents                       242.6    822.6  2.003.4  3.532.0  3,557.0  2.414.2        -       -  12,572.0     4.2     527.2
C. FAI  INCREMENTAL MC
LAOR                                              7.6     72.8   273.5   581.1    766.4    746.7   421.6  302.6  3,172.4          0.0       0.0
MATERIALS                                        22.8    205.9    736.5  1. 438. 5  1. 999. 1  1. 146.0   38. 1   -  S. 16. 9    29. 6   1. 536. 7
Su*-Total FARM INCREIENTAL NIC                      30.6    278.7  1. 010. 0  2, 019. 6  2.365.4  1. *94. 7   459.7   302.6   6. 361. 3    18. 4   1.536.7
0. EQUIPIENT AND SUPPLIES
1. VEHICLES                                     874.4  1,546.6    371.5    345.0     66.4         -       -       -  3,204.2    69.7   2,233.0
2. OTHER EQUIPIENT AND SERVICES                 669.0  3,294.2    400.5    473.6  1.563.4    388.6   110.1   79.4   6,968.2    69.5  4,659.4
3. PHOTO RAPS AND EQUIPIENT HIRE
NEIW PHOTO                                       -  1. 271.9        -  1,504. 6  1. 504. 6  1. 504.6   -       -  5, 785.7    6. 3   3.776. 1
APS                                              -   509.8   221.6    335. 4          -   226.6        -       -   1,293.4    49.6    641. 1
EQUIPMENT HIRE                                   -        -   204.8    193. 1    193. 1    197.6    11.7       -    800.4    69.7      557.8
Sub-Total PHOTO MAPS &HD EQUIPElNT HIRE             -  1,761.7    426.4  2. 033.   1.697.7  1.929.0    11. 7      -  7.879.9    63.1  *4,975.0
SuA-Total EQUIPMENT MND SUPPI,ES                 1. 543.4  6, 622.4  1,207.7  2,891. 9  3.327.5  2. 317. 6   121. 8    79. 4  18. 072. 0    6.6  12. 067. 5
E. TRAINING
OVERSEAS TRAINING                               219. 3  1, 092.3  1.344.3    659.3    424.4    98.4       -       -  4. 038. 1   100.0  4. 038. 1
LOCAL TRAINING                                   81.7    310.3    220.9    380.4    611.4    618.4   427.0      0.3   2.650.4   24.6    653. 1
Sub-Total TRAINING                                 301. 1  1,402.6  1.565.2  1,239.7  1.035.8    716.8  427.0      0.3   6.6U.85    70.1  4.691.2
F. TA AND STUDIES                                  775.9  2,6 8. 3  2. 204. 1  1, 217.0  1. 166. 3  74.7     -       -  8. 123.2   76. 4   6. 370. 9
G. RESEAAEN PLOTS                                      -    86.9      78.2      78.4     61.7    84.5        -       -    409.8   24.7       101.0
H. Incr4_ntol Operatting Costs
SALARIES                                        113.6   490.2   586.3    621.3  1.076.6    635.8   399.6  359.6  4,443.0          0.0       0.0
ALLOANCES                                       69. 1   352.0  2.034.9  2. 002. 4  1. 997.5  2, 101. 1  398. 1  261.6   9.236.7    28.5   2, 634. 7
Otter Operating Costs                           603.8  1. 158.8   933.6 8, 161.0  1. 153.6   935.8   533.2  482.9  6.962.8    46.9   3.402.6
Sub-Total Inermtal Operat ing Costs                806.5  2, 001.0  3,554.9  3.964.7 4.227.7  3,672.7 1,291.0 1. 04.0  20.642.6    29.2   6,037.5
Total .NVESTMENT COSIS                              8.042. 0 18. 716.8 14,292.8 16, 307. 2 16,324.7 11. 175.9 2,299.5 1. 486. 3 68,644. 6    39.9  35.411. 6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                 8.042 0 18. 716.6 14,292.8 16,307.2 16,324.7 11. 179.5 2,299.5 1.486.3  68,44.8    39.9  35.411.8
Physical Continsnies                                523.3  1, 164.9  1,053.2  1. 178. 4  1. 141.0    752.2   124.0   62.2   6.019.3   34.8  2. 095. 8
Price Contingenieis                                 102.8    700.2  1, 066. 4  1, 788. 8  2. 4091.9  2. 198.4  564.4  433.6  9. 264. 4    16. 1   1, 496.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  6,668.0 20,561.9 16.412 4 19,274.4 19.875.6 14.126.0 2,988.0 2.002 t 103.928.4    37.5  39,003.6
=z=:::= :::::::::::  =-=::::  :::::::: ====:::::::  :::::::  -=:::::::   ======  =:::
Taxes                                               673.0  1,414.4   947.0  1, 170.5  1.200.3    919.6   216.7   177.7   6,719.2      0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                                  3.795.2 10.540.8  6,512.5  6,549.0  6.561.6  3,914.5   664.4   445.5  39,003.6      0.0       0.0
IIO_ 3. 1987  22: '



Forwtry Institutions ad Ceonvation Pioject
Susmary Accounts by Yes
Totals Including Conti.pn  cs                                      Tot7ls Ineluding COnti I iess
ItRpish  i ll ionl                                                    4S$14$i l ion$
IOU      Ion       t9S0      1911    1tn2       1193    1904    Im        Total      It"  16  1190 19111 1       I 9192     199  114 IM  Total
. ,===. ====== sg ==== ======== == ===.=...  .=====.= .... .... .... .....     ss= .... .... ..==
1. INVESTlENT COSTS
A. CIVIL  O5S
BUILDINGS                                        26U6.3  2.929.4    977.0    476.3         54.4          -,      -        -   7093.4   1.6  1.8  0.6  0.3  0.0           -       -   4.3
ROADS                                              937.0    939.8       33.6       9.2       1.7        -        -        -   1.921.3   0.3  0.6  0.0  0.9  0.0    -    -    -   1.2
A1NITIES AND OTHERS                               1, 134. 7  1. 594. 0  2,203.6  1,232.9    679.7       -        -        -   6,844.6 2   .   1.0  1.3  0.?  0.4    -    -    -   4.1
Su*-total CIVIL WORKS                                4.728.0  S.463.2  3.214.2  1,718.3    735.8            -                -  15,859.S   2.3  3.3  1.9 I1.0  0.4       -    -    -    .
8. On-Form Inp,ovrols
SOIL CONSERVATION LABOR                              50.4    472.3  1,747.4  3,504.2  3.977.8  2.906.1           -        -  12.,f`  3   0.0  0.3  1.1  2.1  2.4  1.8    -    -   7.7
FORESTRY AND NURSERY                               220.9    482.9    674.0    915.2    633.9    335.8            -        -   3,202.7   0.1  0.3  0.4  0.6  0.4  9.2    -    -   2.0
Sab-lotsi On-Farm Ioprovunts                           271.3    955.2  2.421.4  4.41'.4  4,611.7  3.241.9           -        -  15,921.0   0.2  0.6  1.S  2.7  2.8  2.0    -    -   9.6
C. FAM  INCRENENTAL MC
LABOR                                                 8.3     at.0    317.0    697.0    951.3    959.3   560.6   416.4   3,930.3   0.0  0.0  0.2  0.4  0.6  0.9  0.3  0.3   2.4
MATERIALS                                            25.2    235.1    366. 7  1,740. 1  1. 995. 6  1. 481. 9    49.0      -   6.393.6  0.0  0. I O. S  1. I  1.2  0 3  0.0    -   3.9
Sub-Tolel fARM  INCRENENTAL MC                          33.6    316.2  1,183.7  2.437.1  2.946.8  2.441.1   609.7   416 4  10,384.5   0.0  0.2  0.7  1.i  1.8  1.5  0.4  0 3   6.3
0. EQUIPIIENT AND SUPPLIES
1. VEHICLES                                        925.5  1. 665.6    407.4    385.1       76. 1        -        -        -   3,459.8   0.   1.0   0.2  0.2  0. 0    -    -    -   2. 1
2. OTHER EQUIPIENT AND SERVICES                     709.3  3. 59. 9    450.2    530.5  1. 795.4    462.6   135.3   101.0   7 734.2   0.4  2.2  0. 3  0. 3  1. I 0. 3  0. I 0. 1   4. 7
3. PHOTO NAPS AND EOUIP'4ENT HIRE
NEN PHOTO                                            -  1,383.2         -  1, t79.I  1. 726.2  1. 786. 6      -        -   6 575. 1     -  0. 8    -  1.0  1.0  1.1    -    -   4.0
NAPS                                                 -    554.4    246.8    382.3           -    275.5        -        -   1.453.1      -  0.3  0. 1  0.2        0.2    -     -   0.
EQUIPNIENT HIRE                                      -        -    235.1    225.7    232.1    246.0    15.I            -     954.0      -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0    -   OA
S,*-Tot.l PHOTO NPS UD EQUIPMENT HIRE                   -  1.937.7    481.9  2.287.2  1.958.2  2,308. 1    IS. I          -   8,DU9.2      -  1.2  0.3  1.4  1.2  1.4  0.0    -   5.4
Sub-Total EQUIPHENT AND SUPPLIES                     1,634.9  7. 153.2  1,339.5  3.202.8  3.829.8  2,770.7   150.4   101.0  20. 182.2   1.0  4.3  0.8  1.9  2.3  1.7  0. I 0.I  12.2
E. TRAINING
OVERSEAS IRAINII4G                                  231.5  1,164.1  1.447.0    937.1    474.7    114.4           -        -   4,368.3   0.1  0.7  0.9  0.6  0.3  0.1        -    -   2.6
LOCAL TRAINiNG                           .          87. 1    341.9    251.4    446.0    740.5    775.1   554.0         0.4   3,196. 4   0.   0. 2  0 2  0. 3  0.4  0.5  0.3   .0   1. 9
St-Total TRAINING                                      318.6  1,506.0  1,6i98.5  1,383.1  1.215.1   U89.1   554.0          0.4   7.564.7   0.2  0.9  1.0  0.8  0.7  0.5  0.3  0.0   4.6
F. TA AND STUDIES                                      821.1  2.88. 3  2.421.7  1.358.4  1,321.4        87.4        -        -   8,898.3   0.5  1.8  1.5  0.8  0.6 A    I    -    -   5.4
G. RESEARCH PIOTS                                          -    100.2      93. 1     96. 1    103.4    110.7         -       -      503.6      -  0. 1  0.1  0.1  0.1  e. 1    -    -   0.3
H. Incr_mantel Operating Costs
SALARIES                                            122.0    546.5    66. 3    992.1  1,343.8    824.5   465.4   502.4   5.503.0   0.1  0.3  0.4  9.6  9.8  *.5  0.3  0.3   3.3
ALLOWANCES                                           95.1    387.4  2.305. 4  2.333.6  2,403.0  2.615.5   515.3   350.6  11, 00.8   0.1  0. 2  1. 4  1.4  1. 5  I 6  0. 3       2   S.7
Other Operating Costs                               643.5  1.265.7  1,048.7  1,333.5  1,364.8  1.145.0   673.3   631.3   8S105.8   0.4  0.8  0.6  0.&  0.8  0.7  0.4  0.4   4.9
Sub-Total Inerimntsl Operating Costs                   660.6  2.199.6  4. 040.4  4.659. 2  S,1 ;;. S  4,56S.  1 ;, 674. 0 1, 484. 3  24. 614. 6   0. S  1. 3  2.4  2. 8  3.1  2. 6  1.0  0.9  14. 9
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                  8, 688. 0 20. 581. 9 16. 412. 4 19. 274.4 19. 875. 614. 126. 0 2, 988. 0 2. 002.1 103.928.4   S. 3 12.5  9. 9 1;. 7 12. 0  8. 6  1.8  1. 2  63.9
total PRJECT COSTS                                       6. 668.0 20.581.9 16,412.4 19,274.4 19, 875.6 14. 126. 0 2,988. 0 2. 002. 1 103, 928.4   S. 3 12. 5  9. I II. 7 12.0  8. 6  1. 8  1.2  63. 0
--- - 3,   -7  2 2. 0.  .:: .
N;    33  1987  22.06,                                                                                                                                                                                                         i



Forestry Inst itutioans aa Cosmeervat ion Project
BOMINI  OF SUNNANY ACCOUTS
Piss NilIIion)
0l.s. Costs               Physical Continpnci.s             Price Contingancios               Total litel. Cant.          phyateal    Coats
Local                           Local                            toes)                           Local                     Price Cent.  Coat. on
for.  (Cxci. Duties 8           for.  (ECcI. Duties 8            For.  (Exci. Duties 8           Far.  (ElCxc. Out ies S          e" Phkscai    uae
Exch. Tax*sl  taxes   Total  Etch. Taxesi  Toxes   Total  Etch. Tamest  Tax.s   Total  Each. Tax.uI  taexs   Total                   cmii.        Coats
3                                               xx::::: :2:::  SI:::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  .....  .....  .....:  -t .....h...  ......:.
I. INVESTKNEN COSTS
A. CIVIL MOAKS
BUILDINGS                                             1.2     2. 4      0.4   3.6    0.1    0.1         0. 0   0.2    0.0    0.1         0.0   0.2    1.2    2.?7         0.4   4.2            0.2        4.1
RUGDS                                                 0.3    0. 6       0.1   1. 0    0.0    0.1        0. 0   0.1    0.0    0. 0        0.0   0.0    0. 3    0.?7        0.1   1. 2           0.1        LI1
AKNCITIES AND OTHERS                                  1.0    2. 1       0.3   3. 4    0. 1    0.3       0. 0   0. 6    0. 0    0.2       0.0   0.3J    1. 2    2. 6       0.4   4. 1           0. 5       3.56
Sub-Total CIVIL MORKS                                    2.5    5.1        0.8 II6.3    0.2    0.15         0.1   0. 8    0.0    0. 4       0.0   0.5    2.68    6.16        e.g   9.             0.0 a      8.8
D. On-Form Improvesnts
SOIL CONSERVATION LAHOR                                 -    6. 0         -   6.0        -    0. 6         - 0. 6        -    1.1          -   1.1 I           7. 7         -   7.?I           0.7        7.0
FORESTRY AND NURSERY                                 0. 3     1. 2     0. I   1.56    0. 0    0.1I      0. 0   0. 2    0. 0    0. 2      0. 0   0.2    0. 4     1.4      0.2   2.0*            0. 2       1.6I
Sub-Total On-form Iqlovnwts                              0.3    7.2        0.1   7.6    0. 0    0.7        0.0   0.8a    0.0    I. 2        0. 0    1. 3    0. 4    1. 1     0.2   6. 6           0.6         A. a
C. FAIN INCREHENTAL MC
LAMO                                                    -    1. 7      0.2   1. 9       -    0.1        0. 0   0.1       -    0. 4       0. 0   0.4       -    2.2       0.2   2.4             0. 1       223
NATERIALS                                             0. 9    1. 9      0. 3   3.1    0.1    0. 2       0. 0   0.3    0.1I    0. 3       0. 0   0.4    1. 1    2.1S       0. 3   3.6           0. 3       3. 6
Sub-Total FORM iNCRENENTAL liC                           0. 9    3.7       0.5   S. I    0.1    0.3        0.0   0. 4    0.1    0. 7        0.1I   0.8a    1.1    4.7        0. 6   6.3           0.4         6.6
0. E4UIPENC ND M SUPPLIES
1. VEHICLES                                           1. 4    0. 4     0.2   1. 9    0.1    0. 0        0. 0   0.1    0. 0    0. 0       0.0   0.1      1. 4    0.6      0 .2   2. 1           0. 1       2.0
2. OTHER EQUIPMIENT AND SERVICES                      2.9    0. 9       0. 4   4. 2    0. 2    0. 0     0.0   0. 2    0.1    0.1I        0. 0   0.2    3. 2     1. 1      0.4   4.?            0.2        4.1
3. PROM1 NAPS AND EQUIPMENT HIRE
MEN PHOTO                                         2. 3    0. 9      0. 3   3.15    0.1    0. 0       0.0   0.2    v.1I    0.1         0. 0   0.3    2.5    1. 1       0.4   4.0             0.2        3.6
NAPS                                              0. 4    0.3       0.1I   0.8a    0. 0    0. 0      0.0   0. 0    0.0    0.0        0. 0   0.1    0. 4    0. 4       0.1   0.6t            0.0        0.6a
EOIJIPRENT HIRE                                   0.3    0.1        0. 0   0.5    0. 0    0. 0       0. 0   0. 0    0. 0    0. 0     0. 0   0.0    0.4    0.1I        0.1I   0. 6           0.1        0.1S
Sub-Total PHOT10 NAPS ANO EQUIPYIENI HIRE             3.0    1. 3      0. 4   4.8    0. 2    0.1        0. 0   0.3    0. 2    0.2        0. 0   0. 4    3. 4    1. 6     0.5   S. 4            0. 3       S.2
Sub-Total EQUJIPNENT AND SUPPLIES                        7. 3    2. 7      1. 0  11. 0    0. 4    0.1      0.1   0. 6    0. 3    0. 3       0.1   0.7    8. 0    3.1         1. 1  12.2           0. 6       11.6
E. TRtAINING
OVERSEAS TRAINING                                     2. 4      -             2. 4    0.1       -         - 0.1    0.1           -         - 0.1    2. 6          -         - 2. 6             0.1        2.1S
LOCAL TRAINING                                       0.4    1. 2          - 1. a    0. 0    0.1           - 0.1    0. 0    0.2             - 0. 3    0.4        1. 5        - 1.6              0.1        1.8a
Stb-Total TRAINING                                       2. 8    1. 2             4. 1    0.1I    0.1             0.2    0.1    0. 2               0.3    3.1      1. 5-   4. 6                   0 2         4. 4
F. TA ANDOSIUDIES                                        3.9    1.1 I            4. 9    0. 2    0.1          - 0. 2    0 1    0.1 I               0.2    4. 2     1.2         - 5.4              0J          S.1I
G. RESEARCH PtOIS                                        0. 1    0.2       0. 0   0. 2    0. 0    0. 0     0.0   0. 0    0. 0    0. 0       0. 0   0.0    0. 1    0.2        0.0   0.3I           0.06        0. 3
H. Incremental Operating Costs
SALARIES                                                -    2.65      0.2   2. 7        -    0.1I      0. 0   0. 2            0.4       0. 0   0. 5      -    3. 0      0. 3   3.3            0.2        3.2
ALLOMANCES                                            1. 6    3.15     0.5   S. 6    0.1I    0. 2       0. 0   0. 3    0.1I    0. 6      0. I   0.8a    ".a    4.3        0. 6   6.?7          0.3S       S.4
Other Operating Costs                                 2. 1    1.8a     0.4   4. 2    0.1I    0.1I       0. 0   0.2    0.1I    0. 3       0.0   0. 5    2. 3    2. 2      0.4   4.6             0.3        4.?
…- -     - - - - - - -     - -   -  -     - - - - - - -     - -   - -      - --    - - - - - - -  - - - -  - -     - - - - - - -  -  - - - -  -  - -  - -
Sub-Total Incrimnntal Oparating Coats                    3. 7    7. 7      1. 1  12.5    0. 2    0. 4      0.1   0.?7    0.2    1. 3        0.2   1. 7    I,1    6.5         1. 3  14.6        .  0.8        14.2
…- -      - - - - - - -     - -  -  -     - - - - - - -     - -   - -      - --    - - - - - - -  - - - -  - -     - - - - - - -  -  - - - -  -  - -  - -
Total INVESINENT COSTS                                     21.65  28.8        3.5  13.7    1. 3    2. 1        0.2   3. 6    0.92    4. 4       0. 4   5. 6   23. 6   31. 2     4. 1  63. 0           4 0       10.0
Total                                                       21.6   28.89       3.6 5   3.7    1. 3    2. 1      0. 2   3. 6    0. 9    4. 4      0. 4   1. 6   23.6   35. 3      A. 1  63.0            4.0       50.0
Nowgibr 3. 1987 22: 06



ANNEX 3
-73 -                                                              Table 4
I ndones ia
Forestry Institutions and Conservation Pr,ject
Project Cosponents by Year
(Rupish Million)
Base Costs                                          Total
1988     1989      1990      1991      1992      1993    1994    1995       Rupiah   (USS '0001
A. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
FORESTRY INVENTORY                                 -  2.465. 6  3. 125.6  5. 257.0  5,976. 1 4,945.7   840.0   576.9   23. 187.0   14 052. 7
FORESTRY RESEARCH                           2,085.2  5. 124. 1  1.762.3  1. 132. 0    728.4    297.2         -        -   11, 129.2    6. 745.0
STUDIES PLANNING AND MONITORING                 35.6  1.524.9  1.743.7  1,052.5    987.6         17.4        -        -    5.361.6    3,249.5
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAt STRENGTHENING           2. 120.8  9, 114.5  6.631.6  7.441.6  7.692.0  5.260.2   840.0   576.9   39.677.?7   2404  1
B. FOREST CONSERVATION
NONOGI RI CATCHNENT                         2.961. 3  5.438.7  6.0550.  8,045. 0  8,052.6  5. 778.2 1,322.5   772.4   38, 425. 7   23, 288. 3
NATIONAL PARKS                              2,959.8  4, 163.5  1.606. 2    820. 6    580. 1    137.0   137. 0   137.0   10,541.3    6.388. 7
Sub-Total FOREST CONSERVATION                   5.921. 1 9,602.2  7,661.2  8.865. 6  8,632.7  5,915.2 1,459. 5   909. 4   48,967.0   29. f77 0
Total BASELINE COSTS                              8.042.0 18, 716.8 14, 292.8 16. 307.2 16,324.7 11. 175. 5 2. 299. 5 1,486.3   88.644.8   53 724.1
Physical Contingencies                           523.3  1,164.9  1,053.2  1,178.4  1, 141.0    752.2   124.0    82.2    6.019.3    3.648.0
Price Contingencies                              102.8    700.2  1.066.4  1.788.8  2,409.9  2, 198.4   564.4   433.6    9. 264.4    5,614.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                               8,668.0 20,581.9 16. 12.4 19. 274. 4 19,875.6 14. 126.0 2.988.0 2.002. 1  103,928.4   62,986.9
:=::::: :::::::: ::::::z: :======= ==z====== ==z=======-:::: ===x=:=:  =:::===:: :::::::::
Taxes                                            673.0  1,414.4    947.0  1.170.5  1,200.3    919.6   216.7   177.7    6,719.2    4,072.2
Foreign Exchange                              3,795.2 10,540.8  6.512.5  6.549.0  6,561.6  3.914.5   684.4   445.5   39,003.6   23,638.6
November 3. 1987  22:06



ARMEX 3
-74-                                                             Table 
Forestry Institutions And Consrvation Projec
Projoct Coonents by YoVr
Totals Including Contingencies
19u43ah Ni I lioni
19U      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993    1994    1995    Total
A  INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
FORESTRY INVENTORY                               -  2,670. 2  3.526. 9  6,039. 4  7.047. 6  6,056.7 1.079. 2   768.8  27. 188.9
FORESTRY RESEARCH                          2,242.8  5.558.0  1.941. 0  1.273. 5    860.0    371.0        -       -  12,246.2
STIDIES PLANNING AND  MITORING                38.7  1,645.3  1,924. 1  1, 178. 1  1, 119.6   23.0        -       -   £,928.7
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING         2.281.5  9,873.5  7.392.0  8.491. 1 9,027.2  6.450. 7 1,079.2   768.8  45.363.9
B. FOREST CONSERVATION
NONOGIRI CATCHENNE                         3, 196.4  6, 128.9  7,226. 6  9.849.0 10, 168.0  7,510.2 1,737.8 1,056.4  46, 873. 3
NATIONAL PARKS                             3,190.2  4.579.5  1.793.8    934.3    680.4    165.1   170.9   176.9  11.691.2
Sub-Total FOREST CONSERVATION                 6,386.6 10,708.4  9,020.4 10. 783.3 10,648.4  7,675.4 1,908.7 1.233. 3  ''. 564 6
lote I PROJECT COSTS                            8.668.0 20.581.9 16.412. 4 19. 274. 4 19,875.6 14. 126.0 2,988.0 2.002. 1 103. 928. 4
November 3. 1987  22:06



ANNJX 3
- 75 -                                                           Table 6
Inndonesis
Forestry Institutions and Consarvation Project
S_ry Account by Project Coonent
(Rupiah Million)
INSTITUTIONAt STRENGTHENING
-------------------------------  fOREST CONSERVATION                  Physical
STUDIES     -------------------               Contingencios
FORESTRY  FORESTRY PLANiNIW  AND   WONOGIRI  NATIONAL               -------------
INVENTORY RESEARCH  MONITORING    CATCHNENT  PARKS       Tot)l        S   4unt
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
BUILDINGS                                           320.3  1.854.0              -       668.7  3,637.3    6.480.3    5.0   324.0
ROADS                                                    -     12.8             -           -  1.681.5    1.594.3   10.0   169.4
AMENITIES AND OTHERS                                     -    671.8                   4,888.2      40.9    5,600.8   14.2   792.7
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                  320.3  2.538.5              -     S.556.9  5.359.7   13.775.4    9.3 1.286.2
B. On-Farm Irprovemnts
SOIL CONSERVATION LABOR                                 -         -             -     9.896.4         -    9,896.4   10.0   989.6
FORESTRY AND NURSERY                                    -         -             -     2. 675.5        -    2. 675.5   10.0   267.6
Sub-Total On-Farm lprovemnts                               -        -             -    12,572.0         -   12. 572.0   10.0 1.257.2
C. FARM INCREMENTAL WC
LABOR                                                   -         -             -     3.172.4         -    3.172.4    5.0   158.6
MATERIALS                                                     -          -            5, 188.9        -    5. 188.9    9. 1  470.2
Sub-Total FARM INCREMENTAL WC                               -        -             -     8. 361. 3       -    8,361.3    7.5   628.8
0. EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES
1. VEHICLES                                         367.8    968.4          17.2        621.4  1.229.S    3.204.2    S.0   160.2
2. OTHER EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES                   2.316.2  2,330.7          147.9     1.013.1 I1 180.4    6,988.2    S. 1  358. 1
3. PHOTO MAPS AND EQUIPIENT HIRE
NEM PHOTO                                      4,513.8         -             -     1,271.9         -    5.785.7    S.0   289.3
MAPS                                           1,293.2         -             -         0.3         -    1 293.4    5.0    64.7
EQUIPMENT HIRE                                   800.4         -                              -           800.4   10.0    80.0
Sub-Total PHOTO MAPS AND EQUIPMENT HIRE           6,607.4         -             -     1.272. 1        -    7,879.5    5.5   434.0
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES                     9,291.4  3,299.0         165.2      2.905 6  7.409.9   18.072.0    5.3   952.3
E. TRAINING
OVERSEAS TRAINING                                   745.6  2,614.6              -       528.6    149.3    4,038.1    5.0   201.9
lOCAL TRAINING                                      253.3      14.7          0.0      2,382.4         -    2,650.4    5.0   132.5
Sub-Total TRAINING                                     998.9  2.629.3           0.0      2,911.0    149.3    6.688. 5    5.0   334.4
F. TA AND STUDIES                                       133.4    926.8      5,028.0      1.300.7    734.3    8. 123.2    5.0  406.2
G. RESEARCH PLOTS                                           -    409.8             -            -        -      409.8   10.0    41.0
H. Incre4ntal Operating Costs
SALARIES                                          1.985.6    624 3          66.7      1,766.4         -    4.443.0    5. 8   259.7
ALLOWANCES                                        7,905.3    255.4          57.2      1,018.8         -    9,236.7    5. 1  466.9
Other Operating Costs                             2.552.1    446. 1         44.5      2.032.0  1,888.2    6.962.8    5.6   386.6
Sub-Total Incremental Operating Costs               12,443.0  1,325.8          168.4     4,817.2  1 888.2   20,642.6    5.4 1 113.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                 23.187.0 11. 129.2      5,361.6    38.425.7 10,541.3   88.644.5    6.8 6,019.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    23, 187.0 11, 129.2      5,361.6    38,425.7 10.541.3   88,644.8    6.8 6,019.3
Physiccl Contingencios                                 1,239.4    624.6        273.3      3,260.0    822.0    6.019.3    0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                                   2,762.5    492.4         293.8      5.187.7    527.9    9.264.4    6.6   813.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     27. 188.9 12,246.2      5,928.7    46.873.3 11,691.2  103,928.4    6.4 6.633.1
Taxes                                                 2.321.2    755.7          33.9      2.641.7    966.7    6,719.2    6.2   418.7
Foreign Exchange                                     12.103.4  7,433.0       4,305.4      9.762. 7 5,399. 1  39,003.6    5.8 2. 178.8
llowe  r 3. 1987  22:06



lormlry Ifimututs I   I,  ofrojml
lablo PA0 Stuies  Sgctoral Strategy ad i "Im.u;v    PwVr
D tatad Cast  Ileb
(ftih Mt II i *0l
ParaI.tr
Bows Cases 8,1 S                                    lose 000                        PIhp
.    ....    ........    .            ..    ....   ......   ..........  Cant  t   Gross   t.u * - ,Dt  *
MUa Iwo  twO  1i91 1992  1193 MwA 1191 fot   t938 1989  ISWO   991  1997  193 1994 I99  olot    Rate  itch    vale   Account
I. limUSInI COSIS
. ..... . . .
A.i" cgusrus
I .Ot*Otfl                         877110 3  27 6                        21           3                        -   -6so4    2385   0 o    09          a     1as
3arhet In-g Uadt                   27 6  9 2                              36 a        29 6  10 0                             3- O:  0 o   09         a O     I
lht sng -3new Proacts              27 6    2 2                            3b 6        29 5  t0 0-                            39    0 05  0 9          0     IRS
#0tl151 1l1tlU0                   271 6 27 6                             55          29 1  299                              -9S 4  0 aS  09          0      65s
itS6nGt                            27 6 27 Ct                                         29  29 9                 -           -  S94  0            9     0    11S
51191612 9tm53                     77 b 27 6                                          2 79 5  79                              594   0 05    9         0 sS
P1aticatG mltmlSl                  la 4  27 6  1 2    -   -                           117  29 9   Ot           -             S9 ?   001   0 9         0     IRS
PUPM  D  PlO                       27 6  9 2                              3b t        29    t0 0                             J39   0      0           0 0 01S
Si iIIS                            27b  92 7                               b 8        29 S  to 0                             19 S  a cS   0 9         0     1s
Sahl1lr                          27 6  9                  -             36 6        291 t0 0                               11ilb  a 00    0 9       0     I&S
(9iO9G1St                          27 6 27 6                              61          29629 9                  -             s1 4   0    09           0     IO
SoCIoGISV                       -27 6 27 6                -   -       -            -29S 29 9         -    -   -            . -     94O0   0 9         0     iai
I StIItIIt Poicty                  tit1 27 6  276                          10 I       S9 0 29 9  304                        112 3  0 0M   0 9               las
T     IEEM   SWI i RICIG         -3 6 a  9      2  9 2        -  -         S I        393t0010            -         -        194   01909              0       S15
1)ltll OILII                          I t IIt 31                                      590 a968                              Itsa  099   09            0    IaS
IoahU  1LTUKI(S                    93 5 140 2 23*                     -  2           tooI041t165  280                   -2946   005    0              0    lIUS
S6-Vo1a8    1l1lIS -6 17 213 7 96 9                       -                1. 267b      64 a 61t 0 109 0     - - -   -t            7
S. SUPIPl        l                  -1 1 21  2  6 1                          424         19  1 to 1  67                         4 2  0O 09               0 0e
C   AVE6                              27 4  5 0   t 2                        to 6        :3 6  5 6  1 4      -                  20 6  0 0 0 3         009 s    at
D.E01 f11                           -49  I 12 3                              6t 4         2 9 135                   -       -   66 0 S      0 0       e 0OS    t
E. SappIES                             S I  i I  1                            s 4         6 6  67 1 34                 -        1b6   0 o9    0 7     4  s    10
F. uIasIItIIT St7OIES                       -   3     sm0 . a8S.e 9t                               IN 4 65o            -     1. on4   Oes      9         0     ts
total IUUSIEAh  COSIS                   103 .0"IL2430 see0                   2.- -.32       1 71.4      5 484 9 650      -   - 2563 8
tomes                                  -703. 0 9  2 430  Mt0            -     2.3243  -?1  *     U4 66 S 4   9 61                2.563 a
..-     -  ---  --- e      _e  ....   .... Z  ....   .  e.. Z--   e - e Z.-    .
..    .    . . .                                                                             . ... .. .... .. .. .... ..
II!1



I ndoms' to
forestry Institut ions and Conservatian Project
IWOl 752  Studies   Sh~ifting Cialti.stion
Detatied Cost Table
lIfi.pth NoItIlson)
Paramet ers
totals Inc Iuding ContingeWciss------.....
Base Costs in S                                            fus                                 Ph0~y
Cont  for   Gross lam S.mary
1958 1989  1990  1991 1992 1993 1914 1995 lotal  1988 1INS   1990  1991 1192 1993 1994 1995 Total  Note  inch                     4et.    jccumimt
IINVISINIBI COSTS
lease ioeader lSOC.OtC4istl            55 I ItO  3                               165 4          S9 0119 6                                 1i8 6   0 OS   0 9             0       hAs
LEGICtlXPftA                            9 3    3 1                                125           104    3 6                                 140a   005         0          0       laS
AMROttOKISt                            is4   927                                  27b            197   too0                                29 6   a00      09             a      lAS
fOIESI NUahGIm[NI I   1 6                                                          47            3%      aB                             -53    @0             0          0       lAS
COtommist                               15 4   9 2                                27 b           19 7  to 0                                29 6   0 0    0aI              0      VA%
SOCIOiJOGISI                            4 7   9 3                                  140           52   lOS                                   1  aS  @0 OS            0    a        AIS
AGCICUlIUMAISAL1                        3 I   6 2                                  9 3           3'J   7 2                                 10 7   0 05        0           9      lAS
AGNICIIIIUSAi ECOIIIIISI                4 7   4 7             .                    9 3           5 2   !i 4                                10 6   0 @5        0           a      lAS
Sub lot,ol CI1NSUIIANIS                   116 A I53 6                                210 4         126 I165 4                                 294 5i
B  LOCAI I1AV11                             0 3   0 3                                  0s            aI0    0 4                                 0 7   0 OS   03           0 01      him
C  OtilCi SUJPPORT                          It 1   3 I                                 6 2           3 4   3 4                                  61    0  5 0               a 0      fOPC
A  IQUlPNt1Nt1                               hI                                        6i            66                                         b66     0055   017        009"      (00
bolal INVESIKEWI  COSTS                      12b 3156 9                                 2533          136 4172 2- 30186
total                                         126i 2 156 9                               253 I         13  4 172 2                                301 6
Novemer 2. 1957 23 14



I rdonelI a
Forestry Institulions and Conservaticn Project
lable 752. Studies - Nariasr Developnt
Detailod Cost Tabi.
IRupish Hiat I eonl
Parmters
Totals  Including Con ti n       g tes          ... ........-
Bes. Costs in S                                             2US$ 10001                           I'ly.
--.. . . . .... .... ... . .   ......   -   .    .................. --- -   -  Camt   for.   Gross   tax    Su ary
1988 1989 1990  1991  1992 1993 1994 1995 Total  188 1989 1990  1991  1992 1993 1994 199S  total  Rete  EKch.    lato,    kcount
1. INWESTNEUT COSTS
.. . ... ... . I
A. CONStLIARRIS
a.  .o uis
NANPONFI P1A881                 - 55. I 110 3                               - 25S4        - 59.0 119 6                          -    - 178.6   O.OS   0.9               0      laS                                     CD
1EEDS ISSESSIIEN1                     -  55. I 110.3      -     -           - 15 4       -    -  S9 8 121.5        -    -              I- 19.3    0.0s   0.9           0      14S
0CAL CO1 SULIMI                 -28. 7  56. 2   74.       -                   149 6       -20      '     89 7       -     -    -    -175.5   0 Os           0           0      lAS
-- -  - -     - -    - -    - - - -     -  ....    ..  .  ..  ...   ...   ....   ....   ....   ... - -  -     - -
Sso-lotal COUSULTAMIS               - 73._ 221 5 185 0                         - 480 3        - 79.8 244 4 211 1                         - 535.4
B. LOCL IR3VEt                      -1.2    1.9    1 2                              4 3       -1.4   2 1   1.4                                4.9    0.05   0 3         0 09       4tE
C. OfFICE SUPPOT                    -3 1   3 1   3 1                                9.2          3.4    3.4    3.5                       -  10.3   005    0.5          0 0        OPC
D. EvUIP1E4                         -  6. 1      -6 1                                            6.5 -6                                              0 05    0. 7       0 09       f"E
E. 13tINIUG                         -    -   0.00   0. 00.0        -    -    -   00           -             -   0  0    0.00.0           -   0.0   0.05  0.25              0       Tlt
- -   - - - - - -- - - - - -  -  --    --  - -  - -  .  .  .  . .   . . . . . .   .. .   .. . . . . ..   . .  -
Total INVESINTII   COSTS               - 84.3 22b 4 189.4  0.0         -     -    - so0.           9  2 249 9 216.1  0           -    -    -55? 2
lotal                                   - 84.3 226.4 289. 4  0.0        -           - 500.1       - 91.2 249 9 21b. I  0.0        -    -    - S57.2
Novber 2. 1987  23: 14
[Ii



- 79 -                           ANEX 3
Table 10
INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Disbursement Proiections
Typical
IBRD Fiscal Year                                              Indonesian Agriculture
and Semester                     Proiect                           Sector Profile
Semester    Cumulative    Cumulative            Cumulative
(US$M)       (US$M)       (Percent)            (Percent)
FY89    First           0.7           0.7            2.1                2.1
Second          1.3          2.0            5.8                 5.8
F90    First            1.3           3.3            9.5                9.5
Second          2.0          5.3           15.6               15.6
FY91    First           2.1           7.4           21.7               21.7
Second          2.6         10.0           29.6               29.6
FY92    First           2.7          12.7           37.4               37.4
Second          3.0         15.7           46.2               46.2
FY2.L    First          3.0          18.7           55.0               55.0
Second          2.8         21.5           63.2               63.2
JX2A    First           2.7          24.2           71.3               71.3
Second          2.6         26.8           78.7               78.7
FY95    First           2.5          29.3           86.1               86.1
Second          1.7         31.0           91.1               89.5
FIX2.   First           1.6          32.6           95.9.              92.9
Second          1.4         34.0          100.0               95.9
FY97.   First            -             -                               98.8
Second           -                                            99.4



ANNEX 3
- 80 -                         Table 11
INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Disbursement Category Limits
Categories                           Basis                 Amount (US$M)
Civil works                              91% of total                   8.9
Equipment                                91% of local or                4.1
100% of c.i.f.
Equipment, hire, maintenance             91% of total                    5.0
maps and aerial photos
Technical assistance and training        100% of total                  8.0
Farmer payments                          100% of total                  4.5
Forestry research, nursery and           91Z of toatl                    1.2
field trials
Unallocated                                                             2.3
Total                   3f.0



ANNEX 4
- 81-
INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule and Organization
Table  1     Schedule of Vehicle Provision
2     Schedule of Staff Recruitment
3     Project Implementation Schedule
Chart  1     Forest Department (Ministry) - Organization Chart
2     Wonogiri Watershed Conservation - Organization Chart
3     Typ cal Cropping Calendar



ANNEX 4
- 82 -                                Tab e
INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSEIVATION PROJECT
Schedule of Vehicle Procurement
No.
A.   Four Wheel Drivers/Pickups
1988/89                                             16
1989/90                                             49
1990/91                                              6
1991/92                                              4
1992/93                                              1
76
B.  Motorcyles
1988/89                                             33
1989/90                                             52
1990/91                                             18
1991/92                                              9
1992/93                                              5
117



ANNEX 4
- 83 -                               Table 2
INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Schedule of Incremental Staff
Staff Positions                               Fiscal Year
88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93
Research Officers                           10       10        9        -        -
Research Technicians                         9       12       12         6        6
Engineer                                   -         -         1        -        -
Computer Operatcr                          -         -         2        -        -
Programmer                                 -         -         2        -        -
Liaison Office Staff                         5       -        -         -        -
Wonogiri Project Office                     32       -        -         -        -
Wonogiri Technical Staff                    26      102       -         -        -
Total                         82      124        26        6         6



ANNEX 4
- 84 -                                 Table 3
page I of 2
INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Key Actions:                                             Dates:
A.   Strategy Studies
1.    Draft TORs                                          Done
2.    Invite Proposals                                   Done
3.    Receive Proposals                                  January 1, 1988
4.    Complete Review                                     January 21, 1988
5.    Send Comments/Invite for Negotiations               February 7, 1988
6.    Start Negotiations                                 March 1, 1988
7.    Complete Negotiations                              March 8, 1988
8.    Sign Contract                                      April 8, 1988
9.    Complete Draft Proposal                            March 31, 1990
10.    Start Action Program Implementation                January 1, 1991
B.   Manpower Development
1.    Draft TORs                                         Done
2.    Advertise                                          January 7, 1988
3.    Prepare Short List                                 February 21, 1988
4.    Clear Short List with Bank                         March 7, 1988
5.    Invite Proposals                                   March 14, 1988
6.    Receive Proposals                                  May 14, 1988
7.    Complete Review                                    June 7, 1988
8.    Clear Review with Bank                             June 30, 1988
9.    Complete Contract Negotiations                     August 15, i988
10.    Start Manpower Development Planning                January 1, 1989
C.   Forest Inventory Consultancies
1.    Draft TORs                                         Done
2.    Invite Proposal                                    Done
3.    Intermediate Steps in Parallel with
Strategy Studies                                   See A
4.    Contract Signed                                    April 8, 1988
5.    Consultants Assemble                                September 1, 1988
6.    Information Users Group Formed                     September 1, 19E8
7.    Complete Forest Cover Type Monitoring              June 30, 1989
8.    Repeat Forest Cover Type Monitoring                1992/93
9.    Start Forest Assessment/GIS                        April 1, 1989
10.    Complete Forest Assessment/GIS                     March 31, 1992
11.    Start Preparation of Detailed Training Program   May 1, 1988
12.    Send Detailed Training Program to the Bank         July 1, 1988
13.    Start Implementing Program                          September 1, 1988



ANNEX 4
- 85 -                                  Table 3
Page 2 of 2
Key Actions:                                           Dates:
D.   Forestry Research
1.    Draft TORs                                         Done
2.    Advertise for Consultants                          December 15, 1988
3.    Prepare Short List                                January 21, 1988
4.    Clear Short List with Bank                         February 7, 1988
5.    Invite Proposals                                   February 14, 1988
6.    Receive Proposals                                 April 14, 1988
7.    Complete Review                                   April 30, 1988
8.    Clear Review with Bank                            May 15, 1988
9.    Complete Contract Negotiations                     June 15, 1988
10.    Sign Contract                                      July 30, 1988
11.    Start Consultancy                                  October 1, 1988
12.    Set Up Research Policy Group                       September 1, 1988
13.    Set Up Forestry Research Advisory Council         November 1, 1988
14.    Start Mid-Term Evaluation                          September 30, 1991
15.    Complete Evaluation                               March 31, 1991
E.   Wonogiri Watershed Conservation
1.    Draft TORs                                         Done
2.    Advertise                                         January 7, 1988
3.    Prepare Short List                                February 21, 1988
4.    Clear Short List with Bank                        March 7, 1988
5.    Invite Proposals                                  March 14, 1988
6.    Receive Proposals                                 April 30, 1988
7.    Complete Review                                   May 21, 1988
8.    Clear with Bank                                   May 30, 1988
9.    Complete Contract Negotiations                     June 7, 1988
10.    Sign Contract                                      July 7, 1988
11.    Start Work                                         September 1, 1988
12.    Appoint Project Manager (Field)                    September 1, 1988
F.   Nature Conservation
1.    Draft TORs                                         Done
2.    Advertise for Consultants                         December 15, 1988
3.    Prepare Short List                                January 21, 1988
4.    Clear Short List with Bank                         February 7, 1988
5.    In-tite Proposals                                  February 14, 1988
6.    Receive Proposals                                 April 14, 1988
7.    Complete Review                                   April 30, 1988
8.    Clear Review with Bank                            May 15, 1988
9.    Complete Contract Negotiations                    June 15, 1988
10.    Sign Contract                                     July 30, 1988
11.    Start Consultancy                                  October 1, 1988



THe FOREST DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATrON STRUCTURE
MNinIster
|ns   torate General|                 Sectretarv General
Directorate General      Directorate General of       Directorate General of       Agency for Forest        Agency for Forestry    I
of Forest             of Reforestration and       Forest Protection and           and Land Use              Research and         G
Utilization             Land Rehabilitation          Nature Conservation            Inventor                  Develomnt           O
Secretar                                                                       I      Secratarv Sert|           Scretary
Directorate for            Directorate for                Directorate for   J  f Centre for Forest         Contre for Forestry
Planning          I          Planning                      Planning       j  |    Inventory               RDveloprnt 
Directorate for   |         Directorate for               Directorate for       j Centre for Mapping       Centre for Forestry
Forest                  R Refotestation              Forest Protection   _         and Survey           Products Research
Exploitation       I                                                                             _          and Developmnt
Directorate for            Directorate for               Directorate for          Centre-for Forest            Centre for
Forest Products           Soil Conservation             Nature Conservation           Land Use                  education
Processing                                                                          Patterns                and Training-I
Directorate for  1        Directorate for             Directorate for
Forest Products        Regreening and Control  |  |      National Parks
Distribution   |    of Shifting Cultivation         and Tourism Forests



A-=4
-£7-
S----< wK ------------------- ------ --|
~3II----- ir------    Ii' X3
L           II    I _I
iiX
X -r-  -T ----- ---------  _
I                                                     ______,_____________ _   _ 
I8.. .j I



INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Typicol Cropping Calendars
for the Farming System In Wonogirl
Farming System       0       N       D       J       F      M       A       M       J      J       A     s
CROPPING INTENSITY: 100%
Upband Rice
Maize
CROPPING WENSItY: 150%                                                                                                                      Co
Cassavao
Upland Rice                     -      -       -     _
Maize
Groundnut
World Bank-31112 1
| lb
r



- 89 -                           ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Analysis
Yields and Inputs Per Ha
Table   1    Maize/Groundnut Model
2    Maize/Upland Paddy Model
3    Cassava Model
Production and Prices
Table   4    Project Area Production and Inputs
5    Financial and Economic Prices
Financial Budgfts
Table   6    Maize/Groundnut Model
7    Maize/Upland Paddy Model
8    Cassava Model
Economic Analysis
Table   9    On-Farm Incremental Benefits
10    Economic Analysis-On-Farm
11    Economic Analysis-Off-Farm



ANNEX 5
- 90-                                                            Table
I ndones ix
Forestry Project - Wonogiri Watershed Conservation Copcnnt
TABLE  1. I Crop mix maize /groeudnuts Crop Nodel
YIELDS A4!1  INPUTS
(PER Hal
Crop year
Existing
Technology              New Tchnology                            Incremntal
Unit     I to 35    1        2       3        4    5 to 35   1      2      3       4    5 to 35
Rain Production
Iaize                  ton            I       1     1. 2     1. 3    1. 4     1. 5    -    0. 2    0. 3    0. 4   0. 5
Groundnuts             ton         0.4      0.4     0.5      0.6     0.6     0.7      -    0.1   0.2    0.2       0.3
Oparatino
Inputs
Maize seed          ton        0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02        -      -       -      -       -
Groundnuts seed    ton         0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05               -       -      -       -
Urea               ton         0.05    0.05      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1      -   0.05   0.05   0.05    0.05
TSP                ton        0.025   0.025   0.075   0.075   0.075   0.075        -   0.05   0.05   0.05    0.05
Crop protection   00ORp           -        -    13.4    13.4    13.4    13.4       -   13.4   13.4   13.4    13.4
tabor
Unskilled labor    day          220      220     239     258      277     296      -     19     38      57      76
November 5. 1987  17:42



AIIME  5
- 91 -                                                           Tdile2
Indonoii.
go1eatry Project - li gir' Nateished Coi.servation Cowonent
TAtE 2. 1 opland pcddy and awize Crop Nodal
YiELDS MND INPUTS
IPER Hal
Crop year
Existing
Technology         New Tochnology                    Incremental
Unit     I to 35    1        2       3    4 to 35   1        2      3    4 to 35
Rain Production
Paddy                 ton          1 2      1.4     1.6      I a     1.8    0.2    0 4    0.6      0.6
"Size                  ton         0.6        I     t l      1.2     1.2    0.2    0 3    0 4      0.4
Operat in
Inputs
Paddy aeed          ton        0.03    0 03    0.03    0,03    0.03        -       -               -
Maize seed          ton       0.015   0.015   0.015   0.015   0 OIS                -      -       -
Ursa               ton         0.05    0. 15    0. 15    0.15    0. 15    0.1    0.1    0.1     0. 
TSP                ton        0.075     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1 0 075  0.075  0.075   0.075
Crop protection   @00Rp           -       12      12       12      ;2     12      12     12       12
Labor
UnskIil1ed labor    day         175      192     210     227      244     17      35     52      69
Noveer 5, 1987  17: 42



ANNEX 5
-92                                                                T          3
I ndonesi       C
For.stry Project - Wonogiri   toshed Consertion Crwonent
TABLE 3. I Cassave Crap todel
YIELDS AND INPUTS
(PER Hal
Crop year
------S   --t   ------- ----       ------------~ -~-~ -------~----------
misit ing
Technology        Now  Technology                  Increimntal
Unit            to 35   1      2       3    4 to 35   1       2      3    4 to 35
Yield                         ton                 6       7      8       9       9      1      2       3        3
Operating
Inputs
Cassavo tubers    000 cuttings          12.5   12 5   12.5   12.5    12.5                -       -       -
Lator
Unskilled labor        day                48      58     69      79       90    10      21      31      42
Noveer 5. 1987  17:42



Inrdones ia
Forestry ProjeCt - onogiri Watersted Conservation Cowonent
TABLO 7 1 Project area Project
PRODUCTIOSN AND INPUTS
C'rop year
I ncrmentalI
96/9~7 to
Unit    87/88   88/89        89/90      90/Ot       91/92         92/93        93/94         94/95        95/96        121/t22
Cropping Intensity                       Percent        0 I       1 4        5 7       14 2         23 5          30 0         30.0          30 0         30 0          30 0
Cropping Pattern
Exsteing Techntotogy
upland paddy and maize                Ha        56. 4   -562 8   2. 362. 8  -5.850 0      9. biS 0    I.12375 0   -12.375 0    112. 375 0   - 12. 375 0    12. 375 0
Cassave                               "a       -18 a   -to? 6    -787 6  -1,950.0    -3, 225 0    .4, 125 0         -4. 125 0    -4. 125 0    -4.015 0    -4. 125 0
Crop mixi maize /groundnuts           Ha         7 6     -752      -315.2    -780 2      -1.290 2      -t. 652    .1.650 2        -t,650 2    -. .650. 2     -1,650 2
Sik-Ttoai Iaisi ing Technology Area                82 8   -825 6  -3. 46b.6  -8. 580 2   - 14. 190 2    18. ISO 2   -18. I50.?   - to. is  2    18. tS0 2    18. Iso 2
Niew Techr"iIogy
uplano paddy and maize                Ha        s3 4    562 8   2.367 8   5.:i50 0        9. 67S 0    12. 37S.0    12. 375 0    12. 375 0    12. 37S, 0    12. 37: 0
Cassave                               Ha        18a    187 6        787.6   1.950 0       3.225 0       4.125 0      4.125 0       4.125 0      4.125 0       4.125 0
Crop mix maize /groundnuts            Ha        30_0 ..300_0  1.I,260.,0   3. 119 a       5. 159 a      6,599.8a     6.599 8       6.599 8      6.599 8       6.599 8
Sub-Totat  iuw Technology Area                     lOS 2   . OSO 4   4.410 4  10. 919 8    18. 059 8    23. 099 8    213. 099 8    23. 099 a    23. 099 8    23. 099 8
Natir, Production
Paddy                                   ton         II 3    123 8      596.4    1.7S5 1       3,577 6      S.S80 0       6.885 S      7. 425 0      7.42S 0      7.425 0
Maize                                   ton        33 7    349 2   1.542 3   4.087 2          7.408 A     10.477 0    11.903.5    12.707 5)   13.055 5    13. 199 5
Cassava                                 ion         18a    205 4       994 0   2.92S2         S. 962 6     9.300 0      11.475 0     12.375 0      12.375 0     13. 37S 0
Groundnuts                              ton         9 0      92 9      410.9   1.091 8        1.9888a      2.837 8       3.281 8      3.611 8       3.815 8      3.959 8
Paddy                                   ton         Ii 3    I1238      5 964    1.751I        3.577 6      S.S80 0       6.885 0      7.425 0       7.425 0      7.425 0 
Maize                                   ion        33 7    349 0   1 542 3   4.087 2          7.408 0    10.477 0    11.903 5    12.707 5    12.055 5           13. 129.5 
Cassava                                 ton         188     706 4      994.0   2.925 2        S,962 6      9.300 0      11,475 0     12.375 0      12.375 0     1.2.375 0
Groundnuts                              ion         90       92 9      410. 9    1. 091 a     1. 909 8     2.6378a       3.281 8      3. 611 8      3. 8158      3.959 8
Operating
Inputs
sewd                                 ton         16       15 ?       66 1      163 8         270 9        346 5         346 5        346 b         346 5        346S5
Agro-chemicals                       ton        1t6      118 3      514 4    1.325 2      2.295 3       3.052 8      3.196 8       3,1968a      3.196 8       3.196 8
Crop protect ion                   0GOOP       676 8  7. iSS 6  32. 373. 6  87. 084 0   157. 905 3   217.641 3   236. 937 3   236. 937 3   236. 937 3   236. 937 3
Labor
Unski lled labor                     day    6.074 8 62.69i,6 27S. S10 4 727. 67S 2 1.323.948 0 1. 904. 895 6 2.232.935 6 2.468,341 8 2.590.261 A 2.617,621 8
Novanjber S. 1987  17.43



torestry Project - Nonogiri  Ostershed Conservation Coponent
Economic Prices I UUAL I'
Un OOOtIpl
Crop year
100/101 to
Unit      87/8eU   "8/ag    819/90    g/1t   911/2    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/91    98/93    99/100   121/122
Outputs
Paddy                 ton         t6. 7    195. 79   211. 06   220. 82   221. 79   222. B   224   225. 17  226. 16   227. 1  22t 98   228. U    229. 76     230.26
Nt.iz                  ton        112.139   130.27   154.75   168.29   1169.06   169.76   170.53    171.3   172.22   173.35   174.47   175.64   176.77      177.34
6roudnuts             ton         681 84   696.5U   753.04   803.6U   821.04   .836 4   855.84    873.2   871.36    850.4   829.44    Oft.48   t87.52       777.04
Cassava               ton             40       40       40       40        40       40       40       40        40       40       40       40       40          40
Inputs
Paddy seed            ton            200   244. 74   753.83   275.79   277.24   278.62      280   281.46   282.71   283.88   2U4.97   286.00    287.2       287.81
Slite seed            ton         IN? 32   217 12  257.22   260.48   281.76   282.94   284.22    285 5   287.04   2U8.92   290.78   192.N7   294.62         295.56
Groundnuts seed       ton       1. 022.76 1. 045.32 1 129.56 1. M05.52 1.231.56  1 257.6 1.283.76  1 309.8  . 307.04  1, 215.6 1.244.16 i. 212. 72 1. 11.72   1. 165.56
Cassave titors    000 cuttinqgt       tO       10       tO        10       to       10       to       10       to                 10 10    to        to         10
Urea                  ton          280.8  327.38    387.J   420 1  415.35    410 8  405.14   401.09   401.28   406.44   411.59   416.74   421.89            424.46
ISP                   ton        340. I5    357. 7   372. 56   315.64   393.96   402.29    410.6   416.93   424. U    428.44   432.01   435.58   439. 14    440.93
tabor
Unskilloed  .ior      day           0.5      0.f    0.St    0.Ut         0.ll     0.ttl    081    t0.S        0.J8     0.8?I    0.31     0.8?      0.01       0.8o
--- -- -- -- -- -- - . .. . . . .. .  -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- . - -- -- -- --- . - -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
Nove r 5. 1967  17: 43
fIIDACiAt PIlCES t ANNUAL I
lin OOp)
Crop year
87SI/ to
ttnit     121/122
outputs
-P- - -               ton             160
btite                 ton             1M
Broundnuts            ton             800
Castsav               ton              40
Irnuts
PWa    seed           ton             ISO
btia Sd               ton             200
Growidnts seed        ton           1.200
Casseve tubers    000 cuttings         10
tSr!                  ton             125
TSP             ton             125
Labor
wnkilled labor        dey            1.25
wav_er 5. 1¶97  17 42



AN 5
-95 -                                                             Table 6
I dones ia
Forestry Project -  onogirt 14tershed Conservation Cowponent
TALE 1. 2 Crop mix maize /groundnuts Crop Model
flIN141CIAL UDOGET
fin OOORp PER Ha)
Crop year
Existing
lechnology            New Technology                         Incrental
I to 35   1       2      3       4    5 to 35  1      2      3      4    5 to 35
Revenue
Main Production
Maize                               120    120    144    156    168        180          24     36      48      60
Groundnuts                          320    320    400    480    480        560    -    s0    160    160       240
Inputs
Maize seed                               4       4      4       4      4        4           -      -       -        -
Groundnuts seed                         60      60     60      60     60       60           -      -       -        -
Uroa                                     6       6      13     13      13      13    -      6      6       6       6
TSP                                      3       3      9       9      9        9    -      6      6       6       6
Crop protoction                          -       -      13     '3     13       13          13     13      13      13
Sutb-Total Inputs                          73      73     99      99     99       99          26     26      26      26
INCONE lBefore Labor Costsl               367    367    445    537    549        641    -    78    170    182       274
Labor
Unskilled labor                        275    275    299    323    346        370    -    24      48      71      95
INCOME (After tsaor Costsl                 92      92    146    214    202       271    -    54    123    III       179
Nov_>er 5, 1987  17:42



ANNEX 5
- 96 -                                                               Table 7
I ndonesi1a
forestry Project - Wonogir! "Nater'.ed Conservation Component
;..eiE  2 2  upland paddy and mize Crop Model
FINANCIAL  BUDGET
tin OOORp PER Hal
Crop year
Existing
Technology         New Technology                    Incremental
I to 3b    1       2       3    4 to 35   1       2      3    4 to ?5
Revenue
Main Production
Paddy                                 192    224    256    288         288    32    64        96       96
Malze                                  96    120    132    144          144    24    36       48       48
Inputs
Paddy seed                                  S       6       6       6        6         -      -             -
Maize seed                                  3       3       3       3        3      -      -       -        -
Urea                                        6      19      19      19       19    13    13       13       13
TSP                                         J      13      13      13       13     9      9       9        9
Crap protection                             -      12      12      12       12    12    12       12       12
Crop~~~~~~-                  - -  -     -- - -   - --  . . - - - -   -- -- - - -   -- - - - ~  '-- -' -   --- ---   - -- -'-- - ~~
Sub-Total Inputs                              18      52      52      52       52    34    34        34       34
INCOME  IBefore Labor Costsl                 270    292    336    380         380    22    66    ItO         110
Labor
Unskilled labor                           219    240    263    284         305    21    44       65       86
INCOME  lAfter Labor CostsI                   51      52      74      96       75      1    22      45       24
Nover.ber 5. 1987  17:42



ANNIS 5
-97 -                                                              Tabre 8
I ndones 'a
Forestry Project - llonogiri Watershed Conservation Component
TABLE 3.2 Cassave Crop Nodel
fIlNACIAL  BUDGET
tin OOORp PER Ha)
Crop year
Ex.sting
Technology        New Technology                   Incremental
I to 35   1       2       3    4 to 35   1      2      3    4 to 35
Revenue                                    240    280    Z20    360        360    40    80    120        120
Inputs
Cassave tubers                          125    125    125    125        125      -     -       -       -
INCOME (Refore Labor Costsl                115    155    125    235        235    40    8o    120        120
Labor
UnakiIed labor                          60      73     86      99      a13    13    26       39      53
INCONE (After Labor Costsl                  55      P3    109    136       123    28    5'       81      68
Noveiber 5. 1987  17:42



Indonesi
Forestry Project -  "nire  Watershed Conservat.ia  Component
IS8LE 7.2 Project area Project
Economic Budget
(in 00Op Millionsl
Crop year
-   .-..  ..-...-.--.  . -...  .-  .  .  .    .-.-.  ....  -.-. ---.  .- ......------ . ..   . .....  .......-.....------......-.-. -. -----.... ------.-....
Incremnta I
--..---. - - --- --- --. -. - -  --- - ---..- . ... -. - -- -.. -.  -.. ---..--.. --- --. -... - - ... - -- -..    .-.  ----- -- - -- -- ---- -- - -- -- -- -- ---- --- -- -.- .. -..
100(101 to
a/788    88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93(94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/100   121/122
Main Production
Paddy                         0.002107 0.024247 0.125874 0.387222 0.793474 t. 243.60 1.542240 t.571872 1.679238 1.686247 1.692781 1.599434 1.70596    1. 7096?SI
ttize                         0.003785 0.045465 0.238671 0.687820 1.252509 1.778624 . 02993? 2. 176795 2.248470 2.288160 2.302890 2.318413 2.333302   2. £40747
Cssava                        O. 00752 0. 008256 0. 039760 0. 117008 0. 238504 0. 372000 0. 459000 0. 495000 0. 495000 0. 495000 0.495000 0. 495000 0 49500    0. 49$000
Groundnuts                    0. 006109 0.064754 0.309439 0.877490 1.532901 2.379212 2.808696 3. 153806 3.324318 3.367397 3.284400 3.201403 3.118406   3 076907
Sut-Total Main Production        0.012753 0.142722 0 713744 2.069540 3.9173U 5.773595 6.839867 7.497473 7.747626 7.836804 7.715071 7.714250 7.652676   7 62230$
Not Value Of Production           0.012753 0.142722 0 713744 2.069540 3.9173U  5 773595 6.839867 7 497473 7.747626 7.836104 7.715071 7.714250 7.652576   7.62230$
Production Cost
Operat ing
Inputs
sted                    0. C01129 0.012726 0. 058234 0.154146 0.260088 0.339240 0. 345840 0.352412 0. 351188  0.344286 0. 336690 0.312103 0.321508   0.317711
Agro-ctmicals           0.003531 0 040240 0. 196176 0.537418 0.932439 1.242602 1.303973 1.306855 1.315418 1.329710 1. .43998 1.I58268 1.372538   1. 379UI
Crop protection         0.000541 0.005724 0.025899 0.069667 0.126324 0.174113 0.189550 0.189550 0.189550 0.189550 0.189550 0 189550 0.189550   0.189SS0
.......    - - -- -- --   - - --   . .  ..    . .. ...   . . .. .   . ..  -- - - -   -- -- -   --- -- -   - - -- -   -- - -- -   -- - - --   - - -- -  I - -- -   --- -- - -   1.... .... .... . ..... . .... ..
Sit-Total Inputs           0.005302 0.058690 0.280300 0.761231 1.316851 1.755954 1.839363 1.848817 1.856849 1.863546 1.870237 1.876920 1. 883596   1.886942
Mired Labor
Unskli t led labor      0.004936 0.050937 0.223852 0. 591236 1. 075708 1. 547728 1. 814260 2. 005528 2. 104588 2. 126818 2. 126818 2. 126818 2. 126818   2. 126818
Sub-Total Operating           0.010238 0. 100627 0.504161 1.352467 7.394559 3.303682 3.553623 3.854344 3.961436 3.990364 3.997055 4.003738 4.010413   4. 01370
CASH FLOW BEFORE FINANCING       0.002516 0.033095 0.209583 0. 717073 1.522829 2.469912 3. 186244 3.643129 3 786190 3.845440 3. 778017 3.710512 3.842263   3. S0845                                                         c
Nover S. 198   17: 43
U!f



Ecuonoic Analysis of In-f are kyulopust Compounmnt
Crop Years                  87/861   *fVbf   99/90    90191    91192    92/93    93/94    94195   95/96    96/97    97/91    "1/"    99/0    0001   01/02   02/03   03104
lncremetal knitfits - Aftil Crops                               12.9   142.7   713.7  4069.5  3917.4  5773.6  6839.9  7497.5  7747.6  7846.8  fl75.1  7714.3  7652.7  7622.   7622.3  7f22.3  7622.3
Hue-gardem Bkntfits                                             -5.0   -17.0   -28.0    40.0   353.0   476.0   726.0  1262.0  2357.0  3746.0  5164.0   6O44.    50,0 #   521.0  923.0  9930.0  10639.0
Incrssmtal Costs                                     1201.0  2072.3  3330.1  6141.0  7619.1  7342.6  5049.6  5154.5  5150.5  5490.6  5155.3  5105.3  5112.7  5136.4  51O3.   51U.11  5116.4
Ant Ilncruumtal lmosfits                            -1193.2  -1946.6  -2644.4  -4031.4  -3348.8  -1093.0  2516.2  3605.0  4954.1  6522.2  7800.8  905.9  10041.0  11013.9  11611.7  12372.3  13144.9
Economic Rate of Return:               26%
04/05   05/06    06/07    07/08    05/09    09/10   10/11    11/12   12/13   1.3/14    14115    15/16    16/17
7622.3  7622.3  7622.3  7622.3  7622.3  7622.3  7622.3  7622.3  7622.3  7622.3  7622.3  7622.3  7622.3
11325.0  11967.0  12556.0  13225.0  14004.0  14671.0  15015.0  14875.0  14937.0  14991.0  15451.0  15085.0  15085.0
5173.6  5116.4  5136.4  5116.4  5173.6  5196.0  5116.4  5:73.6  5136.4  5116.4  5116.4  5173.6  5116.4
13773.7  14472.9  15041.9  15730.9  16452.7  1710M.  17520.9  17323.7  17422.9  17503.9  17556.9  17533.7  17590.9
----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----  ---- - ---- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----



Econosic mnalysis o! 011-tfru 0v. Coupomnt
(Rupiah million)
_  ---_  --__  _-----~~- --__ ------------------ - ------- - --- --- --------------- -       -------------- -  -    -_ ------ -- -  ---_ -------------            ----_-               _
Crop Years          37/fl   7U07   m9/90   90/91    91/92   92/93   93/194   94/95   95/S4    9/197   97/"    "/9    "/in         /el   O1/2   02/03   03/N4   54/0
Icraaetal Defits
Incremental hef its
Small has (140 dams)                       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.3     3.3     9.3    13.B    15.4    14.1    1U.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    16        .1  .     14.1    14.1    14.1
Larle Om  424 dams, red soil)              0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      2.3     9.8    23.4    33.9    37.7    39.2    39.2    3.2    39.2
Large kms (14 daes, voltaic soil)          0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      a.0     0.0    0.0       0.0     1.5      5.3    10.4
Irrigatim - Largf     lred soill             0.0    44.3   154.0   327.4   374.4   405.5   363.1   242.7   102.2    50.1    12.3         5.2      1.5     0.3
Irrigation - Large Oams (eOlcanic soil)      0.0    31.2    73.0   140.4   171.4   218.4   19;4   148.5    92.5    44.4    22.4    22.           22.3    20.3    17.3    13.4      3.7     4.5
Sole rivnr dam-strem Irrigation            0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    54.1   144.0   327.8   539.4   300.0  1107.7  12M.7  1713.1  1990.6  2WI.5  2545.7  213.2  3074.0
Poer Supply Ifr" the ha                    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0 o    ..       1.4     4.1     9.4    15.5    23.0    31.3    40.4    4.9    57.1    65.2    73.0         0.7    0.2
Smnokeling                                 0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      2.5     2.3      2.1     1.9     0.0    u1.3    6.3    51.3    44.3        0.0    32.1    92.1    43.7    42.0
Pine                                       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    12.3    17.4      7.3    19.4     0.0  '09.5   212.0    94.4   234.4        0.0   262.2   371.5   145.9   414.4
fahoffny                                   0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.4     0.3      0.3     0.0     0.0      2.9     1.       1.4     0.0     0.0      5.1     2.4     2.4      3.0
kacla                                      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.3      1.1     0.0      7.5    X.1      0.0    13.0    45..       0.0     0.0     3.0      0.0     0.0     3.0      0.3
Teak                                       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     3.0     0.5      1.2     1.3     0.0      3.0     1.2      3.2     4.3     0.0    12.0      1.6      4.3     7.2
Sebtotal                                 0.0    73.0   234.0   4631.5   54.7   709.4   754.5   307.2   744.4  1149.9  1511.2  1447.7   2n79.5  2116.9  2M7.          103.1   172.3  1439.1
Foelueod Warvestifs Cost                     0.3      0.0     0.0     0.1      7.3     3.3      4.9    10.7     0.0    3.7    44.1    27.9    34.3        0.0    54.4    54       39.7    10.9
Incresental Cste                         1,330.3  2,454.3 2,100.9 1,730.3  2,271.4   632.3   404.2   23.3   137.5   95.    153.1    9.3    95.3   115.3   15S.1    17.5    95.0  13.1
fet lacrestal isnefits                  -1330.3  -2576.3 -1346.  -1241.9  -712.7    19.0   345.4   506.2   574.9  1035.4  1313.3  1324.   1949.3  2WI.1  250.9  374.2  30.3  54M.1
Ecfssaec  ate of  eturn                       153
btet:  s0d products ha hl"  eM  djUtd to KfuiC prices.
0510o    04107   07i01  o0/0    09/10   It/Il   11/12   12/13   1311   14/15   15114   14/17
14.1    14.1    1i.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1    14.1       1.1
39.2    39.2    39.2    39.2    39.2    39.2    39.2    39.2    39.2    39.2    39.2    39.2
15.1    13.1    19.6    19.4    19.4    19.4    19.4    19.4    19.4    19.4    19.4    19.4
1.3     0.5
3323.1  3575.4  3314.1  4050.0  4277.3  U497.   4711.7  4913.3  5119.2  5312.9  5499.9  5499.9
95.5   102.4   109.5   116.4   122.7   129.0   135.2   141.1   144.9   152.4   157.8   157.8
0.0   273.1   312.1   232.7   210.0      0.0   220.5   247.5   154.5   146.5       0.0      0.0
0.0   343.0   466.5   217.0   542.5      0.0  2435.3  3454.2  1540.7  3351.3       0.0      0.0
0.0    24.0    13.0    13.0      0.0     0.0    27.0    13.5    13.5       0.0     0.0      0.0
0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      9.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
0.0   430.0    72.1   192.2   233.3      0.0   50.0    75.9   202.4   303.4        0.0   600.3
3M4.2  4755.9  4714.3   419.2  5399.3  4633.0  7773.1  3532.4  7C73.2  9414.4  5714.3  4257.0                                                                                                          f!
0.0   225.4   176.7   131.0   203.2      0.0   637.3   753.2   3331.2    I.A       0.0   120.1
95.8   115.3    f5.3   153.1   147.5    95.3   153.1   115.3.   95.3    95.1   153.1    95.5
3390.4  4414.7  4512.3  4535.1  5023.7  453.0   917.3  7653.4  4539.2  3454.4  5563.7  4041.5



- 101 -                         ANNEX 6
Pa8e 1
INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
List of Related Documents and
Data Available in the Project File
A.  Selected Rep c'ts and Studies on the Sector
Al. Forest Policies in Indonesia - the sustainable development of forest
lands - Government of Indonesia - November 1985.
A2. Report of the Environment Sector Review, Vol. I-III, UNDP Project,
November 1983
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bl. Indonesia - Forestry Project, FAO/IBRD-CP, June 19, 1986.
B2. Indonesia - Forest Inventory Proposals, FAO-TCP, August 1986.
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl. Forestry Inventory
C2. Forestry Research
C3. Studies
C4. Wonogiri Watershed Conservaticn
C5. Nature Conservation
C6. Agricultural Aspects of Watershed Conservation
C7. Soil Conservation
C8. Sociological Aspects of Wonogiri
C9. Project Cost Tables
ClO.Financial Analysis
Cll.Economic Analysis



NOTES



MAP SECTION



-.         THAILAND   'ii                       1io                                           lie 11.r                                                                                          ,
d. Afth               \                                                                                         \PIUPNS                         --I N D O N E S I A
PHIUPPINES                                                     I D NEI
13                   MALAYSIA            S       Co ,a,n Sea                   BfrUNJ                                                                                         FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS
AND CONSERVATION PROJEC
A| 71,                        /                  I/                                                                                       2                                      A   hr1w Forty Ronr 5 tkon
12                        /                                  MALAYSIA                                                                                                          A 7  W/*0 br      A..
12                                            /                                                                                                   *   Nolo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M-d4,P-.- Ho..do0on t...
_,.  SINGAPORE                            rb                                                                                                                    P.ov4 Hndq04rt..1
k.,b-n1                                              _ 'UOG4 80NE19                                                                    HALMAHERA
;   f    9                       ~~~~~~~~P..&-k, r  K A L I 11tNtA N                                                                         |
*    9                                            KAI         A       A          wd."         18/
Pd.n0.1                                                14                               LOO RN                                       25            I
11          0b        -1NDA 5                                          2AIAMSOLA 25
D(.K.1 JAK0ARTA            A                                                   .000,.SULAWESI
JAYA BARAT                                             \\
3 JAWATENGAH                                                 1                                                                            \                                                            IRIAN JAYA
D .0. YOGYAKARTA                                   AETU4J                                    621*   FA
JAWA TIMU F         Oo-gkn.,8SnIrld (                                                                                          .n-                      Alb-                                              26
6 LAMPUNG                                                                                                                       oxrdad SOU A
7 BENGKULU                           _/-6
8 BUMATERASELATAN                                                            v                            P
JAMB I                                                                     V.0  S lxi
SUMATEBA BARAT                                 JAKARA KA
2SUMATERAAUTARA
31 IACEA
0 KALbAANTAN BAPtAT                              ABOGORI
5 KALIMANTAN TENGAN                                 0270810       3             MAA                                                                                                                                         i
KIALIMANTAN SELATAN                                         Fo..~,0~
7 KALIMANTAN TIMU.                                       J UB0 *nn                   bAIURANUi
SULAWESI TENGIAH                                  2
9 SULAWESI UTAPA                                           YOgykBlt             *     *   UU  0) IBAWA
n SULAWESI ELATAN                                                  4                    '  /VAR,  MIO Mmn       / 
,SULAWESI TENGA.                                                  4                          
NSA TENGGARA AtAMU                                                                  D6.R.a2/                7                                                                          2100 00       4,
NUUSA TSENGGARA                          !,,,    I    ,2   *196(     23                                                                                                                  UILES  TO
MALUKUY                                                                                                                       Kup           2                            a  10   20   300   00  5       6.07.f 
2,' IRIAN JA_A                                                                                                LSUOJMA     24      P"U          27 
KILOMETERO
100.                     700'                     110-                     nV                       120-                    1i2'                      130                      1T                       140
SEPT_MBER



IBRD
_. _ _ /x                    r             O S                        111°KABUPATEN
SUKOHRJO/                            \                                                    KABUPATEN KARANG ANYAR
on ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~0
IAWS ~ ~ ~   A 581&                                                                       /4 A   N    /                                                                 s          
'OGYAKARTAX        < .
71
/~~~~~~~~~
nto,o                                                                                                      e - --  Nguntoroadi
/ Gritaonr
! X /G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ii" -  =  N  D 0  N  E S I A
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJE
WONOGIRI CATCHMENT AREA
PROPOSED PROJECT                       EXISTING:
/  /                              12'     CATCHAREEJE BOUNDARY                    RURAL EXTENSION CENTERS
T<    STREAM CONSERVATION WORKS             WATER LEVEL RECORDING STATIONS
JAWA   TENGAH                                  /                        \                                                                                    / ROADSIDE CONSERVATION WORKS       SUB WATERSHED ROLINDAOD SEO
*                      /                                             **              '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            STREAM RANK PROTECTION~~~~~~~~~~~~TRA  BN POTCIO  UBWTESHDBONARE
* r           /                        }                                                                                                                                   ,/  0  ---TERRACE REHABILITATICN        DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
*0                                                                                                                                P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OREST REHABUTLrATICN AREAS  -. PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
JAWA   TIMUR                                                        P                                 -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0                                           10                                                   To P.,.,-
KILOMETERS
;               /                                         '!'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11



