Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.16725
Implementation Completion Report
INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Loan 2930 - IND)
June 11, 1997
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Tndonesian Rpiah (Rp!
At appraisal   (06/87): US$ 1.00 = Rp. 1650
At Mid-term   (08/92): US$ 1.00 = Rp.2030
At Loan Closing (10/96): US$ 1.00 = Rp.2320
Government of Indonesia Fiscal Year
April 1- March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
CEM                    Country Economic Memorandum
DGFU                   Forest Utilization Directorate, Ministry of Forestry
ERR                    Economic Rate of return
FICP I                 First Forestry Institutions and Conservation Project
FICP II                Second Forestry Institutions and Conservation Project
ICDP                  Integrated Conservation and Development Project
MOF                    Ministry of Finance
MOFr                  Ministry of Forestry
NFI                    National Forest Inventory
NGO                    Non-Government Organization
PlMPRO                 Project Management Officer
PH                     Forest Utilization Directorate, Ministry of Forestry
PHPA                   Conservation Directorate, Ministry of Forestry
PPIU                   Project Implementation Unit
SAR                    (Bank) Staff Appraisal Report
TFAP                   Tropical Forestry Action Program
Vice President           :    Jean-Michel Severino
Director                 :    Marianne Haug
Division Chief7Manager   :     Gershon Feder
Staff Member             :    James Douglas



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Table of Contents                                                       i
Preface                                                                 ii
Evaluation Summary                                                      iii
Part I:  Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                            1
B. Achievement of Objectives                                    2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  4
D. Project Sustainability                                       5
E. Bank Perfornance                                             7
F. Borrower Performance                                         7
G. Assessment of Outcome                                        8
H. Future Operation                                             9
I. Key Lessons Learned                                          10
Part II: Statistical Annexes
Tabel 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6       Key Indicators for Project Operations
Table 7A      Studies Included in the Project
Table 7B:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:     Project Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table 9 :     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11:     Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDIX I AIDE MEMOIRE
APPENDIX II PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Loan 2930-IND)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Forestry Institutions and
Conservation Project (FICP) in Indonesia, for which Loan 2930-IND in the amount of US$
34.0 million equivalent was approved on March 31, 1988, and made effective on July 19,
1988.
2.    The loan was closed on June 30, 1996, as originally stipulated at appraisal, with an
informal extension through October 31, 1997 to allow for payment of eligible expenditures
incurred on or before the closing date and refund of the balance of the Special Account. The
final disbursement took place on November 15, 1996, at which time an undisbursed balance
of US$2.9 million was canceled, bringing cumulative disbursements to US$27.1 million,
equivalent to about 80% of the original and 90% of the revised Bank loan. There was a
previous cancellation of US$4 million in September 1989. Co-financing for the project was
provided by the Government of Netherlands (US$ 1.5 million equivalent) and Japan (US$4.7
million equivalent).
3.    This ICR was prepared by Jim Douglas, Agriculture and Forestry Systems Division,
Agriculture and Natural Resources Department, reviewed and cleared by Messrs. Gershon
Feder, Chief, Agriculture Operations Division and Oscar de Bruyn-Kops, Acting Project
Advisor, Country Department III, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. The Borrower's
contribution to the ICR is appended to the report.
4.     Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, which visited Indonesia during March 5- 8, 1996. It is based on materials in the
project files, findings of the ICR mission in the field and discussions with the implementing
agencies.






iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Loan 2930-IND)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    The Forestry Institutions and Conservation Project (FICP I) with a loan amount of
US$ 34.0 million was the first major Bank intervention in the forestry sector in Indonesia.
Prior Bank projects in agriculture and rural development had focused on irrigation, tree crop
development and transmigration activities. Involvement with these sectors clearly showed
their close interrelationship with forests, and revealed a need to develop planning,
management, nature conservation and watershed protection in the forest areas of the country.
However, policy directions and institutional capacity in the forest management and
conservation system remained weak. The FICP I was designed and implemented to address
the critical institutional weaknesses in the forestry sector. This was followed by the Second
Forestry Institutions and Conservation Project (FICP II, Loan 3243-IND, aproved June 28,
1990) which has produced a national research master plan and taken steps to improve the
inspection and control function of forest operation.
Project Objectives
ii.    The main objective of the FICP was to strengthen planning, management and
conservation efforts for maximizing the long term, sustainable contribution of the forest
resources to the welfare of the Indonesian people. The specific project objectives were: (a)
improving sectoral planning and management and human resources; (b) strengthening the
sectoral information base; (c) improving research capacity to achieve better forest
productivity; and (d) adressing some identified critical conservation needs.
iii.    The Project consisted of two major components: (1) Institutional Strengthening.
and (2) Conservation. The Project financed : (i) sectoral and policy studies, information
generation and research; (ii) rehabilitation of terraced lands and associated conservation
structures; (iii) planting of fruit, fodder and fuelwood trees on private lands; (iv)
conservation of forests on state land; and (v) management of five existing nature
conservation areas through technical assistance, staff training, and improved park facilities.
iv.    The Project's objectives were in line with the Bank's assistance strategy for the
forestry sector. The project design emphasized the importance of institution building for
sustainable use of forestry resources, and paid attention to the preservation of the great
biodiversity of the forestry sector. The main parameters of the Bank's Forest Policy
(approved in 1991), such as conservation, sustainability of the forestry sector and poverty
alleviation, were already reflected in the project design although it was prepared in 1987-88.



iv
Implementation Experience and Results
v.     FICP was primarily an information gathering and policy development based
project, yet it did entail considerable field activities. It was the first Bank project in the
sector, and therefore the first experience the Ministry of Forestry had with the Bank, and
some delays and implementation problems were apparent in the early phase. Nevertheless,
all the major activities were completed within the original time frame for the project as a
whole, and the main objectives were achieved satisfactorily. During the years of its
implementation, royalties and levies for logs increased by a factor of three. Such increases
were not part of conditionality under the project, but were expected to result from
Government application of the findings of studies under the project The overall project
objective for institutional strengthening was achieved, but the sustainability of the project
impact appear to be uncertain.
vi.    The project has achieved its objective of improving sectoral planning, management
and human resources, and in this respect has improved the potential for the Ministry to
address major sector management issues. Policy, planning and investment work, including
the National Forest Inventory (NFI), were carried out under a program of studies financed
under the project, and undertaken by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the
Ministry of Forestry in 1989 and 1990. About 29 studies were completed under six major
subject areas. Based on these studies, the Tropical Forestry Action Plan was completed in
1991.
vii.    The Project has also achieved the human resources development objective. Based
on an institutional study undertaken by the Project, 320 staff were trained in various
technical and field aspects of inventory and resources survey; 8 Ph.D. and 19 Masters
degrees in forest research at overseas institutions were completed; and on-the-job and in-
house training in nature conservation and watershed management were provided. These
achievements are generally in line with outcomes envisioned in the SAR.
viii.   The Project has substantially contributed to strengthening the sectoral i4formation
base. The primary information need for Indonesian forestry was a comprehensive inventory
of the natural forest resource of the country. A large number of technical documents,
quantitative data and digitized maps were produced during the course of the NFI, while the
analytical program of work was completed in 1996. The Ministry of Forestry convened a
workshop in July 1996 to discuss the overall results of the Inventory with interest groups,
and has since produced a report presenting the basic results which is publicly available.
ix.    The activities related to the objective of improving  research capacitv were
satisfactorily achieved. Despite some delays in implementation, the research station at Aek
Nauli on the island of Sumatra was constructed, staffed, and equipped, and the facilties at the
research stations in Bogor and Samarinda were improved. Research on applied technology
for the improved regeneration of logged-over forests was carried out successfully.
x.     The objective of addressing the critical conservation needs was addressed under
two project components: the Wonogiri watershed project; and investments in five national
park  around the country.  In the Wonogiri component, the watershed conservation



v
objectives were achieved very successfully. Crop yields in the area have reportedly
increased by 60%, and farmers' incomes by 30%, exceeding the outcomes predicted in the
SAR for this component. There has been diversification of landuse in the project area, which
is expected to contribute to sustainability as well as to further increases in smallholder
incomes. The project was managed largely at the District level. There is wide agreement
that this model of management has succeeded, and has indirectly contributed to activities and
benefits, not anticipated in the original project design.  For instance, the extensive
participation of women, who were able to take charge of tree nurseries in the area. The inter-
agency coordination at the District level and the resultant support for community resource
management has been considerably more effective in the Wonogiri area, than in areas where
the project was not operating.
xi.    The second conservation aspect addressed under the project was investment in five
national parks, implemented by the Directorate General for Nature Conservation (PHPA) in
the Ministry of Forestry. Delays were encountered in the implementation of activities
related to the conservation sites chosen for development. This was mainly because of
PHPA's and other agencies' unfamiliarity with Bank procurement procedures, and the lack
of management experience of the Project Managers (PIMPROs).
xii.   In summary, the FICP I has achieved the specific objectives set for it during
appraisal. It has contributed to improvements in the management of forestry resources and
national parks by the Ministry of Forestry, and has demonstrated the feasibility of improving
farmer incomes and land use practices in critical watersheds through appropriate technical
and management interventions. It is likely that the benefits generated during the Wonogiri
watershed rehabilitation will continue to accrue to the project area. However, sustainabilty of
the improvements in the public sector management of forestry resources will depend on the
Government providing adequate resources for effectively continuing with the project
initiatives and, more importantly, carrying out the fundamental policy and institutional
reforms in the forestry sector. For example, the project measures for better care and
maintenance of the five national parks will be sustainable only if the operational budgets and
the capacity for regional parks to raise revenues under their own initiatives are improved,
and adequate incentives for the staff involved in the care and maintenance of these parks are
maintained. There is also a need to enforce a clear and effective land use policy for
demarcating and protecting the forest areas that are most valuable from the viewpoint of
biodiversity and other environmental.  Considerable effort on the part of multiple
Government agencies and other interest groups will be required to resolve the remaining,
difficult land use issues, and much will depend upon the will of Government to undertake the
necessary measures. In light of these observations, the sustainability of the project has been
evaluated as uncertain.
xiii.    The project was supervised by the Bank's Resident Staff in Indonesia (RSI), which
enabled the task manager to have a continuous oversight of the project and quick response to
implementation issues. Bank supervision of the project, however, suffered a discontinuity in
1991 and part of 1992, following the reassignment of the task manager and until a
replacement was fully engaged in Indonesia to manage both FICP I and FICP II. This led to
some delays in the approval of contracts and proposals during the initial period of the project
implementation. Overall, however, the Bank performed reasonably well in design and



vi
supervision of this project, and its performance overall is rated as satisfactory. The
Borrower's performance was satisfactory under most, but not all, components.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
xv.    Despite initial delays in implementation, the project was successfully completed
and the objectives set at appraisal were achieved. Although the sustainabilty of the project
achievements in strengthening the insitutional capacity of the Ministry of Forestry and other
agencies for addressing the major issues in the sector is uncertain, the project has made
important contributions in these areas and the overall outcome of the project is rated as
Satifctoazy
xvi.    The Government of Indonesia has decided not to undertake further borrowing from
any multilateral or bilateral source for its programs in the forestry sector This will possibly
constrain the much needed investment and technical inflows to the sector to follow up on the
initiatives that have so far been undertaken. However, the Bank continues the dialogue with
the Government on forest sector issues in the context of the Country Assistance Strategy, and
the annual Country Economic Memorandum. Also, the Bank is expected to continue to
direct lending assistance to land administration, integrated conservation and development
activities, and other areas with strong linkages with forestry and forested land. However, this
falls short of implementing a comprehensive reform agenda for the forestry sector.
xvii.   Thus, although the project has succeeded within its own technical terms of
reference, five major lessons for future Bank involvement in this sector arise from the
experience with this project:
-  Sustainability in a large forest resource can only be developed over a long term,
integrated and sequenced involvement in the sector: to the extent possible,
provision should be made for this kind of long term Bank involvement right from
the beginning of the initial operation;
*  Inputs to enhance the technical and human resources capacity of forestry
agencies to deal with the fundamental problem of long-term sustainability of
Indonesia's forest will have limited impact in the longer run if concomitant shifts
in policies and incentives are not introduced by the governments.
*  Staff development at the PHPA should be focused on mid-level management
training rather than technical training. Consultant reports, field-handbooks, and
guides for park management staff should be prepared in Bahasa Indonesia, and
work shops and seminars should be held to ensure use of such materials by a
wider audience.
*  Project launch workshop should be organized to train key project staff in Bank's
practice and procedures on procurement, management, particularly when dealing
with agencies that have had little experience in Bank operations.



vii
* Decentralization of watershed management activities at the district level, and a
highly competent District level administration are important factors in the
successful implementation of watershed conservation initiatives.
xviii.  In Indonesia, future success in dealing effectively with the major sector issues of
deforestation and sustainability, will depend heavily on a coalition of donors, government,
industry and other stakeholders. This group must agree upon a set of policy and physical
objectives which have sufficient reach and scope to generalize and replicate the many
successful models and approaches which have been or are being developed in Indonesia, to a
scale concomitant with the size of the problem.






1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2930-IND)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.     The Forestry Institutions and Conservation Project (FICP), Loan 2930-IND, was
the first major Bank intervention in forestry in Indonesia, although the wood industries had
been studied under a Bank supported loan for the Bapindo V Project (Loan 2277-IND). The
request to the Bank for the project was made in recognition of institutional and policy
weaknesses associated with the forest management and conservation system in Indonesia,
and also as a means of providing input on these matters for the Indonesia Tropical Forestry
Action Program, which was scheduled to commence in Indonesia in 1989. The Bank loan
for the FICP was signed on April 20, 1988 and closed on June 30, 1997.
2.     Prior to the Project, the Bank's agriculture and rural development strategy for
Indonesia had focused on irrigation, tree crop development and transmigration activities.
Involvement with these sectors showed clearly their close interrelationship with forests, and
revealed a need to develop planning, management, nature conservation and watershed
protection in the forest areas of the country.
3.     The Bank's interest in the sector especially, for a resource which covered some 60%
of the entire land area of Indonesia, and which constituted one of the most biodiversity-rich
ecologies in the world, was therefore justified. Specifically, the Bank was interested in the
areas of: forest planning and land use policy; utilization and management; nature and
watershed conservation; and the processing and trade sectors. Forest products at project
inception accounted for 20% of non-oil based exports for the country, and was expected to
take up a larger proportion in the near future.
4.     The primary objective of the project was to strengthen the planning, management
and conservation in the forestry sector, so as to maximize the long term, sustainable
contribution of forest resources to the welfare of the Indonesian people. Because it was the
first Bank involvement in the forestry sector in Indonesia (and among the first of any donor
support in the sector), activities under the project were focused on: information gathering and
analysis; and institutional and policy development. The longer term objective was to follow
up subsequent lending with more directed field oriented investments. Nevertheless, some
physical and field based work was seen as vital under the project, particularly in the area of
nature and watershed conservation.
5.     The original project staff appraisal document identified a number of policy areas
where, prima facie, it appeared that policies current at the time were counterproductive to



2
sustainable forest management and conservation: the existence of very low resource prices;
the absence of strong incentives for improved logging techniques in field operations and;
sub-optimal concession allocation policies. However, no covenants or conditionalities on
these aspects were included in the loan agreement: it was proposed instead that detailed
proposals for change in these areas would be prepared in the studies to be funded under the
project, and these would then be considered in later interventions. The specific objectives of
the project were therefore largely confined to some of the pressing technical concerns.
Below, the objectives and the components planned to achieve them, are outlined:
a) improving sectoral planning  management and  human  resources, through
implementation of a series of policy, planning and investment studies covering a
wide range of issues ranging from shifting cultivation, to plantation policy, to the
social forestry concerns;
b) strengthening the sectoral information base primarily through implementation of a
comprehensive inventory of forest growing stock throughout the country;
c) improving research capacity, to achieve better forest productivity specifically
through the construction and staffing of a research facility in the Outer Islands
(Sumatra), rather than through further inputs into the centralized research facilities
at Bogor, on Java;
d) addressing some identified critical conservation needs, specifically: investment in
rehabilitation of a critical watershed on Java (the Wonogiri watershed near Solo),
and technical and capital works inputs into management of five existing nature
conservation areas spread throughout the country;
6.     The Project's objective is in line with the Bank's assistance strategy for the forestry
sector.  The project design emphasized the importance of institution building for
sustainability, and paid attention to the great biodiversity value of the forestry sector. In its
recognition of the importance of conservation, sustainability and poverty alleviation, the
project anticipated in its design phase (in 1987-88) the main parameters of the Bank's Forest
Policy (approved in 1991), and issue of poverty alleviation which now features strongly in
the Bank's general approach to lending.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.     FICP was primarily an information and policy development based project. It also
involved a considerable field activities. It was the first Bank Project implemented by the
Ministry of Forestry, and although this led to some implementation problems and delays in
the early stages of implementation, eventually all the major activities were completed within
the original time frame, and specific objectives were achieved satisfactorily. These
objectives were: (i) lmproving Sectoral Planning. Management and Human Resource; (ii)
Strengthening the Sectoral IMformation Base; (iii) Improving Research Capacitv:and (iv)
addressing some identified critical conservation needs.
8.     Improving Sectoral Planning. Management and Human Resources: Policy,
planning and investment work was carried out under a program of studies undertaken by the



3
Food and Agriculture Organization (financed under the loan) and the Ministry of Forestry in
1989 and 1990. Major reports covering all subjects identified for studf were completed,
under six major subject areas:  forest resource outlook and land use issues; shifting
cultivation in forest areas; minor forest products; the forest based industries; forest products
marketing and trade; institutional and policy issues, including revenue and resource use
issues.
10.    These studies provided significant inputs for the Tropical Forestry Action Plan, a
multi-donor! Government of Indonesia program of analysis and consultation, which was
completed in a round table meeting held in Indonesia in 1991. FAO was engaged to assist
the Ministry of Forestry prepare documentation and other inputs for this process, and the
Bank became involved in the policy dialogue surrounding this exercise, and in some of the
follow-up activities. The information and analyses generated in the project studies were
utilized extensively in this process.
11.    The project has also achieved the human resources development objective. Based
on an institutional study undertaken by the project, extensive staff training activities were
undertaken. On the basis of the results from this study, about 320 staff were trained in
various technical and field aspects of inventory and resources survey; 8 Ph.D. and 19
Masters degree at overseas institutions have been completed; and on-the-job and in-house
training in nature conservation and watershed management have been undertaken under
those components of the project.
12.    The objective of Strengthening the Sectoral I?formation Base was also achieved in
that a large number of technical documents, quantitative data and digitized maps were
produced during the course of the National Forest Inventory (NFI). The NFI was carried out
jointly by the Ministry of Forestry, and the Food and Agriculture Organization, working
under a contract financed under the loan. At the request of the Bank, the Ministry of
Forestry convened a workshop in July 1996 to discuss the overall results of the Inventory
with interest groups, and has since published a report presenting the basic results.
13.    Despite some delays in implementation of the activities related to the objective of
Improyed Research Capacitv, the facility at Aek Nauli was completed, equipped, and staffed
at loan closure. The research on applied technology for the improved regeneration of logged
over forest was carried out successfully, and minor improvements of facilities in Bogor and
Samarinda were completed. It has been noted in various studies that research capacity is still
too centralized on Java - specifically, at the Bogor complex near Jakarta. Construction of a
research facility on one of the Outer islands under the project was consistent with most study
recommendations, and with current policy of the Ministry of Forestry at the time.
14.    The project has also achieved some aspects of the objective of addressing the
critical conservation needs. Activities related to this objective were focused on two areas:
the Wonogiri watershed rehabilitation; and the development of five national parks around the
country. All activities and physical targets for the Wonogiri watershed rehabilitation have
been achieved very successfully. Crop yields in the area increased by 60% (compared to a
projected increase of 30% in the SAR) and farmers' incomes by 30%. There also has been



4
diversification of land use in the project area, with benefits for sustainability as well as
incomes.
15.    The second aspect of conservation addressed under the project was investment in
five national parks, implemented by the conservation directorate in the Ministry of Forestry
(PAPA). In some locations such as in Began Annie Wartabone National Park (formerly
Dumoga Bone N.P.) and in Gunung Leuser N.P., the project specifically supported
ecotourism and research activities. The project supported activities such as construction of
tourist facilities in the park, deployment of staff in patrolling and protection activities, and
research, planning and training programs. However, many of these activities were either
delayed, or not successfully implemented, and therefore, the objective of this second
conservation aspect was not fully achieved.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
16.    Given that FICP I was the first experience of the Ministry of Forestry with a Bank
operation, some delays in project implementation arising from inadequate understanding of
the Bank's procurement procedures and other aspects of project implementation were to be
expected. These were manifested most seriously in components of the projects dealing with
physical infrastructure. Despite delays, however, most of the physical targets of the project
were reached within the original loan closing date.
17.    Two supervision reports issued in 1993 and 1994 noted that there were problems
with appointment of staff to the research facility constructed under the project at Aek Nauli.
As is usual with fairly remote stations, there was a problem in attracting staff - especially
staff which had grown used to the idea that the base of forestry research in Indonesia was the
research complex at Bogor, near Jakarta - to such locations. The Ministry of Forestry was
eventually able to resolve this situation, and the station is now staffed and functioning. The
Ministry will need to carefully monitor research output from the station, and be prepared to
take remedial action should the standards or level of output fall to unacceptable levels.
18.    Disbursement from the loan under the conservation component on the five national
park areas was suspended temporarily in 1990, as per the instruction from the Director
General of the Conservation Directorate of the Ministry, largely because the Ministry was
notified that some of the activities being financed under this component had not been agreed
to as per formal Bank procedures (letters of no-objection were not issued in some cases) and
were therefore in breach of Government regulations. To some extent, the Bank may have
been to blame for this occurrence. This period coincided with a delays in appointment of a
replacement task manager for this project at the Bank Headquarters, and some requests for
NOLs were not processed with appropriate speed. This contributed to substantial delays in
implementation processes.
19.    Delays in implementation also stemmed from  PBPA's and other agencies'
unfamiliarity with Bank procurement procedures, both in Jakarta and the field. The
complexity and coordination issues found in donor-financed projects often require more
management experience than provided by a typical Project Manager (PIMPRO). The



5
Ministry of Forestry has tried to remedy the situation by hiring a consultant company (PT.
Istakarya) to assist staff in the management of complex donor-financed projects; and by
training staff in project management skills. These measures, however, have not improved
the situation substantially as delays in implementation, particularly contracting, continue to
be experienced with other Bank-financed projects implemented by PHPA (e.g., the Kerinci-
Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project).
20.    The activities for five national parks were eventually resumed in August 1994, and
virtually all were completed within the project time frame. Nonetheless, much of the
infrastructures (guard posts, tourist facilities) supported under this component have not been
managed and maintained adequately. PHPA, the conservation directorate in the Ministry, is
hampered by both budgetary constraints and institutional limitations on its capacity to
manage the conservation assets it controls.
21.    The technical assistance provided by the project supported the development of
buffer zone management guidelines, specialized studies and on-the-job training: the
interpretation of the problem at the time of project design was that technical training in
aspects of conservation was the primary requirement, and this what essentially what was
delivered. While it is difficult to evaluate the impact of the training (much of it was informal
and not documented), it has become evident that the area of greatest need in the training area
for PHPA is for mid-level management, rather than technical aspects. Moreover, many of the
technical reports produced under the project, though of high quality, were often too
theoretical and had limited circulation because they were published only in English. The
consultant teams often did not involve representatives of relevant government agencies, so
recommendations were not always applicable.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
23.    It is likely that the benefits from research, inventory work, infrastructure and
agricultural productivity and associated watershed values will be sustained after the loan
closing. However, unless the operational budgets and the capacity for regional parks to raise
revenues under their own initiatives are improved, and incentive structures for staff involved
in the care and maintenance of these parks are seriously reviewed, the project's initiatives
for conservation and management of national parks may not be sustained. There is also a
need to determine and enforce clear and effective land use decisions, demarcating the most
valuable forest areas from the viewpoint of biodiversity and other environmental assets, and
this should be implemented across the whole of the remaining forested area of Indonesia as
soon as possible. Considerable effort on the part of multiple Government agencies and other
interest groups will be required to resolve the remaining difficult land use issues., and much
will depend upon the will of Government to undertake the necessary measures. In light of
these observations, the sustainability of the project has been rated as uncertain,
24.    It is likely that the benefits generated during the Wonogiri watershed rehabilitation
component of the project will continue to accrue to the project area. On the basis of some
observations made during the mid-term review, there are indications that some of the
techniques developed in the project are already being disseminated informally outside the
project area. The key to success in this respect has been not just the technical approaches



6
used, but also the institutional model developed. A cautionary note should be added, in that
it is evident that success in the initial phases of this component was heavily dependent on the
motivated and highly competent performance of the senior District official, in addition to the
contributions of many others. Nevertheless, the model used did allow for such initiative and
incentives to be present in the system, so that officers were able to take advantage of them.
25.     The sustainability and value of the research investments made at Aek Nauli (and in
training staff) will depend on factors exogenous to the specific sites and activities initiated
by themselves. Under FICP II, a national research master plan was produced, and it was
noted in that report that institutional and policy reforms would be needed in the Indonesian
forestry sector, to ensure that good and relevant research is done, is promulgated efficiently,
and, most importantly, is used by both state and private sector participants. The same
conclusions apply to investments made in research under FICP I, and it remains to be seen
whether the Ministry and other relevant participants in the sector make the necessary
changes.
26.     There are several problems generic to park management in Indonesia: first, parks
receive limited central funds (APBN) for operation and maintenance and are unable to
generate local resources (swadana) through park user fees without legislative change
endorsed by the Ministry of Finance. Second, tourist facilities managed by government
agencies are unable to compete with local privately owned tourist facilities which are
cheaper, better maintained and provide better service. Third, protection and enforcement
budgets are often very small. Park guards receive little monetary incentive to patrol, and
often are not to be found in their isolated guard posts. The project was able to alleviate some
of these budgetary problems in specific cases, but the Ministry of Forestry needs to address
the fundamental issues of: recurrent cost financing, human resource quality, strengthening
management capacity and the possibility of contracting-out services prior to investment in
infrastructure, in managing its national parks.
27.    The major question remains whether the project has made a significant impact on
the capacity of the Ministry of Forestry, and other involved agencies, to deal with the basic
problems of long term sustainability of Indonesia's forests, and the associated social and
economic issues. Although a human resources assessment and proposal for change within
the Ministry was prepared under this project, it has not been followed up by more detailed
planning and then institutional reform, as was planned for later activities in the sector.
28.     Some changes and improvements have been made by the Ministry of Forestry,
especially by the Directorate General of Forest Utilization has who established an
Independent Inspection Unit that will increase the flow of information on the nature and
quality of forest operations   However, the Ministry of Forestry still does not take a
sufficiently strong role in monitoring and controlling forestry operations, nor is it sufficiently
proactive in pursuing consultation with and participation of local communities to achieve
sustainable forestry management. These are crucial because they relate, ultimately to the
commitment of the Government of Indonesia to sustainable forest management, forest
conservation, and equitable participation of all stakeholders in these processes. It will
remain difficult for the Bank or other donors to pursue general sustainability objectives in
their activities with the Government, until these matters are resolved.



7
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
29.    Right from inception, Bank supervision of the project was carried out from the RSI.
Supervision of the project suffered a discontinuity in 1991 and part of 1992, because the task
manager was reassigned to the head quarters and it was not until about early 1992 that a task
manager, a forestry specialist, was fully engaged at the RSI for managing both FICP I and
FICP II. As noted earlier, this led to some delays in approval of contracts and proposals for a
period. Locating the task manager in the RSI enabled problems to be resolved quickly and
effectively, and afforded the opportunity to keep an oversight of the project almost on a daily
basis. However, only a limited number of formal supervision reports (only six during the
eight years of project implementation) were produced. Since about mid-1992, disbursements
picked up, and procurement problems evident early in the project were reduced. A number
of budgetary and other fairly significant changes in the project were required as it
progressed, and for the most part these were made with reasonable speed and flexibility on
the part of the Bank. Overall, the Bank performance has been rated satisfactory in design
and supervision of this project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.    This project was implemented entirely by the Ministry of Forestry, which, as noted
earlier, had no previous experience with Bank operations. Some delays in processing Bank
requests for information and other inputs was therefore to be expected, and was manifested
as both disbursement delays and procurement procedural problems, especially early in the
project implementation.  This was exacerbated by some more generic problems in
Government of Indonesia systems of mobilization of counterpart funding and other support
for projects.
31.    There was a lack of communication and coordination between different directorates
in the Ministry and although this turned out to be more of a problem for FICP II than for this
project, it nevertheless caused some difficulties: some of the information and analyses
generated in the studies were inadequately promulgated within the Ministry, and there were
occasions when budget and component expenditure re-alignments in one area of the Ministry
were not cleared and coordinated with other areas, with subsequent confusion and further
delays in finalization of requests being the result.
32.    These problems of communication and coordination were,  however, greatly
reduced when the Ministry appointed a team of project financed consultants with extensive
experience in managing donor programs in the Indonesian Government context, to assist in
managing donor programs, and especially the Bank loans, in the Ministry. Once this step
was taken, the frequency and seriousness of implementation and disbursement problems
greatly reduced, and the Bank's assessment is that the borrower's performance was eventually
stifactory under most, but not all, components. The Ministry of Forestry created a project
implementation unit to improve implementation under this project - but in future,
coordination of donor programs will be done under the auspices of a specialized unit within
the Ministry created for this purpose (Bina Programs).



8
33.    As noted earlier, few covenants of a major policy or institutional nature were
included in negotiations for this project. These mainly dealt with the need to form
committees and working groups to manage research and human resources issues, and also
included some conditions of effectiveness relating to completion of contract arrangements in
a satisfactory fashion; all these conditionalities were complied with. Specific requirements -
that the results of studies be provided to donors, or otherwise promulgated - were observed
by the Government.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.    Benefits presented in the Staff Appraisal Report for this project were of two basic
types: (i) generalized estimates of the likely returns to Indonesia from application of
improved management, conservation and technical technologies generated in the project; and
(ii) a more specific estimation of returns to inputs in the Wonogiri watershed rehabilitation
component.
35.    The SAR  estimated that application of improved and sustainable forest
management techniques, as would be specified in the studies component of the project,
would generate additional net present value for Indonesia's forests of between $200 - 1,400
million. Subsequent studies of the economic benefits of sustainability in Indonesia's forests
(calculated as the difference in net present value between outcomes under sustainability, and
under present practices) shows that in fact the potential gains to full sustainability are
considerably higher than this range. Research gains in productivity were not estimated - the
SAR calculates that even a 1% gain in productivity from research inputs would generate an
ERR of more than 20%. The SAR further noted that very high payoffs to inventory work
and to research and conservation, would be possible, if recommendations made and
techniques proposed were acted upon.
36.    It is a fact that, since inception of FICP I, some changes for the better have
occurred in the management and conservation of forests. For example, royalties from natural
forests have increased from around $10 per cubic meter when the project began, to around
$33 per cum at present: results from price and rent analyses undertaken under the project,
and by other means, can be credited with at least some of the impetus for this change.
However, the level of royalty charged for forest resources in Indonesia is still too low to
create an incentive to the major users of forest resources to pursue genuinely sustainable
practices.
37.    It is also true that in recent years, Ministry of Forestry enforcement of cutting
regulations, to bring the annual cut from the Indonesia resource closer to the estimated
sustainable level of 22 million cum pa, has intensified. Attribution of even a small
proportion of any significant shift in this area to the project would certainly confirm high
rates of return to its activities in this area - but, given the very large number of supporting
studies and other activities (donor and government funded) which took place during the
implementation of the project, and the unreliability of actual annual cut area data, it is
simply not possible to make any useful estimate of how this attribution should be calculated.
Indonesia will benefit, in both economic and environmental terms, from the achievement of
genuinely sustainable management of its natural forest resource. At present, sustainability is



9
by no means assured: annual log removals from natural forests are still well in excess of the
sustainable limit (probably in the order of 40 million cum pa from approximately 64 million
ha of production forest), and protection of regenerating areas of production forest is weak.
Until this situation is fully under control, any interim benefits from improvements in this
direction could easily be reversed.
38     No retrospective analysis of the returns to investments made in the Wonogiri
watershed rehabilitation component of the project was done when the mid-term review
occurred. However, in the original calculations of ERR made in the SAR (which estimated a
rate of return of 22% pa to this component) it was noted that the rate of return was not
particularly sensitive to off-farm benefits estimated, and that therefore the annual crop
benefits are critical. The SAR calculations projected a yield increase as a result of project
inputs of about 30%. Since overall project costs have stayed close to original estimated
levels, and crop yields appear to have grown by more than 30%, (see paragraph 18 above) it
is likely that the actual rate of return to this component of the project will have been in
excess of the original calculated level.
39.     The Wonogiri watershed activities have, as already noted, proceeded well, and the
Bank and the Government are satisfied with the outcome. The activities were managed
largely at the District level. There is wide agreement that this model of management has
succeeded, and has indirectly contributed to activities and benefits not foreseen in the
original project design. For instance, the extensive level of participation of women, who
were able to take charge of tree nurseries in the area. The inter-agency coordination at the
District level and the resultant support for community resource management has been
considerably more effective in the Wonogiri area, than in other areas where the project was
not operating.
40.     As has been outlined in various sections above, the FICP I achieved the specific
objectives set for it during appraisal, and if evaluated solely in those terms, it can be judged
to have satAizctorzd&met its development objectives.
41.    If the larger picture of sustainability of the forest resource, and the distribution of
the benefits of this, is taken as the basis for assessment, then ultimate judgment as to the
success of the project must be reserved, because the sustainability of the forest resource as a
whole cannot at the present time in Indonesia be assumed. Basically, FICP I was intended as
the first of a series of lending and related activities in the forestry sector, with the
overarching objective of achieving policy and institutional reform. That program has not
come to pass under the Bank's lending portfolio in Indonesia, for reasons which were
discussed in the implementation completion report for FICPI, released by the Bank on
January 17, 1996. Comprehensive and fundamental policy and institutional reforms still
remain the major unfinished agenda for the Indonesian forestry sector.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
42.    The Ministry of Forestry in Indonesia has decided against any further borrowings
from overseas donors to finance its foresty sector programs: this is partly in response to
general Government instructions to Ministries to reduce borrowings, and partly due to the



10
large accumulation of funds in the Reforestation Fund (supported by levies from logging
concessions) which is controlled by the Ministry, and partly because of the availability of
grant funds under bi-lateral assistance programs. Whatever the merits of this decision may
be, it is the reason why the intended program of interventions in the sector envisaged by the
Bank when FICP I was conceived has not progressed. The Bank is, therefore, concerned that
the fundamental policy and institutional reforms to foster long-term sustainabilty of
Indonesia's forestry resources might not be accorded the importance they deserve under the
current scenario of Government interventions.
43.    Meanwhile, the Bank is continuing its dialogue with the Government on forest
sector issues - some of which are being pursued through the Country Assistance Strategy,
and the annual Country Economic Memorandum. Also, the Bank continues lending
assistance to integrated conservation and development activities that have strong linkages
with forestry and forested land (e.g., upland agriculture and conservation and park
management projects) through other Ministries and working with other interest groups.
However, implementation of a comprehensive reform agenda for the forestry sector is
urgently needed and the donor community as a whole and the Government of Indonesia
should pursue this objective energetically. The Bank remains willing to assist in this in
whatever way is possible, but in the absence of any direct lending for the sector, it is not in a
position to provide the required technical assistance and advisory services for this purpose.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
44.    The key lessons learned from the project experiences are as follows:
*  Sustainability in a large forest resource can only be developed over a long term,
integrated and sequenced involvement in the sector: to the extent possible,
provision should be made for this kind of long term Bank involvement right from
the beginning of the initial operation;
- Inputs to enhance the technical and human resources capacity of forestry
agencies to deal with the fundamental problem of long-term sustainability of
Indonesia's forest will have limited impact in the longer run if concomitant shifts
in policies and incentives are not introduced by the governments.
* Staff development at the PHPA should be focused on mid-level management
training rather than technical training. Consultant reports, field-handbooks, and
guides for park management staff should be prepared in Bahasa Indonesia, and
work shops and seminars should be held to ensure use of such materials by a
wider audience.
* Project launch workshop should be organized to train key project staff in Bank's
practice and procedures on procurement, management, particularly when dealing
with agencies that have had little experience in Bank operations.
* Decentralization of watershed management activities at the district level, and a
highly competent District level administration are important factors in the
successful implementation of such initiatives.



11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives            Substanial       Paria         Negligibk    Not appicable
(V)            (V)             (0)()
Macro policies                           D               D               O
Sector policies                          D                               D               D
Financial objectives                                     D               D               0
Institutional development                C               E                               O
Physical objectives                                      D               D               D
Poverty reduction                       a               o               o
Gender issues                            a               o               o               e
Other social objectives                  a               o               o               o
Environmental objectives                 L                                              [Ii
Public sector management                 D                               D               D
Private sector development              I               LZ              El
Other (specify)                         E               E               E               E



12
B. Projectsustainabiitv               Likly              Unlikely           Uncertain
(/)                 (e)                 (1)
7O 7
Highly
C. Bank perforan                      satisfactory       Satisfactory        Deficien
(v")                (1)                 (/)
Identification                                                                 7 C  E
Preparation assistance                E                   E           -l
Appraisal                             C                                       El
Supervision                          7                                        El
D. Borrowaer formance                saisfactoly        Satisfac             Deficin
(1)()                                  (1)
Preparation                                                                  EO
Implementation                        C                                       ElI
Covenant compliance                   E                                       E]
Operation (if applicable)             E                                       El
HigbJ                                   HUgbly
E. Assessment of outcome            satisfacor     Sadsfcoy       Defic      unsatisfactory
El)                        El)           El(



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                Purpose                 Year of        Status
approval
Concurrent Operations
1.  Second Forestry         To reduce the pace of deforestation and  1990   Closed
Institutions and        to sustain and maximize the long term           06/30/95
Conservation Project    benefits from Indonesian forest
resources.
2. National Watershed       To improve the living standards of poor  1993   Ongoing
Management and          upland farmers by improving and
Conservation Project    restoring the productive potential of
their resource base and to improve
watershed environmental quality and
protect downstream watershed
resources.
3.  Land Administration     To foster efficient and equitable land  1994    Ongoing
Project                 markets and alleviate social conflicts
over land.
4.  Integrated Swamps Dev.                                         1994    Ongoing
Project
Following Operations
1. Kerinci Seblat Integrated   To secure the biodiversity of KSNP and  1996  Under
Conservation and        stop further habitat fragmentation by:          Implementation
Development Project     (a) improving Park protection and
management, including the involvement
of local communities; and (b) promoting
sustainable management and
maintenance of permanent forest cover
in the remaining buffer zone concession
areas.
2.  Maluku Conservation and   To conserve terrestrial and marine   1997     Under
Natural Resources       biodiversity in a network of protected          preparation
Management Project      areas in Maluku province.
3.  Regional Watershed      To improve natural resource            1997     Under
Management and          management in critical watersheds using         preparation
Conservation Project    decentralized and participatory
community-based approaches, while
strengthening the capacity of local
government to carry out such efforts.



14
Table 3: Project Time Table
Steps in project cycle                          Date planned          Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                                                               July 1986
Preparation                                                               November 1986
Appraisal                                        May 1987                    June 1987
Negotiations                                                             February 19, 1988
Letter of development policy (if applicable)        n.a.                        n.a.
Board presentation                            January 12, 1988             March31, 1988
Signing                                                                    April 20, 1988
Effectiveness                                                              July 19, 1988
First tranche release (if applicable)               n.a.                        n.a.
Mid-term review                                 October 1991                March 1993
Second (and third) tranche release                  n.a.                        n.a.
Project completion                             December 1995               June 30, 1996
Loan closing                                   June 30, 1996               June 30, 1996
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
([JS$ thousands)
FY89   FY9Q    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96/97
Appraisal estimate     2,000   5,300   10,000   15,700   21,500   26,800   30,000*   30,000
Actual                 2,286   10,040   11,800   15,989   20,255   21,468   25,647    27,100
Actual as % of estimate  114.3   189.4   118.0    101.8    94.2     80.1      85.5      90.3
Date of final disbursement November 15, 1996
* Note: Original loan was $34.0m, of which $4.Om was cancelled and replaced by Japanese Grant Fund of Yen 650 million



15
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Implementation Indicators in SAR a/
Units          Estimated         Actual
1. Institution Strengthening
*   Studies (management and planning)              titles             40              40
*   Human resources assessmentiproposal            report             1                1
*   Formal traineeships                            no                 27               27
*   Inventory: interim and final reports           titles             2                2
*   Research station completion                    no                  1               1
2. Forest Conservation
a) Wonogiri Catchment Component
* Completion capital works                     set                1               1
* Successful rating mid-term review            report             1                1
b) National Parks
* Completion capital works                     set                5               5
* Parks operations/patrol system               unit               5               5
a/ These are not listed specifically as indicators in the SAR; they have been extracted from discussion of implementation
outcome expected in the SAR, and elsewhere in project documentation.



16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
Key Operational Indicators in SAR Report a/
Targets                        Actual
Institutional Strengthening       Utilized in Ministry Planning  Utilized in NFAP; partial in
*  management/planning reports    and NFAP                       Ministry planning
*  human resources/institutional  Presented and accepted for     Presented, further investment
plan                           further investment            pending
*  traineeship                    Completed; trainees re-assigned  Mostly completed and re-assigned
*  inventory                      Completed; in use in Ministry    Completed; in use in Ministry
*  Ack Nauli Research Station     Completed; in use              Completed in use
*  Wonogiri Catchment             Capital works completed;       Capital works completed;
argicultural productivity raised   agricultural productivity raised
National Parks                    Capital works completed;       Capital works completed; but
management and patrol systems  maintenance inadequate; patrol
in place                      systems partially ftmctioning.
aJ These indicators are not specified in the SAR but are inferred from the objective and expectation for the project discussed
there.
Table 7A: Studies Included in Project
Titles
Forest Management and Planning
*   Resource Outlook/landuse                                   6
*   Shifting cultivation                                       5
*   Minor forest products                                      3
*   Forest based industry                                      5
*   Forest products marketing/trade                            4
*   Institutions and policies                                  5
Manpower Development Plan
*   Main report                                                1
National Forestry Action Plan
*   Main reports                                               3



17
Table 7B: Studies Included in Project
Study       Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined  Status
Investment
1. Planning       To prepare action plans from the forestry  Completed
strategy and planning studies, and based on
agreed action plans, to develop TOR for
more detailed planning of any investment
proposals in action plans.
To review human resource management;    Completed
2.  Study on       develop human resource management
Manpower       planning and computerized model for
Development   manpower development in forestry sector in
Planning       Indonesia.
3. Forest          To review alternative strategies and make  Completed
Utilization and  recommendations for long development of
Management   forestry sector and identify key areas of
Strategy Study  policy reform for more efficient industrial
operations and improved forest
management.
4.  Shifting       The long term objective is to reduce the  Completed
Cultivation    pressures to bring forest land under shifting
Study          cultivation, by promoting sustainable and
environmentally stable systems of
agriculture under conditions of increasing
population density.



18
Table 8A: Project Cost
Appraisal estimate (US$M)   Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
--  Items               Local   Foreign               Local    Foreign
costs    costs    Total      costs     costs     Total
A. Institutional Strengthening
Forestry Inventory         7.5       6.6      14.1       7.9       6.9      14.8
Forestry Research          2.5       4.2       6.7       2.6       4.5       7.1
Studies, Plaiming and      0.9       2.4       3.3       1.0       2.5       3.5
Monitoring
Subtotal                   i.9      1I        241       I1.5      13.9      25.4
B. Conservation
Wonogiri Watershed         18.0      5.3      23.3      19.1       5.6      24.7
National Parks              3.4      3.0       6.4       3.5       3.2       6.7
Subtotal                   21AL8                        22. 7      -        31.4
Base Costs                          lu        51d32  3            22.2      56.8
Physical Contingencies     2.4       1.2       3.6                 --
Price Contingencies        4.7       0.9       5.6                 --
Total Project Costs        32A      22       fi         34.1      222  56.



19
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Source                            Local    Foreign                 Local    Foreign
costs     costs      Total      costs       costs     Total
IBRD                               13.3      20.7       34.0        10.6       16.5       27.1
Govermment of Netherlands          0.2        2.9        3.1        0.1         1.8       1.9
Govenunent of Japan                 --         --        --         0.3        4.4        4.7
Government of Indonesia            15.6        --       15.6        12.1        --        12.1
Farmers contribution (in kind)     10.3       --        10.3        11.0        --        11.0
TOTAL                              39.4      2 32                                         56.8
Note: 1) GOI & farmers contribution estimated proportionately to IBRD, GON and GOJ as in SAR.
2) Exchange rates Yen/US$ = 128 (1988), 138 (1989), 145 (1990), 135 (1991), 126 (1992), 111
(1993), 102 (1994), 87 (1995) and 110 (1996).
3) Disbursements of JGF up to 06/93 was Yen 432,162,000 and up to 09/96 was Yen 572,200,000.



20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(as estimated at appraisal)
Item                 Expenditure ($m)             BenefitlReturn
- Management and planning            3.25            present value $200m
studies                                           -1700m (from attaining
sustainable productions)
- Forest research                     7.0            assumed 1% improve- ment in
forest production from this
research = $30m;
=ERR as investment >20%
- Nature conservation                 6.0            assumed 1% incremental
benefits from improved
plantings attributed to gene pool
conservation =$20m p.a. =
>20% ERR
- Watershed conservation             23.2            ERR 22% p.a.; NPV $43.9 m.



21
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                       Planned                      Revised                       Actual
project cycle
Weeks           US$           Weeks          US$          Weeks            US$
Through appraisal                  n.a.           n.a.           n a.           n a.          106             n.a.
Appraisal - Board                  n.a.           n.a            n a.           n a           57.9            n.a
Board - effectiveness              n.a.           n.a            n a.           n a           n.a             n.a
Supervision                        n.a.           n a.           n.a.           n a.         140.7            n a.
Completion                         n.a.           n.a.           n.a            n.a           6 6             n.a
TOTAL                   309.1                                                     311.2
Table 1 1: Bank Resources: Missions
Number    Days            Specialized                 Perforrnance ratng
Stage of         Month/        of         in           staffskills                                             Types of
project cycle       year      persons     field         represented          Implementation      Development    proble
5
status          objectives
Through apprisal         5/85         -
Appraisal through Board  6/87         7                 FA, FOR, AG, E, FOR,
approval                                                FOR, FOR
Board approval through     -          -          -                -
effectiveness
Supervision 1            10/89        4         23     FA, FOR, AG, AG                  2                  2
Supervision 2            7/91         2          2     FA, AG                           2                  2
Supervision 3            11/91        5          9     FOR, AE, E, AG, AG               2                  2             -
Supervision 4             1/92        4         18      FOR, E,E,AG                     2                  2             -
Supervision S (MTR)      8/92         3         20    AE, AG, AG                        2                  2
Supervision 6            2/93         2          3     AG, FOR                          2                  2
Supervsion 7             4/93         3         14     FOR, FOR, AG                     2                  2
Supervision 8            2/94         4          4     AG, FOR, E, FOR                  2                  2
Supervision 9            4/95*        3          *     *                                2                 2
Supervision 10 &         3/96         4          3     FOR, AG, E,E            |        2                 2
Completion                            -    .J
Specialized Staff: FOR=Forestry Specialist; FA=Financial Analyst; E=Economist; AE=Agncultural Economist; AG=Agricultuns.
* This represents a number of visits dunng February to Apnl 1995 for unspecified number of days.



Appendix 1
22
INDONESLA FORESTRY NSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION
PROJECT (FICP I LN No IND 2930)
SUPERVISION AII)E MENOIRE
LNTRODUCTION
1.        During the week of 5 - 8 March 1996, a supervision of FICP I was held in
Indonesia  The supervision was carried out by MIessrs Douglas and Soemardjo   This
project is due to close in June 1996, and therefore this will be the final supervision of the
project.
2.       An initial meeting, was held between the Bank officers and 'Ministry of Forestry
officials on S March. The meeting was chaired by Mr Untung Iskander, Head of the
Bureau of International Cooperation, and was attended by representatives from the
Bureau of Planning, and the Directorates of Conservation, Inventory, Reforestation and
Rehabilitation, as well as consultants advising the MIinistry on implementation
3.       A second meetin_ was held on 7 March, to discuss and agree upon the findings
of the mission. The Bank wishes to express its sincere gratitude to the AMinistry for
facilitating this mission.
STATUS OF LIMPLEMLIENTATION
4.       At the last supervision of the project, completed in May 1995, the project was
rated satisfactory in both achievement of development objectives, and implementation
Issues which were identified during that supervision as needing attention and resolution
were:
*  the Bank requested that, due to the high level of interest in the results of the
national forest inventory which has been undertaken under the project, some
form of public release of the findings should be made when the results are
finalized;
*  it was noted that a considerable balance of funds intended for civil work-s under
the conservation component of the project, specifically intended to construct
infrastructure in the five National Parks assisted under the project, remained
unspent, and it was requested that this be dealt with.
5.        Subsequent to the last supervision, the Ministry made a request to expend a
portion of Japanese Grant Funds remaining in the project to support a study of
participation and community forestry. This therefore became an issue for supervision, and
a proposal for this project has been forwarded to the Bank.
6.          The status of the project, and in particular the issues noted above, are
summarized below:



7.          National Forest Inventory  The Directorate of Inventory advised that final
reports of the inventory results will be ready by June 1996- the month during which the
project closes. It was suggested by MIr. Untung Iskander that a seminar involving major
donors and others with an interest in the forestry sector should be held before that date,
utilizing the latest data available from the inventory   The Bank supported this idea and
advised that, in addition, it would formally request the Ministry to publish the results of
the inventory, when finalized.
8         Conservation. The Directorate of Conservation  informed the Bank that all
construction projects in the five National Parks intended for financing under FICP I
should be completed by June 1996, and that effective disbursement under this component
will be achieved. The Directorate requested assistance from the Bureau of International
Cooperation for close supervision to ensure that this objective is achieved, and this was
ag-reed. An issue which had arisen earlier relating to internal Government of Indonesia
requirements on counterpart flnding for these projects had been resolved
9,         Wonoeiri Watershed.  The Directorate of Reforestation and Rehabilitation
reported that the Wonogiri watershed component of the project continues to proceed
satisfactorily. This component of the project has received special recognition in Indonesia
as a highly successful example of watershed development, and the Minister for Forestry
has suasested that training of some 40 farmers from other regions of Indonesia in the
techniques developed at Wonogiri should be undertaken. Also, it has been proposed by
the Directorate that 10 provincial and local government officials who have worked on the
project should be permitted to attend a workshop in Korea where information on
successful projects of this nature will be exchanged. It was proposed that these activities
could be supported from remaining training funds under the component in FICP I, and the
Bank agreed that N-OLs to this effect would be approved when submitted Finally, it was
advised that a brief study of the status of social and community forestrv in the reaion had
been undertaken. with a view to producing guidelines for strategic planning of such
activities in Indonesia.
10      Research.  All research issues under the project were resolved at the last
supervision, and this component is completed.
I I     Japanese Grant Fund.  At the previous supervision, it was noted that proposals
for projects for completion under the JGF for this project had been received and approved.
However, in the intervening period, another proposal, to study participation in community
forestrv in Indonesia, was formulated by the Bureau of Planning in the Ministry.
Sufficient funds remain in the JGF to support this study, but at this juncture, it is unlikely
the proposal could be refined and amended in accordance with Bank suggestions, and
implemented within the time frame for closure of the project (one specific matter which
requires attention, in this regard, is to ensure that the project design is fully integrated with
output from the study of community forestry referred to under the Wonogiri component
above)   The Bank has agreed in principle that implementation of this proposal can be
undertaken under the JGF after closure of the remainder of the project, provided an
acceptable design is agreed upon. However, a satisfactory case will need to be made to
the fund manager, and this will require an agreement between the Bank and the Ministry
on the final proposal.



12.    Project Fund Reallocation Issues  It was pointed out to the Bank at the NIarch 5
meeting that a proposal has been made to the Bank through the iVEnistry of Finance to re-
allocate $1.2m of funds under the project from Category 5 to Category l.  This is
necessary to correct for miscategorizations made in the early years of the project, which
have resulted in a shortfall of funds under Category 1, and an excess under Category 5
The Bank agreed to expedite the reallocation
ACTION PLAN
13.    The MIinistrv of Forestrv will:
organize a seminar to disseminate and discuss the results of the national forest
inventory with donors and other interest groups, between now and the closing
date of the project (June 1996);
* complete all construction projects in national parks under the FICP I project by
June, and keep the Bank closely informed on progress in this area,
submit trainin, and study projects associated with the Wonogiri Watershed
component by end March, so that NOLs to allow these to be completed can be
issued,
*  direct the Bureau of Planning and the Directorate of Reforestation and
Rehabilitation to work jointly with the Bank on refinement and finalization of
design of a community forestry and participation study to .be financed under the
JGF for the project;
advise the Bank of the most recent status of implementation of components in all
Directorates (including requests for NOLs) by end-March 1996.
14      The Bank will:
.  work with the MIinistry to finalize a proposal for community forestry and
participation study, so that an NOL can be issued;
*  advise the Ministry on the best means to extend activities under the project
sufficiently to allow the above study to be completed under JGF funding,
*  send a formal letter to the Ministry, requesting publication of the national
forest inventory results.
JDouglas(m.\drafts\jim\ficp 1\0396\aid.doc)



V';,;.V'.           5    -    .   V ., . . .  '  '....    ...'.<                                                                                                                                                                     .        ' .........                  .    ... ...     .   *  .   T......
... .. .. ...                                                  .....         l                  .'                      .       .     _ .     S        1 .. . . .. . ..              .. .. ..              .      .- .. . . . . . .                       .1 .    ...            .        .. .                                   W       A.....            ' '



26
DAAFTAR ISI
DAFT A RISI .................................................. i
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR                     ................... I
1.  THE PROJECT .............................  1
a.  Introduction  ...............................  I
b.   Project Objectives ...............................  1
c.   Project Components .......          ................ .          ......  2
2. ACHIEVEMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES.                                           5
a.   Policv, P'aniing, and Investment Studv ................................   5
17.      .        .J ...  .  . .  .  .  ......................................... 6
C.   Forestrv Resea-ch ....................................  8
d.  Upper Solo (Wonogiri) Watershed Conservation  ............. .              9
e.   Nature Conservation ................. ...................  10
3. IMPLEMENTATION RECORDS AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT  . ....................................................  10
4.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .........................................  12
5. BANK PERFORMIA NCE ..............                                              13
6.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE  ..................................    13
APPENDICES ................                                                       15
a:dY-y4-.96\-[CP.wVd



27
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FORESTRY INSTITUTIONS AND CONSERVATION PROJECT (FICP-I)
UNDER IBRD LOAN No. 2930-TND
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1. THE PROJECT
a.  Introduction
Forestry Institutions and Conservation Project (FICP-I), financed under IBRD Loan No.
2930-IND is the most strategic project within the Ministry of Forestry, performing a basic
foundation of the implementation of Nation Development Plan ini forestry sector.
During the implementation of FICP-I, particularly after the completion of Forestry Studies
focusing on forestry management studies (1990), the Ministry of Forestry was in the opinion
to extend the scope of components which were not covered in FICP-I, particularly the
concession management component, under FICP-II (IBRD Loan No. 3243-IND).
.Following the suiccess on the implementation of FICP-I, there has been a lot of donor
countries offerring assistance in the forestry sector. Moreover, based on the results of
National Forestry Action Plan (NFAP) produced under FICP-I, the Ministry of Forestry has
now been preparing the Indonesian Forestry Action Plan (IFAP) regularly, which is used as
a basic foundation on the development in forestry sector.
b.  Project Objectives
The primary objective of this first Bank-assisted forestry project would be to strengthen
planning, management and conservation efforts in this sector for maximizing long-term
contributions from forest resources for the welfare of the Indonesian people. Strategies to
achieve those objectives would include:
(a)  improving sectoral planning and management through studies focussed on policies for
improved forest management, while ensuring the welfare of local people who derive
their sustenance from the forests;
(b)  strengthening sectoral information to provide an improved basis for formulating
sectoral plans;
a&BYody4-6'B\ r-1CR.wpd



28
(c)  improved planning and management of adaptive forestry research in the Outer Islands
to improve productivity of natural forests and plantations; and
(d)  strengthening of MOF's capacity for manpower development planning and
implementation.
Critical consernation needs would be addressed. particularly in catchment areas at greatest
risk in Java, where suitable technical packages have been developed and tested and where
the majority of the population is in the poverty group. Implementation of nature
conservation plans will be strengthened in areas which are particularly important from
species diversitv point of view, and are particularly threatened because of proximity to
densely populated areas.
c.   Project Components
1)  Policy, Planning, and Investment Study
In view of the increasing demand for forestry products, and concerns about the sustainable
supply of logs and other products from Indonesia's forests, MOF plans to carry out studies
focussed on strategies to ensure sustainable development of Indonesia's forests:
(i)  Forest Management Strategy Study
The study will focus on forest management and timber concession policies and will
suggest incentives and control mechanisms for ensuring sustainable production from
forests, consistent with environmental considerations and the welfare of people who
are dependent on those forests for their sustenance.
(ii) Shifting Cultivation Study
In view of the growing problem of shorter cycle non-sustainable forms of shifting
cultivation, and widely varying views about the magnitude and nature of the problem,
the study will initially assess the area under different forms of shifting cultivation and
evaluate the economic impact of such activity. The study will also describe the
practices of representative groups and their claims to land cultivation.
(iii) Manpower Development Plan
The proposed project would assist MOF to prepare a manpower development plan.
This would include a review of the current structure of the Ministry, preparation of a
complete list ofjob categories along with number of employees in each category and
updated job descriptions, preparation of staff skills inventory, and an assessment of
skill gaps, both current and future.
aYody-4.96%Bor.ICR.wpd



29
(iv) Investment Planning
It is expected that action plans from the forestry strategy and planning studies will be
available by March 31. 1990. FolloN%ing agreements on these action plans. the studv
teams will develop terms-of-reference for more detailed planning of any investment
proposals contained in the action plans.
2)   Forestry Inventorn
In view of the outdated and inaccurate forestry resource information and the need to monitor
changes in forestry resources on a regular basis, the proposed project would assist GOI in
carrying out a national forestry resource survey. The survey would provide reliable estimates
of standing volumes by major forest types. species and marketing groups, and mark their
location on small-scale low-cost maps for use by both MOF and the private sector in
planning and adminnisteering proposals for forest utilization. The forest resource information
would also be used to develop longer range forest management plans and policies.
3)   Forestry Research
The project will strengthen forestry research effort in the two highest priority areas of:
(a) tree improvement research for increasing productivity of forest plantations; and
(b) development of applied technology for the improved regeneration of logged-over
natural forest.
For this, the project will support the development of the newly created forestry research
L station in North Sumatra, and minor improvement of existing facilities at Bogor and
Samarinda. Research funds will be provided for research in those two high priority research
areas at several locations in Sumatra and Kalimantan. Institutional arrangements for
determining research priorities.
4)   Wonogiri Watershed Conservation
This component consists of 3 (three) major activities, i.e.
(i)  Soil Conservation Structure
The project will strengthen soil conservation efforts in the Wonogiri watershed, which
is considered to be the most critical watershed in Indomesia, because of heavy soil
erosion and siltation of the Wonogiri dam. For this the project will construct soil
conservation structures including 250 gulley head control structures, 1.300 small earth
fill gulley flugs, 160 earth and rockfill gabion type check dams (up to 4 meter height),
aLYody-4-96%8or-1CR wpd



30
and 40 small reservoirs. Sloping and grassing of 50.000 sq m of gulley sides will be
done to prevent further erosion. About 10 km of eroding stream banks will be
protected bv construction of gabions and about 50 km of road side will be protected
by reshaping of existing drainage channels, grassing of banks. and providing channels
with pernanent drop structures.
(ii) On-farm Conservation Practices
The project will strengthen on-farm conservation practices in the Wonogiri area by
improving existing terraces on about 22.000 ha of erodable slopes, and providing them
with stable waterways and drop structures. To ensure that farmers take up on farn
conservation practices, these practices have been formulated with a view to both
increasing farners incomes in the short-terrn, as well as conserving soil for longer
term productivity.
(iii) Communitv Forestry
The project will assist in the planting of 5.000 ha of community forests in the
Wonogiri area on private lands that are steeply sloping and unsuited for other uses.
Fast growing species suitable for fuelwood, lumber and conservation, will be used.
Project staff will provide seed, seedlings and technical supervision for community
forestry, while local communities will provide labor for planting.
5)  Nature Conservation
The project will strengthen the management of 5 National Parks in Indonesia by providing
facilities to encourage local tourism and educational programs for school and community
groups in the surrounding areas. The project areas cover various habitat types from coastal
habitats to mountain forests. These project areas including Bromo Tengger National Park,
Bali Barat National Park, Baluran National Park, Gunung Leuser National Park and Bogani
Nani Wartabone National Park (formerly Dumoga Bone National Park).
6) JGF, TF 2280-0
In addition to IBRD Loan No. 2930-IND, the implementation of FICP-I (particularly for
Technical Assistance component) was supported by the contribution of the Japanese Grant
Fund (JGF) No. TF 2280-0 amounting to Men 650,000.
Such the Grant Fund was used to finance the following activities:
aAYody .496\8ot.ICR.wpd



31
(a)  TA for Conservation Component
(b)  TA for Forestry Inventory
(c)  Study on Manpower Development Planning
(d)  Studv on National Forestry Action Plan
(e)  TA for HRD Development (DR. El-Rasheed)
(f)  Bridging Cost for NFI Project
(g) TA on Planning, Coordination and Monitoring of Foreign Aid Administration
(h)  Study on Forest Conmmunity Development Study
2. ACHIEVEMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES
a.  Policy, Planning, and Investment Study
The first activity of Institutional strengthening within the Ministry of Forestry was the
planning, management and conservation efforts for maximizing long-term contributions
from forest resources for the welfare of the Indonesian people.
This activity includes 3 (three) components, i.e.:
Jr  Forestry Studies
*   Manpower Development Planning, and
*   National Forestry Action Plan,
These studies were carried out by FAO under contracts No. UTF/INS/065, No.
UTF/INS/069, and No. UTF/INS/070.
(i)  Contract No. UTF/INS/065    >  Forestry Study
This activity was carried out in 1989/1990, producing of about 40 (forty) working
papers and field documents which were grouped as follows:
*  Resource Situation and Outlook on Forest Resources and Land use in Indonesia
(6 titles).
* Shifting Cultivation in Indonesia (5 titles)
* Minor Forest Products, such as the Rattan Industry and Pine Resin Tapping
Industry (3 titles)
* Forest-based Industry, Wood, Pulp, and Paper Industries (5 titles)
* Forest product marketing and Trade (4 titles)
* Institutional aspect, including forest concession, analysis of the revenue system
for forest resources in Indonesia, etc (5 titles).
a:Wody-4-a6\Bor_IC.wp.



32
As against the revised allocation of about US$ 2,340,722. DG of Forest Utilization has
successfully completed its task, i.e. disbursement of about US$ 2,340,722.95 (100%).
(ii) Contract No. UTF/INS/069   c  Manpower Development Plan (MDP)
This activity comprised a review of the existing structure of the Ministry, updated job
descriptions and staff skills inventory, an assessment of staff development needs, a
proposal for a future manpower development strategy. The disbursement made was
US$ 588,236 and charged to Japanese Grant Fund TFA 2280-0.
(iii) Contract No. UTF/INS/070  1*  National Forestry Action Plan (NFAP)
This activity forms an integral part with the Manpower Development Plan, i.e. the
preparation of an action plan for addressing structural deficiencies and manpower skill
gaps. Based on the results of NFAP, the Government of Indonesia has announced its
intention to organize a Tropical Forestry Action Program (TFAP) which will further
be used as a basic foundation of preparing the Indonesian Forestry Action Programn
(IFAP). The amount disbursed for contract No. UTF/INS/070 was US$ 199,971.20
and charged to Japanese Grant TFA 2280-0.
b.  Forest Inventory
The National Forest Inventory Project involved 5 major activities, i.e.:
1)  Forest Resource Monitoring (FRM)
2)  Forest Resource Assessment (FRA)
3)  Digital Image Analysis System (DIAS) and Geographic Information System (GIS)
Development
4)  Training
5)  Technical Assistance
Activities related to "FRM" have produced:
(1) Visual interpretation of satelite imageries (scale of 1: 250.000) for areas of 193
millions Ha (1989/1991) and digital interpretation of satelite imageries (CCT)
acquired from 1992 up to now. The results at the interpretation have been produced
maps of vegetation and land use covered all Indonesia with the scale of
a.  1: 250.000 containing 254 sheets covering all Indonesia.
b.  1: 500.000 to 1: 1.000.000 for the province coverage.
c.  1: 1.000.000 or bigger for major islands (Sumatera, Kalimantan, Sulawesi, etc.)
d.  1: 5.000.000 for All Indonesia Coverage
aAYody.-96Uor.ICR.wpd



33
These maps are stored in the form of offset printing and digital.
(2)  Developing system for the forest potential monitoring and forest cover changes
monitoring.
Activities related to "FRA" has produced
(1)  The activities of FRA the establishment of 2788 clusters of TSP/PSP throughout
Indonesia in order to estimate the forest potency, the growth rate based on the strata
of comercial species and the annual allowable cut (AAC). The FRA results are written
in the Statistic of Forest Resources I/FIFORS (from 835 clusters of TSP/PSP), the
Statistic of Forest Resources II/SEFORS (from 1705 clusters of TSP/PSP), the Final
Statistic of Forest Resources/FFORS (from 2735 clusters of TSP/PSP).
Activities related to "Digital Image Analysis System/DIAS and Geographic Information
System/GIS has produced digital satelite interpretation in conjunction with the updating of
the existing vegetation and land use map/digital layer data of GIS. The activities is done
after the installation of GIS and DIAS equipments in the end 1991. The GIS activities is
implemented in the framework of GIS Development for regional and national levels with
the results as follows:
'(1) GIS Database for vegetation and land use map covering all Indonesia with the scale
of 1: 250.000, the concessionaires boundary/polygon layers, timber estate layers, land
system, estate, transmigration, gazettement and other spatial data.
(2)  Developing spatial database network system within the MOF
(3)  Establishing the database for the regional GIS system.
Activities related to "Training" has conducted in country training and sent INTAG official
for overseas training in order to improve the knowledge and skill of Jakarta and regional
officials.
The details are as follows:
(l)  Incountry training
-   Design of location TSP/PSP           ( 49 persons)
-   Forest Survey                        (159 persons)
-   Data procedure                       ( 12 persons)
-   Growth and dynamic modelling         ( 10 persons)
-   Re-enumeration PSP                   ( 26 persons)
a:\Yody4-96\Bor-ICR wpd



34
-   GIS                                ( 40 persons)
-   GPS                                ( 10 persons)
-   VMS programming                    ( 15 persons)
-   MIS                                ( 2 persons)
(2) Overseas
-   Forest Survey/Remote Sensing       ( 12 persons)
-   GIS and DIAS                       ( 12 persons)
-   GPS                                ( 2 persons)
Activities related to "Technical Assistance" in the form of Technical Assistance with FAO
based on the contract No. UTF/INS/066. The disbursement of DG Forest Inventory charged
to IBRD Loan No. 2930-IND was US$ 3,847,827.15 (80%), as compared to its revised
allocation amounting to US$ 4,821,334.
C.  Forestry Research
Most of the planned civil works including kindergarten in Aek Nauli, the library in Bogor,
water pipe lines and the paved steading in development area in Samarinda have been
completed.
Most of the laboratory equipment procured in Aek Nauli and Bogor are to equip some
laboratories. These are to support research activities done by researchers themselves or
together with the consultants. Specification of laboratory equipment is based on expert
recomendation.
Library equipment procured in Bogor to improve the facilities of the newly constructed
forestry research library.
Procurement of computers has been completely realized. The specification of computer
procured was based on the recommendation of the consultant concemed and in line with
database management and information system to be established at AFRD.
To strengthen Forestry Research activities, the project has conducted two highest priority
areas i.e.:
(i) National Forestry Trials and Seed Orchard (NAPTASO) program to increase
productivity of forest plantation.
(ii) Regeneration and Management of Dipterocarp Forest after lodging.
*:\Yody-4-Q6\8o-1Cftwpd



35
In addition, AFRD has also conducted a cooperation with PT. INDECO in preparing the
"long term training program".
Overseas Degree Program
*   Ph. D. Program
Two of the 8 students have completed their program at University of Philippines Los
Banos (UPLB) and returned to Indonesia. Three students graduated in December 1994
and the other two will be able to graduate this year.
*   M.Sc. Program
By September 30, 1994, all the 19 MSc. Students have completed their programs and
returned to their home institutions.
General English courses have been completely implemented at five locations, i.e. Forest
Research Institutions (FRI) Pematang Siantar, Manokwari, Ujung Pandang, Samarinda and
at the Watershed Management and Technology Institute (WMTI) Surakarta.
The disbursement of IBRD Loan No. 2930-IND allocated for AFRD was US$ 4,683,603.
(80%), and its revised allocation was US$ 5,620,620.
d.  Upper Solo (Wonogiri) Watershed Conservation
The project successfully completed all of its physical targets in FY 1993/1994. The
Wonogiri component consists of 3 projects, i.e.:
1)  Reforestation/Protection of Upper-Wonogiri River Basin Project.
2) Soil Conservation Sub Project of Wonogiri Catchrnent Area.
3)  Wonogiri Catchment Area Development and Management Project (BTP DAS Solo).
Project impact in some areas is already considerable. Crop yields have reportedly increased
by more than 60 % and farmers' incomes by 30 %. Farming systems have also been
diversified with increased use of grasses and livestock, fruit and forest trees, with
concomitant improvements in sustainable productivity. These improvements in land
capability have resulted in significantly increased land values, while the project's land titling
has secured these benefits for the target farmers. Local institutions have also benefitted,
particularly at the district level where inter-agency coordination in planning and supporting
these community resource management activities is significantly better than other districts.
&:\Yody-4-96\Bor-1CR.wpd



36
The disbursement recorded by IBRD on the use of loan finds for Wonogiri Component was
US$ 12,143 .221.43 compered to its revised allocation US$ 13,098,73 1.00.
e.  Nature Conservation
Except technical assistance, all of the project activities in the 5 National Parks had been
suspended from May 1990 to August 1994. However, almost all of the project activities had
been finished before the project's closing date.
Up to the closing- date (June 30, 1996) the disbursement was US$ 4,048,181.68 (98%),
compared to its allocation of US$ 4,118,593.00.
3. IMPLEMENTATION RECORDS AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
3.1. Forestry Studies, Manpower Development Plan, and National Forestry Action Plan
carried out by FAO were completed in 1990/1991. Up to the completion of these
studies, however, there is still a little problem on the deficit of FAO funds amounting
to US $ 50,570.20.
This problem caused by the negligence of FAO to furnish a financial report on the
results of the study. In this regard, the Ministry has informed FAO to fulfil this
obligation before claiming such a deficit of funds. However, there is not any actions
from FAO so far.
3.2. The Directorate of Inventory, Gazetting, and Mapping (IPPH), INTAG is
successfully implemented the first phase of NFI Project in an exact time. The results
are as follows:
-   Vegetation and Land Use Map covering all Indonesia in digital and hardprint
format with the scale of I : 250.000.
-   Digital spatial database of Indonesia with themes as follows : concessionaires,
timber estate, land system, agricultural estate, transmigration, gazetting, etc.
-   The Forest Resources Statistic I, II and III (Final) have been presented in a
seminar with the World Bank, Bappenas, other institutions and distributed and
used by regional and central forestry institutions.
Besides the results above, the NFI Project has produced educated and skill human
resources in the field of forest survey, GIS, DIAS, and field data processing both in
the central and regional offices...
:NYoW4.96\Bor-1CR.wpd



37
In order to strengthen the First NFI results and to support the forestry requirements
regarding the strengthening and monitoring forest land also forest resources inventory
within INTAG's progzramme. therefore the second phase of National Forest Inventory
Project is needed withi the following activities:
A. Assessment and monitoring of sustainable forest resources
-   Re-enumeration of Permanent Sample Plots (PSPs)
-   Developing growth model
-   Tender of Remote Sensing Imageries
-   Interpretation of Remote Sensing Imageries
-   Assessment of forest changes/sustainable forest change rate
B. Establishing of Center Spatial Forestry Information
-   Institution strengthening/center of spatial information
-   Standardization of working procedures and information production
-   Printing the standardized thematic maps
-   Synchronizing maps and information for:
* Confirmation of boundary delineations (forest function, forest land,
concessionaires, estate, transmigration, watershed, conservation,
reforestration, etc.)
* Standardization of digital forestry maps
-   Developing the facilities and infrastructures
-   Developing the spatial information flows network
C. Spatial Forestry Information Services
-   Spatial database development
-   Image catalog
-   Digital map catalog
3.3. Forestry Research
The whole activities in Samarinda and NTT have principally been completed in due
time (1994). Due to administrative procedures, the contract/s between AFRD and PT.
Indeco Duta Utama should be revised in to meet the Presidential Decree No. 16/1994
and the Authorized Auditor requirements. Meanwhile, the overdrawn of category 2
(equipment) for Aek Nauli was caused by misinterpretation of the total project cost
resulting an over estimate of the procurement.
3.4. Completion of Land Improvements in Upper Solo Watershed Management.
Critical lands in the project watersheds total about 60.000 ha. The project has treated
22.000 ha to date and estimate another 13.000 ha has already been treated by farmners
on their own initiative. Initial efforts to introduce vetiver grass for on-farm, gully, and
roadside run off and erosion control have been minimal due to budget constraints.
a:\Yody-496Bi.Bar.1Md



38
Fortunately. the reallocation of loan funds approved bv IBRD in August 1994 made
the project enable to continue this activitv.
3.5. Nature Conservation
Project activities in 5 National Parks were performed in FY 1988/1989 and FY
1989/1990. Based on the letter of the Secretary of the Directorate General PHPA
No.961/VI-Sek/BRP/1 990 dated 3 May 1990, however. all of the activities should be
discontinued. One of the reasons for this was because the project activities and budget
allocated as stated in the DIP (Final Budget Plan) did not followed the Bank's
procedures. For example, disbursement have been made for activities were not
approved by the Bank (by the lack of NOL).
4. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
4.1. By the completion of Forestry Studies, carried out by FAO, it is expected that the
sustainable supply of logs and other products from Indonesia' s forests may be
maintained properly to ensure sustainable production of forests by taking account of
environmental considerations and the welfare of people who are dependent on those
forests for their sustenance.
4.2. To implement the activities of the second phase NFI Project, it is needed technical
assistance for biometric, land use modelling/planning, dendrology, ecological studies,
forest policy/strategic planning, field sampling supervisor, data entry/data processing
assistant, training for regional central governments staffs in order to improve the
human resources involved in forest resource information. These training will be
funded by the ITTO Grant. National Budget (APBN), and other government sources
of fund (DR).
4.3. The major goal achieved on forestry research component is the development of a
newly created forestry research station in North Sumatera (Aek Na Uli), and
improvement of existing facilities at Bogor and Samarinda.
Since the Forestry Training Center (BLK) has been available at Pematang Siantar the
location of Aek Na Uli will only be used as a Research Station.
4.4. In order to maintain the sustainable functions of Wonogiri Dam, the Center for Land
Rehabilitation and Soil Conservation (BRLKT) has established the Forestry and Soil
Conservation Centers (Dinas PKT) at Wonogiri, which has main functions for
reforestation, Soil Conservation, honey-bee breeding, extensions, etc.
&:\YWy.4e96\Bw-lCRLw



39
Anotlher effort is delivering grants for conservation purpose (PKUK) to increase
productivity and income of farmers.
4.5. The MOF efforts of improving nature conservation in 5 National Parks are directed.
among others:
(i) Maintaining the availability of specific flora and fauna (Wallacea) at Bogani Nani
Wartabone National Park.
(ii) Intensification of the specific birdlife training center (Jalak Bali) at Bali Barat
National Park.
(iii) To support the efforts of maintaining the sustainability of Mangrove forests,
specific wildlife, and any kinds of ornamental fish.
(iv) The provision of nature conservation area at Bromo Tengger and tourism center
at G. Leuser.
5. BANK PERFORMANCE
In most cases, Bank Performance has been satisfactory to the Borrower. It has been proved
by prompt actions of the Bank in reviewing and replying a number of claims made by the
Borrower, such as:
*   Reallocation of IBRD Loan No. 2930-IND apprived by IBRD in July 1994
'Jr Reallocation of JGF TFA 2280-0 (related to FICP-I) in August 1994
*r  Revision of wrong categories
*r  Notification of the Bank to the unspent funds of IBRD No. 2930-IND and JGF TFA
2280-0
*   A remarkable assistance of the Bank in the preparation of Implementation Completion
Report (ICR)
6. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Despite the slow progress of activities and disbursement occurred in the first two-three years
of FICP-I, the executing agencies have gradually improved their performance. All activities
carried out in the recent years have been based on the preparation of integrated Annual Work
Plans among the agencies.
One of important issues of FICP-I which is significant to the development of River Basins
and Catchment Areas is the Pilot Project of Upper Solo/Wonogiri Conservation Project.
a\Yody-4-96\Bor.lCR.wpd



40
In addition, the result of NFAP has been used as a basic foundation on the preparation of
TFAP and IFAP.
Most activities have been completed according to the schedule. Up to the closing date of
IBRD Loan No. 2930-IND, the remaining funds was only about US $ 2 million.
aAYody4-961m.CR wpd



41
APPENDICES
Table   I        Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cummulative, Estimated, and Actual
Table   2.a:   Project Costs
Table   2.b:   Project Financing
Sheet   3/1 :   Project Sustainability for Forestry Inventory Component
Sheet   3/2 :   Project Sustainability for Forestry Research
,iiccl   3/3 :   Project Sustainability for Studies, Planning, etc.
Sheet   3/4:   Project Sustainability for Wonogiri Component
Sheet   315 :   Project Sustainability for Nature Conservation
a:AYody-4-96\Boe.CR wpd



42
Table 1: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cummulative, Estimated, and Actual
(US S Thousand)
FY. '89    FY. '90   FY. '91   FY. '92 I FY. '93    FY. '94    FY. '95 i FY. '96
Appraisal Estimate              2,000     5,300    1,                   21,500    26,800    31,000    34.000
- Reallocation                    2,000      5,000     9,000    13,500    18,500    24,000    27,500 1 30,000
- Actual                          3,000  1  7,500      9,300    13,500    17,800      19,000    23,350    27,600
- Actual as% of Estimates           150        150       103    1oo            96        79         85        92
Date of Final Disbursement     September 04, 1996



43
Table 2.A.: PROJECT COST (FICP-I)
Appraisal Estimate (USS '0000)    Actual/Latest Estimate (USS '000)
Component                Local     Foreign     Total     Local  a/ Foreign a/,  Total
Costs      Costs                 Costs      Costs
1. Forestrv Inventory              7.480      6.572     14,052      6.429       5,701     12,130
2. Forestry Research               2.564      4.181      6,745      3.414       5.569      8,983
3. Studies, Planning, etc.          846       2.404      3,250       1.433      4,080      5,513
4. Wonogiri                       18,007      5,281     23,288      16.105      4,813     20,918
5. National Parks                  3.365      3.024      6,389      3.590       3,185      6,775
Total Base Cost                32,262     21,462     53,724     30,971      23,348     54,319
6. T.A. Studies (add.) b/          -          -          -              0       1,315      1,315
Physical Contingencies             2,378      1,270      3,648                  -
Price Contingencies                4,708        907      5,615                  -
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            39,348     23,639      62,987     30,971     24,663      55,634
a/ Including NGF 2765-0, JGF 2280-0, and GOI Contribution
b/ Additional activities funded from JGF 2280-0
Table 2.B.: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (USS '0000)    Actual/Latest Estimate (USS '000)
Component                Local    Foreign      Total      Local     Foreign      Total
Costs     Costs                  Costs      Costs
- IBRD No.2930-IND                  11.7       183       30.0        10.7       16.7       27.4
- GOI /Others                      25.4       -          25.4        22.2       -          22.2
- Netherland Grant                             3.1        3.1                    1.9         1.9 v
- Japanese Grant Fund a/           -           4.5        4.5       -            4.1        4.1 v
TOTAL                   37.1       25.9       63.0        32.9       22.7       55.6
a/ JGF 2280-0 was not included in the SAR. It was contributed by the Government of Japan due
to cancellation of IBRD Loan USS 4 M to cover additional TA and Studies
- .,,  'tS- I I.j-1 '+



3 1
FORESTRY INSTITUTION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT (FICP-I)
UNDER IBRD LOAN No. 2930-IND
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
SupportingMaterial forthe ICR
Proposed Activities
No.         Component I Activities             Achievement of the Project Goals                   for the Project
Sustainability
1.   Forestry Inventory (INTAG)
a) Forest Resource Monitoring       - Visual Interpretation of Satelite imageries  To implement the activities of the
(FRM)                             (scale 1: 250.000) for areas of 193 million  second phase NFI Project, it is
Ha.                                         needed technical assistance for
- Digital Interpretation of Satelite Imageries  biometric, land use modelling I
(CCT) scale:                                planning, dendrology, ecological
(i) 1: 250.000 covering all Indonesia region  studies, forest policy / strategic
(ii) 1: 500.000 to 1: 1.000.000 for the province   planning, field sampling supervisor,
coverage.                               data entry/data processing assistant,
(iii) 1: 1.000.000 for major islands       training for regional central govern-
b) Forest Resources Assessment    - Establishment of 2,788 clusters of TSP/PSP   ments staffs in order to improve the
(FRA)                            throughout Indonesia                         human resources involved in forest
c) Digital Image Analysis System    - GIS Database for vegetation and landuse    resource information. These training
(DIAS)                            map (1: 250.000)                            will be funded by the ITTO Grant,
- Developing spatial Database Network        National Budget (APBN), and other
System within MOF                          government sources of fund (DR).
- Establishing Database for Regional GIS
System
d) Training                         - In - country Training in severe fields
(322 persons)
- Overseas Training (26 persons)
e) Technical Assistance            - Contract No. UTF/INSI066 with FAO
a WYody.496sup-mt A4



312
FORESTRY INSTITUTION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT (FICP-I)
UNDER IBRD LOAN No. 2930-IND
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
SupportingMaterial forthe ICR
Proposed Activities
No.         Component I Activities              Achievement of the Project Goals                   for the Project
_ __________________________________    ___________________________________________           Sustainability
2.   Forestry Research (Litbang)
2.1. Civil Works:                          Establishment of the civil works have been
1. Library                           completed
2. Pave Steading in development area
3. Water pipeline
4. Campus Aeknaulz
2.2. Research Activities                   Research activities have been conducted      The continuation of research activi-
1. Site classification               completely                                  ties and monitoring of the results
2. Logged over area
3. Provenance Trial
4. Research Plots
2.3. Technical Assistance                  Procurement of T.A. have been completed
2.4. Training                              Training activities have been completed
1. Ph. d, program (19 persons)
2. M.Sc. program (8persons)
3. General English
2.5. Equipment:                            Procurement of all equipment have been
1. Laboratory Equipment              conducted completely.
2. Library Equipment
3. Vehicles
4. Books and Journals
a %Yody4-9ftlup.mat wk4



3/3
FORESTRY INSTITUTION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT (FICP-1)
UNDER IBRD LOAN No. 2930-IND
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
SupportingMaterial forthe ICR
Proposed Activities
No.         Component / Activities              Achievement of the Project Goals                   for the Project
Sustainability
3.   Studies, Planning etc. (PH)           The studies were carried out in 1989/1990.    The overall objectives of this study
Producing among others working papers       are to review alternative strategis and
and field documents as follows              to make recommendations for long
* working papers (7 titles)                 term development of the forestry
* Resource situation and outlook 6 (titles)  sector and identify key areas of policy
* Shifting cultivation in Indonesia (5 titles)  reform that could lead to more efficient
* Minor Forest Products, such as the Rattan    industrial operations and improved  a'
Industry and Pine Resin Tapping Industry    forest management. Based on the
(3 titles)                                recommended development strategy
* Forest-based Industry, wood Pulp and      the study would prepare investment
Paper Industries (5 titles)               proposals for possible World Bank or
 Forest product marketing and trade (4 titles)    other agency financing.
* Institutional aspect, including forest
concession, analysis of the revenue system  As the result, the recommendation of
for forest resources in Indonesia, etc.   the studies have been considered and
(5 titles)                                used for the long term development of
* Manpower issues (2 titles)                the forestry sector. Such as in drafting
* Environmental and Social issues (3 titles)   five-year development plan of forest
utilization activities in drafting Indonesia
Forestry Action plan and also as source
of information for preparing paper
country paper for several occasions.



Proposed Activities
No.         Component I Activities              Achievement of the Project Goals                    for the Project
Sustainability
The combined study of the forestry
sector has led the Government of
Indonesia to conclude that several
areas in its forestry program should
be examined on a priority basis, such
the forest concessions in Indonesia has
been developed and tested by project
that financed by World Bank under
second forestry institutions and conser-
vation project.
As the consequences that the forestry
sector studies will always being referred
for such informations, therefore the
studies need to be revised & reviewed
all the time so as the information could
be used at any time.
a IYdy-4 S9%ip-M.I  *4



3/4
FORESTRY INSTITUTION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT (FICP-I)
UNDER IBRD LOAN No. 2930-IND
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Supporting Material for the ICR
Proposed Activities
No.         Component / Activities             Achievement of the Project Goals                    for the Project
Sustainability
4.   Wonogiri Component (RRL)            1. Reduce the are of degreded land from     1. Improving of farmer capability in
64.096 ha in 1985 to be 24.246 ha in 1995.   marketing agricultural product
2. Decreasing the sedimentation to the Gajah    2. Improving the investment through credit
Mungkur Dam leading to lengthening Dam      scheme.
lifetime from 27 years to be 50 years.
3. Increasing the land productivity and farmer  3. Conducting training and extension on
income.                                     applicable new technology.
4. Development of Private Forest and Forage.   4. Development of HomeNillage Industry
5. Strengthening the farmer groups and local   5. Increasing the regional economic
agencies.                                   grouth.
a %Yody-4-.9%4.Wk4



315
FORESTRY INSTITUTION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT (FICP-I)
UNDER IBRD LOAN No. 2930-IND
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Supporting Material for the ICR
Proposed Activities
No.         Component I Activities             Achievement of the Project Goals                  for the Project
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _Sustainability
5.   National Parks (PHPA)                Except technical assistance, all of the project   - Human resources development through
activities in the 5 National parks had been    training, workshop, seminar
a Civil Works                        suspended from May 1990to August 1994   - Maintenance all facilities (buildings,
However, all of the activities had been    equipments, vehicles, etc.)
b. Equipments                       finished before the project's closing date.    - Supplies and updating materials for
the visitorlinformation centres
c. Technical Assistance                                                        - Study and research of the potential
area.
- Communities/bufferzone development
- Development of eco-tourism
- Habitat and wildlife management
a Wody-4 96\supmal wik4



I I



p



IMAGING
Report No.:          16725
Type:     ICR



