Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2930 IND
         (Forestry Institutions and Conservation Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated April 20, 1988
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2930 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  April   20,   1988,  between  REPUBLIC  OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  the Ministry of Foreign  Affairs  of  the Kingdom of the
Netherlands (hereinafter referred to  as the "Ministry" intends to
make available to the Borrower  a grant of Dutch Guilder 6,000,000
(hereinafter referred  to  as  the  "Dutch  Grant")  to  assist in
financing part of  the  Project  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter referred to as the "Dutch Grant
Agreement") to  be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and the
Ministry; and
     (C)  the Bank has agreed,  on  the  basis, inter alia, of the
Page  2
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Forestry; and
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to thirty-
four million dollars ($34,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  United  States  dollars a special account in
Bank Indonesia on terms  and  conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  6 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
Page  3
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, environmental,  financial  and forestry practices,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request, including without limitation on
Page  4
               the foregoing, its  unaudited  accounts  as soon as
               available, but not later than five months after the
               end of each such year.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
       (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained, in accordance
              with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  records and
              accounts reflecting such expenditures;
      (ii)    retain, until at least  one  year after the Bank has
              received the audit  report  for  the  fiscal year in
              which the last withdrawal  from the Loan Account was
              made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures;
     (iii)    enable the  Bank's  representatives  to examine such
              records; and
      (iv)    ensure that such  records  and accounts are included
              in the annual audit referred  to in paragraph (b) of
              this Section  and  that  the  report  of  such audit
              contains a separate opinion  by  said auditors as to
              whether  the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted
              during such fiscal  year,  together  with the proce-
              dures  and  internal   controls  involved  in  their
              preparation,  can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
              related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                          Other Covenants
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section  12.01 (c) of the General Conditions
contracts with the  consultants  referred  to:  (a) in Schedule 2,
Part A (1) (forest  management  strategy),  and (b) in Schedule 2,
Part A (4)  (national  forest  resource  survey),  shall have been
signed.
     Section 5.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section  6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minister of Finance
          c/o Director General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P.O. Box 139
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               MINISTRY FINANCE                DJMLN IA 45799
               Jakarta                         DEPKEU IA 44319
Page  5
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                   By /s/ Dadang Sukandar
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:                8,900,000      91%
     (a)  for forestry
          research
          (Schedule 2,
          Part A (5))
     (b)  for Wonogiri
          (Schedule 2,
          Part B (1))
     (c)  for nature
          conservation,
          (Schedule 2,
          Part B (2))
     (d)  all other
Page  6
(2)  Goods:                      4,100,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 91%
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated              % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
   Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
                                                  of local ex-
                                                  penditures for
                                                  other items pro-
                                                  cured locally
     (a)  for forestry
          research
          (Schedule 2,
          Part A (5))
     (b)  for Wonogiri
          (Schedule 2,
          Part B (1))
     (c)  for nature
          conservation,
          (Schedule 2,
          Part B (2))
     (d)  all other
(3)  Equipment hire              5,000,000       91%
     and maintenance,
     maps, and
     aerial photos
(4)  Technical                   8,000,000       100%
     assistance
     and training:
     (a)  for forestry
          research
          (Schedule 2,
          Part A (5))
     (b)  for Wonogiri
          (Schedule 2,
          Part B (1))
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated              % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
   Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
     (c)  for nature
          conservation
          (Schedule 2,
          Part B (2))
     (d)  all other
(5)  Farmer payments             4,500,000       100%
     for terrace rehabi-
     litation and
     waterways
(6)  Forestry research,          1,200,000       91%
     nursery and field
     trials
(7)  Unallocated                 2,300,000
Page  7
                                 _________
          TOTAL                34,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of  $500,000,  may  be made in respect of
Categories (1) and  (4)  on  account  of  payments made for expen-
ditures before that date but after July 1, 1987;
     (b)  expenditures in  respect  of  Categories (1)(a), (2)(a),
(4)(a) and (6) of  the  table  set  forth  in  paragraph 1 of this
Schedule until  the  consultants'  contract  for forestry research
(Schedule 2, Part A.5) shall have been signed;
     (c)  expenditures in  respect  of  Categories (1)(b), (2)(b),
(4)(b) and (5) of  the  table  set  forth  in  paragraph 1 of this
Schedule until the consultants'  contract for Upper Solo watershed
conservation (Schedule 2, Part B.1) shall have been signed; and
     (d)  expenditures in respect of Categories (1)(c), (2)(c) and
(4)(c) of the table  set  forth  in  paragraph  1 of this Schedule
until the  consultants'  contract  for  nature conservation (Sche-
dule 2, Part B.2) shall have been signed.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The  objectives  of  the Project are to strengthen planning,
management and conservation efforts in the forestry sector.
     The Project  consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.   Carrying out a forest  management strategy study focussing on
forest management and  timber  concession policies, and suggesting
incentives and control mechanisms for ensuring sustainable produc-
tion from  forests,  consistent  with environmental considerations
and the welfare of people who depend on the forests.
2.   Carrying out a shifting  cultivation study which will analyze
approaches for  reducing  environmental  degradation  and resource
depletion and for improving  the  welfare of shifting cultivators.
This study will include an  assessment of the area under different
forms of  shifting  cultivation,  an  evaluation  of  the economic
impact of such activity,  and  a  description  of the practices of
representative groups and their claims to land.
3.   Preparing a  forestry  manpower  development  plan which will
assess needs  and  propose  a  manpower  development  strategy and
action plan  for  addressing  structural  deficiencies  as well as
manpower skills gaps.
4.   Carrying out a  national  forest  resource  survey to provide
Page  8
reliable estimates  of  standing  volumes  by  major forest types,
species and marketing  groups,  emphasizing  areas  that have high
potential  for  development  or  that  have  special  problems and
pressures on forestry resources.
5.   Strengthening forestry  research  through  improved planning,
management and funding  with  emphasis  on  development of applied
technology for improved regeneration  of  logged over forests, and
on tree improvement research for increasing productivity of forest
plantation,  by  providing,  inter   alia,  support  for  research
facilities and activities in Sumatra and Kalimantan and at Bogor.
Part B:
1.   Improve conservation in  the  Upper  Solo watershed (Wonogiri
District (Kabupaten)) by:
     (a)  building soil conservation structures;
     (b)  strengthening   on-farm    conservation   practices   by
improving terraces  on  about  22,000  ha  of  erodable slopes and
providing stable waterways and drop structures;
     (c)  planting of about 5,000  ha  of community forests (food,
fodder and fuelwood trees) in the Wonogiri area on steeply sloping
private lands; and
     (d)  reforesting about 3,500 ha of state forest land together
with about 500  ha  of  conservation  forest  planting on critical
slopes on the Wonogiri reservoir periphery.
2.   Strengthening the management of  five existing nature conser-
vation areas in Aceh,  North  Sumatra,  East  Java, Bali and North
Sulawesi.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by Decmber 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
     beginning December 1, 1993
     through   December 1, 2007                      1,135,000
On June 1, 2008                                      1,085,000
________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
Page  9
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works may be  awarded on the basis of the
Borrower's local competitive bidding  procedures  in effect at the
date of this Agreement.
2.   Equipment hire,  maintenance  of  civil  works and equipment,
maps, on-farm  improvements,  research  plots,  nursery  and field
trials may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of the
Borrower's  local  procedures  in  effect  at  the  date  of  this
Agreement.
3.   Equipment estimated to cost  less than $60,000 equivalent per
contract, up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to exceed $1,000,000
equivalent, may be procured  under  contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of  price  quotations  solicited  from  a list of at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with the Borrower's local procedures in effect on the date of this
Agreement.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
Page  10
to cost the equivalent of  $500,000  or  more, and with respect to
each contract for equipment  estimated  to  cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or more, the procedures  set  forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of  the  contract  required  to  be  furnished  to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2  (d)  shall  be furnished to the Bank
prior to the  making  of  the  first  payment  out  of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph,  the  procedures  set  forth  in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3,
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank by September 30, 1990,
an action  plan  based  on  the  forest  management strategy study
(Schedule 2, Part A.1) and  an  action  plan based on the shifting
cultivation study  (Schedule  2,  Part  A.2)  and  shall  adopt by
March 31, 1991, plans and implementation schedules satisfactory to
the Bank. Detailed investment preparation work shall be undertaken
only after the respective plans shall have been adopted.
2.   In order to  carry  out  the  manpower  development plan, MOF
shall establish, by September 30, 1988, and thereafter maintain, a
technical   team   consisting   of   representatives   from   each
Directorate-General and Agency within MOF.
3.   The Borrower  shall  establish  by  September  30,  1988, and
thereafter maintain, a national  forestry information users group,
satisfactory to the Bank,  consisting of representatives from each
Directorate-General  and  Agency   within   MOF,   as  well  as  a
representative of private industry.
4.   The  Borrower  shall  establish  by  September  30,  1988,  a
Forestry Research Advisory Council,  satisfactory  to the Bank, to
set research goals and priorities  and to recommend budget alloca-
tion and implementation  responsibilities.  Such  Council shall be
assisted by a  Secretariat,  to  be  established  by September 30,
1988. The  Secretariat,  consisting  of  qualified and experienced
staff,  shall  assist  in  analyzing  and  assessing  economic and
scientific aspects of forest research proposals and policies.
Page  11
5.   The Borrower shall establish by September 30, 1988 a District
level coordinating committee.  The District Administrator (Bupati)
shall be responsible for  field  implementation assisted by a team
headed by the head  of  the  District Planning Agency with members
from all agencies involved.
6.   The Borrower shall appoint  by  September 30, 1988, a Project
Manager (Field), satisfactory to the  Bank, to assist the District
Administrator's (Bupati's) office  in supervising and coordinating
field implementation activities of agricultural, forest and public
works  staff.  Additionally,  the  Project  Manager  (Field)  will
coordinate  activities  of   agriculture   and  soil  conservation
extension workers in the Upper Solo watershed conservation area.
7.   The Borrower shall by March 31, 1989, furnish to the Bank for
comment a socio-economic sample survey of the Upper Solo watershed
conservation area.
8.   The Borrower shall,  by  September  30,  1992, furnish to the
Bank for comment, a mid-term review of the Project.
9.   The Borrower shall ensure that a sufficient and timely supply
of vehicles is available for the purposes of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5) and (6)  set  forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, payments out of
the  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for  eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the respective  eligible  Categories,  and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
Page  12
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)   Notwithstanding  the  provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i)  was made for any expen-
diture or in any amount  not  eligible  pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon notice from the
Bank, deposit into the Special  Account  (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
