Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21907
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(23720)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 101.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A FIRST MULTISTATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
May 3, 2001
Water & Urban 2 Division
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Naira
SDR I = USS 1.37
US$ 1 =   17.26 Naira (1992)
23.46 Naira (1993)
21.94 Naira (1994)
71.75 Naira (1995)
81.49 Naira (1996)
82.20 Naira (1997)
82.00 Naira (1998)
87.20 Naira (1999)
103.00 Naira (2000)
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DO            Development Objectives
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FMWR          Federal Ministry of Water Resources
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
MSWSP         Multi State Water Supply Project
NEPA          Nigerian Electric Power Authority
NGOs          Non Govemmental Organizations
NWRP          National Water Rehabilitation Project
PPIAF         Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PSP           Private Sector Participation
PTF           Petroleum (Special) Trust Fund
RWS           Rural Water Supply
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SMWRRD        State Ministry of Water Resources & Rural Development
SWA           State Water Agency
SWB           State Water Board
WTP           Willingness to Pay
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Mark Tomlinson
Sector Manager/Director:  Letitia A. Obeng/Praful Patel
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   David Henley/David Stiggers



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 8
6. Sustainability                                                                    10
7. Bank and Borrower Perfonnance                                                     10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   12
9. Partner Comments                                                                  13
10. Additional Information                                                           13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                24
Annex 8. Targeted and Achieved Outputs                                               25
Annex 9. Implementation Schedule -- Actual vs Targeted                               29
Annex 10. Financial Indicators                                                       30
Annex 11. List of Studies                                                            32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002109                                     Project Name: STATE WATER I
Team Leader: David Stiggers                             TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: April 30, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: STATE WATER I                                L/C/TFANumber: 23720
Country/Department: NIGERIA                                           Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: WU - Urban Water Supply
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/20/87                              Effective: 05/13/93          05/04/93
Appraisal:  04/20/92                                MTR: 12/31/94             02/14/96
Approval: 05/28/92                               Closing: 09/30/99           09/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  FED GOVT OF NIGERIA/TWO STATE WATER BOARDS
Othier Partners:
STAFF                Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo                          Kim Jaycox
Country Manager:     Mark D. Tomlinson                       Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:      Letitia A. Obeng                        James 0. Wright
Team Leader at ICR:  David Henley                            David A. Henley
ICR Primary Author:  Eleanor Warner; Paul Kriss
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entiy: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objectives of the project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were to: (i) improve the
quantity and reliability of water supply to the more important towns in the states of Kaduna and Katsina to
meet basic needs and promote economic development; (ii) help in commercializing water boards; and (iii)
assist in preparing water projects in other states.



3.2 Revised Objective.
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
Katsina State (US$66.0 million)
(i)    completion of about 15 km of water transmission, 65 km of distribution pipelines and elevated
storage in Katsina and nearby communities to permit distribution of the full supply from existing
water works (20 percent of Katsina State cost);
(ii)   construction of a new system to augment the existing supply at Funtua, including a new dam, water
treatment plant, transmission pipeline to town, system storage and extended distribution system (57
percent);
(iii   limited expansion of Daura water supply system, including new boreholes to increase water
production (1 percent);
(iv)   remedial construction of the Malumfashi dam (7 percent);
(v)    supply of maintenance vehicles, tools, operational equipment, water meters, meter testing and
repair facilities (3 percent);
(vi)   limited rehabilitation of some rural water supplies (I percent);
(vii)  institutional and financial strengthening of the Katsina State Water Board (3 percent); and
(viii)  construction supervision (7 percent).
Kaduna State (US$60.2 million)
(i)    completion of the water treatment plant, and construction of transmission and distribution pipelines
and system storage at Ikara (15 percent of Kaduna State cost);
(ii)   construction of new regional water supply systems at Kwoi and Zonkwa, including intake works,
water treatment plant, transmission mains and distribution systems, and a small dam in Zonkwa
(Kwoi - 36 percent; Zonkwa - 34 percent);
(iii)  supply of maintenance vehicles, tools, operational equipment, and water meters (3 percent);
(iv)   limited rehabilitation of some rural water supplies (1 percent);
(v)    institutional and financial strengthening of the Kaduna State Water Board (4 percent); and
(vi)   construction supervision (7 percent).
Federal Ministry of Water Resources (US$2.0 million)
Preparation by FMWR of future water projects for states in Nigeria other than the project states.
Assessment
The project components were adequate to meet its objectives. The project was intended to provide for (a)
the most urgent needs, through completion of stalled works in both states, and limited capacity expansion
consistent with demand projections; and (b) more focused attention on strengthening Water Board
management, and improving operational performance. Part of the institutional strengthening included
transferring responsibility for rural water supply (RWS) to the relevant state ministry and allowing Water
Boards to focus on operating large urban systems more efficiently. The small RWS investment was
intended to help consolidate the transfer of this responsibility. To underpin the financial viability of urban
operations, the Government agreed, during negotiations, to adjust tariffs and take other actions, as
necessary, to meet expenses and service the related debt in line with financial performance targets included
in the DCA. A tariff study was also recommended as a basis for future tariff changes. Given the relative
stability of the macro-economic situation at the time, the Government's agreement to these tariff measures
is considered acceptable.
-2-



Relationship to NWRP: The Multi State Water Supply Project (MSWP) was designed to stand alone;
however, because of the Credit cap, a few key urgent items had to be procured under an ongoing parallel,
National Water Rehabilitation Project (NWRP, Ln 3332). These include rehabilitation of Katsina's
treatment plant, equipment for leak detection and repair, and operational equipment, which were intended to
strengthen the impact of the MSWP. This NWRP support became significant again after a breach
occurred in the Ajiwa dam in 1994 causing major disruption of the supply to Katsina town. Dam
reconstruction with rehabilitation of the treatment plant under the centrally administered NWRP resulted in
a long delay in reinstating full supply.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised. During the mid-term review the project was retrofitted and the
objectives slightly restated to give some emphasis to the rural water supply component, which was being
implemented by a separate agency in each state, after the removal of responsibility for rural water supplies
from the Water Boards.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project objectives were clear and consistent with the then articulated sector strategy. Important lessons
were incorporated from the experience of four earlier projects, including a previous project in Kaduna
(Kaduna Water Supply Project, PCR No. 8961), which led to the inclusion of a program of studies and
technical assistance to help strengthen institutional capacity.
The project took a traditional approach to development of potable water supply as did many other
infrastructure projects in the Region at that time, focusing on investments in hardware together with
investments to improve upon the institutional status quo without considering major reform as a means to
bring about sustainable improvements. As such, the project design was not innovative by today's
standards. However, the economic and political setting during preparation and appraisal was relatively
stable and conducive to the approach of the project. The economic, political and institutional decay, which
started and continued during the project period and severely affected achievement of the development
objectives, was not foreseen.
Preparation for physical works was relatively advanced at the time of appraisal; designs for new works in
Katsina, for Funtua dam, and remedial works on a Malumfashi dam were ready for tendering; designs for
works in Kaduna were expected to be reviewed, updated and ready for tendering within six months of credit
effectiveness; and draft terms of reference for technical assistance were prepared.
Risks were identified and mitigation measures included in the project related to (a) counterpart funds; (b)
sufficient increases in tariff to finance long-term operation, maintenance and debt service needs of the
boards; and (c) the availability of staff with sufficient experience to manage the project.
While the risks related to the timing for attaining financial viability and autonomy of the Water Boards
were reflected in the SAR, these issues turned out to be beyond the scope of the project to resolve, due to
the weak economic environment and unprecedented political instability in Nigeria throughout most of the
project's implementation phase.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievemenzt of objective:
The outcome of the overall project is judged as unsatisfactory. The project partially succeeded in meeting
its objectives as follows: (i) Objective No. 1: the project increased the quantity of water, but there is excess
capacity. While supervision teams focussed on identifying ways to extend distribution and succeeded in
- 3 -



getting the Kaduna state government to agree to finance extensions to additional communities, the systems
are not fully utilized at this point. Reliability was compromised by the power supply and the project did
not meet basic human needs because of the inadequacy of the distribution systems. The distribution
systems were cut back to avoid cost overruns during a period of very high inflation (see section 7.2).
Water supply is a high government priority, as indicated in the year 2000 national budget, and it is likely
that these extensions will take place as part of the states' water supply programs so that the objectives of
reliability and meeting basic human needs could be satisfied; (ii) Objective No. 2: the project helped to
commercialize the Water Boards but not sufficiently because of their continued lack of autonomy (section
4.5); and (iii) Objective No. 3: the project successfully provided financing to help in preparing projects for
other states.
The overall rating of unsatisfactory deviates from the final PSR rating for two reasons: (a) measures being
taken during implementation to expand the distribution systems had not advanced sufficiently at the time of
the ICR to be able to rate the outcome as satisfactory; and (b) while revenue covenants were achieved (in
the case of Katsina State, by the inclusion of government subvention in revenue) in compliance with the
letter of the DCA, the underlying objective of making the water agencies financially autonomous was not
achieved (section 4.5).
Objective 1: To improve the quantity and reliability of water supply
In Katsina State, production capacity increased from 13Mm3 to 34Mm3/year at the end of the project
(slightly higher than the SAR forecast of 33Mm3/year) as a result of works in Katsina, Funtua, Daura and
Malumfashi. While water production capacity is adequate, actual production has been constrained by the
continued crisis of the power sector in Nigeria and fuel supply problems, which limit operating capacity to
as little as 6 hours per day, and the inadequacy of the distribution network in Katsina and Funtua.
In Kaduna State, production capacity increased from 74Mm3 to I39Mm3/year at the end of the project as
a result of works in Ikara, Zonkwa and Kwoi. This capacity is higher than the peak production capacity of
1l4Mm3/year projected in the SAR for 1999. Unfortunately, capacity utilization remains low, reaching a
peak of 68 percent in 1997 and declining to 49 percent in 2000. Production works' capacity was designed
based on official population estimates and demand figures available in Nigeria at that time. It appears the
production capacity has been overdesigned. The per capita consumption figures used in the final design
turned out to be as much as three times higher than the actual consumption.
Measures taken during project implementation to utilize the excess capacity included, engaging NGOs to
market the project to households, and discussions and eventual agreement with the State Government to
finance extension of the Ikara system to three semi-urban towns. The latter is expected to be completed by
the end of June 2001. Any unutilized capacity after the extension will be used to meet future demand from
beneficiaries of the scheme, including a provision for those who will hook up later. The situation in Kwoi
(completion August 1999) and Zonkwa (completion October 1997) is similar, with capacity utilization of
about 30 percent and 19 percent, respectively, and the State Government has agreed to finance extensions
into Fada and Kagoma (in Kwoi) and into neighboring semi-urban towns in Zonkwa combined with more
rigorous efforts to encourage consumer connections.
Objective 2: To help commercialize the Water Boards through institutional support and training
The Boards took advantage of the technical assistance consultants who studied their institutional, operating
and cultural context and made detailed recommendations for improvement, many of which were
implemented, to the extent possible, by the Boards. Computerized systems for information management,
accounting, and billing and collection led to better determination of their financial condition and technical
performance. Studies were also carried out to diagnose operational problems at the plants and
- 4 -



recommendations made. Training, including overseas exposure to senior management and day-to-day
interaction with international technical specialists ignited their interest in steering the Water Boards to
greater potential. The major obstacle to achieving this project objective was the continued unstable
political and economic context, which made it difficult for recommended improvements to be meaningfully
instituted (see section 4.2). In addition, studies related to sectoral development were carried out as
indicated in Annex 11.
Secondary Objectives
Help prepare other projects: The project was expected to be the first in a series of water supply projects
which were planned to cover eventually all states of the country. The Federal Ministry for Water
Resources (FMWR) was seen as the apex agency for these projects. In order to support the FMWR in its
coordinating role, a sum of US$2.0 million was included for preparatory studies in states meeting FMWR's
eligibility criteria. Most (US$1.69 million) of this allocation was disbursed for countrywide studies
(studies on PSP and the development of the small towns water supply prograrn).
The implied rural water supply objective was successful in restructuring the Water Boards and relegating
RWS functions to the State Ministries of Water Resources and Rural Development (SMWRRD).
4.2 Outputs by cornponents:
Physical Works - Katsina State
The targeted and achieved outputs are detailed in Annex 8, while the comparative implementation schedule
is in Annex 9. Eight major contracts were successfully completed at a total cost of about US$55.1 million
as discussed below.
Under the Katsina Town component, 61 km of primary, secondary and tertiary pipelines were supplied
and laid and 2,300 m3 elevated storage facilities constructed to adequately distribute the increased supply
(50,000 m3/day) following completion of the rehabilitation of production works under the NWRP. The
transmission and storage facilities were completed in November 1997, but operationalizing the system was
delayed by about one year untill rehabilitation of production was completed.
The Funtua component provided the construction of a new 12m dam, a 13,500 m3/day water treatment
plant, 18km transmission pipeline to the town, a 2,300 m3 system storage facility, and 30 km distribution
system, all of which were successfully completed in November 1999. A further 10 km of distribution could
not be constructed because of procurement delays.
In Funtua, resettlement of about 1,000 families was expected to occur and a budget was provided to
relocate all families far away from the impoundment (body of water) to minimize the impact of
water-related diseases. Compensation was made and an alternative site developed to house families in a
somewhat urbanized setting with electricity, piped water and access to a health facility. Families were
very reluctant to move, particularly before there was physical evidence that the dam was indeed going to be
built, and few in fact moved away from the vicinity of the dam. A Bank environmental specialist in 1999,
determined in a field visit that the characteristics of the dam and reservoir as finally designed and built did
not require the resettlement of more than a small part of the adjacent population. There was thus no need
to continue the resettlement process, which in any case was stalled. The state govemment then announced
that the village lands taken by the dam and reservoir but not submerged would revert to the villagers, and
there was no need to repay the compensation received. For the remaining population, it was proposed that
a residential building restriction be imposed within a narrow perimeter around the reservoir that posed a
high risk for malaria.
-5 -



The Daura system provided a limited expansion of the water supply system to 9,000 m3/day (to meet
population demand through 2005), including construction of 10 boreholes around the city, 22 km of
distribution pipeline and a new 400 m3 elevated tank and workshop. As a result of this component
(completed in May 1998), production rose by 40 percent and the system is operating satisfactorily, though
constrained by erratic power supply from the national grid. This component was successfully coordinated
with the NWRP, under which the existing borehole field was rehabilitated to allow restoration of the
above-cited production capacity.
The Malumfashi component was intended to improve reliability of the raw water source by rehabilitating
and reinforcing the Turo dam (which was in imminent danger of collapse) and improving the raw water
intake. The project completed rehabilitation of the dam (April 1998), which increased the yield of the
impoundment to 9,000 m3/day, adequate for the existing treatment plant (5,000 m3/day). A new reservoir
(4,500 m3) was constructed to replace the decayed one.
Physical Works - Kaduna State
Six major contracts were successfully completed at a total cost of about US$52.2 million, as discussed
below. Annexes 8 and 9 provide detailed information on actual versus targeted outputs.
The Zonkwa component planned to provide a dam, intake pumps, treatment plant and a distribution
system. The scope of works was revised during the detailed design period to include an alternative source
of raw water (a spring) and a simple treatment plant using filtration and disinfection only. This shift in the
raw water source resulted in increased demand for the following reasons: (a) passing the treated water
mains via a long route with many settlements meant that surrounding communities had to be served; and (b)
the location of the spring was Manchok, a village with an old water supply in need of rehabilitation. It was
considered cheaper to integrate the Manchok system rather than rehabilitate and run two separate systems
in the same village. The system was thus redesigned to produce 12,000 m3/day (as against SAR provision
of 5,000 m3/day) to meet the estimated demand of the additional communities. The completed Zonkwa
component also included 38.9 km of transmission mains, system storage, 52.9 km distribution network,
and a reservoir of 4,100 m3 capacity.
The Kwoi component provided for constraction of a weir intake, pumping station (12,000 m3/day),
conventional water treatment plant (26.08 km), transmission main, and storage and distribution network
(33.67 km).
The Ikara component sought to complete an abandoned project, which was designed to produce 7,500
m3/day with a distribution network to provide water to the town and neighboring villages up to year 2005.
The consultants designed the plant at 7,680 m3/day based on revised demand estimates (using the official
population estimates available at the time). The final scheme included a water treatment plant, construction
of storage reservoirs and distribution network. There is considerable excess demand at the production
works in light of current production and consumption statistics. The Govemment has taken steps to utilize
the extra capacity (see Section 4.1).
Connections -- Both States
As a result of the project, total connections in year 2000 increased to about 29,420 in Katsina and about
108,780 in Kaduna, compared to the SAR projections of 64,200 and 95,400 connections, respectively, by
1999. It could be concluded that SAR projections in Katsina were unrealistic in light of the condition at the
time, where many of the existing connections were not receiving water. This was compounded by delays in
completing the production works in Katsina. The SAR projected that at the end of the project, 41 percent
of the population in the Katsina project towns would receive house connections. This did not occur due to
- 6 -



the problems mentioned above. New connections were further constrained by the inadequacy of the
distribution systems.
The number of standpipes increased to an acceptable level of about 1,300 in Katsina which is about 23
percent less than projected (1,890). For Kaduna, the SAR estimates of population to receive water supply
through standpipes were excessive (1,279 standpipes to serve 956,000 people in 1999) in light of the
government's decision to gradually phase out standpipes in the state. This decision was brought about by
difficulties in collecting the standpipe tariff from local governments. A policy of franchising standpipes to
vendors, instituted during the project, is slowly taking effect. The final result is that only 247 standpipes
were functioning in year 2000 compared with SAR projections of 1,279.
Operational Support Equipment-- Both States
Supply of vehicles, meters, equipment, spare parts and laboratory equipment, were mostly concluded by the
end of 1999. Procedures were drafted. A contract was awarded for the installation of 10,000 consumer
meters (domestic and commercial) in Kaduna; however, by the end of the project, only about 2,800
connections had been completed. In Katsina State, the installation of meters continues slowly under force
account and about one-third of the 6,000 meters procured under the project have been installed. It was
very difficult to get the needed political support to complete the metering program as intended.
Rural Water Supply -- Both States
The rural water supply component was estimated at US$0.5 million per state. The major thrust of this
component was the restructuring of the water boards and removal of RWS functions from their control.
This was successfully done and responsibility for RWS was shifted to the respective State Ministry for
Water Resources and Rural Development (SMWRRDs). A small investment component was intended to
underpin this RWS restructuring. Because of delays in procuring handpumps and related supplies, this
was not completed by the end of the project, and the SMWRRDs are now charged with completing their
procurement and installation.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis appearing in the SAR estimated that the project would yield an overall economic
rate of return of 9.8 percent; 12.8 percent for Katsina and 6.3 percent for Kaduna.
The ex-post cost benefit analysis links targeted indicators with actual ex-post costs. The analysis examines
the returns of the project based on actual physical performance. The problematic issue of estimating the
value of water is even greater in this case for the following reasons:
(i) average water tariffs in Kaduna and Katsina, estimated in 1999 at 8 and 6 cents, respectively, are
extremely low, even by sub-regional standards. They reflect neither the willingness nor the ability of
the population to pay for water. This situation is due to the political instability in Nigeria and the
lack of state governments' motivation to raise tariffs.
(ii) detailed data to estimate the population's real willingness and capacity to pay for water is
currently not available. A comprehensive tariff study would be needed in both states in order to
estimate the price elasticity of demand, and to examine the impact of a substantial tariff increase on
quantities of water consumed.
The economic analysis has, therefore, taken a wide range of WTP values that would incorporate this
uncertainty. A break-even point is calculated for each state, which demonstrates that even though the rates
of return (based on actual tariffs) show a negative return, the break-even points for Kaduna and Katsina,
- 7 -



which are US$0.6 and US$0.9, respectively, represent water prices in the sub-region and reflect the value
of water to consumers. Should the states participating in the project have conformed with the policy of
keeping tariffs in line with real-term costs and adjusting them frequently, the returns on the project would
have been 13 percent for Kaduna and 11 percent for Katsina. Detailed calculations are in Annex 3.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A. A financial rate of return on investments was not carried out at appraisal.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional and financial strengthening - Both States
Actual performance and financial indicators for the Water Boards (1992 to 1999) are given in Annex 10.
Revenue covenants were included in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). The results show that
both Water Boards were able to meet revenue covenants for the majority of the project period, although the
Katsina State Water Board had to rely on Government subvention to meet its covenant. It is noted that the
States preferred to subvent the Water Boards rather than approve adequate annual tariff increases and
grant them managerial and financial autonomy, which would have allowed a major project development
objective to be met.
While the project provided invaluable assistance in termns of studies of their technical and financial
accounting systems and implementation of the findings, it was not possible to attract qualified financial
managers and well trained accountants to the Boards because of their unattractive incentive packages. The
existing senior staff received on-the-job training to improve their daily functions with respect to technical
procedures, customer enumeration, updating of customer registers and billing and collection. This helped
to improve the accuracy of customer registers, especially during the stay of the consultants. Senior staff
were also sent overseas for training and mentoring and came back motivated for a while, but the reality of
the unsupportive political environment and lack of motivation of the majority of staff proved to be an
insurmountable problem.
Financial performance was affected by lower than expected water production and sales and a very low
average tariff of about 8 and 6 cents/m3 in Kaduna and Katsina, respectively, (compared with the norm for
the subregion of about US$0.75/m3). Financial targets adopted at appraisal did not realistically take into
account revenue-impacting factors, such as disruptions of production due to physical rehabilitation and
erratic electricity supplies. The SAR also predicted a sharper rise in the number of connections in both
states, with the sharpest between 1996 and 1999 as a result of the commissioning of rehabilitated and new
plants. However, this increase did not occur as planned, due to the quality of service not being sufficient to
attract new customers and the restricted distribution system. The expected rise could, however, still come
much later when the rehabilitated and new plants start operating fully and customers see improvement in
service.
Staff were deployed to sites for training during implementation of works in both states, and contractors
were requested to provide both classroom and on-the-job training which worked well. Additionally,
training seminars were given to the staff from the districts on maintenance procedures.
The Boards submitted, with some delay, yearly audited financial statements, which included project
financial statements, the Special Account and the certified statement of expenditures.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Nigerian economic environment suffered some major setbacks during project implementation
- 8 -



(1993-2000), including fiscal imbalances, inappropriate macro-economic policies and unprecendented
depreciation of the local currency. There were also major political and social problems. These had a
severe impact on the overall performance and outcome of the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Governance Problems: There were frequent changes in all levels of government and undue interference in
management of the Water Boards, including frequent and sudden changes in senior Water Board
management. With each change of government officials, there were additional bureaucratic delays by the
new administration, which affected contractor performance and the project's ability to achieve timely
completion. Political instability made it very difficult to make any progress on implementing sectoral
policies.
The value of the Naira took a precipitous decline during the project, and contractors began overloading
their costs in foreign currency as they were unsure of the fate of the Naira. This gave rise to the need for
postponing action on the distribution systems because of concern about cost overruns.
Government's Interference in Project Implementation: There was constant interference by State
Governments in the administration of most of the contracts and on procurement issues. This was
particularly pronounced in the small rural water supply component where, as a result of Government
interference in procurement and day-to-day administrative matters, this component experienced undue
delays and could not be completed by the end of the project.
Unreliable Electricity Supply: A major production constraint was the unreliability of the national power
system run by Nigerian Electric Power Authority (NEPA). Power outages were very frequent, estimated
well in excess of 50 percent of the operating time at many of the water works.
Scarcity of Petroleum Products: Most of the contracts suffered delays as a result of a national scarcity
of petroleum products, which resulted in arbitrary increases in the price of petrol and diesel required by the
Water Boards to run their systems (the back-up generators) and by the contractors for their vehicles and
equipment. This also contributed to increases in the cost of construction materials and transportation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were excessive bureaucratic delays in processing certificates/invoices for contractors and
consultants; delays ranged from 3 to over 5 months. These delays stemmed in part from procedural
weaknesses within the implementing agency compounded by the aforementioned governance problems.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$128.2 million, of which US$66.0 million was
intended for Katsina State, US$60.2 for Kaduna State and US$2.0 for the Federal Government to prepare
new projects. Contributions to project costs were to be as follows: IDA US$101.0 million; Katsina State
US$14.5 million; and Kaduna State US$12.7 million. The final cost and financing pattern was similar to
the SAR estimates. It is noted that despite the political instability and unprecedented decline in the Naira,
there was no shortage of counterpart funds. This is largely due to the mechanism set up at appraisal for
deducting counterpart funds at source from the federal allocations to each state. Toward the end of the
project, each state government sought and got relief to meet its counterpart funds from the Petroleum
(Special) Trust Fund (PTF) allocation.
As indicated in Annex 2, there were shifts in line amounts due to cost overruns in some of the
subcomponents and also cost savings in two large contracts (Funtua, Zonkwa due to design changes),
-9-



which led to a request from the Borrower for a Credit reallocation allowing the contractual works to be
completed within the project budget.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
Sustainability of the project under present circumstances is rated as unlikely due to the aforementioned
weak tariff policy, weaknesses in financial and commercial procedures and continued lack of autonomy of
the Water Boards. At the same time, we note that the Water Boards have managed to keep the systems
operational, and they are now supported by an improving policy environment, as discussed below:
Government Commitment: The recent transition to civilian rule has been marked by commitment of the
new administration to bring about necessary policy and institutional reforms to ensure sustainable
development of this sector. The Federal Government adopted and published a policy paper, and plans are
underway to implement the reforms based on the new policy. At the state level, during the last phase of the
project, much attention was focused on high-level discussions with a view to reforming the institutional
status quo for these operations and introducing private sector participation (PSP). These discussions were
informed by PSP studies done under the project by consultants, which were well received by the sector
professionals and administration of both states. Sector professionals and policy makers also participated in
a Govemors' Seminar and Donors' Conference during February 2000 supported by the World Bank
Institute. Additionally, the Kaduna State government has indicated its readiness for change by carrying out
further reform studies funded by a recently approved Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
(PPIAF) grant.
Institutional Capacity: The project has successfully trained and provided exposure to a large core of
sector professionals in engineering and financial management through extemal training and mentoring, and
they have remained with the Water Boards throughout the project. Systems and improved procedures have
been introduced as a result of months of consultant study. Sector institutional capacity has thus been
strengthened.
The major short-term constraint is the lack of recurrent funds to finance adequate levels of operations and
maintenance. In this respect, the state governments have committed to subsidizing the Water Boards until a
cost-reflecting tariff could be applied.
6.2 Transition arrangemnenit to regular operations:
The project dealt with the agencies responsible for the regular operations of project assets, and institutional
strengthening and operations efficiency measures were intended to allow the Boards to improve on their
operation and maintenance practices.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending:
Project preparation was done by a team of experienced professionals and was consistent with the sector
strategy in place at that time. Lessons leamed from previous projects in the water supply sector were
integrated into the design of the institutional support and training program. In terms of choice of sites for
development, the Bank agreed with the states' priorities, based on feasibility studies carried out by an
international consulting firm.
7.2 Supervision:
- 10 -



The project unfolded during a very difficult political and economic period in Nigeria. The value of the
Naira took a precipitous decline during the project, and contractors began overloading their costs in foreign
currency as they were unsure of the fate of the Naira. This gave rise to the need for reducing the project
scope (removing the distribution systems in some cases) and very close monitoring of the project budget to
ensure that the Credit ceiling was not exceeded. Political difficulties peaked following the annulment of
elections in June 1993. Changes in government appeared to be the norm then. Each change in
administration meant that the project had to be re-marketed and commitmnents sought with the sequential
state governors to honor the terms of agreements in the DCA. The project was closely supervised at
regular intervals twice each year by a team from headquarters and the Resident Mission. Additionally, the
sector professional at the Resident Mission undertook four interim missions to handle issues requiring
immediate intervention during peak construction periods.
Consideration was given by the Department's Management to suspend the Credit, but this was not done,
possibly due to a perception at the time that suspension would not receive top level support in the Bank. It
was also considered that suspension would have had a major negative impact on the contractors who were
well advanced in their contract implementation and prevented the increase in availability of water in both
states. It would also have hindered supervision missions from continuing the policy dialogue among sector
professionals in Nigeria, which was judged to be very productive.
The Bank, in supervision, did not take issue with the over-capacity of the water supply headworks (Section
4.1) resulting ultimately in distribution systems being left underfunded, one of the causes of the low impact
achievement.
7.3 Overall Bank performance.
Because of the lack of a firm stance by the Bank and acceptance of excessive demand estimates relating to
most of the water production facilities, overall Bank performance is judged unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation of the project was done in close collaboration with the Bank and in great detail. The
borrower's preparation performance is judged satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is judged unsatisfactory for the following reasons: too many
changes in government; too much interference in the financial and operational management of the water
boards; interference with procurement adding to the processing delays mentioned in section 7.6 below; and
frequent changes in the management of the water boards. These factors affected not only large urban
investments, but also implementation by State Ministries of Water Resources and Rural Development of
the limited rural water supply components.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Water Boards operated under a very difficult policy and operating environment - lack of support from
their state administrations to approve tariff policies needed to meet the objectives of the project;
interference by sequential administrations in procurement procedures; frequent and sudden changes in
Water Board management; erratic NEPA supplies; low plant utilization constrained by power shortages;
standby generators that were not designed to accommodate a low level of plant operation; and meager
finances to cover recurrent expenses. Despite the above, however, and due to the comnnitment of a core of
key professional and technical staff in managing the project to completion, the performance of the
implementing agencies is judged satisfactory.



7.7 Overall Borrower perfornance:
Overall Borrower performance is judged unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Despite the setbacks brought about by lack of government support for key policies needed to meet project
development objectives, the project provided a vehicle to raise awareness of the need for major institutional
reforms supported or closely linked with good governance and government advocacy. Based on the
experience of this project's implementation, the following key lessons have emerged:
Commercializing Public Sector Institutions: Commercializing the Water Boards, a project objective,
was practically impossible as the governments were unwilling to give the appropriate autonomy. They
interfered in day-to-day operations and in appointing top personnel. Without autonomy, it is impossible to
pursue commercializing. Sustainable institutional arrangements for water utility management and tariff
reviews must be put in place early in the project. The present policy in the unit is to complete reforms
involving PSP prior to any new loan being considered for negotiations.
Demand Estimates: Demand for water was overestimated during project preparation and worsened by the
time of the final designs. As mentioned in the report, demand figures were based on the official population
and demand estimates available for the two states at that time. Matching demand and relating it to the
prices charged is important. In both states, water is being sold very cheaply and highly subsidized, and
there is large over-capacity. In spite of the efforts of the state governments, the situation could worsen if
water were sold at higher prices and the quantity purchased declined. The Bank might not have given
sufficient emphasis to this issue.
Dependence on External Factors: The project depended upon regular electricity supplies in order to
install the works as a first step, then produce, transmit and deliver water to the population. NEPA
continued to be very lethargic in providing power connections, which delayed a few contracts (e.g. in
Katsina where NEPA hookups were needed in order to install booster pumps). Once connected to the
NEPA grid, erratic electricity supplies continued. While the project did provide standby generators, the
Boards were unable to pay the additional fuel costs for extended periods of operation. This experience
highlights the difficulty of successfully executing projects in the short term, while other supporting sectors
of the economy are not thriving.
The need for a programmed approach: Comprehensive and sustainable improvements of deteriorated
assets are beyond the scope of a single project, hence a long-term perspective is necessary. The demand for
investment in urban water systems (physical as well as institutional) was urgent in the major towns of the
two states. The Borrower and the Bank could have focused on only one or two towns within each state, or
approached development more broadly by contributing to several towns while attending to institutional
improvements. By choosing the latter, the Bank was able to attend, only partially, to the most critical
physical needs in each town. For example, the project removed some constraints to improving supply
without optimizing the entire system, as in the case of Katsina and Funtua, where production works were
completed without the matching distribution network. Immediate follow-on investments are therefore
needed.
Similarly, institutional development of water utilities must be viewed as a continuum to be addressed in a
programmatic way. A project of this nature, which allows detailed diagnoses of the problem, puts in
place needed hardware and institutional changes and readies the utility and the state government for a more
radical intervention.
- 12 -



Semi-Urban versus Large Urban Systems: In African countries where many large urban centers are
emerging, there is political pressure and perhaps professional temptation to treat such agglomerations as
major urban centers in need of costly investment in central water supply systems run by large utilities. In
reality, many of them are large semi-urban centers lacking the per capita income, the required institutional
discipline and understanding of their responsibility toward such investment, leading to the rapid
deterioration of these assets. In Ikara, Zonkwa and Kwoi, for example, the population are largely
agrarian, with altemative sources of water from small unprotected wells, which are unsafe and demanding
on the time of girls and women to carry from place to place. The Bank and the country had little
experience with the current "small towns" approach at the time of appraisal, nor was the Government ready
for it. In retrospect, however, these towns would have been better served by a small towns approach to
investment with a greater reliance on community mobilization and participation in the investment decision,
and enlightenment campaigns. While NGOs were engaged after the mid-term review, and some benefits
were accrued (in terms of paying for water consumed), it was clear that greater community participation
should have been an intrinsic part of the project design and upstream activities. It was too late to introduce
this activity mid-stream as utilities became too busy with procurement and supervision of the large items to
devote quality time to marketing and consumer issues.
Resettlement: Resettlement was supervised annually by local consultants who mainly assessed progress
on the resettlement plan. When the project was approaching closure, with little achieved on the
resettlement plan, the team sought assistance from a staff resettlement expert. He then looked at the
situation afresh, and determined that virtually no resettlement need have been required once the final design
of the dam and reservoir was completed. Two lessons can be drawn: first, the Bank needs to assess field
conditions pragmatically rather than take a purist approach in its environmental assessments and
recommendations; second, even when supervision budgets do not pernit inclusion of Bank staff on
missions, review of project implementation by Bank technical staff can help resolve lagging implementation
of activities.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A copy of the draft ICR was sent mid-February to the Water Boards for review and comment by the
Borrower and implementing agencies. A response was received from the State of Katsina, which basically
agreed with the findings of the ICR. They had no substantive comment.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 13 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
KATSINA STATE WATER BOARD
Outcome/Impact Indicator               SAR               SAR Target          Target Revised            Actual 2000
Baseline 1992                                 at MTR
1. Target population with access to        56%                  86%                   86%                     61%
safe water
2. Reliability of water supply in          N.A.               24 brs/day           24 hrs/day              6-16 hrs/day
project towns (measured by hrs/days
supply)
3. Access to water from stand pipes.      67.3%                  58%                  33%                     34%
4. Access to water by connection          32.7%                  42%                  67%                     66%
5. Actual production (Mm3)                 13.3                  91.3                 32.7                    33.2
6. Sales volume (Mm3)                       7.6                  69.2                 24.5                    24.5
7. Unaccounted For Water                   42%                   25%                  25%                     25%
8. % of metered to total consumption        4%                  100%                  100%                    10%
9. Average Tariff                       N 1.33/m3             N 13.5/m3             N 25/m3                N 13.5/m3
10. Revenue collection                     46%                  100%                 100%                     75%
- % Recurrent Cost
- % Recurrent plus Debt Service           46%                 216%                  100%                     71%
44%                  110%                  100%                    71%
1 1. Staff level                           690                   690                  690                     625
- Staff per 1000 connections.             31                    11                   11                       24
12. Staff are trained in key areas.                                                                  Training programs
designed and
implemented as planned
13. Responsibility for RWS is               0%                  100%                 100%                     100%
devolved from the Water Board.
14. Customer Management:                   64%                  100%                 100%                     90%
- % of consumers captured
15. Computerization of billing             29%                  100%                 100%                     100%
16. Revenue collection period              N.A.               3.5 months           3.5 months               10 months
- 14 -



KADUNA STATE WATER BOARD
Outcome/impact Indicator              SAR               SAR Target        Target Revised           Actual 2000
Baseline 1992                              at MTR
1. Target population with access to safe  76.7%                B8.3%               S8.3%                   48%
water
2. Reliability of water supply in project  N.A.               24 hrs/day         24 hrs/day            10-19 hrs/day
towns (measured by hrs/days supply)
3. Access to water from stand pipes        43%                  40W/                40%                    4%
The policy is to gradually
phase-out standpipes.
4. Access to water by connection           57%                  60%                 60%                    96%
5. Actual production (Mm3)                 74.23               95.28               95.28                  75.92
6. Sales volume (Mm3)                      44.16               71.65               71.65                   49.8
7. Unaccounted For Water                   41%                  25%                 25%                    34%
8. % of metered total consumption           0%                  100%               100%                    22%
There was a lack of adequate
funding for metering.
9. Average tariffs                       N 1.79/m3           N 8.18/m3           N 25.0/m3              N 13.3/m3
The average tariffwas
increased for most years but
only nominally.
10. Revenue collection:
- % Recurrent Cost
- % Recurrent plus Debt Service           94%                 292%                100%                   135%
33%                 108%                100%                    133%
11. Stafflevel
- Staffper I000 connections                35                   15                 15                      15
12. Staff are trained in key areas                                                              Training programs designed
and implemented as planned
13. Responsibility for RWS is devolved     0%                  1 00V.              100%                    100%
from the Water Board
14. Customer Management:                                        100%               100%                    100%
- % of consumers captured
15. Computerization of billing             57%                  84%                                        70%
17. Revenue collection period            6 months            3.5 months          3.5 months              10 months
Note:     I. SAR figures for population were overestimated. Survey of all project towns shows much lower population.
2. Supply and reliability limited by erratic power supply.



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
KATSINA STATE
Actual/
Appraisal
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)      Actual (US$M)          %
Component                                        Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
1. Completion of Katsina system                     2.61     10.3   12.91      1.4    12.09    13.49     104
Katsina civil works                              2.61    10.3    12.91     1.37     11.4    12.77
Ajiwa pumping main rehab.                          0        0        0     0.01     0.63     0.64
High lift pump motors                              0        0        0     0.02     0.06     0.08
2. Funtua new project                               8.63    29.23   37.86     8.41    15.73    24.14      64
3. Malumfashi water project                          1.2      3.4     4.6     0.84       6      6.84     149
Turo Dam rehabilitation                           1.2     3.4      4.6     0.49     2.45     2.94
Water treatment plant rehab.                       0        0        0     0.34     3.17     3.51
Concrete service reservoir                         0        0        0     0.01     0.38     0.39
4. Daura system expansion                           0.18     0.69    0.87      0.4     2.44     2.84     326
5. Rural water supply rehabilitation                0.09     0.48    0.57      0.4     0.24     0.28      49
6. Operational equipment                            0.33     1.78    2.11     1.54     1.08     2.62     124
7. Institutional strengthening including training   0.33     1.91    2.24     2.01     3.03     5.04     225
8. Leak detection and repair contract in Daura        0        0        0     0.01     0.64     0.65
9. Construction supervision including project management 1.17  3.73   4.9      0.9      6.9     7.80
Total                                           14.54    51.52   66.06    15.64    48.15    63.79      97
KADUNA STATE
ActU
Appsal
Apppa Esmaii QUS$R           Ad      (S$IV         %
CoCmIert                                      Local  Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign  Tdal
1. Zaiae gbn-wat erpned                         4.38    15.89   2027     0.82   12.99   13.81      68
2 K   iregbknalwaleaproecd                       4.5      17     21.5    4.12   13.17    1729      80
3 Ikacnplerdnew prt*                             1.8    7.43     923     4.19   10.35    14.54    157
4. Ruralwalersupply rehabilkaon                 0.14     0.49    0.63    0.72    0.31     1.03    163
5. OpetaxeWret                                  0.22     1.63    1.85     1.7    3.24    4.94     267
6. Instliuonal strenglh.ing                      0.3     1.88    2.18    071     3.36    4.07     187
7. Corls       supevisin                         1.37    a17     4.54    1.09    5.43    6.52     144
Total                                        12.71   47.49    60.2   13.36   48.84     62.2    103
FMWR
Preparation of New Project            0.0       2.00       2.00        0.00       1.69        1.69
PROJECT FINANCING
Financier                                    Appraisal Estimate                      Actual
(US$ million)                    (US$ million)
Katsina State
IDA                                                 51.5                            48.27
State Government                                    14.5                             15.52
Kaduna State
IDA                                                 47.5                             49.6
State Government                                    12.7                             12.6
FMWR                                                  2.0                              1.69
Total                                                128.2                            127.6
- 16 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The ex-post economic analysis presented below examines the impact of investments on the production and
sales of water in the SWAs. Since both Kaduna and Katsina states have been engaged in two parallel
water projects (the multistate and the national water rehabilitation), implemented during the same period,
the analysis examines their combined impacts on the water sector. The analysis is divided into two major
sections. The first examines the physical performance indicators and targets which were set in the SAR.
The work compares the SAR targets (revised during the mid-term review) with the actual rates achieved at
the project's closure. The table below presents the summary of the findings:
Table 1: Physical and Operational Indicators of the Project, 1999 figures
Katsina Sta                      Kadun .tate
SAR             Current         SAR            Current
AssumDtion/Tar2et:     Level     Assumntion/Taree      Level
Indicator         and Later Revisions                t: and Later
Revis.ion
Population Served      The objective of the  Current rate  The objective of the  Current rate is
(percentage)           CAS related goal was to  is 58.8  CAS related goal  50
increase the access to            was to increase the
safe water to 88.3                access to safe water
(SAR) and 86 (revised)            to 88 (SAR) and 86
percent of the                    (revised) percent of
population.                       the population
Production Capacity    43,400,000 (SAR)     19,500,000   127,000,000 (SAR)  104,500,000
(m'/ycar)              37,400,000 (revised)              129,200,000
(revised)
Actual Production      33,000,000 (SAR)     16,000,000   95,279,000 (SAR)  72,080,000
((in/year)             33,300,000 (revised)              96,900,000
(revised)
Sales ((m'/year)       25,258,000 (SAR)     12,500,000   71,650,000 (SAR)  42,030,000
25,200,000 (revised)              71,600,000
(revised)
Number of Connections  64,200 (SAR)         30,014 Total  95,400 (SAR)     77,000
54,000 (revised)     19,500       95,500 (revised)
Active
Number of Metered      64,200               2,500        95,400            7,450
Connections
Number of Standpipes   1,890                1,454        1,280 (SAR)       304
1.300 (revised)
Number of Employees    690                  711          1.470             I,175
Number of Employees    11                   24           15                15
per 1000 eonnections
UFW (%)                24                   20           25                41.7
The cost benefit analysis links targeted indicators with actual ex-post costs. The calculation performed in
the tables presented below is a regular cost benefit exercise, which examines the returns of the project
based on actual physical performance. The problematic issue of estimating the value of water is even
greater in this case mainly due to the following two main reasons:
(i) water tariffs in Kaduna and Katsina, estimated at 8 and 6 cents, respectively, are extremely low,
even by sub-regional standards. They reflect neither the willingness nor the ability of the population
to pay for water. This situation is due to the political instability in Nigeria and the lack of state
governments' motivation to raise tariffs.
(ii) detailed data to estimate the population's real willingness and capacity to pay for water is
currently not available. In order to estimate the price elasticity of demand, enabling us to examine
the impact of a substantial tariff increase on the quantities of water consumed, a comprehensive
tariff study is needed.
- 17-



The economic analysis has, therefore, taken a wide range of WTP values that would incorporate this
uncertainty. A break-even point is calculated for each state, which demonstrates that even though the rates
of return based on actual tariffs show a negative return, the break-even point of Kaduna and Katsina,
which are US$0.6 and US$0.9, respectively, represent subregion water prices.
In other words, if states participating in the project had conformed with the policy of keeping tariffs in line
with real-term costs and adjusting them frequently, the returns on the project would have been higher than
SAR estimates.
Table 2: Kaduna Cost Benefit Analysis (US$ thousand, Constant 1994 Prices)
Kaduna State - ERR Calcuation
Notes                                          Urit   1992     1993     1994    1995     1996   1997   199K    1999   2000   2005    2010    2015      2016     2017     201K     2019     2020
Physical Indicators                                                                                            (Est.)  (Est.)  (Est.)  (Est.)  (Est.)   (Est.)   (Est.)   (Est.)   (Est.)
I Waterproducedwithout pmject          Km3/year 55.090      6564  63167     69,s66  70163  72.991  47,94  70.680  70630  70.680  7060   70.600   70.680   70.600   70,680   70,680   70.680
2 Waterproduced with project           Km3year 35.090       65,864  63.167   69.66  70.263  73.691  4Zf006  72.080  74.A63  91,204  110964  129.812  129,112  129,012  129,812  129,812  129,812
Increoeehial production              Km3eyr                                          100    700   1,000  1,400  4283   20.524  40.284   5t.132   5f.132   59,132   59,132   59.132   59,132
Water sold with project              KrM3/y    28,234     33.775  32.370   38*0D  41.940  47.933  32.336  42.030  46,477  64,755  83.223  97.359  97.359  97.359   97.359   97.359   97,359
3UnaoccwuotedFor Water( "'W)           percent      49         49     49        53     40      35     34     42     30      29      25       25       25       23       25       25       25
Benefits
4Valueofincr.waterproduced             USD/ M3    0.14       0.14   0.14      0.14   0.15    0.13   0.15   0.16    0.16   0.18    0.20     022       0.22    0.22      023     0.23     024
Total Valueofincr. waterprodured     KUJSD       -          -      *           -      5    106    154     220    665   3,626   7.857   IZ733     2z90     13.24    13.513   13.783   14,059
5Valaeofwater sotdthsmreduceodUFW      KCUSD                                                 it)     75     226    240    322     433       559      570      582      593      605      617
Total Benefits                       KUSD          0         0       0        0      15    217    229     446    923   3940    8.290   13.293    0.559    13.30    14.l06   14,388   14.676
Costs
6 Incr. O&M cOsts                      KUSD                                    .0380                                      024    3,299    5.463     3,572   5.6u4     5,797   5,913    6.032
Capital inveatment                   KUSD                         14.500   14       ,500  14.500  14.500  4,500  10300  0  0       0        0        0        0        0        0        o
TotalCosts                           KUSD                       14,500    14,500  14.00  14.500  14.300  10300  13080  1.524  3,299     5,463    5,572   53.0      5.797    5,913    6.032
Net Benefits                         KUSD          0         0  014.500)  014,500) (14,635) (14.283) (14.271) (9054)  (455)  2.424  4.991  7.83)  7.906    8.146    8.309   8,475     8.645
N BnIrft          (547.14624)
1RR        1%      TrOld B.51        020,229.7
Towl C.a           $6737601
Notes
I Water produced withow the project is estimated to keep ftgnarl at the 1999 rate.
2 Water produced with the project is estimated t8 vrow by4 pernt per year until reaching the pnduction capasty limit of 129,000 m3 per year
3 UFW rate is taken fromn official data until 1999 and then reduced by I percent per year until reacing the tag  of 25 percent.
4 Value of water is esinmated at 12 oeits per M3.
5 The value of incremental water produced is based n a rductim of I percent in 1997-98 and 2 prcent from 1999 onwardls ofthe to0l water produced with project.
These improvements are due t8 osttitutional develpMrent and capacity trenglhernig under the multistet project
6 O&M cools are eswtmated at 2.5 percent (unbl 2005), 5 percent (lbetween 2006.201 1) aud 7.5 percent (from 2012 onwards) ofthe total physical ,nvesimentcoss, esimated atUSS50 million.
9A'TP value           NPV of Coltn          .    NV of BIgluit,               NPV OlfNBetSnentU                          ERR
o 1$ 567.3'6                                       $15.172                              S52.2'041      negartse
6: 14                 S67.376                      517.701                             iS49,6751       negalive
IJ_ _                 $67     6    _____             20_ 230    _         _       _       _        14h,     ____
0.18                  $67,376                      $22_758                             ($44,618           2%
0.2                 $67,376                       $25,287 _ _($42,089,                                   3%
Breakeven Point:
0.6                 $67,376                       $75,862                               $8,486   1            13%
Table 3: Katsina Cost Benefit Analysis (US$ thousand, Constant 1994 Prices)
- 18 -



Katsina State - ERR Calculation
Notes                                                        Unit      1992    1993     1994       1995       1996      1997      1998      1999      2000    2005    2010    2015
Physical Indicators                                                                                                                           (Est.)   (Est.) (Est.) (Est.)
I Water produced without project                    Km3/ycar      15,500 17,000     16,100      16,613    16,790    15,730    14,850    15,090    15,500  10,500  8,500  8,500
2 Waterproduced with project                        Km3/year      15,500 17,000     16,100      16,613    16,890    15,930    15,250    15,690    16,318 23,579 28,688 32,270
Incremental production                            Km3/ycar                                                 100      200       400       600       818  13,079 20,1S8  23,770
Water sold with project                           Km3/year      11,200 12,200     11,600      12,000    13,300    12,900    12,400    12,500    12,728  17,685 21,516 24,203
3 Physical Losses                                   Percent          28      2S        28           28        21        19        19        22        22     25     25      25
Benefits
4Value of incr.water produced                        USD /NM3       0.14   0.14      0.14         0.14     0.15      0.15      0.15      0.16      0.16    0.18   0.20    0.22
Total Valueofincr.waterproduced                   KUSD                    *         *                      15        30        62        94       131   2,311  3,937   5,119
5 Value of water sold from reduced UFW               KUSD                                                              24        23        49        52     83     112     139
Total Benefits                                    KUSD              0      0          0           0        15        54        85       143       183   2,394  4,050   5.258
Costs
6 Incr. O&M    costs                                 KUSD                                                             -         -                 1,104   1,219  2,639   4.370
Capital investment (Multi State and NWRP)         KUSD                            12,500      12,500    12,500    12,500    12,500    12,500    12,500      0      0       0
Total Costs                                       KUSD           -       .      12,500       12,500   12,500    12,500    12,500    12,500    13,604   1,219  2,639   4,370
Net Benefits                                      KUSD              0      0    (12,500)     (12,500)  (12,485)  (12,446)  (12,415)  (12,357)  (13,421)  1,175  1,411   887
Net Bcnfits       (555,321.41)
IRR Negative              TotalBenefits       S9,811.33
Total Cots         565,132.74
Notes
I Water produced without the pmject is estimated to keep stagnant at the 1999 rate.
2 Water produced with the project is estimated to grow by 4 peteent per yeu until reachitg the productiom caseity limit of 129,000 m3 per year.
3 UfW ratc is taken fmt  official data until I999 and then reduced by I percent per year util reaching the target of25 percent.
4 WTP value of water in 2000 is 16 cmts per M3.
5 The value of inceemnrtal waser produced is bhaed on areduction of I percent in 1997-98 and 2 peneent fmm 199 onwards, ofthe total water produced with projeet.
These improvements are due to inithutional dewlopmnet and capaity steangcning under the mulistite project.
6 O&M costs are estimated at 2.5 percet (until 2005), 5 percent (between 2006-2011) md 7.5 percent (frorn 2012 onwards) ofthe total physical investment coats estimated at USS40 million.
WTP              NPV of Costs        * NPV oreunita                 NPV of Net BesctI                 ERR
0.12               $65,133                      $7,358                         ($57,774) negatve
0.14               $65,133                      $8,585                         ($56,548) negative
0.16               $65,133                      $9,811                         ($55,321) negative
0.18               $65,133                    $11,366                          ($53,767) negative
0.2              $65,133                     $12,264                          ($52,869) negative
Breakeven Point:
0.9           $65,132.74                  $55,188.75                        ($9,943.99               11%
- 19 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
09/1987                     1   Engineer
11/1987                     1   Financial Analyst
06/1990                     1   Engineer
07/1990                     1   Engineer
02/1991                     1   Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/1992                     2   2 Engineers                       S            HS
11/1992                     1   Engineer                          S            HS
12/1992                     1   Engineer.                         S            HS
03/1993                     4   2 Eng., Resettlement, Financial   S            HS
Supervision
06/1993                     2    Engineer, Rural Water            S            HS
11/1993                     4   3 Engineers, Env. Specialist,     S            HS
04/1994                     4   2 Eng., Int. Dev. Spec., FNA      S            HS
06/1994                     1   Engineer
12/1994                     6   3 Eng., RW S, FNA, Training       S             S
Consultant
07/1995                     4   3 Eng., FNA                       S             S
09/1995                     1   Engineer
02/1996                     4   3 Eng., Financial Analyst         S             S
06/1996                     1   Engineer                          S             U
07/1997                     4   Eng., FNA, ECN, RWSS Spec.        S             U
12/1997                     5   2 Eng., FNA, Cons.-               S             U
Resettlement, RWSS Spec.
03/1998                     1   Engineer
08/1998                     4   TL, Eng., Cons. - Resettlement,   S             U
RWS Spec.
02/1999                     6   TL, RWS/ENV/SAN, San. Eng.,       S             S
Fin. Mgt, TA, Resettlement.
07/1999                     4   1 Water & Sanitation, 2 Eng., 1   S             S
Consultant.
11/1999                     4   TL, CL, TA, RM Infrastructure     S             S
staff
ICR
09/2000                     9    TL, ML, FNA, San. Eng.,          S             S
ECN, FMS Spec., Proc.
Spec., Soc. Scientist,
Participation Spec., TA
-20 -



Development Objective was upgraded in August 1998 due to decisions by the state governments to subvent
the Water Boards until the end of the physical works; this allowed the revenue covenants to be met.
ABBREVIATIONS
CL            Cluster Leader
ECN           Economist
ENV           Enviromnent Specialist
FMS           Financial Management Specialist
FNA           Financial Analyst
RM            Resident Mission
RWS           Rural Water Supply
TL            Team Leader
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation            105.00                   271,000
Appraisal/Negotiation                 46.50                    115,576
Supervision                          296.59                    634,807
ICR                                    12.15                    52,738
Total                                460.24                   1,325,021
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                     O H OSUOM * N O NA
Oi Sector Policies                   O H OSUOM O N O NA
LI Physical                          O H *SUOM O N O NA
El Financial                         OH   OSUOM     ON   ONA
Oi Institutional Development         0 H O SU O M O N 0 NA
Ol Environmental                     O H OSU*M O N O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM O N * NA
D Gender                       O H OSUOM O N *NA
O Other (Please specify)       OH OSUOM ON * NA
3l Private sector development        0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management           0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
E Other (Please specify)             OH OSUOM ON * NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU-Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
E Lending                                            OHS*S Ou OHU
C Supervision                                        OHS OS       *U    O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS       *U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
0 Preparation                                        OHS OS       O U   O   lU
a Government implementation performance             0 NS 0 S      0 U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 O HS * S      0 U   0 HU
0 Overall                                            O HS Os *U O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Economic Analysis, September 1999.
Draft Consultant Report on the Evaluation of the First Multi-State Water Supply Project.
- 24 -



Additional Annex 8. Targeted and Achieved Outputs
Item                                     Target at SAR (1992)         Achieved at Project Completion         Comments
A. KATSINA
1. Urban Water Supply Systems
1.1 Expansion of Katsina distribution     15 Ion of transmission      61.35 km of distribution pipelines & 2.300  The booster station was
system to enable the increased capacity   mains; 65 km of distribution  m3 of elevated storage implemented. An  expanded and rehabilitated under
(50,000 m3/day) of Ajiwa production works  pipelines; booster stations;  existing transmission main (15 km) was  a parallel Bank project (NWRP).
to be delivered and distributed           and 2,300 m3 of elevated   rehabilitated; and surge suppression    Extension of distribution
storage                     equipment & production meters supplied  pipeline by 29 km was agreed
& installed. Three new motors for the  but could not be implemented
high-lift pumps in the treatment plant were  because of delay in procurement.
supplied & installed. A dedicated high
tension power line (14 km) to the
treatment plant installed.
1.2 Expansion of Funtua water supply     Construction of Dam on       12m high Dam, 18 km of raw water and   A further 10 km of distribution
(including supply to Bakori) from 6,800  River Gwagwaye; 20,000       treated water transmission mains; storage  agreed could not be
m3/day to 26,800 m3/day                   m3/day treatment plant; 15.2  reservoirs (I x 2,300 m3); 13,500 m3/day  implemented because of delay in
km of 800 mm transmission   treatment plant; pumping stations; and 30  procurement.
to Funtua; pumping stations,  km distribution.
storage reservoirs; and
reticulation network.
1.3 Expansion of Daura water supply      Increase number of          Ten new boreholes established and       The existing borehole field was
including supply to Sandamu              boreholes; 14 km of          equipped in two borehole fields; 22.13 km  rehabilitated under the NWRP
distribution pipeline, stores  of distribution pipelines supplied and  restoring the capacity from 2,900
and repair facilities; booster  installed; and 400 m3 elevated tank and  m3/day to 7,000 m3/day. Total
station.                    workshop constructed.                   production capacity now 9, 000
m3/day.
1.4 Rehabilitation of Turo Dam in        Raise the dam crest by 1.9m;  Dam rehabilitation implemented as
Malumfashi to secure supply from the     construct new spillway;      planned. Yield of impoundment increased
treatment plant of 3,500 m3/day          repair intake tower gates;   to 9,000 m3/day. Existing treatment plant
and landscape the           rehabilitated to restore operation to 5,000
downstream face of dam.     m3/day and a new 4,500 m3 storage
reservoir constructed to replace the
existing decayed reservoir.
2. Rural Water Supply
2.1 Re-organize the rural water supply   Re-organize the rural water  Implemented in accordance with state
sector                                   supply sector in accordance  policy on rural water supply
with national strategy being  (responsibility transferred to Ministry of
developed by FMWR.          Water Resources and Rural Development)
2.2 Limited rehabilitation of some rural  Small amount of work to     10 solar panels wiUs submersible pumps  Installation contracts in local
water supplies                           improve rural water supply   supplied. Contract for supply of 210 hand  currency to be financed by state
after re-organization.      pumps terminated for non performance.   govemment but award of
The re-award of contract for supply of  contracts delayed beyond Credit
supply of 10 diesel pumps and generators  closure.
was not made because of delay in
procurement.
- 25 -



3. Operational Equlpment
3.1 Supply of maintenance vehicles, tools,  Operational equipment;     Operational vehicles, tools, 6,450
operational equipment, and water meters   tools; vehicies, laboratory  consumer mneters, laboratory equipment
equipment, libiray book,     and connection pipes and fittings supplied.
cosniumer metr, meter
workdhop, spares as
established under the
operations effciency study.
4. lnsittiooal and Fisancial
Strengthening
4.1 improvement of accounting billing and  12 man month.               Provided as planned. Accounting system
management information reporting                                       was reviewed and new procedures
including computerization and a program of                             implemented. System was also
mebtring of consumer.                                                  computerized New connections were
meted.
4.2 Urban tariff study including          16 man months                Study completed nd provided the basis
recommendation for standpipe user                                      for requesting tariff revisions.
4.3 Improvement of the State water Boards  3 year period of support (65  Technical assistance progam  done mostly  Some aspects of the
operation and maintenance practices       man-monnths)                 as planned,                             recommended efficiency
including review of di technical aspects of                                                                    measures (such as preventive
operations to reduce costs, minimize                                                                           maintenance program) could not
unaccounted for water, and assistance to                                                                       be implemented due to the
implement the results of the review,                                                                           condition of the assets for water
supply.
4.4 Promotion and hygiene education       6 months of planning and     Study was carried out but implementation
activities to improve awareness of the    promotion work with 3        was constrained by lack of funding.
communities of their obligation and benefits  mnths of intemational
regarding public water supply.            consultant assisa
4.5 Re-organization of rural water supply  14 months of consultenfs    Support provided for completing the
sector                                    support                      reorganization of the rural water supply
sector and the removal of this function
from the Water board.
4,6 Updating of water resources master plan  17 man-months of          As plarnned but final report completed too
including socio-economic studies.         consultancy work             late to be disseminated before project
closing.
4.7 Development of plans for sullage      IS months of coneultanfr     Newly created environmental sanitation
disposal, drainage ad sanitation          services                     units were asisted by local consultants to
prepare the guidelines and plans for
sanitation.
4.8 Leak detection and repair contract in  N/A                         Mapping existing distribution system, leak  The water supply level in Daura
Daura                                                                  detection and epair, supply leak detection  was restored following
equipment, and train the Water Board    competion of the Daura
staff                                   expansion in 1998, enabling
leak detection to be performed in
the system.
4.9 Construction Supervision              IOIO man months of           Input exceeded and period extended due to
consultanes srvices          delay in completion of water supply
yatanes
- 26 -



B. KADUNA
1. Urban Water Supply Systems
1.1 Ikara water supply completion         Supply and install water     Water treatment plant and pumping       To extend supplies to other
treatment plant of 4,000     stations 7,680 m3/day; 10.35 km of      urban towns Anchau, Takalafia
m3/day and pumping           transmission mains; 37.82 km of         and Soba), 27 km of
stations; 10 km of           distribution pipelines and reservoirs 3,100  transmission mains was supplied
transmission mains; 20 km    m3 total capacity                       under project. State govemment
of distribution network and                                          installed the pipes and supplied
system storage.                                                      and installed additional 33 km of
transmission mains; reservoirs
and pumping stations.
1.2 Zonkwa new regional water scheme      New dam, intake pumps,       Water treatment plant and pumping
treatment plant of 5,000     stations 12,300 m3/day; 38.96 km
m3/day, 5 km transmission,  transmission mains;52.92 km of
and 70 km distribution       distribution pipelines; and reservoirs total
network.                     capacity 4,100 m3.
1.3 Kwoi new regional water scheme        Weir and intake on the       Weir and intake on the Gurara River,
Gurara River, pumping        water treatment plant and pumping
station; conventional        stations 12,000 m3/day; 26.08 km of
treatment plant of 6,500     transmission mains; 33.67 of distribution
m3/day; 14 km of             pipelines; and reservoirs of total capacity
transmission; and 75 km of   of 4,250 m3.
distribution network.
1.4 Kaduna and Zaria cities               No new works planned.        As planned
Improvement in supply due
to institutional development
under project.
2. Rural water Supply
2.1 Reorganize the rural water supply sector  Reorganize the rural water  Implemented in accordance with state
supply sector in accordance  policy on rural water supply
with national strategy being  (responsibility transferred to Ministry of
developed by FMWR.           Water Resources and Rural Development)
2.2 Limited rehabilitation of some rural  Small amount of work to      15 diesel generator and submersible
water supplies                            improve rural water supply   pumps; 6 solar panels and submersible
after re-organization.       pumps and 145 hand pumps supplied.
Installation contracts in local currency
(financed by state government) not
awarded prior to Credit closure.
3. Operational Equipment
3.1 Supply of maintenance vehicles, tools,  Operational equipment;     Motor vehicles and cycles; computer
operational equipment, and water meters   tools; vehicles, laboratory  hardware; bulk water meters and 13,500
equipment, library books,    consumer meters; laboratory equipment;
consumer meters, meter       hydro-met equipment; 2 water tankers and
workshop, spares as          2 x 10 ton trucks; and house connection
established under the        pipes and finings supplied.
operations efficiency study.
4. Institutional and Financial
Strengthening
4.1 Improvement of accounting billing and  12 man months.              Provided as planned
management information reporting
including computerization and a program of
metering of consumers.
- 27 -



4.2 Urban tariff study including          16 man months                As planned. Study provided the basis for
recommendation for standpipe users.                                    requesting tariff revisions.
4.3 Improvement of the State water 3oard's  3 year period of support (65  As planned but the results of the review  Contract of the efficiency
operation and maintenance practices       man-months)                  were not fully implemented because of   consultants was terminated due
including review of the technical aspects of                           funding constraints.                    to disagreement on method of
operations to reduce costs, minimize                                                                           implementation of review and
unaccounted for water, and assistance to                                                                       use of 60% of available
implement review results.                                                                                      resources on investigation and
review pnor to implementation.
4.4 Promotion and hygiene education       6 months of planning and     Study was carried out but implementation
activities to improve awareness of the    promotion work with 3        was constrained by lack of funding.
communities of their obligation and benefits  months of intemational
regarding public water supply.            consultant assistance
4.5 Reorganization of rural water supply  14 months of consultant's    Support provided for policy development  Rural water supply component
sector                                    support                      and some upstream activities.           was not completed before
closing date of Credit
4.6 Updating of water resources master plan  17 months of consultancy  As planned. Useful in providing
including socio-economic studies.         work                         background information for subsequent
PSP studies.
4.7 Development of plans for sullage      9 months of consultants      Environmental sanitation unit was assisted
disposal, drainage and sanitation         services                     by local consultants to prepare the
guidelines and plans for sanitation.
4.8 Construction supervision              990 man-months of            As planned. Inputs exceeded and period
consultants services         extended due to delay in completion of
urban water supply systems.
C. FEDERAL COMPONENT                      Preparation of studies for   Studies were carried out on PSP options
other states in Nigeria.     and development of strategy for the
national small towns water supply and
sanitation program.
- 28 -



Additional Annex 9. Implementation Schedule -- Actual vs Targeted
Katsina
S/N   Project Component                     Commencemen (month/year)      Completion (mon h/year)
SAR Estimate    Actual        SAR Estimate      Actual
I.    Katsina town completion of distribution  Jan. 1993   Aug. 1995      Jun. 1995        Nov. 1998
2.    Malumfashi dam remedial work         Jan. 1993       Jan. 1997      Dec. 1994         Jun. 1998
3.    Malumfashi TIP rehabilitation                        Feb. 1999      --                Sept. 2000
4.    Funtua new system                     Jan. 1994      Nov. 1995     Jul. 1997          Nov. 1999
5.    Daura expansion                      Jul. 1993       Sept. 1995     Dec. 1994         Nov. 1998
6.    Rural water rehabilitation           Oct. 1994       Jan. 1995     Jun. 1996         Jul 2000
7.    Supply of operational equipment       Oct. 1993      Apr. 1997      Jun. 1995        Jul. 2000'
8.    Metering and leak detection2         Jan. 1993       Jul 1999       Dec. 1995        Jan. 2000
Technical Assistance                _
9.    Improvement of operations            Jul. 1992       Jan. 1993      March 1996        Jul. 1996
10.   Improvement of accounting, etc.      Jan. 1993       Feb. 1995      Dec. 1993        Jul. 1995
11.   Tariff study                         Jan. 1993       Nov. 1995      Oct. 1993        Jul. 1996
12.   Public relations program             Jul. 1993                      March 1994
13.   Rural water supply re-organization   March 1993      Jun. 1994      Oct. 1996        Sept. 1999
14.   Water resources master-plan          Jan. 1994       Feb. 1999      Dec. 1994        Sept. 2000
15.   Sanitation and drainage plan         Jul. 1993       March 1996     Dec. 1994        Dec. 1996
16.   Design studies'                      Jan. 1995                      Dec. 1996
17.   Training                             Jan. 1993       Jun. 1995      July 1998        Dec. 1999
Project management & supervision
18.   Proiect management                   Jan. 1992       Jan 1992       Jul. 1999        Sept. 2000
19. 1 Construction supervision             Jul. 1992       Jan. 1993      Dec. 1997        Sept. 2000
Supply of goods for RWS rehabilitation
Leak detection and repair contract in Daura.
3 Refers to the Federal component.
Kaduna
S/N    Promect Component                 Commencement month/vear)          Completion (mon h/year)
SAR Estimate     Actual           SAR Estimate       Actual
1.     Ikara system completion           Jan. 1993         Nov. 1994       Jun. 1995          May 1996
2.     Kwoi new system                    Jun 1993         Jan. 1997       Jun. 1996          Aug. 1999
3.     Zonkwa new system                 Jun. 1993         Sept. 1995      Jun. 1996          May 1997
4.     Rural water rehabilitation         Oct. 1994        Nov. 1998       Jun. 1996          Sept. 2000'
5.     Supply of operational equipment   Oct. 1993         Aug. 1996       Jun. 1995          Dec. 1998
6.     Metering and leak detection       Jan. 1993         Jul. 2000       Dec. 1995          Jan. 2001'
Technical Assistance
7.     Improvement of operations         Jul. 1992         Sept 1995       March 1996         Jun. 1998
8.     Improvement of accounting, etc.   Jan. 1993         Mar. 1995       Dec. 1993          Jul. 1995
9.     Tariff study                      Jan. 1993         Nov. 1995       Oct. 1993          Apr. 1996
10.    Public relations program          Jul. 1993         Jan. 1994       March 1994         Dec. 1999
11.    Rural water supply re-            March 1993        Jun. 1997       Oct. 1996          Dec. 1999
orranization
12.    Water resources master-plan       Jan. 1994         Oct. 1995       Dec. 1994          May 1997
13.    Sanitation and drainage plan      Jul. 1993         Jun. 1996       Dec. 1994          Feb. 1998
14.    Design studies'                   Jan. 1995                         Dec. 1996
15.    Training                          Jan. 1993         Sept 1993       July 1998          Oct. 1999
Project management &
__ _ _ sup ervision                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
16.    Project management                Jan. 1992         Feb. 1993       Jul. 1999          Sept. 2000
17.  1Construction supervision           Jl192Feb. 1 9 93                 Dec. 1997          Dec. 1 99 9
Procurement of goods only
Installation of consumer meters only
Refers to the Federal component.
- 29 -



Additional Annex 10. Financial Indicators
0%  50u            ow.           1~~            ~~~~~~~~                                       ~~~m o.  104  sm
F4 n           2D3%           05            12f%           IO%             10%             10%            10%             70%
A..,_5)~T_ In,S     2506    1439   3777   0677 I 5       269    773A    3e9s    9246   704     10304   7106   12273   7360    135 M   7 %
T.r_ h.l--N    N                   4%s           36%             36%            2D%            12%             10%             10%
7_Em.640)%                        236             34%           23%             9%              1%             f%              0%
Vd- d V   _& P.&0   13,113  05,0%  A475   0027   17.364  4ST    10,03   10613  24083   00,sM  3672     1590    3D675  1A30    3322    15,7
10-md9._(S          42%     3%     36%    23%     34%   236      30%   23%      27%     27%     25%    19%     24%     1%m     26%     2D%
04*wE_"3337         7,9    11.182  6,43  122M    11.3   11.151  027(   12.0    17,37   1Z2.7   21,62   120=   23,21  13Z0    25i59   I.75
03wSw0(40m          19.196  1MM3  33,33  23,41   64,367  31.75  GM3    44,061  109336  3 9644  2XX43    17(02  23636  9100    3005     4,60
9*0Q04.             (3,071)  0    (4004)   0     (7.74)  (46T)  PAM    (0%3   (1M2)    (00)    W24(    500D7  (26,490)  Pm4)  (340%  (4394)
Ndfs                10.024  16.06  3AM5  23,401  50019  312     1 36437  42.03  W404   W423  27D245    39M0   25A044  0775    M3U4    367,4
Co..f4               364     "     Ea3     36     10S     136   10.04    4      Z742   37      3,750    447    461C     166   5,757    165
CR01. 3              275    316    470    000     M0    600     1.410  20       Z336   13,s6   3,t12    224    4,3    15212   4AG2     7.106
T.oR-_              06.723  10.04  2373M  21.427  5AM  35367    9010    43.117  10S091  150767  W7M1   WM eX710  236312  1sx074  313  07.0
Sk_ s1b   -                31,043         36.0%         44,33           6t23           7Z460          "1XM4           270.71          36,42
T0   ,1,     ,      10,13  40.0   20700   5AS3   00W    70.46   95     MO"1    101,    1XW.16    27.A0        2M1 42  301,3   3Y      133,3
s0  md4VA           70M    5,0     s.7a2  0.13     3     0074   10,61o09 0475O  MM%    0420     3.36   067    04.4A6  25154   0500    ssc2
Ch.*&               0,40   20.33   272D   25379  23421  nm      23403  4s3A0   41.13   63276   64.433  40.37   94,000  6344   76.x    67234
P   043  4336  6,310  5,47   1I=3    t.m    020    11,13   0004    21.1 D  2a04    2        ,37    3Z430      4   3S624
w.k,-.a&4_%*        4274   4221    SA73  7I=     6*37   tC4X    6*13    M6M%   0104    220%    00ss   1050%    02W    43,41   14.M    GM3
A&,49W*. E    . 29 .        3,165  2674   3S13   30%     soss   3,360  S0      3,040   12.74   4DS     010119  4.4%   15,7     4A6    MM37
fd     C7r ote 0             61            720     0     336     0      27       0      510      0     00       0      SM40     0     4373
T     dWCi.4E       3604   44*6   4&M00  W407    363    47      G41W3  t9XOSt  MAN    IS01t   10I0    130J0    1274   0r0     14Y     143.
op.*,0       4D6   (035I   37*1) 114%    PV14     MA    (71)     .     (6I*    0      (04.5)  536OS   (400%   1A07    (190    170.    50%
Cn                (00      3A0  P(0.31) P.      (1U346  PAM0  p        (4        7    MM) P2,DM        76     MA)    O3."   (41,44)  (6W 775T)
Op*6ck-frp         PS0    (   0   P(366  P(0     RI.P   (410%   MO     (40     504     PM"     36174  (413t) 77,m    (174.01  1630   0100,06)
h36l                751)    a     ((4)     3    75)       o    (6        * 0  (55401)   a     (51275    0     (1546) (0A,611) (0310   M2
VUP4946.....       (30*33"1  1 ) (354  (5006  PO"  PUP  (40A%  75275   )0.     75797)  (  6   (       (77     (000%   04M7    75      4W"3
CohF1emC0%*.       (10.360) (37*31) (1426  P0    0      (      27/r0)  7  (64  0.A0    (040)  13610    00       00      V     170.7M  (MU
aSs.     Pftk        0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0      60%      0     9,3 0
0400.,63.436*       386     0      ,92     0     296D07   0    67        0     035420    0    125103    0     1034   0S911 131,3     10904
94367_    O_(44904 6  1    C(JTJM64  (5701  (A"%  7575  (50  (5775  (0  (50.041) p(,774  (4.41)  (07  F4        62   (0.13406  370   (0*5
_.0.04 0644 060654  46%     37%    0S%    4K%    1*%     4       44%    41%    175%     71%    16%     0        1      0       250%  W  %
0....        .o     4t%    37%     0%     4%      4%     4t%    79%     4;%     40%     n%      3%      G7%    130%     t%     1t4%    2%
RPJ_9D      ft*     46%    13%     ff%    5%%    16%     112%   I4%     17%    577%    I17%    114%    151%    343%    27N%    256%    4%
RP      A    d-Mb.A  41%   54%     n%     1I0%    0%     12%    70%     Wm      WY,    117%     n%     rM%     13%     31%    154%     37%
C4,.V"       ,      0.05     0     02A 1.5       s0     2l4     127     LIZ     1.73    43      1t0     332    2,0     34      X70     426
Pv_m3_6344          0,31   0,20    0.04   am      Om  32.7      0.1     an      17      00      637     1m     0s      213    1S 2M
A  00469*6y    0u4   0    44Wd N12.f40404 m/ad  75,4%   004  004wd 9750040
-30 -



FIRST MULTISTATE WA4TE6 SUPPLY PROJECT
Kaetr Stat Wa.terBor
Porotns-     Idiatr- Ioo       and CeabSo
1992                     199                     1904M                  1999                    999                    1997                   1999                     199
Budget       Actua       Budget       Actua      B    .     Atua        Budget      Actua       Budge       Aa          Bdet S     A-tua      Budge        Actua       Bude        Ac..al
MM.938 w20%                                            15%                    12 5%                  10%                     ID%                     10%                    10%                     10%
OAr-gelSaleTuKflt(           1 790        370~9       2 779       3 765      3 594       5.750      41579       6377        5 569       6606        6 315      7 483       744         97899       9164        13 367
75711 i-ces   N-Nmi4 I%                               55%          20%        29%        53%         27%         11%         20%         8%          15%        9%          18%         11%         ID%         37%
T-rY reo-e    Real (%)                                35%          4%         15%        36%         itS        I1%          9%          -2%         4%         -1%         7%          19%          0%         24%
47e Wl5o  P-U48ct       74,227       55,090       Ko,m9       65384      60,042      63.747     84,237      69.964      65.636      70.253      47,638     13,697      94740       486964      95.274      72.243
0n88%779l473a4r%)            41%          49%         44%          49%        35%        47%         30%         61%         25%         44%         25%        35%         25%         34%         25%         42%
Wale, Sur, )m3 040)         44,765       28.,230     51.B30      33.755      59,480     33,771      59,130      33,600      64313       42.151     66,912      42,953     71,246       32,354      77,650      42.030
Wolt 9049, (N.ro 0033       79,073       88,44       744,039     122.086     199380     1940lOt     270,734    215,549     354,297      269,35a    435,200    358,826     530,106     074,733      546,443     501 604
B.d 0D07 Eueue             (12,652)      (14,7306)  (20,165)     (14.279)   (23.927)    (03018g)   (27.074)    (16.796)    (35,429)    (25,586)    (43.524)   (22,810)    (53.071)    (21.009)    (58,640)    (54,477)
Nu uSulo SUe                6042t        74,742      720,920     113 806     175,463    767,713    2430605     199,603     319,88      269.773     381,680    338,018     477,386     245.704      527,713     50(8,827
Cuctct to-                   669          240         1,253        276        1 735       248       2,350        671        3.093        726        3,767      2,060       4.613       3,615        5,103      13 138
Ccw4oc.c.364                               688         435        8050        470        7,207       77194      70,011       1.562       7.65       7,919      6469        2,337       17,791       2,34       32 879
cTaUl Ra-   -le             67.456       75.910      125.758     107 630     179.077    775,216    247 216     209.485     223,503     209,151     397.386    344,576     484,095     339,730      535.451     552,063
S..b Sutcrd
W777d877B  73 flttd          4.75        66.354      38,70        65.129     t6.965     37,541        0        167.174        0         127.8103      0        67641,4       0         36,975        0          5.793
304717734                   57,854       19.226      41,647       34.630     16,965        0                      0                     31.020                   0                       0                       0
RuaIWtleSupply               2,401        17502       2,947       1530          0          0                      8                       4                      0                       0                        0
Ele79dly                     4,04M        7 443         0         2 590         0       11,747                  7,981                    59800                  5,20                    5,207                     0
TOto .0cr,r              115.704      94.580       63,299     103,946      37,730     69,326        0        176,056        0        164,623       8        733D44        0         42.116         0         5,753
7454 Ravcos54,ns,    6      19319        179,49      2N09,62     22.5.92     215,807    209.849     247.219    3B4,94      499,999      432,774    597,399     417,626    404.045      994,996     599,491     556,636
So4Io u- Wage               13,778       75,434      15,154       23 079     17.05      27.069      76755       28.522      20.630      29,730      22,692     314405      24,962      35,707      27,454      05397
CI-,s,-o                    25,273       37667       23.777       496875     37.463     44,269      44,814      72.942      4S,644      91,492      53,726     105,448     81,734      44,941      67 583      73 463
Poo                         21,724       74 897      26,978       26.538     32,224     41,656      35.083      72.978      38.236      94.841      49,764     194863      52.525      115.364     54,102      154.65
S4607870 MaIenu        6,765        77,446      9.169       6,873       4,649      10.451      11.145     17,061      12.972      25,764      14,948      30.40a     17.772       46,992      75 630      55,550
04n66o .tOpanse        4 951       6,727        5,864      73,403       0,406     15,048       7.044      25,473      7,751       07 98       8 526      38,60       9,376       49.903      10.376      41.287
7(n73W1874 3587905             -          (804)         .         1296          .        (4100)        .        (WM5)         .         (7095)        0        14702         0          WM3          0          0537
Tutu Ca. IuoNoe-            71,891       91,297       1,767      129.8170    192,806    135,511     112.943    29.244       129993     266729      148,96      525,739    169,141      356,351     183,304     300,811
& itS                      151,275       89,293      117,346     164,712    112,999     111,6359   934,72      164294      197.979     199.864     251.3981    61,68S     389,909      43.499      352.147     149,2`25
DWre- t7(23.690)                        (43.55)     129,6151    (39,913)   (39,6765    1649791   141,999)    (199.29)     91.974)    (145,491)   179,162)   (895,496)   178,860)    (136,099)   (79,426)     199)
Opron   ftI 59397            7.5999      53.668      97,879      68.799      79,223     56,459      92,313      (1.003)    135,499       649       173236     (64.619)    2490,944     (87,995)    272,721     13.059
Ir-cet                     (50,979)      (96.39)     (72Z752)    )69,29)    (94.19)     (S7,991)   (125.442)  (117,J74)    (169,680)   (127,8131  1152.6421   (43.84)     (19.368)     (39,671)   (t95,446)    (5,794)
.tI 1-73-14                 96,616      (12,691)     14,927       9,670      (17.911)   (1.199)    )33.99(    )169.177(    (14.1041    (127.1810  29.689     (192466)     96,654     (129,976)    137,275      7,366
CusO F-3, Oporac4          111,215       69.293      117.345     164,712    112.999     511,035    199.372     18424       1473,70     186,99      251.348     81.899     919,86       42,405      3552,47     1u9.725
eOSer.73- P,,ndp          83,305      126,579     121,68       132629     t28,9Q     73.928       N 13598    497697      143.154     327,479     151,773    23596       744M252     500379       1777011     438719
Ocl  tlc  (ntr-s         54,979        68354       73 752      85.120      94,134     57,541     129,442     157.174     549600      127,94      153.5412    67.94      74,50        5,975       735,406      5,703
Intrna Coch G-t,rao         1270279)    (194.196)   (77,079)     (5.45)     (168,924)  )86,364(    1128,929)  (896,697)    194.28)     (289,827)   (52,9271   (231,659)    1,292      (554,769)    97,560     (322,794)
Racuaort 9495 cotae          4%           93%         137%        181%        179%       131%       219%         96%        254%         161%       272%       1In%        293%         190%        252%1       135%
RoccroenDob.   uur9          55%          51%         76%          65%        90%        92%        1I"%         54%         117%        99%        133%        00%        14%          91%         169%        133%
Ressrcuet c-v,9d147 ab       255%         216%        228%        197%        210%       183%       219%        979%        250%        162%        272%        128%       295%         112%        292%        137%
Rocu-dbtc-uv,elt aub         149%         115%        127%        121%        116%       126%       1"%          99%        117%         116%       133%        165%       154%         101%        5001%       135%
Ct,u4ca(e Volum   e   r 0.3    4          9,67        69           ,T6        6,94       SB6         0.18        1.55        9.53        1.39        0,56       1.43        9.64        0,94         5,71        7,82
Powtr ,3 prttcd-             629          8.37        0,3         0.48        028        9.69        0.42        8.05        6.46        1.41        9.55       1.42        0.54        2.39         9,91        2,20
I Thu On-1ta II.ctt -r 57a07c     ot   oldI-ioa 6WmrSta sropc               year
2 6e4 901epnttrc be         sontd*7 65780         -ot    hi -MU  018 -or  b--tsstn
3Thyar16ws8,04997807(0378481.ttcbeoleIt9938444ut00                                          Oa
-31 -



Additional Annex 11. List of Studies
S/N        Studies                    Purpose as Defined at        Status           Impact of Study
Appraisal
Kaduna
State-wide water resources  To update information and   completed        Recommended prioritization
master-plan                recommendation in 1979                        of schemes for development
master-plan documents; and to                 accepted by state
provide a framework for water                 govemment.
resources development in the
next 25 years.
2.         Preparation of plans for   To plan to reduce the        completed        State officials were
sullage disposal,          possible adverse                              trained in the
drainage and sanitation    environmental effects caused                  preparation of sanitation
in project towns           by water brought into project                 & drainage plans;
towns                                         implementation of plans
is pending state
government allocating
resources to it.
3.         Health impact study        To propose ways to minimize  completed.       Not used because
the risk of increasing malaria                alternative raw water
and bilharzia and other risk                  sources were found and
diseases from construction of                 the dams were not
a dam in Zonkwa and Kwoi                      constructed as planned.
4.         Urban tariff study         To develop an urban tariff   completed        KDWB adopted the
structure that would allow                    tariff structure
Kaduna State Water Board                      recommended by the
meet its financial                            study.
requirement.
5.         Private sector             N/A                          completed        Follow-on studies
participation options                                                    recommended are being
study                                                                    implemented by KDWB
with financing from a
PPIAF grant.
Katsina
6.         State-wide water           To update information and    completed        Final document to be
resources master-plan      recommendation in 1973 and                    disseminated among the
1979 master-plan documents;                   Water Board and
and to provide a framework                    relevant state officials.
for water resources
development in the next 20
years.
7.         Preparation of plans for   To plan to reduce the        completed        State officials were
sullage disposal,          possible adverse                              trained in the
drainage and sanitation    environmental effects caused                  preparation of sanitation
in project towns           by water brought into project                 & drainage plans;
towns.                                        implementation of plans
is pending state
government allocation of
resources to it.
8.         Health impact study        To propose ways to minimize  completed        Some of the
the risk of increasing malaria                recommendations
and bilbarzia and other risk                  incorporated in the
diseases (such as diarrhea,                    design of the Funtua
yellow fever, and guinea                       dam.
worm) from construction of a
dam in Funtua.
9.         UTban taniff study         To develop an urban tariff   completed    Accepted by the Board
- 32 -



structure that would allow                   and formed basis of
Katsina State Water Board                   tariff increase proposal
meet its financial                           submitted to state
requirement.                                 govemment.
10.       Private sector            N/A                         completed        Study report accepted by
participation options                                                  KTWB but not yet
study                                                                  implemented.
Federal
11.       PSP Options Study         To develop strategies for    completed       Formed the basis for
introducing PSP in other                    further detailed studies
states
12.       Situation Analysis and    To develop a strategy        completed       Further studies were
Development of Policy     framework for small towns                    carried out leading to the
Framework for Small       water supply and sanitation                  preparation of a national
Towns                                                                  Small Towns WS&S
Program and a LIL, and
attracting other donor
support.
13.       Survey of selected Small                              completed
Towns and Willingness
to Pay
14.       Development of                                        completed
Implementation
Guidelines Manual
15.       Small Towns Water                                     completed
Supply Program Phase 4
Development
Note: In addtion, several detailed technical studies were camed out under the technical assistance program.
- 33 -



Additional Annex 11.
- 34 -



