Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5625-UNI Type: (PM)
HENLEY, DA/ X34854 / J6049/ AF4IN
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 74.7 MILLION
TO
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
FIRST MULTISTATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MAY 5, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(March 1992)
Currency Unit        =        Naira (N) = 100 Kobo (k)
US$1                 =        N18.0
Naira (N)            =        US$0.056
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (k:n)             0.62 miles
I meter (m)          =        3.28 feet
25.4 millimeters (mm) =       1 inch
1 cubic meter (m3)    =       264 US gallons
=        220 imperial gallons
=        1000 liters
3.8 liters (1)       =        1 US gallon
4.5 Iiters (I)       =        I Imperial gallon
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP          -      Agricultural Development Project
DWSQC        -      Department of Water Supply and Quality Control
ERR          -      Economic Rate of Return
FCT          -      Federal Capital Territory
FGN          -      Federal Government of Nigeria
FMF&ED       -      Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
FMWR         -      Federal Ministry of Water Resources
KDSWB        -      Kaduna State Water Board
KTSWB        -      Katsina State Water Board
lcd          -      liters per capita per day
LGA          -      Local Government Authority
ML           -      million liters
MLD          -      million liters per day
NEPA         -      National Electric Power Authority
NTCWR        -      National Technical Committee on Water Resources
NWRP         -      National Water Rehabilitation Project
NWRI         -      National Water Resources Institute
RBDA         -      River Basin Development Authority
SOE          -      Statement of Expenditures
SWA          -      State Water Authority
SWB          -      State Water Board
UFW          -      unaccounted-for water
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ................................  i
PART I. COUNTRY POICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ... 1
A. Background  ..............              .........................   1
B. Assessment of Economic Performance under the Structural
AdjustmentProgram ..................................  2
C.  PoliticalTransition ..........           .........................   4
D. Central Development Issues .............................  5
E.  Crmposition of Past Lending  ............................   8
F.  Country Assistance Strategy and Priorities ....................  8
G. IFC Activities .............             .........................  11
H. Rela¢ionswiththeIMF  ................................  11
1.  Aid Coordination ...........            .........................  11
J.  Summary Assessment .................................  12
PART H. THE PROPOSED CRED1T                ..............        ..................  13
=TABLES
1.  Nigeria- Key Economic and Fiscal Data ...........................   5
ANX
1.  Economic Indicators .      .......................................  18
SCHEDULES
A. Estimated Costs and Financing Plan .............................. 21
B. Procurement Method and Disbursements ........................... 22
C. Timetable of Key Project Processing Events ......................... 23
D. The Status of Bank Group Operations in Nigeria ...................... 24
IBRD 23242R
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performancm
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wotld Bank authorization.



DF:RAL REPUBILC OF NIGERIA
FST MULTISTATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Federal Government of Nigeria.
BDeneficiaries:            Katina State Water Board, Kaduna State
Water Board, and Federal Ministry of Water Resources.
Amnt:                      SDR 74.7 millioa (US$101.0 million equivalent).
Tenns:                     Standard IDA tems with 35 years maturity.
Relendin8 Terms:           From FGN to the States for twenty years including 5 years of
grace at the IBRD variable interest rate, and from the States to
the Water Boards for twenty five years including 6 years of
grace at 15% interest. The States would bear the foreign
exchange risk. A total of US$'.7 million would be passed to the
Water Boards as equity to finance technical assistance and rural
water supply. US$2 million will be retained by the Federd
Government to assist other states in project preparation.
Lal       Foreign     Total
==== tUS$ million
IDA                     0.0       101.0       101.0
Katsina State           14.5        0.0        14.5
Kaduna State            12 7_0.0               12.7
Total                             J ,
Rat  fRtr.                 9.8%
Staff AXraisal ReUo=:      Report No. 9872-UNM
IBRD No. 23242R



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF MGERIA
OR TIRE ERST MULTISIATE WATER SUlPLY PJEQJCT
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for SDR 74.7 million, the equivalent of
US$101 million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years to help finance the First
Multistate Water Supply Project. The project would help meet basic needs and promote
economic development by improving quantity and reliability of water supply to larger towns and
settlements in the two participating states and support the commercialization of the water boards.
Part I of the document discusses Nigeria's development problems and prospects, the key priorities
of the economic refotm program at the macroeconomic and sector levels, and the Bank Group's
assistance strategy. Part II of the document describes the proposed Credit.
L. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
2.    This section assesses the evolution of Nigeria's reform efforts since the mid-1980s.
Nigeria's central development issues are discussed against the background of the ongoing
transition to democratic rule. This is followed by a discussion of the status of the Bank's policy
dialogue and country assistince strategy, whicA represents a response to uncertainties associated
with economic management and the need to focus on the implementation of a portfolio
characteized by large undisbursed balances. The section continues with a description of the
criteria for evaluating progress in key policy areas. This is followed by a description of aid
coordination efforts and collaboration with the IMF.
A.    Background
3.    Nigeria is the largest country in sub-Saharan Africa with around 20 percent of the
population. It has vast economic potential, with a wealth of natural resources, a vibrant private
sector, underutilized industrial capacity, a large labor force with a substantial reservoir of skills,
and the potential for food self-sufficiency. Poverty, however, is extensive., Despite the fragility
of democratic rule over the last three decades, Nigeria either has or is developing many of the
elements of a civil society: robust professional associations; an inquisitive press; a cultural
*           commitment to freedom; a competent bench and bar; and decentralization in decision-making.
The absence of other key parts until now-free and %air elections, accountability, effective
government-reflects widespread adverse incentives that only structural change can remedy. The
underlying realities of Nigeria's political economy, where ninety percent of foreign exchange
revenue is derived from oil and shared among the three levels of government in an effort to
balance often conflicting ethnic and regional interests across the Federation, have a major impact
on the formulation of economic policies-with at times inconsistent outc'r;nes.
4.    The oil boom of the 1970s provided the Government with the basis for a massive increase
in public investments, most of which were undertaken without sufficient attention to their
economic viability. Despite this investment, there was little growth in per capita consumption,
which today stands at a level similar to that in 1970-before the oil boom. The rapid growth of



-2 -
the public sector exacerbated the distortionary impact of the oil boom on relative prices and
undermined the country's non-oil productive base. When the initial decline in the oil market
translatea into serious macroeconomic imbalances in the early 1980s, the Government's
development strategy unmlled and the economy's structural weaknesses, otscured by temporary
oil windfalls, became fully apparent. Nigeria was faced with a legacy of sustained agricultural
decline, an uncompetitive, import-dependent manufacturing sector, an overvalued exchange rate,
and a cumbersome regulatory framework. The principal challenge that Nigerian policy makers
had to address was to reverse these economic distortions against the background of a decline in
per capita incomes which was triggered in the early 1980s by a precipitous fall in the terms of
trade. The Government's initial response to the deepening crisis was to accumulate sizable trade
arreas and to increase its borrowing abroad. In late 1983, the military replaced the civilian
government in an attempt to assert control over the economy. Fiscal austerity was imposed,
characterized by across the board budgetary cuts, and administrative coni-ol over imports.
Although there was some reduction in fiscal and external deficits, the crude austerity measures
imposed a heavy economic toll, and quickly proved to be politically unsustainable.
B.    Assessment of Economic Perfbrmance under the Structural Adjustment Progam
S.    On coming to power in mid-1985, the Babangida Government declared its intention to
move from "austerity alone to austerity with structural adjustment" and to seek support from the
intemational financial community for its program. With a further collapse in oil prices adding
to thie urgency of reform, in 1986 the Government adopted a far-reaching program to reverse the
deterioration in the economic environment. In parallel, the President announced a multi-year
transition program for a return to civilian rule. The Structural Adjustment Program (SAP)
combined exchange rate and trade policy reforms aimed at promoting the competitiveness of the
non-oil economy with stabilization policies designed to restore fiscal and balance of payments
equilibrium and price stability. Emphasis was placed on downsizing the public sector and
improving the efficiency of public asset management. With respect to incentive reforms, the
Government abolished import licenses, eliminated agricultural marketing boards, lifted most price
controls, and initiated the deregulation of the banking system. The World Bank played a leading
role in supporting the SAP with two adjustment loans in 1986 and 1988. Although domestic
opposition prevented the Government from drawing on its IMF-quota, the Fund endorsed the
program through three stand-by arrangements.
6.    The centerpiece of the SAP was the introduction of a market-determined exchange rate
system. The foreigp exchange auction system facilitated a 70 percent depreciation in the real
effective exchange i4te. Other reforms, such as the creation of domiciliary accounts, abolition
of surrender requirements, and the licensing of bureaux de change improved incentives for the
repatriation of foreign exchange receipts from private non-oil activities. Under the SAP, Nigeria
has seen evidence of a growth in formal and informal non-traditional exports, and witnessed a
recovery in the real sector, particularly in agriculture and intermediate manufacturing. This has
been associated with a realignment in the structure of consumption and production to be more
consistent with Nigeria's factor endowments. Notably in manufacturing, some of the earlier anti-
export bias has disappeared, and producers have switched from imported to local inputs. The
textile industry in Nigeria, for instance, which was highly dependent on imports of raw cotton,
now mostly uses domestic cotton despite a big increase in demand. Following a shift in relative
prices in favor of the rural sector, agricultural growth has rebounded at an average rate of 5
percent per annum since 1987. Cocec production, like cotton and other export crops, had almost
come to a halt due to an overvalued exchange rate, the monopoly of marketing boards and
unremunerative producer prices. Compared to 1985, cocoa production, in volume terms, has



-3 -
increased by 144 percent. Food production has shown a similar upswing, thereby contributing
towards cutting Nigeria's food import bill to one fifth of its 1986 level.
7.    A number of actions bave been taken to encourage an expanded and more efficient private
sector. The regulatory environment for private investment has been simplified, limitations on
foreign investment have been reduced, and a debt equity conversion program has been
introduced. As of end-1991, more than 70 of the 110 public enterprises targeted for privatization
had been sold to private shareholders in one of Africa's most extersive privatization programs.
8.    An important start has been made on much needed financial sector and monetary policy
reforms. A major overhaul of banking regulation has been effected, and stricter supervision and
provisioning requirements were introduced in a new Banking Act. The Central Bank and the
recently established National Deposit Insurance Corporation have begun to address the difficult
task of restructuring those banks that suffer from an overhang of non-performing loans. Initial
progress on interest rate deregulation was reversed, howxever, when controls on interest rates and
spreads were re-introduced in early 1991. Ihe recent lifting of these caps now makes it possible
for the authorities to move towards the introduction of indirect monetary controls and the lifting
of credit ceilings.
9.    TMe SAP also included actions to improve public expenditure planing and budgetary
procedures, including the adoption of a rolling plan process. However, these reforms did not
adequately deal with deep-rooted problems in public expenditure management which have
undermined the Government's fiscal stabilization efforts and jeopardized many of the SAP's
achievements. Consequent reversals in the stance on fiscal policy, compounded by unsatisfactory
implementation capacity and persistent political uncertainty, have weakened the sustainability of
the reform process and delayed the expected recovery in private investment. For example, the
resurfacing of large industrial projects and other concessions to special interest groups, evident
in the reflationary budget of 1988, contributed to an increase in the budget deficit to around 11
percent of GDP. The return to tighter fiscal policies in 1989 reduced the federal deficit to 6
percent of GDP. However, stringent actions to tighten monetary policies with a subsequent
contracion of real credit to the private sector was required to bring inflationary pressures under
control.
10.   The failure to resolve the underlying problems in public expenditure management lay
behind the most recent slippage in macroeconomic performance. Increased reliance on off-budget
allocations and continued spending on non-viable investment projects in 1990 led to a severe
erosion of fiscal and monetary discipline. The temporary oil windfall accruing from the Middle
East crisis exacerbated these tendencies. The practice of spending oil revenues through dedication
accounts and other devices outside the purview of statutory budgetary and accounting controls
re-emerged on a large scale. As a result, key performance targets under Nigeria's third Stand-by
arrangement with the Fund were missed and no review could be completed. Instead, the federal
deficit worsened from around 2 percent of GDP in 1990 to nearly 6 percent in 1991, which was
largely attributable to extrabudgetary outlays. At the same time, the Government was unable to
remove price controls on fertilizer and domestic petroleum products, resulting in large implicit
subsidies and videsprea1 fuel shortages due to increased smuggling abroad.
11.   Although the Government managed initially to save much of the foreign exchange
earnings from the oil windfall, the naira counterpart funds were fully spent. Inability to sterilize
the windfall, together with the erosion of fiscal discipline underpinned a rapid growth in the
money supply, which was mirrored in a rapid depreciation of the naira and a steady increase in



-4-
the rate of inflation. Meanwhile, the foreign exchange auction was transformed into a bank-by-
bank allocation system. As the authorities failed to tighten fiscal policies, which alone could have
stemmed the downward silde of the naira, the spread between the official and the parallel market
exchange rates widened from 15 percent at end-1990 to 55 percent at end-1991, before
approaching 90 percent in early 1992. Until the authorities disbanded the foreign ixchange
auction system in March 1992, the implicit subsidy thus passed on to licensed dealers was in
excess of $1 billion for 1990-91 together.
-12.   At the same time, Nigeria's external debt overhang constitutes one of the most important
obstacles standing in the way of long-term economic recovery. The Paris Club provided
continuous cash flow relief over the years, but no concessional debt relief. Until the debt and
debt service reduction (DDSR) agreement in January 1992, which involved a cash buy-back at
a 60 percent discount and a conversion of eligible debt into registered Par Bonds and lowered
Nigeria's commercial bank debt from an estimated $5.3 billion to $2.0 billion, the same was also
true of the London Club. 'ae repeated reschedulings kept average debt service payments to
around 28 percent of exports, but, in the end, contributed to a significant increase in the debt
stock from around $17 billion in 1985 to $34 billion in 1991. Accounting for the effect of the
March 1992 devaluation and the DDSR agreement with the London Club creditors, the
DODIGDP ratio stands now at 135 percent. Of this, roughly 60 percent Is owed to Paris Club
creditors, 21 percent to holders of promissory notes and other bilateral creditors, 13 percent to
multilateral institutions, and 6 percent to London Club commercial banks. Even with the
continued build-up of debt stock, Nigeria's r.et resource transfer position has been persistently
negative, averaging around 4.5 percent of GDP per annum between 1986-91 for a cumulative
total of more than $11 billion.
13.   Short-term outlook. The deterioration in economic management in 1990/91 has been
particularly disconcerting because of its coincidence with the final stages of the political
transition. The adverse consequences oi these policy slippages have been widely recognized.
The Government is trying to bring Nigeria's economic house back into order and restore the
impetus behind crucial reforms within the framework of a new stand-by arrangement, currendy
under negotiation with the Fund. The authorities have taken important steps in this direction over
the last three months by liberalizing interest rates and adopting an interbank foreign exchange
system. The latter action brought about a 70 percent devaluation of the naira and an
instantaneous unification of the official and bureau de change markets.
14.   For these renewed stabilization efforts to be effective, they will have to be accompanied
by a reduction in inefficient subsidies and cuts in fiscal spending, notably by eliminating
extrabudgetary expenditures. Inflationary pressures associated with the devaluation, resource
deinands by newly elected State Governments, and high debt service payments will put the
Federal Government under considerable strain in its attempt to implement a very tight program.
However, credible fiscal efforts are of critical importance if Nigeria hopes to re-engage the
international community in supporting economic reforms in the future. The more pessim'stic
price and production outlook for Nigerian crude suggests a tightening of the balance of payments
constraint for 1992. In the absence of direct balance of payments support, Nigeria will have to
adjust to a substantial reduction in real import volumes in 1992. As a result, economic growth
is projected to slow down to around 3 percent in 1992, before gradually recovering to around 5
percent by the mid-1990s (see Table 1).
C.    Political Transition
15.   The transition program to democratic rule, first anmounced by President Babangida in
1986, appears firmly on track for completion by the end of 1992. It involves an ambitious plan



-5-~~~~~~~.
: e~t  tA.r h  t e_                                                    .     .......
oror    ecountry'semergingpolitical culture toward a. syste            44o
Yed4eration  TheI$ eletion  of , loca   and  stat exective  and consttuen assemlie  were$
year. Elections fo6r the National Assmbyillbehe,ol d by 9
16.  Tgotbe transtionprogram has 5 be5n   13.0paie   25 imotn  hne3n  iei'eea
ledtoed* crato of ew st0atswino an8 attemp to . baaceNgei'sdves rgolan .     hi
system, President~    P  Babag kd formalyinaugurated. NK.igei' ne  feerlcaialin.s .i lt
to91 reoisntin theountryos eegreng pymolitca culturetoancds hasstvemyhg ofts Fedrlldeocracy.
Consoiderabelcto expenditresiwere y asscitd wthe the crationmandoinstallationlofathe twoN poiald
peartis,whc are fdrequmiisriedst cmpete forvoernmn dcsuportmatdn ever levfelcndinvery regione tof the
Foederat,n wthe electiong olcaand strsrutraclties ecuiveshotspl and constituen massembinistwries
succlessfully compLeted, int1991andtenewl elecdinteoadimlenaonf governormsumdtereoiint earlytisy
16.e   Thfer transibtiontpogam heays.be  copne  yipratcagsi  iei' eea
syte  ofgvenen    t.a Thelpese changes icesdtersosblt  o oa  oenet o  h
provi esion e ofcerantsca services,  stomrenghensied thefndanca ineenec ofutua  them jdicary andb
leddesd to the rations of nhew ajstatsimatempt pormaeto balnecosldtdaJ Nigeria's diererosph adethni
inteest. A  animpotan sinalof te aminstrtio's cmmimen tocemetin th feera
system, Prsident Babngida forally inaugrated Nigria's new ederal caital In Abja in lat
191.Tisacin,thuh  f ratsybli mprtne,ha  er hg  cst.Foloig h
ongoing elocatio of the residenc and thetop manaement ofthe Cental Bank CBN) an
17.  Despiette rceuntr' efforgts, g compehnivia  ute  towendayse of stucurde~ral remainsacy.b
aosddressed,i thpengainurs ofete adjsoitment progrh areation bedinstallation of thNieria's prospicts



-6-
for long-erm economic growth promoted. One of Nigeria's central development challenges will
be to break the destabilizing cycle of fluctuating oil revenue and expansionary fiscal and monetary
policies and reduce the scope of rent-seeking and rent-creating actions, while, at the same time,
expanding productive opportuaities for the accumulation of wealth *'rough private
entrepreneurship in a competitlve environment. Reforms In oublic eDenditurm ma.ge&    will
need to play a key role towards improving the efficiency of public sector resource use. 7he fiscal
reform program wIll need to encompass the consolidation of the planning, budgeting and
accounting procedures to enhance the, transparency of the whole budget process aLd make
decisions more responsive to economic and socW criteria. Specifically, this will need to involve:
the elimination of extrabudgetary expenditures; transparent management of stabilization accounts;
and integration of a foreign financing strategy into overall project management. Parallel efforts
will have to be directed at the rationalization of the public investment program  incl.zding:
suspension of projects with marginal economic return; re-allocation of public spending towards
priority social and infrastructure needs within the framework of a core investment program; and
instituting non-recourse financing for new commercial projects. The third component of public
sector reforms would involve the phasin -out Of inefficient subsidies, which are neither
economically nor sociallyjustifiable, notably for domestic petroleum products and fertilizer-while
at the same time maintaining 1%e newly achieved unified exchange rate.
18. The promotion of private sector activities will require the creation of a stable incentive
.egim  that restores investor confidence and reflects a qualified reduction in the public setoi's
role in economy. Private provision of services has an important role to play in areas currently
dominated by the public sector, for example road maintenance and utilities. The management
of public assets should be improved by accelerating the privatization of parastatals and contracting
with private operators. Adequate resources for private sector expansion will have to be ensured
by restraining government spending and borrowing which, in turn, will assist in stabilizing
domestic prices. In this context, Nigeria's financial system could become a more effective
conduit for channeling oft revenue to productive uses in the private sector, provided the
authorities take steps to restructure the overhang of non-performing loans and remove remaining
restrictions on credit allocations. In view of Nigeria's exposure to oil price fluctuations, the
authorities should consider the implementation of an effective stabilization mechanism which
would help mitigate the impact of oil-related shocks on the rest of the economy and ensure
greater fiscal and monetary stability. To facilitate the resumption of private investment and lower
the cost of doing business in Nigeria, the public sector's capacity to provide ade
infrastructure facilities and complementary public services would have to be strengthened.
Another area of priority sector reform concerns agriculture. Serious non-price constraints on
food production-including the slow pace of technological change at the farm level, the lack of
market integration due to poor infrastructure, and the neglect of special constraints faced by
women farmers-need to be overcome.
19. A sustainable solution to Nigeria's debt pnroblem has to be found that ensures a
continuation of the economic reforn program and promotes a return of long-term capital to
finance domestic investments. Nigeria's total debt service burden, two thirds of which is due to
official creditors, will remain virtually unchanged between 1992-1997. Medium-term projections
indicate a continuing need for further rescheduling to meet Nigeria's financing requirements.
Even if Nigeria continues to secure consecutive Paris Club agreements on terms granted to highly
indebted lower middle income countries, its annual debt service payments would still be in the
order of $3.6 billion over this period, equivalent to around 28 percent of projected export
revenue. By adding to the stock of debt, however, conventional rescheduling does not provide
Nigeria with a viable option for extricating itself from a growing debt overhang, particularly
since its debt servicing capacity is unlikely to improve over the medium term.



-7 -
20.   One of the nost critical long-term challenges facing the Government will be to implement
an &Mlye  rty  geMv. Although real GDP growth averaged around five percent between
19891, this has not been sufficient to reverse the staggering decline in per capita income to an
estimated $280, down from $1000 in 1980. Real consumption and import levels are now dio
higher than they were in the early 1970s, prior to the onset of the oil boom. Some progress
notwithstanding, basic social and infrastructure indicators place Nigeria among the twenty poorest
countries worldwide: it mortality rates exceed 100 per 1000 live births; half of all childres'
aged 2 to S show signs of persistent malnutrition; and only about two-thirds of the relevant age
group are presendy enrolled in primary schools-4own from 90 percent in *he early 1980s. With
population growth outstripping food availability, Job creation and the provision of basic education
and heath services, there is mounting evidence of worsening social conditions. Women,
particularly in rural areas, face serious disadvantages with respect to human capital development-
as evidenced by poor health care, inadequate nutrition, high fertility, and low literacy-and to
economic opportunities, where lack of access to land, credit, farming inputs, technology, and
support services are important constraints. A major manifestation of the resulting gender-based
low productivity trap is the enormous burden placed on women in terms of time spent on low
output, physically demanding activities such as water sad fuel wood transport, manual crop
processing, and headloading of farm produce, in addition to their responsibilities for household
and family maintenance tasks.
21.   Actions to address poverty in Nigeria thereform require commitment to (i) reallocate
public resources-away from uneconomic projects which have tied up resources urgently needed
in the social sectors, (ii) concentrate on the creation of income-earning opportunities, and (iii)
ensure greater and more equitable access to adequate social services. The recent transfer of
responsibility from the State to the Local Government Authorities for the provision of basic
services, including primary health care and education, signals an important initial step towards
grea  responsiveness to local needs. For this strategy to be sustainahle, it will have to be
accompanied by a fundamental overhaul of public expenditure priorities and a strengthening of
service delivery systems, with a focus on: primary and secondary health care, especially for
mothers; primary and secondary education; nutrition policies aimed at Improving the diets of
children; and expanded access to clean water. This strategy will focus on those most in need-
women and children in the rural areas, where roughly seventy percent of the population live.
Given the central role of agriculture for both employment and nutrition, improving faming
methods and access to inputs will remain a key priority. In the past, women were often excluded
from assistance programs. Through specially trained wonvn extension workers, recently added
to exension programs, women farmers are now receiving direct guidance on farming techniques
and on use and storage of their output. This work is now reaching most States through the
network of agricultural development projects. Enabling women to attain a higher level of
*           productivity provides the basis for improving the lives of the poor.
22. To avert impending threats to Nigeria's long-term sustainability, more attention will have
to be focused on efforts aimed at reducing noplation growth and reversing the current trend of
g       gnll -degadation. Although the recent census results indicate a population about 20
percen less than previously assumed, with an estimated population growth rate near three percent
per annum, Nigeria's resources will be severely strained to provide sufficient food, shelter and
jobs. The recently approved National Population Policy, implementation of which Is supported
by an IDA credit, emphasizes efforts to improve the quality of life, especially of mothers and
infuts, and to increase the spacing of children. In view of the fact that most of the new entrants
into the labor market will seek work in the agricultural sector, the Government is developing
policies to contain deforestation and facilitate the use of Nigeria's limited agricultural resources
in an intensive but sustainable manner under the recety approved Environmental Management
Project.



-e8-
E.    CoMsitin of Past lldin.
23.   Since 1958, Nigeria has received eighty-three IBRD loans totalling $6,056 million and
seven IDA credits totalling $537 million as of March 31, 1992. In view of the country's
worsening social conditions and the sustained decline in per capita income, the Bank restored
Nigeria's status as an IDA eligible country in FY89. Between PY89-91 Bank lending to Nigeria
showed a marked increase, with new annual commitments averaging about US$886 million
compared with around US$428 million in FY86-88, and US$222 million in FY83-85. 'This was
largely in response to the Government's comitment to pursue a far-reaching economic
adjustment program which the Bank supported with two adjustment operations in 1986 and 1988.
Over the last five years, Bank Group operations have fina 4d physical infrastructure (30
percent), agricultural production (16 percent), industrial development (14 percent), and priority
activities in the social sectors (14 percent). Structural adjustment lending accounted for the
remaining 26 percent. In agriculture, an important aim was to strengthen the provision of public
services to private producers, such as technology transfer, irrigation, roads, and soil conservation.
Infrastructure projects focused on facilitating the supply response through rehabilitation of
transport and urban infrastucture, rehabilitation of state water supply systems, and improving
cost recovery and fiscal discipline in infrastructure agencies. Recently approved IDA credits
were focused in the areas of primary education, population policy, and agricultural research. IFC
loans and equity investments since 1964 have amounted to $251 million.
24.   The c    Lent ogotfoloQ comprises 39 projects. Project implementation has traditionally
been very slow in Nigeria. However, the increasing absorption of the administration with the
transition to civilian rule and associated changes in the federal system of government-including
creation of new states, reallocation of responsibilities between the three levels of government, and
a comprehensive reorganization of the ministerial structure coupled with the ongoing relocation
of federal government functions to Abuja-has added to long-standing implementation difficulties.
Thus, inadequate countrpart funding, cumbersome procurement procedures, delays in taking
decisions on critical project iss .A, and logistic and institutional complications have dogged
implementation eefforts in recent years. The average disbursement rate for investment lending has
remained at $200-300 million annually in FY88-89. The increase in new commitments since
FY89 has not been matched by a commensurate rise in disbursements. Consequently, there has
been a large build-up of undisbursed funds in our project portfolio, amounting to $2.6 billion
currently. In response to this situation, comprehensive efforts are underway to shift resources
to implementation.
F.    Country Assistance Strategy and Priorities
25.   The main objective of the Bank Group in Nigeria is to promote equitable and sustainable
growth of income. In the immediate future, the Bank's assistance strategy wIll be tailored to
meet the present realities of a large, slow moving portfolio, the uncertainties created by the
political transition and slippages in economic management, and Nigeria5 lack of creditworthiness.
Accordingly, the Bank's assistance strategy is targeted at improving implementation and
maintaining a modest and tightly focused lending program, while e xpanding economic and sector
work to support a dialogue on key policy and development issues to prepare for a resumption of
a lending program more consistent with Nigeria's size and needs. To help Nigeria find a durable
solution to its economic problems, the strategy will need to include efforts to re-engage the
inteaonal community in supporting sustained economic reform and efficient exploitation of the
county's development potential. The objective of revitalizing support from donors and creditors
underscores the need for a sustained dialogue which bridges the political transiton. The most



-9 -
impotant areas which this dialogue must cover incluide: (i) promoting sound macroeconomic
policies, particularly in the areas of public expenditure and financial sector reform; (ii) incentive
reibrms geared at stimulating private investment, supported by fiscal restraint, more efficient
provisionofcomplementary services (transport, power, and telecommunication), and privatization
of public enterprises; and (iii) preservation of Nigeria's long-term development potential,
particularly humar capital, essential infrastructure, and environment, and poverty alleviation.
26.   Economic and Sector Work. At this juncture in the evoludon in Nigeria's parallel
programs of economic restructuring and political transition, economic and sector work will play
a important role in underpinning a dialogue on the critical policy reforms still needed to reach
the central objectives of the structural adjustment program. Economic and sector work will also
be needed to position the Bank to respond effectively when the conditions for a resumption of
*           higher lending levels materialize. The strategy underlying the proposed ESW is predicated on
two central premises: (i) that Nigeria is faced with deep-seated structural problems that require
sustained attention on policy and institutional issues; and (ii) that the Bank retains a comparative
advantage in policy advice and a leadership role in donor coordination. Recent ESW on public
expenditure management and the financial sector has helped draw the attention of decision makers
in Nigeria to the urgency of addressing major deficiencies in economic management. Studies on
environment, women in development, and food security have placed important issues of long-run
susainability on the agenda. A forthcoming Country Economic Memorandum will provide an
assessment of Nigeria's performance under the SAP and outline the main elements to restore
fiscal stability and deepen structural reforms. This report, which will provide the platform for
discussions with the Government on a longer-term reform program, will be complemented by a
comprehensive Public Expenditure and Sectoral Strategy Review. This review will be a vehicle
for policy dialogue with the incoming Government on appropriate sector strategies, and outlining
public expenditure programs needed to implement them. It will also encompass an assessment
of public finance issues at the state government level, a critical step to support the Bank's
operational orientation under a civilian administration. Other policy studies will focus on (i) the
promotion of private sector activities; (ii) poverty assessment; and (iii) the implementation of
appropriate stabilization and risk management policies to mitigate the impact of oil price shocks.
27.   Portfolio Implementation.  High priority is being attached to improving project
implementation. Several measures have already been taken. A recently installed departmental
implementation task force is conducting an in-depth review of the portfolio. Drawing on these
efforts, the S3ank and the Government are currently engaged in a comprehensive restructuring of
the Nigerian loan portfolio, including selective cancellation of non-performing loan components,
and restructuring of potentially viable, but slow disbursing projects. The Resident Mission in
Lagos has been given an increased responsibility for implementation, and its capacity in this
regard will be strengthened through the posting of a procurement specialist to the field. The
organization of sectoral donor meetings in Lagos, planned for later this year, should improve aid
coordination in the social and infrastructure sectors, and help focus attention on common
*  implemention problems. State-by-state implementation reviews are planned, and many of the
newly elected governors have shown considerable eagerness to remove administrative and funding
bottlenecks. In parallel, the Bank will aim to make new projects simpler, and inject greater
sensitivity to the implementation constraints at the design stage. These efforts, together with the
anticipated reduction in lending over the next two years, should translan into a significant
reduction in Nigeria's undisbursed balance over the medium term.
28.   Lending Pro&rm. The sizt and rate of disbursement of the current portfolio, coupled
with the uncertainties regarding the future direction of economic policy, suggest that it would be
prudent to maintain new commitments at modest levels over the next two years, while
maintaining a work program which will facilitate a return to a higher level of lending, more



- 10-
consistent with Nigeria's size and development needs, when conditions are appropriate. The
Bank's lending progam over the near term will comprise about five to six projects, totalling
US$400 million a year. Given Nigeria's status among the poorest countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa, and the country's very limited access to concessional financing, IlDA support will be
maintained throughout this period. As has been the case since Nigeria was declared IDA-eligible
in 1988, IDA resources will address poverty alleviation and long-term issues of sustainability.
29.   The proposed lending program will comprise: (i) projects in basic infrastructure (roads
and water supply) and operations to support the Government's program to privatize and
commercialize public utilities (e.g., electricity, railways, telecommunications); and (ii) projects
in education, health, agriculture and environmental protection. Lending in the first category
would be contingent on progress in the Government's privatization and commerciization
program. In a similar vein, proposed operations in roads and water supply would depend on
satisfactory progress towards cost recovery and financial performance. 'ne proposed Fir Multi
State Water Project, for example, combines measures to improve the financial condition of water
authorities, involving reduced costs, improved investment efficiency, and increased income
generation.
30.   Operations in the second category would make important contributions to poverty
alleviation, human resource development and long-term sustainability, where Bank support would
be maintained even if progress in improving the policy environment is limited. In ohelh new
lending will complement existing operations and concentrate on the development of a national
nutrition program aimed at children and lactating women, and on improvements in basic health
services, focusing on developing an integrated primary-secondary health care system. Proposed
operations in Blcation will focus on improving access at all levels, particularly for girls, and
strengthening vocational skills. The thrust of the Bank's environmna lending rantegy is to
support government efforts to implement new regulatory and incentive policies which take
account of the social costs of environmental degradation in priority areas-including soil
conservation, forestry management, and water contamination. Efforts are also underway to
reduce gas flaring and CFC enissions. In a,ricuatur, the role of the private sector will be
further strengthened-notably in residual areas such as input supply and rural marketing, while
enhancing the Government's capacity to intervene efficiendy in areas where a role for the public
sector remains justified: technology transfer, irrigation, rural roads, water supply and soil
conservation.
31. In Nigeria's present circumstances, prospects for sustained commitment to structural
reform and sound macroeconomic policies are uncertain, despite recent actions by the current
administration to restore discipline into macroeconomic management and to revitalize programs
of economic reform. A resumption of higher levels of lending will be predicated on progress in
economic management, which would be evaluated on three criteria: firl the Government's
ability to adhere to sound fiscal and monetary policies; second, significant improvements in
implementation over the next two years; and  Ir, the resumption of structural reforms
addressing Nigeria's central development issues. The Bank will continue the policy dialogue on
a medium term adjustment program with the outgoing administration so as to create an element
of continuity during this transition period.
32.   The Bank expects to respond to improved performance with a gradual build-up of its
lending program  after FY93.  When sector specific policy reforms are adopted and
implementation improves, the Bank would consider progressively increasing its project pipeline
to levels more consistent with Nigeria's poverty and development needs.



- 11 -
G.    IFC Actii
33. Reflecting Nigeria's economic importance in Africa, IFC is pursuing a broad-based
strategy aimed at financing private investments in all key sectors, supporting financial sector
institution building, and providing advisory work on privatization and large projects. IFC is also
working with the Bank on a private sector assessment to identify and address major constraints
to private sector development. These include a still cumbersome regulatory framework, which
contributes to the high cost of doing business, and an incentive structure, which favors domestic
production over exports, and short-term activities over long-term investments. IFC's current
portfolio of $111 million extends to companies in the petroleum, agribusiness, banking, textiles,
transport, and tourism sectors. This includes a major Bank/lFC loan associated with a $900
million project to develop and export 100,000 bpd of petroleum condensates. In the financial
sector, IFC has helped establish one of Nigeria's first discount houses. In line with its broad-
based stategy, IFC is currently considering investment proposals in manufacturing, crude oil
exploitation, rehabilitationlexpansion of agro-allied enterprises, and a number of small-scale
enterprises through the African Enterprise Fund. IFC is appraising a major strategic $4.2 billion
project to liquefy 4.5 million tons of natural gas per year for export to Europe and the USA.
H.    Raions wiih the IMF
34.   The IMF has supported the Government's adjustment efforts with stand-by arrangements
in 1987, 1989 and 1991. The first arrangement, for SDR 650 million, was approved in January
1987, but the scheduled reviews could not be completed because no understanding could be
reached on corrective measures to bring the program back on track. No drawings were made
under the arrangement. The second stand-by arrangement, for SDR 475 million and extending
from February 1989 to April 1990, was satisfactorily completed, but no drawings were made
under the program. A third arrangement, for SDR 319 million, was approved in February 1991.
Fiscal slippages and failure to sterilize the windfall during the Gulf crisis prevented the
completion of the stand-by afrangement, which expired in April 1992. As with the earlier
arrangements, no drawings were made. Discussions are underway on a fourth stand-by
arrangement. In February 1992, the Fund Board declared Nigeria eligible for ESAF.
I.    Aid Coordination
35.   Since the Nigerian Government embarked on the SAP in 1986, the Bank has been the
focal point of aid coordination and cofinancing operations. Nigeria's IDA eligibility in 1988 and
informal donor meetings on the Government's performance under the SAP led to the formation
of a Consultative Group (CG) in November 1989 which mobilized around $300 million in
balanceof-payments support.  Subsequent discussions between bilateral donors and the
Government on the composition of the public investment plan did not result in the expected
increase in Nigeria's access to concessional resources, which, at less than $1 per capita, is the
lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa. Rather, the combination of deteriorating economic management,
unsatisfactory project implementation and Nigeria's spotty record of servicing its official debt
prompted a number of donors to place parts of their assistance programs on hold until a viable
macro framework has been restored. The organization of sectoral donor meetings in Lagos,
targeted for later this year, is intended to improve aid coordination in the social and infrastructure
sectors. Bank projects continue to atwact significant amounts of cofinancing, including recently
for a telecommunication and an environmental management project. The Bank's aid coordination
efforts wfll also play an important role in facilitating a dialogue between the Government and



- 12-
official creditors on the case for supporting a continuation of the economic reform program with
a conbination of concessional debt relief and new money.
J.    Summa  Assessment
36.   Despite some periods of hesitation, the authorities have continued to pursue the twin goals
of economic adjustment and reform, and preparing for the return to civilian rule. Many of the
important structural reforms initiated under the far-reaching adjustment program initiated in 1986
are now being rewarded by a revival of economic growth. However, the pressures created by
the transition to civilian rule - coupled with the failure to effectively manage the short-lived
windfall from the Gulf crisis - exposed the fragility of mechanisms for maintaining fiscal and
monetary discipline, and underscored the need for stronger reforms in put!ic expenditure
management. Institutional changes associated with the transition are currently challnging efforts
to improve implementation of the Bank's portfolio, even as they hold out prospects for greater
responsiveness to grass roots development priorities in the future.
37.   In the immediate future, the administration must effect a complex politica transition,
while trying to ensure that momentum on economic reform spans the transfez to a civilian
government. In addressing these challenges, both the departing and incoming adr'inistrations will
be constrained by the huge debt overhang and popular discontent with the bardships experienced
during the past decade.
38.   Economic and sector work is expected to play a major role in suipporting dialogue with
outgoing and incoming administrations, and engaging donors and Nigeran policy makers on the
contributions they can make in creating durable solutions to Nigeria's economic problems: donors
on the need to help address the effects of Nigeria's large official debt overhang; and policy
makers on the need for sustained reforms in economic management.
39.   Given the continued uncertainties over the future direction of economic policy and the
slippages in economic management, coupled with the size and slow rate of disbursement of the
Bank's current portfolio, the Bank's operational strategy for the near term is to contain new
commitments at relatively modest levels while giving greatest priority to implementation. The
lending program will concentrate on operations which would make a strong impact on poverty
alleviation, human resource development and long-term sustainability, coupled with investments
which can support important sector policy reforms as they are implemented. A sustained flow
of IDA resources is expected to play an important role in the first component of the program.
40.   The Bank's support, and in particular a resumption of levels of lending commensurate
with Nigeria's development needs, will be dependent on evidence of a renewed commitment to
structural reform and sound macroeconomic policies, and improvements in implementation.
Progress on economic management will be measured against evidence of adherence to sound
fiscal and monetary policies; improved management of public expenditures; rationalization of the
public investment program, with a redirection towards priority social and infrastructure needs
(including access to clean water as supported by this credit); phasing out inefficient subsidies;
maintenance of a market determined exchange rate; sustained reforms in the financial sector; and
furither progress in parastatal reforms.



- 13 -
IL. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
41.   Backemund. Provision of potable water in Nigeria is the responsibility of the states.
Water supply utilities have been established in most of the 30 states, usually as separate entities,
but sometimes as part of a multi-service public utilities board. Boards suffer from inadequate
autonomy, are insufficiently commercialized, and have inadequate financing and limited capacity
at the management, professional and technical levels, compounded by overstaffing at lower levels.
It is estimated that about 60% of the urban population and 20% of the rural population could be
provided with safe water supply if existing facilities were operated at their designed capacity, but
actual service is considerably less than this due to operational inadequacies. A number of states
have recently made substantial investments in water supply, but the investments have not always
been well conceived, nor have the boards the capflcity to operate and maintain facilities
adequately due to financial and management constraints. Water charges are generally too low
to cover all recurrent costs, let alone adequate maintenance or capital costs, and consequently the
water utilities rely heavily on recurrent subvention from state governments. The lack of
maintenance is worsening operational and financial performance. About eight states have
indicated some degree of interest in assistance from the Bank in improving their water supplies
under a multistate project. Katsina State (population 4.0 million, 70% rural) and Kaduna State
(3.9 million, 60% rural) are the most advanced in preparing their projects, have agreed to the
necessary institutional changes, and will constitute the First Multistate Water Supply Project.
42.    Mica Obiecdves. The project would aim to support economic growth by enhancing
health and productivity of growing urban areas; it would promote equity, helping to alleviate
poverty by improving health standards of the lowest income households and the living conditions
of women; and sustainability would be ensured by institution building and financial self
sufficiency. The primary objectives of the project are to improve both the quantity and reliability
of water supply to the more important towns and setdements in the two states to meet basic needs
and as an essential step in promoting economic development; and to help in commercializing the
water boards. This would be achieved through rehabilitation of existing systems and selective
expansion of supply facilities to cover areas currently unserved. Technical assistance would
improve management, operation and maintenance practices, investment planning and manpower
development. Financial disciplines involving phased, practical tariff increases, and metering of
consumers, would strengthen the financial conditions of the boards. Management of project
implementation by the boards, with the guidance of consultants, would develop their confidence
and ability to implement future projects.
43.   Proect Description. Physical components of the project include: (i) completion of primary
and secondary distribution systems in Katsina city to match production capacity ($13.8 million
or 10.8% of project cost); (ii) remedial work on the existing dam at Malumfashi ($5.3 million
or 4.1%); (iii) completion of a new system already commenced at Ikara ($9.9 million or 7.7%);
(iv) new facilities to augment supply at the towns of Funtua and Daura to meet increased demand
($42.7 million or 33.3%); (v) construction of new systems at Kwoi and Zonkwa ($45.4 million
or 35.5%); (vi) the provision of tools, equipment and water meters ($4.0 million or 3.1 %); and
(vii) limited rehabilitation of rural water supplies in both states ($1.2 million or 0.9%). Technical
assistance ($5.9 million or 4.6%) would be provided for: (i) improvement of technical and
fmancial management of the water boards including increased commercialization; (ii)
computerization of accounts and stores procedures (iii) improvement of operational efficiency;
(lv) dam inspection and maintenance; (v) preparation of water resource master plan; (vi)
improvement of planning procedures; (vii) institutional reorganization of the rural water supply
sector to reduce the financial burden it places on the water boards; (viii) preparation of drainage
and sanitation strategies and plans to help minimize environmental impacts of wastewater
disposal; (ix) carrying out a public relations program to improve the awareness of the



-14-
communities of their benefits and obligations regarding public water supply, and how to
maximize their health benefit; (x) preparing future projects; and (xi) training. A summary of
esdmated project costs and the financing plan are given in Schedule A, procurement and
disbursement methods at Schedule B, a timetable of key processing events at Schedule C, and the
status of Bank group operations in Nigeria at Schedule D. A map Is also attached. The Staff
Appraisal Report No. 9872-UNI, dated April 20, 1992, is being distributed separately.
44.   The full local cost of US$27.2 million equivalent would be financed by the state
governments on a grant basis (Katsina US$14.5 million and Kaduna US$12.7 million). The
finances of both states have been reviewed and these amounts are considered to be affordable.
Each state will instruct the Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development to deduct
these funds from its Federation Account, and deposit into a project account, according to an
agreed schedule, as a condition of credit effectiveness in one state and a condition of
disbursement in the other.
45. IDA would finance the full foreign cost of the project. The Federal Government would
onlend US$51.5 million equivalent to Katsina and US$47.5 million equivalent to Kaduna State
Governments for twenty years including five years of grace at the IBRD variable interest rate.
The states would pass on those parts of the credit related to technical assistance and ural water
supply as equity (US$2.3 million equivalent for Katsina and US$2.4 million equivalent for
Kaduna) and onlend the remainder to the water boards with 6 years of grace and 25 years
maturity, to relate more closely to project implementation period and asset life respectively and
at 15% interest. The State governments would bear the foreign exchange risk. The interest rate
has been set takdng into account the poor financial situation of the two water boards, and the need
for a realistic financial recovery program to be effected over the next six years (para. 47). The
Federal Government would retain US$2.0 million for preparation of future projects in oCier
states.
46.   Ptoiect Imlemnentation. lhe project would be managed in each state by the State Water
Board, assisted by consultants who would also be responsible for contract administration and
construction supervision. Consultants would also be employed to provide technical assistance.
The Federal Ministry of Water Resources would manage the small Federal component.
47.   Pject Sustainability. Each state will undertake a program to improve efficiency and
increase cost recovery, including a water metering program and phased tariff increases, aimed
at recovering full operation and maintenance costs within about four years, and full debt service
costs in addition, within six years. This will require tariff increases in real terms of about two
and a half to three times, improved collection from its present level of about 80% to 90%,
reduced unaccounted-for water from the present level of about 45% to about 25%, and other
measures to improve efficiency. Target performance indicators have been agreed, and these
would be reviewed annually with the boards and any necessary remedial measures would be
implemented. The burden of rural wLter supply will be removed from the water boards and
responsibility placed with the community where it can be most effective. Ihe public relations
program will help develop the responsibilities of the communities. A thorough mid term review
of the project and its implementation would be undertaken at the end of 1994.
48.   Lessons Learned from Previous Proiects. Many water authorities in Nigeria have
experienced high costs relative to income, and this has been particularly severe during the
economic dislocation of the past decade. A strategy to improve the financial condition of water
authorities has been developed, involving reduced costs, improved investment efficiency and
capacity utilization, and increased income generation. The proposed project would meet the
objectives of the strategy by minimizing costs and improving sources of revenue. It would, in



- iS -
pardcular, improve the financial viability of sector institutions through revenue collection and cost
recovery measures so that service can be maintained and expanded over the long term. Although
there has been in the past a reluctance by State Governments to increase tariffs sufficiently to
ensure proper operation and maintenance, both states have recently shown themselves to be more
willing to increase tariffs when adequate service is provided, and have substantially increased
tariffs over the period 1990 to 1992. Practical and politically acceptable tariff increases will be
designed so that they relate closely to improvements in service to overcome objections that have
arlsen when this has not been the case. Previous projects have also suffered from inadequate
local counterpart resources and maintenance and unstable management. The counterpart funding
problem has been addressed by arranging for deduction from the State's Federation Account
(para. 44). Less difficulty is expected now with changes in water board management since the
county situation is considerably more stable now than during previous projects, and the
management skills of Nigerians are developing following the departure of many expatriate
managers in the early 1980s; however, consultant assistance to the Boards will still be needed.
There bas also been a reluctance with previous projects to commence technical assistance
components; with this project the most important technical assistance components related to
improving Board operations will be contracted prior to credit effectiveness.
49.   Rationale for Bank nvolvemen. The project will form part of the Bank's program of
support for basic infrastructure, both as an essential element in the country's overall economic
development and as a means of improving the health and productivity of the poor, with particular
benefits for women. The Bank now has considerable experience in water supply projects in
Nigeria. It has a comparative advantage in encouraging institutional development and long term
s_stainity, and ensuring the appropriateness of investments. The Bank has assisted four
previous water supply projects for individual cities in Nigeria (two ongoing), and the National
Water Rehabilitation Project (NWRP), which will finance urgent rehabilitation of water works
in all states, was approved by the Board in 1991. The proposed project, which is expected to
be the first of a series of multistate projects, follows on from NWRP, in that it will finance
fu-ther rehabilitation, and also augmentation of supply capacity to meet demand, as well as focus
on swengthening the management and financial disciplines in the state water boards.
5Q.   Ation2g Age. IlThe following actions would be taken by at least one state prior to
credit effectiveness:  (i) appointment by the water board of consultants for construction
supervision and for operations improvements; (ii) signing of subsidiary loan agreements between
the Federal Government and the state and between the state and its water board; (iii) giving
instructions to the Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development to deduct project
counterpart funds from its Federation Account in equal monthly installments and deposit them
hito the state's project account; and (iv) depositing the initial installment into the project account.
The above conditions of credit effectiveness would be treated as conditions of disbursement for
the second state. An additional condition of disbursement would require Kaduna State to
restructure its state water board's capital and long-term liabilities by converting its loan to equity
and other measures as transition is made to full cost recovery. Additional agreements reached
at negotiations include: (i) a program of tariff increases and efficiency measures to increase cost
recovery and improve sustainability of the state water boards, as described in para. 47; (ii)
participation by the state water joards in the NWRP to carry out the most immediate
rehabilitation work, a leak detection and repair program and commencement of metering
programs, and to use a model bidding document prepared under NWRP as a basis for
international procurement; (iii) terms of reference for critical elements of the technical assistance
program and their use during project implementation; (iv) dated implementation program and
monitoring indicators and adherence to program during the project; (v) experienced people will
continue to be employed to manage the project; (vi) an environmental mitigation plan and
implementation of the plan during the project (para. 51); (vii) reorganization of the rural water



- 16 -
supply sector in each state by December 31, 1994; (viii) timely submission of audited financW
reports; and (ix) a mid-term review of the project by December 31, 1994, to review project
management, progress against the dated implementation program and development of the state
water boards against monitoring indicators and to agree on any necessary corrective action.
51.   Eny!ronmental ASDCcts. The project will improve well-being, health, and sanitary
conditions in the project area. Measures will be taken to minimize any impact resulting from
increased quantities of waste water generated in the project towns, and to lead in the longer term
to improvement in sanitation over the present situation. Environmental assessments have been
completed for two new dams to be financed, and action will be taken under the project to mitigate
detrimental effects, particularly the resulting increase in habitat for mcsquitos and snails
(biharzia), and to minimize effects on water quality of activities in their catchment areas (this
applies also to the catchments of other dams utilized by the water boards). A satisfactory plan
has been developed in consultation with those affected for the small amount of resettlement that
is required.
52.   Program Objective Categories.  About half of the beneficiaries of the project are
considered to be at or below the poverty level, about 500,000 people. An estimated US$44
million (34%) of project expenditure is directly related to the poor. The project also has aspects
of other objective categories, infrastructure and urban development (paras. 42 and 43), health
(para. 53), public sector management (paras. 43 and 47), women in development (para. 53), and
enviromnent (para. 51).
53.   Benefits. About 1.0 million people will benefit directly from the project. Adequate
potable water supply, as would be provided under the project, is a necessary prerequisite to
Improvement in public health and development of urban areas as centers of economic growth.
Industrial development in several of the towns included in the project has been constrained by the
lack of water supply, and the living conditions, particularly of the poor, have become, in many
cases, intolerable. The project will help to create appropriate conditions for growth; it will
improve the living conditions of the poor; and it will reduce the time spent by women in water
collection by providing water in or close to their homes (about 57% of beneficiaries would
receive water from house connections). The economic rate of return for the project is 9.8%.
The project will build the two State Water Boards into sustainable organizations, remove the
financial burden they place on the state governments, and devolve decision making regarding
rural water supply to the community level where it can be most effective.
54.   Risks. Risks include the possibility that counterpart funds will not become available as
needed, and that the states will hesitate to increase tariffs sufficiently to finance the long term
operation and maintenance needs of the Boards. These will be addressed by the condition that
counterpart funds be deductible at source, and by designing the program of tariff increases to
allow for previous objections which have arisen (para. 48). Covenants concerning development
of the fiscal autonomy of the two Water Boards will be strongly enforced. The required tariff
increases depend strongly on future sales volumes and collection rates but less so on expected
efficiency improvements.  The two water boards, assisted by consultants for contract
administration and construction supervision, will manage the project. Ihe project is a major
undertaking and could tax the water boards' capacities. To this end, the Association will require
staff of sufficient experience to continue to be employed by the water boards and will closely
monitor their performance.



- 17 -
55.   R. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington DC
May 5, 1992



-18-~ ~ ~ ANE 
NIGERIA - ECONMIC INDICATORS
Mid-1990 Populaition CmitIs.)    117.5 aI                                                                        A9IO 
1990 Per Capita SE  In USS:        260 bI
A. Shares of Grose Domesitic Product               S. growth RastoeCK per' anvto)
(from curren't price date)                      (fr15 constant price dalta)
196     1973   1980    1985    1989   199             1965-73 1973-80 198090   196      1990
Gross DOnmtesc Product m.p.      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0  1000                   .5     3.      1.1    60       S.?
Net Indiret Taxes                8.5     2.4     3.4     1.8    1.8    2.0.                        .
Agriculture                     50.2   34.3    26.5   ;9.9   38.8   35.5                 2.8    *1.4    3.3      4.7    4.1
industry                        11.4   24.S   36.9   30.3   33.7   37.6                 19.6    5.7    -1.2      7.7    6.4
(of uihich Manufacturing)        5.0     3.9     7.8    7.4       .       ..15.0   17.2   -1.0
Services                        29.9   38.6   31.?   28.1   25.8    24.9                -0.3     7.8    2.7      7.4    5.1
Resource Satance                  -5.1     0.6    3.4      1.1    9.5   14.8                .        .      .        .      .
exports of ONFI                 10.9   15.9   23.2   23.1   31.9   39.5                 10.9    6.8      1.1    10.5    9.3
Imports of SIFS                 16.0   15.4   19.7   22.0   22.5   24.6                 11.0   17.1  -14.3       0.4   13.2
Total Expenditures               105.1   99.4    96.6   96.9   90.5   85.2                 6.2     8.4   -4.8    3.5       6.3
Total Conswgpticn               89.  ? 1.0   72.?   85.5   76.6   70.5                   3.4     9.2   -3.4      1.4    5.5
Private consumptfon           82.9   66.7   59.9   73.0   67.6   59.2                  1.7    9.2   -3.3       2.2    3.2
General Government             6.8    10.3   12.8   12.5    9.0   11.4                16.?    9.1   -3.6   -3.4   19.7
Gross Dometic Investment        15.4   22.4   23.9   13.5   13.9   14.6                 15.2     6.6  -10.2   16.1   10.5
Fixed Investment                ..    22.8   24.0   13.2   13.5   14.8                  ..     6.6  -11.1    14.6   15.0
Charnge  in Stocks              ..    -0.4   -0.2      0.2    0.4   -0.1                .        .      .
Gros Domtesc Saving               10.3   23.0   27.3   14..5   23.4   29.5                25.6     0.3     4.8   71.3   29.5
Net Factor Income               -3.8   -7.1   -4.1   -9.1   -8.7   -8.3..                          .
Net Current Tranefors            0.0   .0.3   -0.4   -0.1   -0.1         0.0               .       .
Gross Natioalt Saving              6.5    15.6   22.8    5.3   14.6   21.1                39.2   -0.53           151.3    57.4
in Sittions of 1987 uNara         1965    1973    1980    1988    1969   199
Gross Domestic Product              67      95     124     120     127    134              6.5     3.4     1.1     6.0     5.7
capacity to lurort                  10      32     110      28      38      49            16.9   13.5   -8.9   36.2   27.6
Term  of Trade AdJustment           -9      -7      55      -4       3      10              .        .      .
Gross Domestic Income               58      89     179     116    130    144               7.3     6.9   -2.8   12.1   11.1
Gross Natioalt Product              63      86     115     110    116    125               5.8    3.7      0.7     5.5     7.9
Gross Natioalt Income               54      79     170     106    118    135               6.6     7.S   -3.5   12.1   13.8
.........(1987 a 100) --------                      ----Inflation Rates(% p.a.).----
C. Price Indices                  1960    1985    1986    1968    1989   1990           1965-73 1973-80 1960.90   1989    1990
Consmer Prices CIPS 64)             37      86      91     138    208    224               7.1    19.0   19.6   50.5       7.5
wholesle Prices (IFS 63)            .        .      .        ..                                      .      .
lmplicit GOP Deflator               41      65      66     11        i8   213             10.7   16.2   17.7   49.5   17.2i
Impicift Expenditures Deft.         30      51      59     126    176    193              10.3   11.5   23.1   40.1        9.6
0. Other Indicsatrs:            1965-73 1973-60 1980-90                                Notes:
Growth Rates(% p.m.):                                                                  The national accounts data shown hero
Population                       2.5     2.5     3.3                                 reflect substantial revisions by the
Labor Fores                      2.9     3.2     2.7                                 Nigerian Federal Office of Statistics
Gross Naitt. Income P.C.         4.0     5.0   -6.5                                  for the years 1981-89. These have been
Private Coraumption p.c.        -0.8     6.6   *6.4                                  supplem.ted by IMF and World Sank
staff estimates where necessry. Thes
Impot Elasticity:,                                                                     numbers are subjct to chang: the Fog
Imports (G+NPS) / GDPCp)         1.7     5.0  -12.9                                  plans ta ooisu  new estimates for
1981-199 within the next year.
-agmnat Savings Rates:.
Oro  ssNtioalt Saving           41.7   39.9    18.5                                  a/  The 1991 Censu gives a populatioan 
Gross Domesi Saving             51.0   38.5   39.8                                       estimated at 88.5 million.
ICOR (period averages):                     -- 35.0                                    bI The GDP per capita figure Is
currently unider review in light of
Share of Totat                    1965    1973    1980    1989   1990                      the recently released 1991
Labor Forc  in:                   ...     ..       ..      .. ..                           CenSU  pOpUlation estitmte.
Agriculture                       72      70      68
Industry                          10      11      12
Services                          18      19      20      .
Total                            100     100     100      .



-19                                   ANMXlt
NIGERIA - ECNMIC INDICATORS
............ .............................
PAGE 2 OF 3
....,,,_,............................................ ................................................
Volume Index                            Value at Current Prices (miltifm  US&)
E. Morchandise Exports              1980        1985    1987    1988    1989    1990    190O .... 1985    1987    1988    1989    1990
Cccoa and Cocoa Products              70      65      100      147      64      73      606     310      388      341     157      166
Rubber                                n        74     100      175     26?      171      26       23      1S       4S      69       41
Othow.                                ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..       ..       .
Manufactures                                          10 .
R sEdual                             19°       22     100      137     108      105     382      30      135      22?     175      209
Total Exports FO                    170      110     100      109     125      136  2S,ff6  12,566  7,532   7,053   9,814  13,827
F. Nerchtadise toports
...............................
Food                                  ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..               ..
Fuel and Energy                                            ..       ..      ..           ..       .
Other Consumer Goods                 S52      171     100      111     105      137   6,459   2,025   1,540   1,835   1.701   2,440
Other Intermediate Goods             254      277     100      109      77       63   4,388   3,941   2,1S4   2,519   1,74S   1,570
Capital Goods                        252      154     100       70      98      119   5,464   3,199   2,697   2.046   2,785   3,702
Total Iqowrts CIF                    318      186     100       93      92      104  16,312   9,165   6,392   6,394   6,230   7,697
G. Merchadwise Termn of Trade       1980    1985    1987    1988    1989    1990            Notes5
Mrefh. Exports Price Index           203      151     100       86     105      135         a/  All trade and balanme of paFumnts
March. Irports Price Index            8o       77     100      108     106      116              deta are from  IMF and World Bank
erch. Teros of Trade                 253      196     100       80      99      117              staff estimates which may vary from
official sources such as the IMf
USS mitlions (at current pri-es):                      Balance of Payments Yearbook.
...............................................
H. Balance of Payments /a/          1980    1985    1987    1988    1989    1990            b/  1989 includes transactions
. .-... ....     ..a.    . .                        associated with the sale of oil
Exports of Goods & NFS            27,006  13,032   7,757   7,387   9,981  14,001                 production equity.
Merchandise (FOB)               25,956  12,566   7,532   7,053   9,814  13,827
Non-Factor Services              1,050     466      225     334      167      174
Inoorts of Goods & UFS            17,648  10,070   6.689   7,052   7,019   8,740
Nercandise (FOB)                14,753   8,279   5,774   5, 776   5,612   6,918
Mon-Factor Services              2,913   1,791      915   1,276   1,407   1,822
Resource Balance                   9,358   2,962   1,068       335   2,962   5,261
net Factor Income                 (4,150) C2,509) (1,257) (2,034) (1,810) (2,104)
(interest per ORS)                911   1,735       597   1,500   1,471   1,793
Net Current Transfers               (409)   (244)      (4)    (26)    (10)       26
(workers remittances)               13      10        3       2       10      10
Curr A/C 8al Before Off. Grants  4,799       209    (193) (1,725)  1,142   3,183
Net Official Transfers            £167)    (16)    (20)       89     128       47
Curr A/C Gal After Off. Grants   4,d32        193    (213) (1,636)  1,270   3,230
Lon-Term Capital Inflow              728    (765)  1,S22       763   3,478        3
Direct Investment /bI             (739)    345      613      359   2,458      496
Net LT Loans (DR$ data)          1,467  (1,110)    909       404   1,020    (493)
Other LT Inflow (Net)                0        0       0        0       0        0
Total other Item (net)              (814)  1,268  (1,387)    542  (3,601) (1,108)
Net Short Term Capftal /b/         134     544      (48)    142  (1,760)    (87)
Capital Flows U.E.I.                 0        0       0        0       0        0
Errors and Omissions              (948)    724  (1,339)    400  (1,841) (1,021)
Changes In Net Reserves           (4,545)   (696)      78      331  (1,147) (2,125)
*    Net Credit from the ItF                               ..      ..
other Reserves Changes          (4,545)   (696)      78      331  (1,14?) (2,125)
As Share of GOP:
Resource Balance                  10.1     3.7      3.9      1.0     9.5    14.8
Interest Payments                  1.0     2.1      2.2     4.7      4.7     5.1
Current Account Balance            S.0      0.2    -0.a    *5.1      4.1      9.1
Memorandun Itaes:
Reserves exct. Gold (mil. USS)  10,235   1,667   1,165         651   1,766   3,864
Reserves fnct. Gold (mft. USS)  10,640   1,892   1,498         933   2,041   4,129
Official X-Rate (LCUs/UBS)         0.550   0.890   4.020   4.540   7.360   8.040
Index Real Eff. X-R  ase 1980        100      167      29       30      25       24
GoDP (millions of current US$)   93,080  80,955  27,111  32,013  31,251  35,460
...............................................................................................................................



-20-                                 ANNEX I
NIGERIA - ECOM0IC INDICATORS
.............................
PAGE 3 OF 3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............. ............................ ^. .........
Share of GDP (2)                                    Hominat Growth Rates
Federat Government Finance Ia/    1980    1986    1987    1988    1969    1990            1960.86   1986    1988    1989    1990
Current Receipts                     24      17      16       13      1T      20                1      3?       6      114      47
Current Expenditures                 10      11       16      16      14      16                a     104      40       33      45
Current udget gatane                 13       6       0        4       3       4               ..      ..
Capital Receipts                      0       0       0        0       0       0
Capital Expenditures                 14       9       9        7       8       8               *7      59       4       68      26
Overall Defict                       .0      -3      -9      -11      -4      -4               ..      ..       ..      ..      ..
Officisl Capital Grants               0       0       0        0       0       0               ..      ..
External Borrowing (net)              1      -0       5        1       3      -1               ..      ..
Domestic Non-tank Borrowing           0      -1       2        i       0       1               ..      ..     220       93
Domestic ank Finaneing               -0       4       2        6       1       5               ..      18     2S3      -73     516
Net Disbursements CUSS milltons)          DObt Outstanding & Disbursed CUSS mitlions)
J. External Capital Flows, Debt    .......-.....................................    ..................
and Debt Burden Ratios /b/      1980    198S    1967    18       199    1        1980    1985    1981    1988   1989    1990
..... .......__. _.......................     . .... ..... ....    ..... ....    ..... ....    ..... ....    ..... ....    ........ ..... .....
Pubtic & Publicly Guar. LT        1,122  (1.075)    958      411     935    (479)  4,284  13,139  28,697  29,321  31,661  33,709
OfficIal Creditors                 76    (132)    340      10C0    496     (61)  1.00S   2,212  11t608  10,968  15,225  17.933
Nultilateral                     48     242     270       SS     393     294     S71   1,431   3,059   2,844   3,168   3.7T6
of which ISRO                  39     230     262       50     252     143     51T   1,357   2,939   2,728   2,907  3,284
of which IDA                    0      (1)     (1)      (1)     (1)      6      38      35       32      31      30       36
Silateral                        28    (374)     70       45     103    (355)    434      781   8,549   8,124  12,057  14,206
Private Creditors               1,046    (943)    618      311     440    (418)  3,279  10.927  17,089  18,352  16,436  15,77
Suppliers                        (8)   (277)     19      126     162      (9)     18   2.730   4.746   6,343   6,397   5,768
Finafcial Markets             1.054    (666)    S99      185     278    (409)  3,261   8,197  12,343  12,010  10,039  10,008
Private Mon-guranteed               388     (35)    (48)      (7)     8S     (15)  1,097   1,416      552     537      406     391
Total LT                          1,S10  (1,110)    909      405   1,020    (494)  5,381  14,55S  29,249  29,858  32,067 34,100
IMF Credit                            0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0        0       0
Net Short-Term Capital               29  (1.435)  2,210   2,398   1,374  (1,375)  3,553   4.995   1,645   1,682        701   1,968
Total incl. IMF & Met ST          1,539  (2,545)  3,119   2,803   2,394  (1.869)  8,934  19,550  30,893  31,540  32,769 36,068
Bank and IDA Ratios                1980    1985    1987    1988    1989    1990          Notes:
.............                      ...      --     ...      ... ...    ....  ........................................
Share of Total Long-Term DOD                                                             a/  Federat budget data are from IMF
1. IBRO as X of Total                10       9      10        9       9      10             and lortd Sank staff estirntes.
2. IDA as   of Total                  I       0       0        0       0       0
3. I8RD+IDA as X of Totat            10      10       10       9       9      10          b/  AUl external debt data are from the
Seortd Bank Oebtor Reporting System.
snare of LT Debt Service
1. IBRO as X of Totat                 9       3      33       20      21      16
2. IDA as X of Total                  0       0       0        0       0       0
3. ISBD+IDA as X of Totat             9       3       33      20      21      16
DOD-to-Exports Ratios
_ ...._ ...........
1. Long-Term Debt/Exports            20     111     373      400     316     240
2. IMF Credit/Exports                 0       0       0        0       0       0
3. Short-Term Debt/Exports           13      38      21       23       7      14
4. LT+INf+ST DOD/Exports             33     149     394      422     323     254
DOD-to-GDP Ratios
.................
1. Long-Term Debt/GDP                 6      18     108       93     103      96
2. IMF Crdift/GDP                     0       0        0       0       0       0
3. Short-Term Debt/GDP                4       6       6        5       2       6
4. LT+IPF*ST D0D/GDP                 10      24      114      99     105     102
Debt Service /Exports
.....................
1. Public & Guranteed LT              2      31      13       28      19      21
2. Private Non-guranteed LT           1       1        2       2       0       0
3. Totat Long-Term Debt Service       3      32       1S      30      20      21
4. IMf Repurchases+Serv. Chgs.        0       0        0       0       0       0
S. Interest only an ST Debt           1       3        1       1       0       0
6. Total (LT+INF+ST Int.)             4      36       15      30      20      21
...............................................................................................................................



- 21 -                         Shdl 
FEDERAL REPUBIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE WATER SUIPPLY PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
- *tlae project cost            I Loa    Foeig   TOW*1  
KATSINA STATE                            I
Katsina town project completion          2.1        8.6   10.7
Funtua system                            6.9       22.9   29.8
Malumfashi dam reconstruction            1.0        2.8    3.8
Daura system expansion                   0.2        0.6    0.8
Rural water supply rehabilitation        0.1        0.4    0.5
Operationa equipmet                      0.2        1.4    1.6
lIstitutional strengthening              0.3         1.7    2.0
Construction supervision                 0.9        2.9    3.8
Base cost (March 1992)                  11.7       41.3   53.0
Physical contingencies                   1.1        4.1    5.2
Price contingencies                      1.7        6.1    7.8
Total Katsina State                     14.5       51.5   66.0
KADUNA STATE
Zonkwa project                           3.5        12.9   16.4
Kwoi project                             3.6        13.6   17.2
Ikara project completion                 1.5        6.3    7.8
Rural water supply rehabilitation        0.1        0.4    0.5
Operational equipment                    0.2         1.5    1.7
Insfttional strengthening                0.3         1.7    2.0
Construction supervision                 1.1        2.5    3.6
Base cost (March 1992)                  10.3       38.9   49.2
Physical contingencies                   1.0        3.6    4.6
Price contingencies                      1.4        5.0    6.4
*                Total Kaduna State                       12.7       47.5   60.2
Project preparation                      0.0        2.0    2.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      27.2I&    1        2.
IDA                                         0.0      101.0  101.0
Katsina State                              14.5        0.0   14.5
Kaduna State                               12.7        0.0   12.7
Total fincing                12 82
La Of this amount, an estimated US$7.0 million equivalent is for duties and taxes.



-22 -                                 Sch2dh a
FEDERAL REPUBIJC OF NIGERIA
FIRSI MULTISATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROCUREMENT MEIHOD AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Summary of Proposed Procumment Amnomets
(US$ millions eguivalet"
La           Lo   =ER    TOTAL
1. Wors contracts for rehabIliation and       107.1          1.7        0.0          108.8
augmentat_on of existing and new systems.     (83.4)        (1.5)         -          (84.9)
2. Supply of goods (operational equipment and   1.7          1.0        1.0            3.7
water mets).                                   (1.6)        (0.9)       (0-9)         (3.4)
3. Services for trining and T.k. (including     0.0          0.0       1S.7           15.7
constution supervision)                          -          .-Z-       LIZ21         (lZ,7
Total                                        108.8         2.7        16.7          128.2
Note: Fpures in paentheses are the rpectve amounts, to be financod by IDA. Oter covers peoureeat of
goods by inteonational shopping and consultancy services in accordance with guidelnes.
B. Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
AmoMu        % to be Disbursed
CLJSS miltion)    ftmM IDA Creit
1. Civil work and supply and insalation of
mechanical and electical equipment.
(a) Kataina stat                                    39.0   75% of total
(b) Kaduna stat                                     35.6   expenditures
2. Supply of operional equipment and
water metes.
(a) Kaa state                                        2.2   100% of foreign
(b) Kaduna state                                     2.2   expenditurem and 70% of
local expeDdituros
3. Taining, tchnical assistance and
conshtreon supevision.
(a) Katsina st.0   100% of fi
(b) Kaduna state                                     5.0    apeditues
4. Project preparation FMWR)                            2.0   100%
S. Unaloated
(a) Katsina state                                     5.3
(b) Kaduna state                                      4!
Total                                                101.
llstitnut IDA Disbgrsemntsu
(US$ ndllio)
IDA Fiscal Year               124 199S    1996            M                          -S1
Annal                 S.41a    10.3    23.7    29.7      19.7      7.8      4.0      0.4
Cumulative            5.4     15.7    39.4    69.1       88.8    96.6    100.6    101.0
Includes inihdal deposits totaling US$3.2  ilion to special accounrb.



-23 -                             Schedule:
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TAMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:    Two years
@) Prepared by:                        SWBs with IDA assistance L
(c) First IDA mission:                 May 1990
(d) Appraisal mission departure:       May 1991
(e) Negotiations:                      November 1991
(t)  Planned date of efectiveness:     July 1992
(g) Relevant PCRs:                     Kaduna Water Supply Project; PCR No. 8961
JA David Henley (Senior Sanitary Engineer) Task Manager, William Roach (Senior Financial
Analyst), and James Wright, Division Chief, Infrastructure Division, West Africa
Department.



- 24 -                            Schedule D
Page 1 of 2
THK STATUS OF BANiC GROUP OEATIONS 2n NIGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANIC LOANS AND MA CRUM
(Aof Matk 31, 19)
AA* i, USS
Nun"         TOW    Domea                                           Bank   :.MA    Undu1rs
Fory-alan and two craft hly diabunud                              2627.9      39.9
Of whic SAL. nd  Psopm Lacsas a
3011-n         89    NISei    Trude &   vetvatma PoIL             (S00.0)
2299-UNt       83    NM3         dumal Dewt (N DD  M               120.0                  1.4
2376-UN        84    NBCt       SGWV/Mwdu Seals J7nw t              41.0                 17.5
2390-U         84    NNC       G(h Tenical Amlamne                  13.1                  9.6
2436-U!  t 4    Nigei8   laaaa Ap  bt De" d1sa)                    122.0                 48.3
2480-U         85    Nigeri    Tecnia  Aim.                         13.0                  8.4
2503-UN!       t5    N*a    Sokm Hef l                              34.0                 20.5
252S-II        as    NIri    Dome stub v'aS                         72.0                 32.0
2607-UN       8U    NigerIa    Urbu Ded _  am                       53.0                 25.3
2618-N         86    NIea       qdusy Tek Ajaaan                     5.0                  2.6
2620-UN!       86    N*fti      us Saud Wa. & Srm                   72.0                  12.0
2733-UNI             N          Muli-Sti Apt. Do I                 162.0                 62.2
2734UN!         S6    N         Tawpar                              20.9                  12.7
27             87    N r        L                                   81.0                 44.5
2741-UN        87    Nei        ot  Dome Adc De                     25.0                  13.3
* 275-N   t       7    N          Tde o         E       D            40                      0.5
2760-UN        87    NI         Fo ary                              71.0                 37.1
2925-Y         s     N l    *              DeT F                    695                  59.9
2926-UMN       8     NI         Tocl.                               23.3                  2.9
293-Utt        a                Hihway Sor                     .   250.0                208.3
295-UN         89    N i           sS    Wow Sppy                  173.2                 167.2
2988-* UN       9    N        4d MltS   Ap       vt D t             85.2                 61.9
299-N          t9 NPV  Small  Med eim. Dov                         270.0                243.6
3034-N!        89    N {ra    Io Had& & PF _ula                     27.6                 26.1
1035-UN (Ca) 19    N            ThUd Mul-St. Aga Dewt                0.0    100.9        72.6
3104-UNI       89       N        AReh60 RAW ¶d                      27.7                 24.7
31 1-UN!       89        A      Powe Syma Mam                       70.0                 58.5
3125-N         90    N          Eau" Dnga,                          68.1                  62.0
3126-UN        90    Nida    Tes Cip                               106.0                 104.5
3183-UNt       90    Nd N                       Quaau               14.0                  13.6
2139UN (C)  90    N             Fdra Unitet Dw                       0.0     120.0       120.9
323sutn        90    NtL           T        _                      225.0                214.1
323bVN    I    90    Nlga       Oyo Stem Utboa                      50.0                 50.0
21911-UN! (C    91    Ngiak    PdImy EdFaa                           0.0     120.0       123.7
2238-UN! l  91    NIgeia    Nal PoPA&dm                              0.0      78.5        74.0
2261-UN! Cl)' 91    NierA    NSiAcla Iatek b>                        0.0      7t.0       79.9
3317-UNt       91    NNPC       Oso Co                             218.0                 66.4
3322-U         91    Ni         Wiser Reab b>                      256.0                256.0
3326-UN        91    Ni           lh e Sym  Fund                    70.0                 70.0
3451-UN        92    NIgia    Na#bma Fam Dev b3                     67.5                 67.5
TOTAL                         65 .                              W-
of which Waa been repaid                           1251.1     1~I
TSl now h1 dbyl 8 & DA                             4W.9
Amount sold                      16.8
oftwb   ba bess repaid            16.8
Tout uadlabufad                                    1I.         4        Z
W, AppoVWedr  or aftr FY8O
b3 Not yet dbevev.
*  SAL. SECAL at ProSra Loon



-25-                               Scedule D
Page 2 of 2
. STAQMOF OEC 2WSTNT
1nvemt       FisIITdT
~~~~~~~~~(so   ao3 . , __
Numb"         e        ObIJ@               uatiaam                  (Awmai la US$ .ini.1)
70 UNI       196      Awa T e3Ia Ltd.   To=g  M4g.                     5.9       0.7       7.6
121 UNt      1967
it"4
2140 UltI    1992
482 UI       198O    NtieA Tex2b MUll.  T.2                           22.8       0.7      23.5
962 U!       1967      Ltd.
so Utt       19U1       ja Hotel          Toudsa                      120        1.5      13.5
"20 1NI      1985
990 UNt      1911
724 UNM      1985     Tie Dewy             Do-o& BwIm                  7.3                 7.3
1222 UNt    1990
1000 UM      1918     Dualop N4wis         Motr V     a n             12a5                12.5
1225 U!    1          A990  o Nigeia       VegSrabi 00                4.S                  4.5
2137 U!    1"9t    NAMBL                   Mouyap  Matd               10.0                10.0
2139 UN      199       bil Nigak           Pe_OmU                    170.0               170.0
2430 UM      1991     VICODA               M     _bamuftg              0.1                 0.1
2S82 UN      1991     Stukbdumlm           M    mdag                   0.3                 0.3
2136 UM      1991     Ape-Tab Sv           Food ?m.snag                1.0                 1.0
2513 UN      1992     Vjaca Ste            M    -mfadag                0.8                 0.8
ToWi grmoo_.l                                           2dLu        LItZu
Low m . ado.   Pmdmu uchige
edjumaste. ewpeY     NW a"                             13S.6      0.9      136.5
Tod oommkaem now bdd by IC                              112.6       2.0     114.6
Todi adiabUrA                                            53.8       0.1      53.9



MAP SECTION
.



.                        ,<D0E-.   ~~~~~~~NJ  G  E  R
't *7S¢Y % Katsi nrdamu Mc s13
NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT TOWNS AND                  :
OTHER SERVICED TOWNS
*Ika-a PROJECT TOWNS
OTHER SERVICED TOWNS
MA)OR ROADS                    9{ t          bINI            
RAILROADS
*- F-RVERS
*    STATE CAPITALS
STATE BOUNDAIUES
_.    NEi2NATIONAL BO(iNDARiES    lb i |2/)> Kan       /~/ 
9 /    >              f  S  s~~~~~~ TA T E   
SOKOTO  S TATE
. -BAIUCHI
T  t//2|o~~~~~  \         m       r     J    9 <            f   r    _ T        A~~~~~STTE
I' ~~~~~~~~~~3S  / ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~  
/  S5TATE                                     R                                                             |
$ato rm s      I            s
,W                                                                                                       iI1   .    (XXPlATEAU
,( * 1 ~'t ' . ; odAodAU'                                                                                    STAT.'
v    °Nt-rXmo >(m    _ ,>>-_-- 'CAMEROON  ' FEDERAL    /\                        -Y. 
| . { . ~~~~~~~~~~~~CAPITAL                                   ,/tlo  W&  
~~~DELT                                           TERR St iR



