Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2372 UNI
                   Development Credit Agreement
                    (Multi-State Water Project)
                              between
                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 14, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMER 2372 UNI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 14, 1992, between the FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   Parts A through C of the Project will be carried out by
the Borrower through Kaduna and Katsina States of Nigeria (the
Project States) and with the assistance of the Borrower; and
      (C)   the Borrower will, as part of such assistance, relend
the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Categories (1) through (3)
in Schedule 1 hereto to the Project States as hereinafter provided;
and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this Agreement, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Project State" means either Kaduna State of Nigeria
(Kaduna State) or Katsina State of Nigeria (Katsina State);
      (d)   "KDSWB" means the Kaduna State Water Board established
and operating under the Kaduna State Water Board Edict, 1971 as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
      (e)   "KTSWB" means the Katsina State Water Board established
and operating under the Katsina State Water Board Edict, 1987 as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
      (f)   "Water Boards" means KDSWB and KTSWB;
      (g)   "Water Boards Edicts" means any of the Edicts under
which KDSWB and KTSWB were established and are operating;
      (h)   "FMF&ED" means the Federal Ministry of Finance and
Economic Development of the Borrower;
      (i)   "FMWR" means the Federal Ministry of Water Resources of
the Borrower;
      (j)   "First Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements
between the Borrower and the Project States referred to in Section
3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement;
      (k)   "Second Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements
between the Project States and the Water Boards referred to in
Section 3.01 (c) (ii) (E) of this Agreement;
      (l)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the First Subsidiary
Loan Agreements and the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
      (m)   "Project Period" means the period between the date of
effectiveness of this Agreement and the Closing Date; and
      (n)   "Naira" means the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventy-four million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 74,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
Page  3
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain, or cause to be opened and maintained, in dollars
a special deposit account in a commercial bank for each Water Board
and for FMWR on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 2002 and ending April 1, 2027. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on April 1, 2012 shall be one and
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Page  4
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A through C of the
Project through the Project States and Part D of the Project through
FMWR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices, and shall with respect to Parts A through C of
the Project cause the Project States to provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
said Parts of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause each Project State: (i) to open
and maintain in a commercial bank a project account (the Project
Account) to be used exclusively for Project expenditures; and (ii)
to pay into the Project Account its monthly counterpart contri-
butions to the costs of the Project, namely Naira 4,200,000 by
Kaduna State and Naira 5,000,000 by Katsina State, by way of having
given an irrevocable letter of authority to FMF&ED to deduct the
Project State's monthly counterpart contribution from the allocation
due to the Project State out of the Federation Account and to
transfer such funds into the respective Project Account until the
completion of the Project. The Borrower, the Project States and the
Association presently estimate the said contributions to amount over
the Project Period to the Naira equivalent of $24,000,000 by Kaduna
State and $27,500,000 by Katsina State.
      (c)   The Borrower shall out of the proceeds of the Credit
relend to: (i) Kaduna State $47,500,000 equivalent or the proceeds
of the Credit allocated to Categories (1)(a), (2)(a) and (3)(a) in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) Katsina State $51,500,000
equivalent or the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Categories
(1)(b), (2)(b) and (3)(b) in said Schedule (the said amounts being
hereinafter referred to as the State Loans) under agreements (the
First Subsidiary Loan Agreements) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Project States on terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association. Each First Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall include provisions requiring each Project State to:
      (A)   pay annual interest at the prevailing variable rate
            applicable to loans made by the Bank to its borrowers
            for developmental purposes;
      (B)   repay the principal amount of the State Loan in 20 years
            (including 5 years of grace);
      (C)   assume any foreign exchange risk on the State Loan;
      (D)   make available to its Water Board, as a grant, such
            amounts of the State Loan as shall be required by the
Page  5
            Water Board to finance technical assistance and rural
            water supply under the Project; and
      (E)   onlend the remaining amounts of the State Loan to the
            Water Board under an agreement (the Second Subsidiary
            Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Project
            State and the Water Board on terms and conditions which
            shall have been approved by the Association including
            provisions requiring the Water Board to (1) pay annual
            interest of 15% on the loan made to it, (2) repay the
            principal amount of such loan in 25 years (including 6
            years of grace), and (3) carry out the actions described
            in Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower shall cause each Project State to carry out
the actions described in Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall by December 31, 1994, carry
out jointly with the Association, the Project States and the Water
Boards a mid-term review of the Project to ascertain progress made
in the execution of the Project. Such mid-term review shall, among
other things: (i) determine (A) the effectiveness or otherwise of
Project management, (B) progress made in meeting the targets set out
in the action plan referred to in Part A.3 (c) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, (C) with the help of the performance indicators referred
to in the said Part A.3 (c), the development thus far attained by
the Water Boards, and (D) the adequacy of the monthly counterpart
contribution by the Project States; and (ii) recommend such remedial
actions as may be considered necessary to assure the attainment of
the Project's objectives.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Part D of the Project of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the Project States and/or the Water Boards shall have
failed to perform any of their obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements;
      (b)   a change shall have been made in any of the Water Boards
Edicts or any law of the Borrower or the Project States governing
the establishment, organization, powers, financial structure and
operations of the Water Boards so as to materially and adversely
affect the carrying out of the Project; and
      (c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Project
States and/or the Water Boards will be able to perform their
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower; and
      (b)   the event specified in Section 5.01 (b) of this
Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   consultants have been employed by a Water Board to
assist in: (i) supervising construction under the Project, and (ii)
improving the efficiency of the Water Board;
      (b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreements relating to the Water
Board referred to in (a) above have been duly executed by all the
Page  7
parties thereto;
      (c)   the Project State to which (a) and (b) above relate has:
(i) opened its Project Account; and (ii) commenced the payment of
the monthly amount referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement
into said account after having given an irrevocable letter of
authority to FMF&ED to that effect.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements mentioned in Section 6.01 (b) above have been duly
authorized or ratified by all the parties thereto, and are legally
binding upon each such party in accordance with their terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Development
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Honourable Minister
            Federal Ministry of Finance
              and Economic Development
            P.M.B. 12591
            Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
            Lagos, Nigeria
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FEDMINFIN                  21248 (ITT)
                  Lagos
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                  By /s/ Zubair M. Kazaure
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  8
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                                75%
     including
     supply and
     installation
     of electrical
     equipment:
     (a) Kaduna State         26,300,000
     (b) Katsina State        28,900,000
(2)  Operational                                100% of foreign
     equipment and                              expenditures and
     water meters:                              70% of local
                                                expenditures
     (a) Kaduna State          1,600,000
     (b) Katsina State         1,600,000
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)  Consultants'                               100% of foreign
     services,                                  expenditures
     construction
     supervision
     and training:
     (a) Kaduna State          3,700,000
     (b) Katsina State         3,700,000
(4)  Project Preparation       1,500,000        100%
     (FMWR)
(5)  Unallocated:
     (a) Kaduna State          3,500,000
     (b) Katsina State         3,900,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                74,700,000
                              ==========
Page  9
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)   expenditures made by a Project State until that Project
State has furnished to the Association evidence showing that:
           (i)   it has employed the consultants described in
                 Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement;
          (ii)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered into
                 by the Borrower, the Project State and its Water
                 Board have been duly executed by the parties
                 thereto; and
         (iii)   it has commenced the payment of the monthly amount
                 referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement
                 into its Project Account after having given an
                 irrevocable letter of authority to FMF&ED to that
                 effect; and
     (c)   expenditures made by Kaduna State until Kaduna State has
furnished to the Association evidence showing that it has taken
adequate action to restructure KDSWB's capital and long-term debt
obligations to Kaduna State through the conversion: (i) of the said
liabilities into equity; and (ii) into grant of all subsequent debt
service payments made by Kaduna State on behalf of KDSWB during the
period ending on December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist: (i) the Project
States in (A) improving (1) the quantity and reliability of water
supplied by the Water Boards to their urban areas, and (2) the
health, productivity, and living and health standards and conditions
of women and all other persons residing in such areas; and (B)
strengthening, and making financially self-sufficient, their Water
Boards; and (ii) the Borrower in preparing water projects for States
of Nigeria other than the Project States.
     The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Kaduna State
(1)  Completion of the water treatment plant, and construction of
     transmission and distribution pipelines and system storage at
     Ikara.
(2)  Construction of new regional water supply systems at Kwoi and
     Zonkwa, including: (A) intake works, water treatment plants,
     transmission mains and distribution systems for each of the two
     systems; and (B) a small dam for the Zonkwa system.
Page  10
(3)  Provision to KDSWB of maintenance vehicles, tools and
     operational equipment, and water meters.
(4)  Limited rehabilitation of some rural water supply systems.
Part B:    Katsina State
(1)  Completion of: (a) about 15 km of water transmission and 65 km
     of distribution pipelines; and (b) elevated storage in Katsina
     town and nearby areas.
(2)  Construction of a new system to increase the existing water
     supply at Funtua including a new dam, a water treatment plant,
     transmission pipeline to Funtua, system storage and an extended
     distribution system.
(3)  Limited expansion of the Daura water supply system including
     new boreholes to increase water production.
(4)  Remedial construction of the dam at Malumfashi.
(5)  Provision to KTSWB of maintenance vehicles, tools and
     operational equipment, water meters, and meter testing and
     repair facilities.
(6)  Limited rehabilitation of some rural water supply systems.
Part C:    Strengthening of Water Boards
     Institutional and financial strengthening of the Water Boards
including provision of technical assistance to each Water Board to
enable it to: (i) improve its operational and maintenance practices
and procedures, and its management information systems; (ii) carry
out a tariff study which, among other things, shall investigate the
alternatives of collecting revenue from public standpipe users;
(iii) carry out a public relations and hygiene education program to
increase public awareness of the benefits to be derived by, and the
obligations that fall upon, users of public water supply systems;
(iv) assist with the reorganization of rural water supply; (v)
prepare State-wide water resources master plans and design studies;
and (vi) develop plans for sullage disposal, drainage and improved
sanitation.
Part D:    Preparation of Future Projects
     Preparation by FMWR of future water projects for States of
Nigeria other than the Project States.
                             *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:    International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:    Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
Page  11
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:    Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per
contract (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000
equivalent per Project State) and goods estimated to cost less than
$200,000 equivalent per contract (up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $600,000 equivalent per Project State) may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent per contract (up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent per Project
State) may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost $200,000
equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 of said
Appendix shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall cause consultants to be employed whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Page  12
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to: (i) $1,500,000 for each Water Board; and (ii)
$200,000 for FMWR to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into each Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)   For replenishment of a Special Account, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                 for deposits into the Special Account at such
                 intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                 documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                 paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                 payments in respect of which replenishment is
                 requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                 Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                 withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                 the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                 shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                 by said documents and other evidence to have been
                 paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                 expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
Page  13
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
a Special Account:
     (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
     (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into a Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.
     (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 5
            Actions referred to in Section 3.01 (c) and
                       (d) of this Agreement
Part A:    Actions relating to the Water Boards
1.   Each Water Board shall:
     (a)   carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and
public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers;
     (b)   at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery,
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
Page  14
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering and financial practices; and
     (c)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory to the Association, for insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
2.   Each Water Board shall:
     (a)   maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures of the departments or
agencies of the Water Board responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof;
     (b)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
(a) above including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
     (c)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested;
     (d)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request; and
     (e)   for all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure:
           (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                 with paragraph (a) above, records and accounts
                 reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                 Association has received the audit report for the
                 fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                 Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                 Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                 invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                 evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                 examine such records; and
          (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included
                 in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
                 above and the report of such audit contains a
                 separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
                 the statements of expenditure submitted during
                 such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                 internal controls involved in their preparation,
                 can be relied upon to support the related
                 withdrawals.
3.   (a)   Each Water Board shall, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, take all necessary action (including the adjustment
of the structure or levels of its tariffs) to produce for each of
its fiscal years following after its fiscal year ending on December
31, 1991 total revenues (including the revenues specified in sub-
paragraph (b) below) adequate to meet: (i) its cash operating
expenses; and (ii) the amount of annual debt service requirements.
     (b)   The revenues to be included in the total revenues
required under subparagraph (a) above shall be as follows:
Page  15
A.    KDSWB
                   Revenues as a Percentage of:
                                          Recurrent and
      Fiscal Year       Recurrent Cost    Debt Service Cost
      1992                     81%              33%
      1993                    100%              44%
      1994                    100%              55%
      1995                    100%              66%
      1996                    100%              77%
      1997                    100%              88%
      1998                    100%             100%
B.    KTSWB
                   Revenues as a Percentage of:
                                          Recurrent and
      Fiscal Year       Recurrent Cost    Debt Service Cost
      1992                    46%               46%
      1993                    65%               59%
      1994                    92%               69%
      1995                   100%               70%
      1996                   100%               80%
      1997                   100%               90%
      1998                   100%              100%
      (c)   Each Water Board shall, during its fiscal years 1992
through 1999, carry out the agreed-upon implementation program and
adhere to the agreed-upon performance indicators.
4.    (a)   Each Water Board shall, before October 31 prior to each
of the fiscal years specified in paragraph 3 above, on the basis of
forecasts prepared by the Water Board and satisfactory to the
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth
in the said paragraph in respect of such year and the next following
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Borrower and the Association
the results of such review upon its completion.
      (b)   If any such review shows that the Water Board would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3 above for the Water
Board's fiscal years covered by such review, the Water Board shall
promptly take all necessary measures (including adjustments of the
structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such
requirements.
5.    For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   the term "total revenues" means the sum of total
                  operating revenues and net non-operating income;
           (ii)   the term "total operating revenues" means all
                  revenues derived from operations;
          (iii)   the term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:
                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and
                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above; and
          (iv)    the term "cash operating expenses" means all
                  expenses related to operations, including
                  administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                  payments in lieu of taxes.
6.    Each Water Board shall:
Page  16
      (a)   in the procurement of goods, works and services under
the Project use, as a model, the standard bidding documents
developed for procurement under the Borrower's National Water
Rehabilitation Project;
      (b)   carry out the Project's technical assistance components
using terms of reference satisfactory to the Association;
      (c)   apply to the Borrower for participation in the
Borrower's National Water Rehabilitation Project and, to that end,
take all action necessary to meet the eligibility criteria
prescribed for such participation;
      (d)   from time to time exchange views with the Borrower and
the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
purposes of the Credit and the performance of the Water Board under
the Project and furnish to the Borrower and the Association all such
information related thereto as the Association shall reasonably
request; and
      (e)   promptly inform the Borrower, the Association and the
Project State of any condition which interferes with, or threatens
to interfere with, the matters referred to in (d) above.
7.    Each Water Board shall: (i) jointly with the Borrower, its
Project State and the Association carry out the mid-term review of
the Project referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and (ii)
take all actions necessary to carry out any remedial measures
recommended by such review.
Part B:     Actions relating to the Project States
1.    Each Project State shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association by June 30, 1994,
and carry out by December 31, 1994, a plan satisfactory to the
Association for the reorganization of its rural water supply sector
including the transfer of responsibility for rural water supply from
the Water Boards to local government and community level
authorities;
      (b)   cause its Water Board to participate in the Borrower's
National Water Rehabilitation Project;
      (c)   develop and furnish to the Association a plan,
satisfactory to the Association, to mitigate any adverse
environmental impacts of the dams to be constructed under the
Project at Funtua and Zonkwa;
      (d)   cause the said plan to be put into effect and adhered to
and, to that end, employ by December 31, 1992 in accordance with
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement a public health
specialist to assist in the carrying out of the plan; and
      (e)   cause its Water Board to carry out the actions described
in Part A above.
2.    Each Project State shall: (i) jointly with the Borrower, its
Water Board and the Association carry out the mid-term review of the
Project referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and (ii) take
all actions necessary to implement any remedial measures recommended
by such review.
