.: - )10 
                                          E2804 v2




      ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF ZONKWA DAM 

                      DRAFT REPORT 





                                                               ,   1'\
                  KADUNA STATE WATER BOARD
  ,                     KADUNA STATE

. ..             FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA




       ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF ZONKWA DAM. 

                        DRAn' REPORT 





                         JUNE. 1991 





                    ABUCONS (NIC) LIMITED 

       Ahmadu Bello University Consultancy Services 

                  Ahmadu Bello University 

                       Zaria Nigeria 

                                CONTE~"S

 •
                                                                    PAGES
.'
     EXECUT'IVE SlJ!ftiARy ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••     1

     1.   Environmental Regulation •••••••••••••••••••••••••••

     2.   Project Description •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ::      7


     3.   Baseline Data   •..••••...•••••••••••...••••.••••.....     12 


     4.   Analysis of Alternatives    •••••••••••••••••••••••••••    30 


     5.   Environmental Impacts •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••      32 


     6.   Mitigation Plan .•.•••••..•••.•••••••••••.•...••.•...      57 


     7.   Monitoring Plan ••.••••.•.••••.•••••.••••.•••••....•.      62 


     8. 	 Appendix 


             i)   Terrestrial flora   ...........................    64 


            ii)   Wildlife of the reservoir area •••••••••••••••    67 


           iii)   Non-woody plants of the reservoir area •••••••    68 


            iv)   Cultivated plants of the reservoir area ••••••    69 


             v)   Medicinal plants of the reservoir area •••••••    70 


            vi)   Algae of the Zonkwa Dam Project area •••••••••    71 


           vii)   Instrumentation and Monitoring Guidelines

                  Directory....................................     74 

          viii)   Maintenance guidelines directory.............     75 


            ix)   List of preparers ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••    76 


             x)   List of persons contacted ••••••••••••••••••••    77 


            xi)   References ••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•••...••    79 


           xii) 	 Record of interagency/forum meetings •••••••••    80 

                                                                     1

                                 EXECL~IVE   SUMMARY



    1.    The Kaduna State Water Board (KSWB) wishes to undertake the
,
    improvement of water supply to Zonkwa.      The project includes the

    construction of a dam. treatment works and distribution system.

    It is to be financed by a loan taken by the Federal Government of

    Nigeria from the World Bank.     One of the conditionalities for

    eligibility for a loan requires the Water Board to undertake through

    environmental inpact assessment of the project. in accordance with

    the World Bank guidelines.


    2.    Zonkwa town, Zangon Kataf    and surrounding villages have had

    no public pipe borne water supply scheme.      To OVercome this, a water

    supply system was designed in 1976 by Engineering and Consulting

    Associates (Nig) Limited, Kano (ECAN).       After some modifications of the

    design of the    treatment plant, tender documents were prepared and the

    contract for construction was awarded.       Civil works for Kaduna State

    Water Board offices and colony    at treatment plant location have been

    executed by a local contractor and town pipelines have been laid by

    direct labour.   The contract to supply and erect the treatment plant

    on modified design basis was signed in March. 1983.       Due to lack of

    funds the execution of all works was stopped in 1984.


          An emergency water system and treating borehole water was

    proposed in 1989.   KSWB tried to commence the project but without

    much success.


          In 1991 Water and Power Development Company Limited. Kaduna

    (WAPDECO) produced a Final Report on Rehabilitation Study of ZonkwA

    Water Supply Scheme.
                                                                  2


3.      The consultants adjusted the previously accepted scheme and its

modified treatment plant to meet actual requirements.     Furthermore,

nltcrnntive system concerning Zonkwa township water supply only, were
lnvcatlglltcd.    In all (our schemes were considered:   Phase 1 Alternative 1;

Phase 1 Alternative 2; Phase 2 Alternative 1 and Phase 2; Alternative 2.

Phase 1 is for the year 1990. while Phase 2 is for the year 2005.

Alternative 1 is for the entire sheme (Zonkva town, Zangon-Kataf and

surrounding villages) while Alternative 2 is for Zonkwa township water

supply only.

        The consultants have recommended the Phase 1 Alternative 2 scheme.

4.      The scheme consists of placing a zoned earthfill dam with concrete

diaphragm on river Kwasau at Zonkwa.    This alternative follows more economic

considerations. and requires less investment cost for a supply system to

Zonkwa township.    Water is pumped from Zonkwa reservoir via 300mm raw

wnter pump main to the treatment plant.     After treatment the water is

pumped via 300mm treatment pumping main to the 150Om' ground reservoir

on Zonkwa Hill.    From there the water is delivered to Zonkwa town via

2400m long gravity main.


5.      An environmental Assessment of anticipated or expected environmental

effects and impacts of the dam has been made.     Specific impacts are

classified as either positive or negative and assessed.     Mitigation

mc~surcs   nre identified and mitigation plans to reduce potentially

significant adverse effects to acceptable levels are proposed.

6. 	    The study shows that the positive impacts are:

(i) 	   The site for the proposed project was acquired by the KSWB in

        1980, full compensation has been paid to the
                                                                    3




                   landowners and farmers, the acquired ares has been ­
                   demarcated and since there are no settlements within the

                   acquired area. it would not incure any resettlement costs.

          (ii) 	 The dam has po.tential for multi-purpose use such as:

                   Water supply. irrigation. fisheries and recreation.

                   In the design of the consultants, allowance was only made

                   for domestic. industrial and livestock uses.   Based on the

                   projected raw water demand for Zonkwa town only (in the

                   year 2040) of 2.56 x 106m3 and Dam operational storage

                   capacity of 2.8 x 106m3 , it is estimated that the reservoir

                   can sustain an irrigation project area of about 13    h~ctares.




         (iii) 	 Zonkwa town and the surrounding villages have no pipe

                   borne water supply.   The project would ensure adequate and

                   reliable water supply.   It would also improve the sanitary

                   conditions of the town and reduce the incidences of SOme

                   of the water borne and water related diseases e.g­
                   dysentry, diarrhoea, typhoid.


          (iv) 	   The project would cause an improvement in the local

                   economy during the construction and as well as the
                   operation stages by providing employment opportunities.

          By attracting the establishment of small and medium scale
•
    processing and manufacturing industries it would improve the local

    economy and provide more job oppurtunities.
                                                                    4




        The availability of greater and more reliable source of water

would encourage the development of larger land area for irrigation
pruposes thus increasing not only agricultural production but ensuring

more abundant and all the year round availability of vegetable crops.


        The development of fish within the lake would not only be a

source of income but also as an alternative source of protein.


7. 	    Among the negative impacts of the Zonkwa dam are:

(i) 	   Short term loss of agricultural land by the impoundment of water

        in the reservoir area of 102 hectares.

ii) 	 Disturbance of biota within the inundated area.         However none of

        the plant nor animal species is an endangered species as they

        are the normal entities within the savannah region.


iii) 	 Malaria is already endemic in the area.        There is a likelihood

        that the impoundment of water behind the dam would cause         an
        increase in the incidence of the disease.


8. 	    The possible mitigation measures to the negative       impacts are:

  i) 	 Afforestation of the reservoir rim to encourage the       ~ecovery     of

        the biota.   Possible trees to be planted      should be evergreen

        trees of economic value.


 ii) 	 Seeding       the reservoir with fingerlings      of tilapia and mud

        fish to control tbe population of tbe mosquito larvae.


9. 	    Necessary measures to improve the environmental quality of the

        area are:
                                                               5


  i) 	 Rehabilitation and proper organization of the facilities for the

        disposal of waste water solid wastes and storm water runoff to

        prevent the pollution of the reservoir.


 ii) 	 Regrassing and offorestation of the valley slopes to minimize 


        erosion and sedimentation of the reservoir. 



iii) 	 Encouragement of good agricultural practices such as contour

        tillage, proper use and management of fertilizers and pesticides

        to minimize any harmful environmental impacts on the lake •
  •

10. 	   Measures to minimize social conflict within the area should include:


  i) 	 Demarcation and the establishment of grazing tracks leading to 


        possible watering sites around the reservoir rim. 



 i1) 	 Fencing of farmlands along the grazing tracks to prevent livestock

        encroachment.


iii) 	 As an alternative to lOCi) watering points can be provided

        downstream of the bridge to avoid contamination of the reservoir

        by animal droppings and prevent livestock encroachment of

        formlands around the reservoir.
                                                           6


1.0   POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAME WORK


      Kaduna state 1s vishing to undertake the Zonkwa Water Supply
Scheme.   The project is to be financed through a loon the Feder"l
Government of Nigeria is expecting to take from the World Bank.      To
be eligible to benefit from the said loan. the World Bank has

requested the Kaduna State Water Board to undertake a thorough assess­

ment of the Environmental Impact of the proposed Zonkwa Dam on the

environment.


      This assessment viII then satisfy the recommendations of the

Nigerian Federal Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA); and the
Operational Directive 4.00 of the World Bank.
                                                            7


2.0     PROJECT DESCRIPTION


2.1     TECHNICAL ASPECTS

        Underground water supply for Zonkwa town is not feasible because

the underlying basement complex rocks are poor in groundwater yield.

In addition, there is the probability of pollution of the groundwater

by seapage from pit laterins.    The best options for the supply of

potable water for the inhabitants is therefore by harnessing stream

flow.

        The Zonkwa environ    is hilly and dissected by drainage channels

many of which lie in deep gorges     suitable for the creation of dams.

In a survey, various sites were found favourable.     However, the present

site was recommended because of the handicaps of the other sites.

These handicaps include having to relocate the present highway bridge

by diversion or putting it on the dam crest, which would necessitate

increasing the width of the dam crest.


        From these considerations the present site was proposed because

it is cheaper, would not affect the road and would at the same time

store enough water to meet the needs of the projected populations of

Zonkwa town and surrounding villages.     The foundation material was

found adequate for the construction of the dam,     the site is near the

demand centre and the water vill be supplied using minimum amounts

of pipelines thereby reducing costs.


        The present proposal is to pump vater from the reservoir to

the treatment works located adjacent to the dam, where the water shall

be treated.     The treated water is pumped to the 1500.3 ground tank on

Zonkwa Hills.     From there, the water is distributed to the demanding
communities by gravity.
                                                                  8

2.2        LOCATION (See Fig 1)
       The project consists of a     d~Jtreatment   works and distribution

system.    Tho project are4 is located 2km south-weBt oC ZOllkwa town and
SOm oust     of the bridge on River Kwasau on the Aachia-Zonkwa road.

Zonkwa town is situated on a relatively low but dissected ridge, which

constitutes the watershed for three important river basins: the Kadune

River Basin drains the area north of the town. the Gurara River Basin

drains the area south-west of Zonkwa and Mada River Basin drains the

south-east area.

       In the $outh. of the town are the Zonkwa Hills.
                .."                                          The town is

sepcrnted from these hills by River Kwasu. which belongs to the upper

reaches of River    Babban~c   Kogi Kachia. a tributary of Gurara River Basin.


2.3.   Ecologicnl

       Lying on a dissected ridge. the Zonkwa landscape consist of

rolling hills and the drainage valley on which the River Kwasau

establishes its course.        South of the town within the catchment area

are the Zonkwa hills which house the extension of the Kurumbi forest

reserve.    Tne hills generally comprise of the basement comple:: rock

outcrops with their diverse mineral and weathered components of

granitic. feldspathic and qunrtzite fractions.        The degree of weathering

is from low to medium giving shallow soils that are usually concretionally

and sometimes highly cemented. giving impervions        layers which obstruct

intrcprofile drainage.     This encou:-ages soil erosion which appears as

extensive sheet erosion at the upper slopes and gullies at the middle to

lower slopes where appreciably deeper soils occur.
                    · ....
                             ;
                I
            I                       ~
        I                    ,...
    .
~
Q
                                        $

<
;:?:
~                                       ~
;.~
0
N

                                            $
'0"'"

-
7­
0
1-'
-:c
U
0
...J
W
j:


-
t.:!
:r­
~
g
C/)

n.
:s
"'.



~
                                                            10


        The vegetation· is mostly of the Savanna type.   Major tree

species found include - Locust bean('arkia clapertaniana), Shea butter,
(Butyraspermum Raradoxum) among a diverse and rich population of shrubs
whose magnitude and diversity depend on the degree of man's disturbance.
From the adjacent forest reserve. it is visible that these shrubs are

capable of growing to appreciable heights forming secondary strata

population within the Guinea Savanna Vegetation.    Along the course of
the River Kwasau is a belt of riparian forest which consists of a
selected plant population an assemblage of different plant community of

various vegetative groups especially when undisturbed by farming and

residential purposes.


2.4        SOCIAL

        There are 3 farming households identified; the Hausawa, Kaje and

the settled agropastoralist.   The Kajes are the original settlers in

the area; with Raimai family being the original owners of the project

area.   This land area was acquired from the family in 1980 and compensa­
tion duly paid by the KaduU8 State Government after demarcation.


        Land holding and the use of land is the main basis of rural

socialization processes and socia-economic organization.     Its

propenderance on subsistence agriculture constitutes the main issue of

multiple resource use along the banks of River Kwasau.
                                                                11




       There are two types of land use encountered in the project
area, and especially along the river banks.        These are:    Small holders'

farming (with less than one quarter of a hectare per individual); and

livestock grazing.

       The total farming households according to data kept by the

Water Board in Zonkwa, is 300.     Host of the farmers using the area

reside in Zonkwa township and eidan Ramai.     For the acquired land the

customary law regulating the ocupation of the land. whether cultivated
                                               ~



or not have been revocated.   In other words the customary tenural

arrangement which recognised the rights of the decendants of Ramai

family to control and lease the land and water in accordance with their

status as hairs to the land. has been compromised by the compensation

paid by Kaduna State Government.


       There is hardly any public water supply system in the town.

The population of Zonkwa, for its water supply, depends largely on the

hand dug wells.   During the dry season, the water levels of these wells

drop considerably and the water supplies become inadequate.          A few wells

provide a little water for some establishments in the town but

the greater part of Zonkwa is in urgent need of portable water supply.

There is no well organised drainage and solid waste disposal aystem.
                                                          12 




3.0        BASELINE DATA
3.1 	     Description of Dam, Treatment Works and Distribution System

        The complex will consist of a impoundment whose operational
and maximum elevation will vary from 839.9m MSL to 841.4m MSL
respectively.    This will be harnessed by an earth dam whose charac­

teristics are given in Table 1.
                                                   13



Table 1:      Zonkwo Dam feature. (Source:    WAPDECO, 1991).

Max. height of dam                    16.1m

Length of dam crest                   115m

Dam crest                             842.4m MSL

Maximum water level                   841.4m MSL

Spillway crest level                  839.9m MSL

Elevation of river bottom             826.3m MSL

Type of dam                           Zoned Earth Dam with
                                      concrete diaph=agm wall

Width of dam crest                    5.Om

Down stream slope                     1:2

Upstream slope                        1:3 

Reservoir area                        1.021cm2 


Catchment area                        22km2

Dead storage capacity                 0.65 x 10 6'm'    \'1~l>
Operational storage capacity          2.8 x 10 6 m'

Gross storage capacity                3.45 x 10 6 m'

Type of spillway                      Baffled chute plus auxilliary
                                      spillway
Spillway crest width                  30.Om
Spillway capacity                     10Om'/Sec.
Average water demand at 2040 AD       13718m'/day.
                                                           14


          The dam crest shall be constructed with compacted fine core fill

while the upstream and dOWDstream slopes will be compacted coarse shell

filled.     Overlying this fill on the upstream will be a filter layer.
The downstream will consist of chimney filter and horizontal filter
below the compacted couarse shell fill.     On   the top of the upsteam
and downstream fills is a·.rock rip-rap layer of coarse granitic material.

This material is also used on the dam toe drain.      The materials of fine

to coarse fill materials are expected to be available from the lower

to middle slopes of adjacent terrain. while the rip-rap granitic material

can be obtained from the blasting of prevailing rock boulders within
                          .   ,
the catchment. ,;- ~~

          Apart from the dam. the project will include the errection and

completion of the treatment works as well as the construction of      th~

delivery and supply lines which will be divided into 2 major mains ­

the Zonkwa transm1ssion/gravi;y mains of lS.Skm external pipe networks

for Zonkwa and Madauchi village and the Zongo Kataf main of 3S.9km.

These are however of different dimeters.     Storage tanks of 2.497ms

capacities will be located at Hadauchi (Water Tower) Zangon Kataf

(balanCing tanks) and on the Zonkwa Hills.       There were later proposed

in revised schemes to include a 300ams water tank on Zonkwa hills for

Zonkwa township only in view of the highly disproportionate investment,

operation and maintenance costs of the extensions to Bafai Gora,

Kankada Fadaya Gida and the main extension to Zangon Kataf.

          There will also be the treatment works consisting of the Raw

Water treatment main, the treatment plant. the Kaduna State Water

Board Colony and the gravity main to Zonkwa township.       The treatment

plant propper will involve an aeration, oxidation - prechlorination,
                                                       15 





coagulation and flocculation, settlement and clarification, filteration,

pH. - Correction and Stevilosation units.     These will involve

the following structures:

-..   An eration structure
      Clariffier of 160~~Jh capacity

      Filter: inlet channel
        I •



      Rapid gravity filters, 4 Nos inch. air scom and backwash equipment. 


      Wash water overhead tank of 122m3 capacity' 


      Chemical station housing: 


      Chemical dosing and mixing equipment (for Aluminum      sulphate, 


      Lime, Sodium alginate). 


      Chlorine room 


      Chemical store 

      Laboratory 


      Office. 


      Treated water pumping station 


      Treated water reservoir of 475 3 capacity 


      Generator hosue, store and workshop 

      Water supply and drainage system 


      Internal road system. 



The KSWB colony will consist of:

(a)   Water Board Office

(b)   Cashier room

(c)   Senior staff house

(d)   Junior staff houses
                                                               16 



(e)       Utility houses

(f)       Gate house
(g)       Fencing
(h)       Water supply and drainage system

(i)       Internal road system.

3.2'      Biological Characteristics
          Three ecosystems are recognisable within the area under

reference.     These are the terreatial ecosystem, the wetland ecosystem

and the aquatic ecosystem.        The terrestial ecosystem occupies a major

part of the 22km2 catchment. while the      wetlan~   covers the flood plain

of the river which are periodically waterlogged or submerged during the

rainy season.       The aquatic ecosystem comprises the River and a few ponda.


3.2.1       Terrestrial ecosystem

          Within the dam area. forty-three plant families vere represented.

These were identified by genera as shown in Appendix 1:        Terrestrial flora.

          The woodland was dominated by Detarium microcarpum.         Monitor

lizards were recorded.       Foot-prints of foxes and droppings of small

antelopes and various species of snakes were observed in the area.              The

indegenes indicated there used to be a lot of game animals, the names

of some are included in Appendix 2:        Wildlife of the reservoir area.

Those animals not observed during the survey may have migrated as a

result of human activities.

3.2.2      Wetland ecosystem

          The major feature of the wetland ecosystem is the dense riparian

forest.    The main trees at the forest are Erytbrophyleum africanum and
                                                        17 





Pseudocedrella kotachyii, Afzelia africana, Daniellia oliveri,
Lannea acidad and Raphia vinifera.    Other species found in this
area are shown in Appendix 3: Non-woody plants of the riparum

forest.    The Erythrophleum africanum (Caesalpiniaceae) was

identified as a highly poisonous plant to animals.

        Like the terrestial ecosystem, the wetland also includes

agricultural lands which within the catchment area are cultivated
with twenty-six crop species as shown in Appendix 4: Cultivated

plants of the reservoir area.     Similarly 16 species of a combined
flora of the two ecosystems were identified by the    h~rbalist     a£

plants of medicinal value.     The list of these is presented in

Appendix 5: Medicinal plants of the reservoir area.

        The taxa observed were typical of Savanna Woodland.    No

endemic taxa were observed.

3.2.3      Aquatic Ecosystem

        During the survey of the project area, water samples were
collected for biological analY8i8 from the river and one of the

observed ponds.     From the analysis, fish, amphibians, invertebrates
and algae population were identified.

(a) 	   Fish:   Table 2 shows the relative composition of species of

        fish sampled in the river and also in a small pond of about

        1.5m deep and having a surface area of about 30m2 •
                                                                        18 





        Table 2:    Relative composition oC the fish IIpoeiea sAmpled.
                                               River                        Pond
                                       Total no.                Total no.
Family spicies                         of fries Wt(p)           of fries           Wt)nm)

  i) CICHLIDAE
     Oreochromis niloticus                7            0.9         5                0.6

     Tilapia zilli                        4            0.3         3                0.2

 ii) CLARIIDAE
          .1
     Clarias gariepinus                   3            0.2

iii) CYPRINIDAE
     Barbus rapax                          3           0.1         7                0.2

 iv) CYPRINODONTIDAE
     Aplocheilichth;ls sambiensis          2           0.1



     Fishing activities were not observed in the river during the period of

     the study.     This could be due to one or a combination of the following

     reasons; the seasonality and the shallowness of the depth of flow of

     the river.


             Adult and tadpole   frogs(Xenopus~)         were observed in the pond.

     and only toad tadpoles were observed in the river.


     (b) 	 Invertebrates:

             Table 3 shows the species composition of invertebrates sampled

     in the river and pond.

             There is preponderance of the immature stages especially nyphs of

     Ephemenoptera both in the pond -     Cloean~'           66% and River 40%.      Kembers

    of the    Odona~'   were represented in the river by Pseudagrion wellani.

     28% and Pantah flaveseens. 9% both of which are clean water species.
                                                      19 



 Table 3 Aquatic Invertebrate Species of the study area

                                       POND               RIVER
      Species                      % Composition      % Composition

 1.   Anisop varia (Hemiptera)           16
 2. 	 Ranatra sp. (Hemiptera Water 

              Scorpion)                   2

 3. 	 Poissonic sp. (Hemiptera 

              Belastomidbug)             2
                   2.3
 4.   Cloeon sp. (Epbemonoptera)        66                   39.5
 5.   Hydrophilus sp. (Coleoptera)       2
                                               ,
 6.   Chironomus sp. (Diptera)           8_
 7.   Flatworms (Platyhelminthes)        3

 8.   Leeches 	(Hirudinae )              3
 9.   Pantala 	flaveuscens (Odonata)                          9.3
10.   Paeadagrion Wellani (Odonata)                          27.9
11.   Gyrinus sp.                                             2.3
12.   Caenodes ap. (Ephemeroptera                             2.3
13.   Helochares ap. (Coleoptera)                            16.3
                                                             20 



      The Order Hemiptera vas found maiDly in the pond samples;

Anisop varia, 16%, Poissonia, 2% Ranatra ap •• 2% and in the river
only Poissonia. 2% vas present.

      Mosquito larvae vere collected from calm vater in a rocky section
of the river upstream.- The balckfly vector of river blindness

(Orochorerciasis), and the snail (80lanus sp) vector for the
causative agent for Bilharzia were not observed in the samples from

the reservoir area.

(c)   Algae
      The algae taxa collected from the pood and the river are shown
in Appendix 6.   Their numerical abundance are indicated as dOminant,

very common, common, rare and very rare.
      The dominant filamentous alga in the river was·Spirogyra spp.
and in the pond, it was a combination of Spirogyra and Oedogonium sp.

Oscillatoria SPP. especially   ~.   limnetica was the most common blue­

green alga.   Other very common alga were Scenedesmus spp. and
Rad~ococcus n~batus.    The diatomaceous taxa were common in the pond
and river and were composed mostly of attached species.      In general
the algal taxa vas very diverse.
(d)   Zooplankton

      From the river sample, rotifers vere tbe most dominant (42%).

These were represented by the following species:      Brachionus sp.
(22%), Polyathra (6.0 %), Keratella sp. (lO%), Asplanchna sp. (4%).
      Members of the class Crustacea constituted 26% of the zooplankton

population.   This was represented by Cammarus sp.     (4%), Bosmia sp. (7%)
Daphnia (5%) and Cyclops sp. (10%).
                                                             21 





         Roundworms were represented by Deroa sp. (2%) and Rhabditis sp
(4%).     The class insecta was represented by   ~   sp. (5%) and Chaeborus
sp. (6%).     Segmented worms were represented by Clossiphonis sp. (3%).
Tara which could not be identified constituted (10%) of the tars

available.
         In the pond water, there was a high occurrence of rotifers

(46%).     These were represented by Brachinonus (20%), Monostyla sp.

(10%), Keratella sp. (8%) and Lecane sp. (8%).       The class Crustacea

(32%) was represented by Gosmia sp. (3%), Daphina sp. (7%), Moina sp
                                             ,
(9%) and Cyclops sp. (13%).     Roundworms were represented by Diplogasteroides
sp. (3%) and Rhapditis sp. (5%) Clossiphonia sp. (4%) and unidentified
tara (10%).

         The species diversity of the zooplankton was lower in the pond
samples than in the river sample.     However, there was a higher

population density of the zooplankton in the pond sample than in the

river sample.

l.3      Raw Water quality
         In the original designs by Associated   Consulting Engineers (ACE)

1976 made analYSis of the water quality.     In the present study a sample of
the raw water from the river Kwasau and a representative sampe from one of
the ponds were taken for laboratory analysis on the 24th May 1991 after
the onset of the raining season.     This is however a point analysis       to
give an index of the water quality.
         Table 4 shows the results of water samples analysed.       It is observed
from the table that most of the cOncentrations of the measured parameters
fall within the World Health Organization (WHO) standards for drinking
water.    However the sulphate and calcium concentrations of 275mg/1, and
101mg/l respectively exceed the permissible WHO limits of 20Omg/l and

75mg/l respectively. It is observed that the nitrite concentration is
                                                             22 


      Table 4:     Raw Water Chemistry
      (Samples taken on 24/5/91)
      PARAMETERS                     STREAM                       POND

      pH                             6.2                          6.7
      Chloride                       0.75mB/1                     0.6OmB/1
      BOD                            1.0OmB/;                     3.3Omg/l
      COD                            2Omg/1                       4Omg/l
      Nitrate                     ~l
                                     5Omg/l~                      36mg/1*
      Nitrite
      Sulphate
                                   ---
                                     275mg/I··                    15Omg/1
      Fluoride                       0.05.11 
                    O.Olmg/l
      Phosphate                      O.Olms/ l 
                  0.005ms/1
      Conductivity                   93 Umbos/em , 
              175 Umbos/em

                                                   HEAVY METALS
      Lead                                    Trace Amounts Only
      Cadmium                                 Trace Amounts Only
      Zinc                           0.105ms!.1              0.12618g/1
      Iron                           10.54mg/1               6.7o.g/1
      Boron                          0.05mg/1                O.lOmg/1
      Copper                         0.157mg/l               0.105mg/1
      Aluminium                          HD                          NO

      Total Hardness                 313. 12mg/1                  353. 5218g/1
      Calcium (Bardness)             101.0Omg/1                   222.28mg/l
      Magnesium (Hardness)           SI.S4mg/1                    31.8918g/1
      Hanesium (in solution)         3. 16mg/l                    5. 5918g/1


(2)   Sample taken on 18/6/91
      Sulphate                       19Omg/l
      Nitrate                        7./1..
      MPN                          f'30j100ml
,
                                                        23


inexplicibly high and further tests would be necessary to ascertain

its true value.   Also the water is hard with total hardness of 313mg/1
and it is slightly acidic.

      If the water is impounded for public water supply, adequate
treatment for hardness removal and disinfection will be necessary.
                                                         24




      Analysis for phenol, pesticide fractions,surfactants,
.organochorine, polymer. Aromatic Hydrocarbons and Total- Organics
were not conducted because the required chemicals and materials

were not made available in good time.
                                                                              25
              3.4 	 Socio-economic

              3.4.1     Population and Urban Expansion

.. .                  The projected population results given by (ECAN) Engineering
              and Consultants Associates Nigeria Limited (1976) for 1990 and
               (WAPDECO) Water and Power Development Company Limited (1991) for 1990

              are 9092 and 22500 respectively; and for the year 2000 are 12285 and

              27500 respectively.    These figures vary significantly because of

              the differences:
                (i)   in the base figures used and

               (ii) 	 in the growth rate figures.

                      It was not possible to validate these figures but indications

              during the reconnaissance survey show that the figures of ECAN are

              on the low side.

                      Earlier development and expansion of Zonkwa Town were

              concentrated on the lefthand side of the Kachia - Zonkwa Road.         The

              existing situation shows that the town has expanded rapidly and that

              expansion has been more on the righthand side of the road and

              extending towards the proposed reservoir rim.

                      Zonkwa consist of the Kaje. Hausa/Pulani communities and other
              non-indigenous communities.    Each community has distinct cultuTal
              habits.    The Raje. the Hausawa and the non-indigenous community of lbos,

              Yorubas and others. primarily form the resident population.          But as the

            ./ normadic Fulanis adopt the practice of agropastorialism, they are
       -"

              being 	gradually intergrated into the resident population.      However,
                                                       26 



there is the periodic presence of a considerable number of normadic

Fulanis in the area.   Some degree of inter communal marriages
especially between the Hausa/Fulani and Kajes exist.

3.4.2 	 Occupation

      Presently there are no major industries in the locality.     A

large proportion of the population practice agriculture while the

others are shopkeepers, market stall owners, traders; or work in

motor mechanic and welding garages, timber mills, restaurants,
hospitals, cottage industries (e.g. locust bean) and Government
offices and institutions. 	                    '

      The Kajes are the original settlers and hence the primary
land owners.   The agropastoralist identified in the earlier. part

of this report lease the land from tbese Kajes for cultivating
arable crops while their cattle are grazed over the catchment area.

Oral evidence (from the Sarkin Zonkwa) attest to the willingness

of the Kajes to lease land to such agropastoralist Hausa/Fulania,
although permanent structurea on such lands are forbiden, these
structurea if erected revert to the original land owners when the
period of lease expires and unrenewed.   This practice is geared
towards discouraging disputes between land tenants and owners.

Despite this, opportunitiea for direct land purchase exist purely on
individual negotiations.   This contributes tremendously to solving

problems associated with land disputs, thus ensuring peaceful

co-existence, and encouraging social and economic interaction between

the communities.
                                                                 27 





the communities.          On   the conclusion of any land negotiations,
the Chief is notified for reference purposes.             Occasionally,
conflicts occur between the Fulani and the arable farmers when
the grazing cattle cause damage on farm lands.             Generally. the owner

of the cattle is expected to pay for damaged crops after

assessment.of the economic value of the damage.              Farms along

grazing tracks are usually fenced during the dry season when the

floodplains are put to the cultivation of vegetables and sugar-cane

by the Hausa members of the community and some of the indegenous

Kaje tribesmen.
3.4.3
_. . -;   ­    Infrastructure.
              ZonkWa'1s a locai government headquarter. making it the

political nerve centre of the %angon Kataf area.              Electricity 'supply

is    :fr~       ~he   .. Rural Electrification Board and the town is yet to

be linked to the national grid.           There is a market which operates

on a weekly basis, despite this, provision shops and roadside

traders open on a daily routine.            On market days. inhabitants from

nearby villages and towns normally visit           ~o   patronise traders who

may have also come from far and near.            A branch of one of the major

banks - United Bank for Africa (VIA) is present in the area.               The
major road is the Kaduna-Zonkwa-Kafanchan road.             All roads within

the town including the feeder roads are earth roads.              The section

.(within the Kwasau river valley) of the earth road linking Zonkwa

through Ramai Gida to Kafanchan has been relocated further upstream

of the river.
                                                           28

        Zonkwa has a General Hospital and a Health Centre.      The

  hORpltnl hnA n trnining fncility for nura.a nnd mtdwtv.R.      Tile 


  educational institutions include Government Girl Secondary School 

  (JSS) and Government Science Secondary School and several primary 

  schools.   Among the Government Offices are the Local Government 


  Secretariat, Police station, Railway station, Post office and a 


  Veterinary clinic.   There is also a Project office of the 


  International Livestock Centre for Africa (ILCA) at Zonkwa. 


        The major part of the population of Zonkwa, depends on hand 

  dug wells, and the stream flow for its vateT supply.     The yields 

  from the vells are low and unreliable.    Some institutions and the 


  individuals who can afford the cost have boreholes. 


        There are no severage systems in the tOWD.    Storm vater drainage

  is by the poorly constructed and maintained open earth channels.

  Pit laterines are used to most of the homes, vhile some use

  free access bush patches on the outskirts of the tOWD.     In some of
  the modern houses, septic tanks are provided for use where vater
  supply is guaranteed.

        There are no properly organised facilities for disposing of 

  solid vastes.   The local government bas designated three collection 


  grounds for collecting refuse.    These are collected and dumped in 

  the bush or sometimes used as manure on farms.     Some households 


  farther away from these designated sites deposit their refuse 

, behind/infront of their houses.    From the Health Department of the Local
                                                                 29 





         Government Secretariat,     ~t   was observed that there is neither a

"   .
   fixed schedule of evacuating the collected refuse and that the
         Secretariat has no Tefuse containers and disposal van.         Improperly

         d~sposed    or unevacuated refuse constitute a nuisance and a health
         harzard.    During the rains, these can be washed into the res-ervoir - )

         and therefore constitute a possible sources of pollution.          The~
                                                                               ./
         is no central    f~re   fighting service in the area.


         3.4.4 	 Health

               Common diseases in the area as documented by the General

         Hospital include a high incidence of malaria, all year round; a
         seasonal ocurrence of typhoid fever and gastro-enteritis which

         reach chronic levels on the onset of the rains.          Cases of River

         blindness (Onchocerciasis), Elephantiasis and roundworm attacks are

         occasional; but Hepatitis and Bilhazia are other common diseases in

         the area.     It was noted that although yellow fever was hardly
         diagonised, the peculiarity of these diseases to the Zonkwa township

         alone is doubtful, since the hospital caters for cases from as far

         away as Kafanchan and surrounding villages which may be out side

         of the reservoir catchment area.        The. Local Authority Health
         Department has identified,typhoid, malaria and gastro-entritis

         as being the common diseases of the area.
                                                                    30
          4.0 	 ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES

                From the design reports submitted by ECAN and the revised study
          by WAPDECO. it was emphasised that the alternative water aupply acheme

.         of using borehole water is not feasible 1Dview of the underlying
          geology of Zonkwa which ia predominantly poor in ground water potentiala.

          Other alternatives like tbe pipiDg of tbe lagoro springs          were not

          evaluated.

                In view of this it is hardly possible to analyse and compare

          alternatives to the project.     From tbe revised feasibility study by

          WAPDECO, however two alternative systems of' execution of the proJect

          were evaluated.   The first alternative is to involve extensive

          transfer of treated vater to as far as Zangon Kataf. Kadauchi, Samaru.

          While tbe second alternative is a revised form supplying vater only to

          Zonkwa.   Theae alternatives are proposed for execution in two phases

          each depending on tbe base year cbosen.       Thus. pbase 1 executions are

          planned on 1990 base year while phase 2 are plaaned on 2005 base year.

                An economic analysis of these alternatives in phases is presented
          below as produced by WAPDECO.


          Phases/Alternatives       Investment Costs               Internal Rates of
                                                          NPVE
                                                                   Return (%)

          Phase 1. Alternative 1    US S 17.030.000        324           10.39 

          (1990) Alternative 2           13.349.000        835 
          8.99

          Phase 2. Alternative 1    US,    20.660.000     1094           11.06 

        / (2005) Alternative 2             14.300.000      638           10.82 

    "


         Table: 5: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES OF EXECUTION OF ZONKWA
                   PROJECT. (after WAPDECO. 1990).
                                                         31


       From the above table phase 1 alternative 2 is more attractive.
 It has the least investment cost and a reasonably high internal rate
 of return and Net Present Value Equivalent (NPVE) of 8.99% and 835
 respectively.

       The narrow difference in the investment cost between phase 1

 alternative 2 and phase 2 alternative 2 is less than 1 million US

 dollars.   It is our opinion that in view of the insignificant difference
 in the investment costs for the two phases of alternative 2.    There is

 no overall advantage to be gained by phasing.the construction of
 the project.

       It is noted that the NPVE value computed for Alternative 1

 phase 2 was calculated using a discount factor less than 10%•




.'
                                                                      32 


        S.O 	             ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT IDENTIFICATION AND 

                            ANALYSIS OF THE ZONKWA DAM PROJECT 



        5.1       Infrastructure

        <a> 	     Water supplY

                  The proposed dam would greatly improve the water supply to

        Zonkwa      town in terms of quantity, quality and regularity.       It is

        estimated that the impounded storage reservoir is capable of

        satisfing the water demand of Zonkwa upto the year 2040.

                  With the supply of pipe borne vater comes an improvement in the

        standard of hygiene and decrease in the incidence of some of the

        vater borne and vater related diseases e.g. diarrhoea, typhoid,

        dysentry.      The percentage of private bouse connections vould increase.

        Such houses would opt for vater closet systems thus decreasing the

        percentage of houses with pit latrines and improving the sanitary

        level of the town.


        (b)       Negative Impacts

                l b(i) 	 The reservoir behind the dam would cause an increase in

                       the vater table and sustain a high vater table for a

                       longer time in the area above the reservoir rim.        1n Bome
                       of the vellB less than 100m outside the proposed

                       reservoir rim the vBter table rises to vithin a metre

                       belov the ground Burface.   Where this occurs, it vould

                       affect the functioning of the Boak-avays, septic tanks

    /                  and pit latrines.
/




                  Mitigative measures

                  (i) 	 Further land development towards the reaervoir rim for

                       building purposes should be discouraged.
                                                                              33



                 (ii) 	 Septic tank evacuators mounted on trucks should be

..                                   purchased by the Local Government for the emptying

                                     the pits or tanks.   Disposal grounds should only be

                                     at designated suitable sites.


                                     The envisaged significant improvement in the water

                                     supply 	would lead to a considerable increase in the

                                     quantity of waste water.     The existing unplanned

                                     poorly 	constructed and   mainta~ned   drainage system

                                     cannot 	adequately cope with the problem and pollution

                                     of the 	reservoir by waste water would occur.


     Mitigation Measure:

     (i)         The existing drainage system should be rehabilitated and

     developed with one of the following options in mind:

                  Collect, convey and discharge the liquid waste at point/s

                 where the effluent would not cause pollution;
            or
                  Collect and treat the effluent before disposal.


                 The .fermer option is recommended because it is relatively

     less expensive.


     2. 	        .............. •

                  Roads

     (a) 	       Kachia-Zonkwa Road

                  From Table 1, the designed spillway discharges by ECAN

                  WAPDECO are 283m3 /S and lOOm'/S respectively.                   These values
                                                    34




       were derived from empirical formulae.        In the event

       the dam embarkment is overtapped. dam failure would result.

       The bridge and road embankment downstream of the dam would

       be washed away.


Mitigative action

       The spillway was designed with limited hydrologic data on

probable maximum     flood.    Further hydrologic investigations should

be undertaken to ensure       the adequacy of the spillway and freeboard.


(b)    Zonkwa-Ramai       Gida Road

 (i)   Negative Impact:

       The Zonkwa-Racai Gida Road is an earth road.       The section

       of the road in the bottom of ehe valley would be submerged

       during high water levels.

(ii) 	 Mitigative Action

       The road has been rerouted through higher grounds and it

       crosses the river valley further upstream of the present

       site.    Over the past few years due to lnck of need the

       redirected road has not been used.       It is presently in a

       state of disrepair because      o~
                                      /

3. 	   Data Gaps

               The following are areas in which the quality OL available

       or assumed data need to be reviewed.

       (a)     Estimation of gross storage   cap~city


       (i) 	 The values for the projected population and seepages

                losses.
                                                     35 




      (ii)   Irrigation water demand was not included because the

,.           multi-purpose potential of the dam was not considered.

     (iii)   The capacity of dead    storage was based on inclusive

             assumptions of sediment load.


      (b)    Estimation of spillway capacity

             Empirical formulae were used to compute the spillway

             capacity.   The estimated values by    ECI~    and WAPDECO were

             283m3 /S and lOOm 3 /S respectively.   The differences

              in the values are very significant and the conseGuences

             of dam failure are very serious primarily because of the

             Kachia-Zonkwa Road.
                                                        36 



5.2    ECOLOGY

(a)    Positive impact

       A high diversity and density of macroinvertebrates was

observed in the reservoir area.       The creation of the reservoir will

encourage the development of populations of these in the water body.


       They are important in the food chain of fish and therefore

a good fisheries potential exists for the lake.


(b)    Negative impact

       (i) 	 The creation of the dam will reduce flows significently

             down stream after cessation of the action of the

             spillway, until such a time that seepage through and beneath

             the dam becomes a major portion of the stream flow.          This

             is true of the immediate vicinity downstream of the dam.

             Further      downstream and other streams contribute to the

             flow.

                     The reduced flow, will have attendant effects.     The

             riparian forest will be encroached by non-riparian species.

             Also the growth of algae       and other macrophytes   which

             provide     vegetation cover/food for invertebrates and

             fish would disappear earlier than should have been the

             case during the dry season.       However. even without the

             lake, the river    re~ins    dry for a greater part of the

             dry season.     Sepage    through and underneath the dam will

             help alle~iate these defects.
                                                                     37 





                   (11) 	 Another negetive effect of the creation of the reservoir

                           is the inundation and reservoir clearing of a s1zeable

                           proport1on of the riparian forest.   This forest provides

                           cover, shade, food and breeding grounds for fish and

                           aquatic invertibrates.   It is also important in the

                           ecology of the river as possible nesting grounds for birds.


      Mitigation

                  The lost forest should be replaced by planting economic trees

      such as Cashew (Anacardium occidentale C.)           and Citrus (Citrus spp)

      around 	the lake outside the dravdown area.


                (iii) 	    The periphery of the lake vill be a good habitat for the

                           grovth of grasses and other rooted aquatics providing

                           sanctuaries for fish breeding and food for the development

                           of macroinvertebrates and microplanten populations.     These

                           are impor.tant in the food chain leading to fish, thereby

                           providing potentially high fish yields.


           ,	     The death and decay of this vegetation is undesirable in a
1'\
\      '
    ,~otable        water supply reservoir.    It leads to depletion of oxygen and

      production of hydrogen sulphide'          (1I 2 S) nt the bottom of the reservoir.


      Mit ii3f.".t ior-.

                  The shore line grass vegetation in the drawdown nrcn should be

      cut and 	removed annually.         This vill reduce the amount of organic

      matter 	for decay in the lake.
                                                            38



       (iv) 	    Aquatic plants which could caURe nuiRnnce RTowth in the

                 lake were Dot observed.   Despite this. it is not certain

                 how the presence of the reservoir will stimulate growth

                 of these plants.


                      The management should be aware of this and effect

                 immediate control by mechanical removal to forestall

                 the spread.


        (v) 	    The lake will provide a good breeding ground for

                 mosquitoes with attendant increases in the incidence of

                 malaria and yellow fever in the environment.


Mitigation.

       The encouragement of the following local fish species:

       Tilapia     Zilli, Oreochromis linoticus and Clareias gariepinus,

       in the reservoir will check the mosquito population        and therefore

       control the incidences of the disease.      These fish species already

       exist in the area to be inundated.


       (vi) 	    The water storage reservoir will retain water for longer

                 periods allowing time for development of algae in the

                 water.   The present levels of nitrate and phosphates in

                 the water are not likely to stimulate algae populations

                 to the extent that would affect the   qu~lity   of the raw

                 water and cause treatment problems.    Jf increased

                 production of wastes and fertilizer   a~plication   within the

                 catchment area .
                                                                       39


                       increase     nutrient loadings in the reservoir      'there

                       is the likelihood of the stimulation of algae population.
v   •

        Mitigation measure

        (1) 	   The present human population within the catchment should be

                estimated and embargo be placed on further housing development

                towards the reservoir.

        (2) 	   Farming should be discouraged        on the land acquired by the

                government.   The area should be planted with economic trees

                as recommended above.     Also riparian forest should be allowed

                to develop.   Theae actions will reduce eutriphication       sources

                in the reservoir.


        (3) 	   The annual amount of fertilizer being used in the catchment

                at present should be determined.        Farmers should be educated

                on proper agronomic     practices.


        (4) 	   The chemical and biological quality of the reRervoir water

                should be monitored so that changes that are likely to have

                adverse effects can be detected early.
                                                                          40



              5.3      LANDSCAPE

              (a)      Positive Impact
.             (i)     The creation of the        icpoun~ed   storage Reservoir will have a

             positive influence on the terrAin.              It will give a picturesque    view

             of a lake perched in the foreground of the three directional hills

             radiating from Zonkwa.        This is a .long term, regional and irreversible

             beneficial     i~pact   of the dam project to the Zonkwa environment.             This

             is because this improvement within the 'crevics' valley between the

             rolling background significantly modifies the scenic                quality for

             possible tonrist        purposes.

     \.#      (1i)    Also, the dam project will result in the cre&tion of .cn atractive

     ~ ______ man-made fall of water from the spillway crest when viewed from the
    \)
             main road bridge to Zonkw.c toVD.           Although a beneficial impact, tree

             planting along the eastern edge of the road will significantly mask

              this fall from general road users like drivers to avoid              distr~tion


             which may result in accidents.            Such developed forest will provide

             reasonable shade for interested viewers using the space between the

             ro&d and the dam embarkment as well as screen them froQ general road

              traffic.


              (iii)      The erection of balancing, storage and diRtribution tanks will

             significantly improve the developmental outlook of the town if these

              tanks, which arc lo:ated on higher elevations are attractively

             decorated.      Alternative to the        ~ttractive decor~tions,     the development

             of tree vegetation around such tanks will             si~nificently    reduce their
                                                  if
             visual nuisance especiall::L such pressure            balancin~   and 5tornge tanks

             are constructed at       g~ound   levels.
                                                   41

     (b)     Negative Impacts

     (i)    The inpoundment of water behind the dam wll1 entail the removal

     of the woody vegetation within the reservoir which is mostly of the
..
     dense riparian forest and 	the secondary scattered shrubs of the savanna.

     Before the inpoundment       the removal will expose the contrasting bare

     and uneven land creating such erosive features like gullies at the

     lower slopes.    This erosive feature within the landscape result in

     reduced scenic quality.


     Mitigative measure:
              The afforestation of the reservoir shoreline and its sorrounding

     laud area will significantly reduce the erosivity of the adjoining

     lands and £lso contribute     positively to the scenic quality and    he~ce

     improve the landscape quality.


     (ii)     From the feasibility reports it was recommended that fill

     material and other raw materials for the    da~   project be sourced within

     close pro::imity to the project to minimise costs of transporting them.

     Invest1~aUons    show the river bed to be a suitable source of fill

     material while the         granitic outcrop 1.6-2.4km S.E. of the dam could be

     exploited for the Rip-Rap material

     under controlled blasting.     The blasting of the harnging outcrop will

     cause disorganised packing of the rock surface. disturbing its natural

     blend with the vegetation and the topography.       This qUDrrying action

     which may affect the surrounding vegetation may cause a significant

     lowering of the landscape 	quality.

     Mitigative measure:     Quarrying on the Zonkwa hills with minimum distur­

     bance of the surrounding vegation should be restricted to the eastern

     side of the hills rather than the western end      overlookin~   the reservoir
     and Zonkw8 town.     This will minimise the reduction in landscape quality.
                                                         42


     5.4      AGRICULTURE
     (a)      Positive Impacts:
     (i)      The completion of the dam and its storage reservoir will make
..
     for the multipurpose use of the reservoir.       With a diverse population

     of planktonic life. a reasonable supply of fish food will be available

     to encourage a sizeable fish population to develop.          Among the varieties

     of fish identified. Tilapia zillii and Oreochromis niloticus               have

     the highest reproductive rate followed by the mud fish (Clarias sp).

     Despite this the mud fish has the highest economic value.           They will

     thus support a viable fishing industry among the populace.

              During the reservoir clearing, the strategy should be to cut               ,
                                                                     .. ----
                                                                        -......----­ /'.....
                                                                                         "  '


     and carry the woody plants while remaining vegetation         i~":>i To

     undertake this at least cost, the Zonkwa inhabitants should be

     involved in the wood harvest as they will eagerly cut and cart away the

     wood for firewood.     Subsequently the remaining vegetation should be

     burnt.    In cutting the riparian forest the villagers should be advised
                              'I',
     to cut about 30 cm above the ground level       so that the remaining stumps.
                                                                            \
     can still act as potential support to spa&.1ningO    fish.      ~\11 ,1 .

     (11)     The reservoir will attract the normadic Fulani and his flock.

     The provision of water will encourage grazing and pastoral farming, to

     increase the output of       beef, milk and butter in the area.             ~l~~
                                                                                       //

     (iii)    Similarly, the availability of the storage reservoir is an

     inpetus to the resident population including the Fulani agropastoralist

     to be involved in irrigated agriculture.       The plateau like summit S.E.

     of the dam site and the flood plains on the middle course of the river

     are suitable for irrigated agriculture if the farmers can afford the

     required irrigation pumps.       As the need to increase agricultural output
                                                             43

         Through irrigated agriculture gains importance. the primary use of.

         the reservoir as a source of drinking water should always be borne

         in mind.     This calls for'good agricultural practices' in the use of

         fertilizers and pesticides to minimise their    WOS)I   off into the

"   .
   reservoir.     From example. the quantity and quality of fertilizer to

         be used must conform with those recommended after detailed soil testing

         programmes.     Pesticides of high residual effects should be significantly

         discouraged while the methods of their application should favour

         point application as against diffused application.

         (b) 	      Negative Impacts

         (i) 	      The construction of the dam and its storage reservoir will

                    result in a loss of 102ha of agricultural land.

                    Field investigations show that at maximum water level. the

         reservoir will inundate 11.4ha of good agricultural land mostly ot

         Fadama Lands and the surrounding slopes.     Although accurate figures of

         originally displaced farmers are unavailable. the 300 farmers who lease

         the land from the Water Board as of now remain a significant proportion

         of the agricultural population - who will be displaced by the project.

         Payment of compensations to the earlier land owners by the Kaduna

         State government, transfered the ownership of the land to the Water Board

          and ensures that the present tenants will in the short run be

         displaced from agricultural lands when the project starts.        This can

         probably cause land use competition for arable land by the displnced

         tenants.     In the long run however, it is hoped that the displaced

         tenants will readily adjust because they are alwaYR made aware of the

         temporary nature of their tenancy.
                                                          44 





Mitigative Measure
          As the execution of the project is expected to take off soon.

the board should withdraw all allocations to the farmers to enable

them prepare for the acquisition of alternative farming sites.          Also.

the Water Board may if resources permit. assist displaced         fa~ers     in

land clearing at reduced costs to open up alternative farm lands.

This will significantly reduce the social problems irrespective of the

fact that the government through the Board had earlier acquired the

land and the tenants are non-paying.


(ii)      As &coro:lary   the withdrawal of a sizeable 71.4ha of

agricultural land will result in a loss or 107.1 tones using an

average yield value of    ~    tones/ha   f~r   the more commonly grown crop ­

maize in the reservoir area in the rainy seaSOD.          In the dry season

when about l8ha of good and fertile flood plains would have been

cultivated, a loss of 304 tones of sugar cane          and vegetables will

result.     This is in using an average yield figure of 8 tones/ha for

both crops.

Mitigative Measure

          Subsidised land clearing will encourage an early recovery of

the production sag.


(iii)       The execution of the project will cause a rise in the water

table.    This will probably cause waterlogging and drainage problems

within the soils bordering the reservoir.


Mitigative Measure

          Surface drainage can be enhanced by the maintenance of field

drains on these soils.     Similarly, the selection of crops more tolerant
       (tv)    The increase in agricultural activIties within the catchment

       as a result of the stored water may expose the sorrounding slopes to

.. 
   soil erosion and enrichment of the reservoir with nutrients •


       Mitigative Measure
               Encouragement of appropriate trees like citrus on the acquired

       slopes will minimise soil   erosio~   and also generate revenue.   Similarly

       good agricultural practices involving use of appropriate quality and

       quantity of fertilizer on the basis of soil testing and appropriate

       tillage practices like cotour ploughing and ridging will not only

       reduce erosion of the slopy lAnds but also check the quantity of

       agricultural pesticides and fertilizers from being eroded into the

       reservoir.


       (c)     Key gaps exist in design data by the two earlier consultants

       (EC~)   & WAPDECO) showing significant differences in computed water
       demands but neither included the agricultural demands (for irrigation)

       in their multi-use computation on the reservoir.      Therefore it was

       only roughly estimated that the reservoir can accommodate irrigation.

       This is because if the dam is constructed according to the specifications

       given in Table I but its water supply use is restricted to Zonkwa town

       alone, then there is enough water to sustain a reasonable amount of

       irrigated    agricu~ture.
                                                           4b
5.5    RECREATION

(0)    Positive Impacts
       As a result of endemic problems of food, shelter and clothing,

there is low appreciation of recreational qualities in Nigeria.
                        ..
Despite this. the inpoundment of water behind the dam will significantly

improve the quality of the area which is a conntryside, with an

attractive landscape.     For Kaduna city dwellers, the area will offer

multi-purpose opportunities for picnics. point fishing and bird-

watching.   It also has scope for improvement especially with the

presence of a forest reserve (Kuru_bi Forest Reserve) on the background.

This use should be closely monitored to prevent indIscriminate

deposition of litter and other wastes which will interfer with    th~


quality of the raw water.    Irrespective of the poor appreciation of

recreational values. it is expected that not less than 5000 persons

would be visiting the area for recreational purposes in a year.     This

is deduced from estimates of visitors to the Zonkwa. Kafanchan and

Zangon Kataf area for recreation.


(b)    Negative Impact

(i)    On completion. the project and its storage reservoir will be

an attraction to the youths who may wish to exploit it for swimming

This can result in high incidences of drowning among the youths of

Zonkwa in view of the close proximity of the reservoir to the town.

Also higher incidences of contamination may result from their

swiming activities.
                                                     47


Mitigation measure


            The reservoir area should be pstrolled frequently to

prevent encroachment by youths.    This will reduce drowning accidents.

Swimming should be prohibited and the prohibition should be

enforced.
                                                               48 


5.6        LOCAL   ECONO~rr


(a)        Positive Impacts
(i)        At the construction phase of the project numerous civil works

will be undertaken.           These require both skilled      semi.skilled

~nd    -    unskilled labour.       These may directly come from Zonkwa town

or from the surrounding villages.           Although figures are not available

on the number of persons of different            categories that will be

employed at this stage, it is estimated that the number is 200.              The

estimate is based on the volume of civil works planned.               The

employment of these persons will significantly contribute to the local

economy of Zonkwa.            On completion however. it is estimated that 50-60
permanent jobs of different categories will be created for smooth

operation and maintainance of the dam and water treatment facilities.

(ii)       The availability of portable, wholesome water will be an

inducement for the establishment of more cottage and processing

industries, thus enhanCing the local economy.


(iii)       Increased agricultural output through increased fishing, and

crop-husbandry (due to irrigation activities) will boost the local

economy.      These need to be closely monitored to avoid undersirable

agricultural practices like fishing with herbal poisons and

indiscriminate uses of fertilisers and pesticides to cause contamination

of the reservoir.

(b)        Negative Impacts

(i)        The acquisition of good fadama lands for the reservoir area

withdraws a sizeable area for agricultural production and hence

cause a reduction in agricultural output especially in the short run.
                                                                  49

        Mitigative Measures

               The payment of compensation     will remove the short term
P   ,
        consequence mentioned above.    This provides the financial resources

        to develop other   farmlan~.   Moreover. the allowance for irrigated

        agriculture within the watershed will drastically compensate for any

        short fall due to the above.
     5.7      LOCAL COMMUNITY

     (a)      POMltlvu Impact
     (i)      The project will not inundate any settlement or community

•
   It will thus not require any resettlement.     This is further enhanced

     by the early land acquisition policy of the area by the Kaduna State

     Government.     As such. development structures could not extend to the

     reservoir area.


     (b)      Negative Impacts
     (i)      The presence of the reservoir will attract the nomadic

     Fulani and his cattle. increasing their number in the area.

     This may probably lead to increased inter-communal friction

     due to grazing animals encroaching on farm land.     Such

     intercommunal conflicts are presently very low averaging 1 per season.


     Mitigative Measure

              The esignation and demarcation of grazing tracks and reserves

     within the area can be done by the relevant ministry (Ministry

     of Agriculture and Natural Resources).     Where such trscks traverse

     farmlands on approach to the watering sites (other than the reservoir

     area) fencing of the farms lands on the routes will significantly

     prevent cattle encroachment.     This will so reduce the inter­

     communal conflicts between the nomadic Fulanls and the farming

     Kajes.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .... ~:. >,
                                                                                                                                                                                                          -.-   • 1"




                                                                     CONSTRUCTION PHASE                                                 OPERATION PHASI                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,
                                                                                                                                                             ./
                         PROJECT
                             CHARACTERISTICS                                 .
                                                                             I                                                                                     ,                                               i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                            1
                                                                            .                                                                                                           51

                                                                             - .• -....
                                                                                                          ..,
                                                                                                      ... III         _


                                                                           . :.   i~
                                                                                        a ..  .
                                                                                              :             ..           .
                                                                                                                         •
                                                                                                                      _ .:1
                                                     III                   .
                                                                  ..:s ...t e~    ..   ~
                                                                                       .. ='
                                                                                               .!I        o

                                                                                                           j...
                                                                                                                     ....
                                                                                                                     ....
                                                                                                                      B~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,i
                                                     0
                                                                 .... • ... .                  ~  1.
                                                                                                   .. !... .... .., .... !
                                                                                                      ...... III      0                                                                                                         ~:'


                                                                                                                ­
                                                                                                      " III 0         Col
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;ft,

                                                                  ; .... :! :: .. J : a
                                                     iI: =
                                                                                       .Ifj    ..
                                                                                                                                                                   ...
                                               .,
                                                                 '3                 • 3::
                                                                        ..... 1 '3 ....... 3 '2 B l! ~_ ~ !. 1 .., i ...
                 ENVIRONMENTAL                           D                              ~
                                                      ! t !
                                                                                                                                            II    •

                                                                                                                .. i .
                                                                             0
                                                                                    •••
                        COMPONENTS
                                                      t ! ~
                                                         =
                                                           ...
                                                                     i
                                                           .. ~ I: t.= .. .. :Jat'"
                                                               • It ... .. ... 8   ... .., .... ! ! . t ~ I .... :;;
                                                      :: - j i i ] Si :I & .I ... .: .I t: , i ;i ~ ] i .. oS .I
                                                                                       ..      lot
                                                                                                      .. ;0....
                                                                                                            i
                                                                                                                v
                                                                                                                   ..
                                                                                                                      I



                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                      ..
                                                                                                                                        1.                                I



                                                                                                                                                                          It
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .
                •                                    ...
                                                     III    III
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ',




                                            l>( [)( ~ IX IX' I)l                                                            ~ ~                  ,;.   rx                ><
                 Land UII
                 LandlclDa auallty
                 T.rrestlal ecoIYlte. ;
                                            ~
                                             )(      ~   i)(
                                                             [)( ,,~
                                                                     I)(
                                                                            IX
                                                                          .' ><               .'
                                                                                              •
                                                                                                     ~
                                                                                                                    !X I>C ~
                                                                                                                            IJC >C
                                                                                                                                                       [)(
                                                                                                                                                                         X
                                                                                                                                                                         X
                                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                              " ., ,



                 rr.shwater SCOIYlt..                > >:                                            )(             X             [)(            ~ 1)(                   IX
                 Watland .COIYlt••                  .>
                                                     ~                       ><                      [X             X             ex             IX D<                   IX
                 Air QUIUtY                          >                )(                      rx
                 Wlter QuaUty , Quantlty )c          X                                               lX             ~             )(                   D<                D<
                 No1.. and vibration.       I)                       lX lX
                 Solid vaet..               !)( ~ ')( ~                     IX                       ~                                                 ~
                 Htarant population             IX X V                                                                            X                    r>                IX
                 Reaident population                            IX>< ><                                                           ~                    [)                IX
                 Social interectlon
                 Coamunity ,tability                       p( [)( ~ [)( ~                                                         X[X                  ~
                 Cultural/Rell.ioua valu••           (X                                                                                                rx
                 Food , ARriculturl produce IX       [)< )       )c                                                               lX                   ~             D<
                 Local aconomy              [)( I')( X >C X ~                                                                     Dc: IX               ><         D< rx
                 Ea!ploYllent               ~ IX X ~ ')c )(                                                                       D< D<                )c         rx                                               !of


                 NoualnR                              )C )C ~ ~                                                                                        )          D<'               •
                 Infra.truetursl ••rvice.             ~ >C 1)( ~
                                            [>( ~ ~ I~ IX I)'(.
                                                                                                     rx                     ~)(   rx I)<               X
                                                                                                                                                       I)(
                                                                                                                                                                  D< I)(
                                                                                                                                                                         I)(
                 EmerReney .enic.a                                                                                  D<            ~

                         FIGI 2:    HATRIX   or     ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT          or   T1l1 ZOttlCWA PROJECT                                                                                 LEGEND                    ,




                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                                                         YES IMPACTS                   i


 ,
                                                                                                                       .                                                       )(        UNCERTAIN IMP.   A~Tsj
                                                                                                                                                                               .        .~o IMPACTS . t'               J
.1­   .,,> .......~.~

                                                                                                                            •




                                   TABLE '\:             SUHHARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF ZONKWA DAK PROJECT
                                                                                      .
(a) PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
(al)         ECOLOGY
                 Factor                    ••
                                          D cripUoD of impact                     Nature and Ext.nt of Impact                 Significance
 '.I.)   Notifi.d site. afflct.d        Rivlr lw•••u flood plain.     Reservoir ar.a of about I.02km2 primarily used for    L, A, IR. St.
         by propo.al                    and part of the adjoinina     arabi. crop. (rainfed and irriaated in the dry
                                        110p••                        ••••on) .nd ara.ina inundat.d.

U) Ecoloaical aonl:                     Biah, For••t land.                      1.21
   Con••rvation .tatua and              M.diumt Htx.d Gra••land and
   1 of total .urvlY arl.               woodland                                19
                                                                                                                            I. A,   n. Lt
   aff.cted
                                        Lowt 'aratand/Gralina land.
                                        and oth.n                             79.81

iii) Eff.ct on a•••rvoir                Exi.tin, Fi.hary              S.riou.ly improve fi.h dlv.lopment                    S.B. a. Lt
     and Riv.r Ecolo,y                  Pot.ntial Fi.h.ry             Pot.ntially hiah-with manaa••ent a. Fi.h Far.ina      S. B. a. Lt
                                        Al,al Growth Pot.ntial
                                        New Habitatl:                                             ,
                                               -
                                               Dilea.a V.cton
                                               -
                                               Hiaratory bird.
                                                                      Pot.ntially hiah - local Nui.ance
                                                                      Enhanc. habitat. for miaratory bird. .nd other.
                                                                                                                            L. A, a, St
                                                                                                                            L, B. a. St
                                                                                          ..                     . . :...
~
B - Blnefidal
A - Adverse
L - Local
S - aeaional
a - Rev.rsible                                                                                                                               \II
                                                                                                                                             N     I t~
Ia - Irr.v.r.ibl.
Lt - Lona t.ra
St - Short t.m                                                                                                                                     t   .j
         ,
                                                                                                                                                   j..   j
                                                                                                                                                   :1 .  I
                                                                                                                                                   j     ,
                                                                                                                          •
                                                               __ '1.­



                                         ,                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                        i
                                          \


       Table 6 (Cont'd)

(a2)   LANDSCAPE
       Impact on Existinl               Dam           Not visible from public vantage points but live an attractive
       Landscape caused by                            man made fall.                                                   L, B, I, St
       the project                      lteaervolr    Fundamentall, chanle the character of the valley                S, B, II, Lt
                                        Other works   Minor impact throulh erection of treatment work. diltribution
                                                      linea and auppl, tanka                                          S. A, B. II, Lt
       Scope for restorinl'             Dam           Limited tree plantins around the political office and ~eyond.
       modifyinl landscape formed                     to the valley
       by the project               I   Ile.ervolr    Conliderable tree planting - veletation of drawdown aone
                                        Other worb    Some potential for landscapinl the main leduna-Zonkwa
                                                      road in the area around the bridle

(a,)   ACRICULTURE
       Total area of alricultural
       land lost                        I02ha         Maximum area inundated by the relervoir
       Best quality land as
       percentage of affected area I 701              Moilthy lood quality Fadama soill.
       No. of farm holdings                                                         ,
       affected                         300           Annually leased from the Water' Board on application            A. R St
       No. of farm buildinlS            Nil
       affected




                                                                                                                           \,It
                                                                                                                           \oJ
                                                                                                                           ,. 





                                           "
                                                                i\ 
                                                                     1

        Table 6 (Continued)

       Annual production from     Rdnled
       Affected farm holdings     Maize a. the representative   107 tones   Mild and disproportionately high loss of
                                  crop @1.S ton/ha                          these agricultural produce                   S. A. R, St
                                  DRY SEASON
                                  Vegetable.                                Con.iderable improvement in production
                                                                304 tones   e.pecially under irrigation to improve
                                  Sugarcan.                                                                              S, B, R, Lt
                                                                            tbeir .gricultural productivity.,     '
                                  ALL SEASONS
                                  Animal hu.bandary                         Provision of .c.rce w.ter to .ncourag.
                                  - Beef                                    C.ttle gr.zina/pa.toral farmina leadina
                                  - M11k                                    to con.iderable incr•••• in output of
                                                                            the.e.                                       S. B, R. Lt
                                  - Butter

('4)   RECREATION
                                                                            Encourage fi.bina aa .,bobby                 L. B, Ill. Lt
       Effect on recre.tion.l     F1ehina
       activities
                                  Bird watching                             Ha. biah potentialitle. for encouraglng
                                                                            diver.e bird ne.tlina' and hence encourage
                                                                                       .
                                                                            bird watching                                S. B. Ill, Lt

                                                                                       •
       Recreational development   Water area                                45halexpectedlY earmarked.
       potential and level. of                                              60ha for recreational purpose.
       use.                       Average use                                                                            S. B. R. Lt
                                  (Patronaae)                               5000 people/yr.
                                                                                                                            f
                                               ,



                                                                                                                                  ,.,.
                                                                                                                                  '"
                                                                                                                                     ,. 




                                                \

                                                                               -..;;




          Table 6 (continued)

(as) TRAHSPORT/COHUUNlCATIONS           Arm   UTILITIES
          Diversion/Relocation of       Major road            None
          routes of communication       Hinor road            None
                                        Feader road           31aa redirection of • feeder road to the market centre,: SE of       L. At 11. St
                                                              the town for fear of inundation by the reservoir
          Secondary utilitiea            Seva,e diapoul       Provision of portable water will enhance clean aanitnry
                                                              diaposal of aeva.e in ceaapools and aoakaway pita                    S. Bt 11. Lt
                                         Liquid waatel        Diapolll of liquid vaatea in rehabilitated aurface drain.            L. B/A lltt Lt
                                         Public cODviniencea Proviaion of public toilet. for uae by tranait population.            S. Bt R. Lt.
                                         Solid waate diapoaal Diapoaal van a and aupporUn. refuae bina to be provided by
                                                              the Local Authority to rid the town of dbmeatic solid waste.
                                                              into auitable land fill 8ites                                        S. B/A, IR t Lt
(a       , LOCAL ECONOMY
     6
           Job lost                                           about 300                                                            L. A. It. St
           Temporary joba provided                            about 200 man/yrs                                                    L. B, R. St
           Permanent job provided                             SO - 60                                                              S. B. It, Lt
(b)       LOCAL COMMUNITY
(b )      COllllllUniU.es affected at    Reservoir works
     t    construction atage                                                                                                   I

                                         Aqueducta works      HIL
                                         Diversionary works
                                         Construction Traffic
          --




                                                                                                                                            uo
                                                                                                                                            uo
                                                                                                           11




                                                              i\ 

       Table 6 (Continued)


(b )
  2
       Communities .ffected .t   Reservoir worke        NIL
       operation st.ge
                                 Hilt.tory popul.ce     Probable increale in inter-communal conflictl   L. A. R. St

                                 Recr.atioR activity/
                                 traffic              I NIL



 (c)   HISTORIC AND CULTURAL



                                                    I
                                                                                             ~


 (c l ) Hiltoric or Cultur.l     Lilted buUclingl       NONE
        sites affected
                                 Historic litel/
                                 buildingl
                                                        NONE
                                 Archaeological
                                 dtea




                                                                                                                 '"
                                                                                                                 CI'
                                                          57 



6.0             MITIGATION PLAN FOR THE ZONKWA PROJECTU


          Table 7 shows the implementation schedule of effect    ~itigation

          measures.

 (i) 	    Inter-ministerial consultations and action plans will need to

          be undertaken between the parent Ministry of The Water Board and

          other relevant ministries such as Agriculture. Health. Youths

          and Social Welfare and Works and Housing.   Such consultations

          should be held on and when necessary to draw up action plans.

          It is envisaged that these consultd1on"and action plans would

          be held before commencement of the civil works.

(ii) 	         Design modifications in view of over and under estimation

          of notable parametetlshould start before project implementation.

          These designs may be technically reviewed to take care of

          omitted parameters.   Such design modifications undertaken at

          the early stages before the implementation of the project will

          significantly save costs in terms of avoiding unnecessary

          variations.


(iii) 	        Afforestation will involve the transplanting      of notable

          woody species.   It is considered as one of the cheapest ways of

          correcting many undesireable impact like creating improvement

          in landscape quality, protecting the soils against erosion and

          the provision of necessary protection to spawning fish.      In

          view of the time needed for their establishment. the forest

          trees will need to be raised prior to the commencement of
                                                                  58 


                          Before and                                                      1996
                            1992                                                    .and beyond


Interminiaterial
Consultations and
Action plans

Design Modifications


Afforestation


Manpower Recruitment
and Training


Surviliance and Routine                                      ".    _     -   __ : - - .          "'Ii."


monitoring                                                                    --­          -       -



Mechanical Control of
Macrophyte (Water
plants)



Seeding the Reservoir
with relevant fish
fingerlies


Waste Disposal
Facilities

Drainage Rehabilitation




Table 7: 	 Implementation Schedule of the mitigative measures for the Zonkwa
           Dam project.

          It is scheduled that construction will start in January 1993 while
          commiSSioning is in October 1995.
                                                                59


         construction to facilitate their maturity before the project

         reaches completion.   However. the construction stages of the

         project should be executed with due consideration to the tree

         seedlings.   Economic trees among these can significantly

         contribute to offsetting costs of development ·of the forest.


(iv) 	        The manpower requirement for smooth operation and main­

         tenance of the project need be assured before the project is

         commissioned.   To this end.   ~raining   of relevant employees

         may be the most viable option if direct employment prove

         difficult.   This training may need to start at least 2 years

         to the commencement of the construction so that the trainees

         on qualifying can still familiarise themselves with the

         construction and later maintenance procedures of the project.

         To arrest labour movement. trained staff may be bonded to the

         board, during which period assistants are attached to the

         trained personnel to understudy him •


. (v)          Inspection and routine monitoring is another measure

         highlighting the occurences within the dam and reservoir.

         This is to enhance safety. and the conformity of the water

         quality to acceptable limits.     The monitoring and inspection

         will highlight immediate changes occuring on the dam. reservoir.

         and surrounding ecosystem for the causative       action or agent to

         be identified and removed or corrected.       Such monitoring and

         inspection need to commence right from the construction phase.

         Also within the time scale it is ideal that environmental

         monitoring and inspection begin from the first quarter of         199~.
                                                               60 



           towards 	the completion of the dam civil works.

  (vi) 	         Mechanical control of some undesirable aquatic plants
           such as algae and water lettuce that will interfer with the
           operation of the dam and reservoir will become the most
           practicable   alternative in view of the contaminating effect
           of chemical control on the reservoir water.    It is therefore
           necessary that at this planning stage. human activities such as

           farming. urbanisation and watering of animals resulting in

           Eu~rophi~ion      are prohibited within and the surrounding

           reservoir area.

 (vii) 	         The biological control of mosquito larvae is a viable

           option in view of the possibility of chemical control      contam~~ating


           the water for drinking purposes.   With the expectation that a

           seasooal rainfall can impound the reservoir to capacity, seeding

           the reservoir with the relevant finger lies of tilapia and

           mud fish should commence in the 3rd quarter of 1995 after the
           commissioning of the project.   This is to prevent stressing
           the fingerlies by the turbulent mixing of the infilling water

           into the reservoir.


(viii) 	         Waste disposal facilities need to be procured to deal

           with the expected increase in the generated waste and to protect

           the reservoir.    It is expected that procurement     and introduction

           of these facilities to start in the second quarter of 1993 and

           be completed in first quarter of 1994 to prevent the outflow

           of domestic and other wastes into the reservoir.
                                                             61



(ix) 	        The existing drainage   systems are inadequate and are in

         a state of disrepair.   Before the coming on stream or the project

         especially the reservoir. the rehabilitated drainage system to

         cater for aqueoDl   wastes, and storm water flow should be ready

         to divert these away from the reservoir, hence the system should

         be introduced between the first quarter of   199~   and the first

         quarter of 1994.
                                                              62


     7..0                    MONITORING PLAN



     7~1     Guidline directories for instrumentation. monitoring and

"   maintenance of the dam are given in Appendices 7 and 8.        These
    should     be followed closely and the aspects recoDDDended carried out

    regularly.

             The lake's shore line should be monitored closely for activities

    that may alter the shoreline and sources of pollution like dumping

    of wastes oils and cattle dung in the water.


             Any observable changes in the dam wall should be reported

    promptly     to appropriate authorities for immediate attention to

    forestall pending desasters froa dam failure.

             Regular inventory and assessment of aquatic vegetation to

    determine any trend that will jeopardise the use of the reservoir

    be undertaken on routine bases from the second quarter of 1994.

    The chemical parameters to be analysed for on routine basis are

    presented in table 4.     Other parameters to be monitored will include

    transperature and temperature profiles and dissolved oxygen.

    Temperatures should be measured at various depths to detect

    evidence of stratification.


            Biological monitoring of lake water should include chlorophyll

    content, al8ae taxa and their densities.     The coliform counts should
    be estimated at regular intervals.      Invertebratetauna should include
    an estimate of mosquito larvae and snail populations.     Fish catches

    by sports fishing (using hooks only) should be monitored to estimnte
                                                                         63

              harvest. and prevent indiscriminate exploitation which will hamper the

              purpose of the fish in the lake.

                    Regular monitoring of the metereological information to establish
..   .
              the actual hydrological condition of the river should be carried out.


              7.2    Manpower recruitment and training

                    Associated consulting   Engine~rs   (ECAN) Limited report of 1976

              recommended a number of staff to handle the operation of the system.

              We recommend the adoption of their recommendation.     In,addition we

              wish to stress that works inspectors or seRior technicians be trained

              to adequately handle the monitoring of the lake.     These staff could

              be trained at the National Water Resources Institute, Kaduna.       This

              should commence from the first quarter of 1992.     Laboratory facilities

              already exist at the treatment works which will take care of the

              monitoring if properly equiped for the purpose.


              1.3   Government Policies and Inter-ministerial cooperation

                    If the recommendations made in this report are adopted by the

              government as workable policies for the reservoir the water quality

              will be enhanced.   Also, there is need for quick response by

              executive directors of the water board to findings and recommendations

              of the monitoring staff as concerns the water quality and mitigative

              actions to forestall adverse effects on water quality.      It is

              necessary for the cooperation to exist between the Ministries of Water
         ./
              Resources and Agriculture for the effective management of the reservoir.
     ~       f     i __


             i ..
                               ....
                            ,:..::J

                           ". . . -	
                                       ',.
                                                                                                                                                    64
             I

             .	
             t                                              APPENDIX 1:
                                                            ~.~
                                                                                           --
                                                                                           -:;:r       ,-;

                                                           ••
                                                                  '~   "':
                                                                                    .  .....
                                                                             ...... .;,.
                                                                                                   '   .         ...    :'


                                       1.        Acanthoc••• - Hysrophlln auriculate (SChWOBCh) (:?) Jldne
                   .
                  •	                   2.        Amyrillic:laceae - Amorphophnllus abY8sinlcus (A                                             ~lch       r:.E Dr (1)
                    "                            Crinum ornatun (A.1t.) Burg. (2)
                        , .' ,.,       3.~····   Anacarc1iac.ae - Mansi!e" indica Linn. (1)
                                                                       Lannea acida                                    ~. Ri~~.   (1) 

                                                                       Comreiphora ker5tlngli                                     ~nsl.   (3) 

                                                                       Pseudocedrella kotschyii (Schwent.)                                               ~s      (1) 

                                                 Annonaceae - Cleistopholis Eatens (Benth). Enb. (1)
             f
             1	                                                        Annona senegalensis Pers. (1)
             i
                                                                       Uvar1a chamae P. Beauv. (1) 

     .,j           ,1, 
               5. 	      Apocyanaceae - Rauvol!ia calf'ra sand.        .--                                            .,#

                                                               - tanaol~hla o,-Iarlends P. Beau
                                       6.        Arallaceae -	 CUBsonlaarterl Seeman. (~)
                                       7.        Bambaceae - Celba pentnndra (Lim.) Gaertn. (1)
~.
                                                                                                             l
                                       B.        eaesalp1n1aceae - Erythropheum af'ricanum                                            (~elw   & Benth (1) 

             ,

         "
                                       9. 	                       /    - Diallum SUineense.Wllld. (2)                                                                    ..
                                                                       - Atzelia a!ricane Sm. (1)
                                                                       - Cassia sieberlana DC (1)
                                                                       - Daniellia oliveri (Rolfe) Hutch.                                                & (1)
                                                                       -     Plllost!;;m~                               thonnin;;!1   (SchUIZI~     l-:ilne rt.H. (3)
                                                      .     ~    - Detarium microcaiIum Guill & R.a. Per (5)
                    '. 	                               .         - cassIa rotundI!o a (1)
                                                 Carlacaaae - Carica papaye LInn. (1) 

         I

         I
                  "':.
                                       9.
                                      10.
                                        Cnochloapermaceae - ChochlosDermum tinctorum A. Rich (1)

                                       /'

                                   11.  Combretaceae 	 - Combretum 6lutlnosum Perex DC. (2)
                                   12. 	                               - ADogeisBus leiocarpus DC. Guill. (3)
                                                                       - CQmbretum cacrocarpum P. Beauv. (5)
                                                                       - :erminalis macroptera Guill. & Fer. (4)
                                                                       -     Co~bret~ ni~~icar.s 	L~pr.                                   ex Guill. & Per.
                                  13.            Compositae -   As~illa                    latifolla (pers.) C.D. Adams (1)
                                                            - Emilia                  sonc~l!clia (~inn.)                           DC. (1)
                                                            - Vernonia conferta BeLth. (1)
                                                            -.Upatorium                        odcret~m                  Llnu. (1)
                                                            -   ~uttemberg1a                               n!r::rltana (:Sentr..) C1iv. :.. !Uern (1)
                               .
              r,..---.."":.- -­.-.I(P-~--------------·-···---'



                                                                                              65

                      13. 	 Convolvulaceae - Ipomoea lnvolucrata r. Beauv. (2).
                                                   - Ipomoea   e~uat1c3   Forsk. (1)

          i
                      14.     Cyperaceae - ~~rIscus umbellatus Vahle (1)
         t        .   1 S.   Euphorbiaceae -	 Bridelia ferruginea aenth. (1)
         I' 	 l
                                               - :aridelia mlcrantha      (Horch St.) Baill (1)
..J'. 	                                        -   Phyllanthus muelerlanus            (0. Ktze) Exell.
                                               - Euphorbla deightonli (1)
                                               - Alchornia cordifolla (Schum & Thenn.)
                                               - Hymenocardla acida Tul. (1) Hiull. (1)
         i .
      r                       Hypericaceae -	 Harungana madagascariensls Lam. ex POir. (1)
      I	                                                                    ,
      !	                                       -. PsorosDermum febrifugum Spach. (1)
     I

                      17.    Labiaceae         -	 Becium obovata (E. Mey.)            N.~. R~.      (1)
                      18.    Lil1Bceae         -	 Glorios. sunerba Linn. (1)
                                               - Xspararaus a!rlcanus Lam. (1)._.·
                      19.    Loganiaceae       -	 Strychnos spInosa Lam. (1)
     i:'              20.    Meliaceae         - Khaya senegclensis (Desr.) A. Juss. (1) 

     j                21.    Menispermaceae -       Clss~pelos     mucronata A. Rich. (1) 

     I                22.    Y~osaceae      - Entada africana Guill. & Perro (1)
                      23. 	 Moraceae - Ficus sycomorus Linn. (3) 

                                          -.Ficus Iteophylla     ~~,.   (2) 

                                          - Ficus exasperata Vahle (1) 

                                          - FicUS capensis Thumb. (1) 

                      24.    Y~scaceae    - Ensette gullotil (1)
                      25.    Myrtaceae - Syzg!um guineense .P. 3eauv. (1)
     f

     j                                     - Ps!dIum   gu~java   Lirdl. (1)

                      26.
'"
     !                26./ Onagraceae - Jussiaea repens var.              diftu~sa        (Forsk.) Br. (1)
                      27.    Palmae   -     Raphie vln!fera P. Beauv. (5)
                                            Borassus aethiopum Hart. (2)
                                      -    RoBhla    ~arlnlfera ~aerntn.        (5)
                      28.     Papillionaceae 	-      Rhyncho~ia al~itlora (~lm~.)             Alstan. (1)
                                                   - Cl!!.l'lnus cajen (Lirdl.)   r~il1s'p.     (1)
                                                   - Sesbania seaban (Linn)           ~·ierr!.ll.   (2)
                                                   - !:ucc.-;n '!)M;riens (Li:::n.) n: (1)
                                                     Crotalarla n<:!rn:;u".:en:::i::; Hutch. (1)
                                                   -~
       ,. 

       !




                                                                                      66

                                           - Indigorera conjur,sta           ~ak.    (1)
                                           -    Des~odlum    Gsn§etlcum      (~l.) DC (1)

                                           -    Rhynchosl~    dens1flora      (~oth) DC (1)

              aa
              29.      Poaceee   -      Eragrostis artrovlerens (Des!.) Trin. (1)
                                 - Erllp;rostls 11nco.ris (Zc.."lu.:r.ach.)           ~enth       Ney (1)
     I­
                                      Setarla-pa!llde-!'ussa (Schu:nach.) Stapf. (1)

   I                             - Cynodon dacty!on (Linn.) pers. (1)
                                      Andropogon gayanus Kunth. (1)
                                 - Brachlar!a         o~t~slrlora (~) 


                                 - Paspolum orb1culerls (Hochst. ex A.nlch) :tapf (1) 

                                 - Eleuslne ir.d!co (Linn.) Caerth (1) 

                                 - Echinochloa collono             (~inn.) Link.(1) 


                                 - Pennlsetu::n       pUr'Our~um    Schum:lch (1)
                                 - Leers1a hexandra Swartz. (1)
              30. Polygalaceae -               ~~mzxzxzl.kti.zzxtZtXB~~~
                                               :ecGrldoca    lor.8enpeauncul~ta           FreD. (1)
              31.      Polygonaceae - Foly§on~ 1~!6erU:1 a.Dr.                      c:)
              32.      Proteaceae - Protea ellot1i C.H.              ~rl~ht     (2)
   I
. ,I'
              33. Rublaceae - Gardenia aoualla Stapf. Hutch (1)
-,
                                     - l'!i trllsyna Incr:::li::; (iiilld)   C. r:tze (~)

                                     - r:anclea lati!'ol1o S::1. (2)
                                       :3orreria vertlcl1atn (Linn.) C.F. "::. IieY (2)
              34.      S8plndaceae - Trichl11a          ~       (Forsk.) :hoir (1)
              35. Sapotaceae - Butyrospercum paradoxur.. Cnertn.                           +    Hepper (j)
  ;-              ./
              36.      Sterculiaceae - Sterculia tragacantha Lindl. (1)
              37. Tacaceae - Tacca lr.volucrata Schue & tnor~.                            (1)
              38. Tlllaceae - Urena lobata Llr.n.                  (1)
              39. Ulmaceae -          Gre~1a     co!11= Juss. (1)
              40.      Umbelllferae -          ~ydrocotyl~   bonarlens!s Lam. (1)
              41.      Verbenaceae - Vltex dor.lana sweet r.ort. (2)
              4                        -   Crnell~ aro~rea       Roxb. (3)
                                       - Lentana camara Linn. (1)
              42. Vltaceae - Cissus pa''''at'l!'ldn (Eal~.) f'l:::nch. (2)
              43. Zlnglberaceae - Costus st:lec~ol11s (renzl.) 1:. :chum (1)
     -_._----­


                                                        67
                              APPE~"DIX   ; 11:

                 Wildlife of the reservoir area


p'               Hare

                 Monkeys

                 Red monkey

                 Antelopes (water buck) ­ (Bush buck)

                 Grass cutter

                 Brown rat

                 Foxes

                 Snakes

                 Crocodile

                 Porcupine

                 Squirels

                 Chimpanzee

                 Wharthorg

                 Leopard

                 Hyena

                 Guinea fowls

                 Patridge

                 Several birds including water birds.
 t·· .'                      APPEDNDIX III:   NON WOODY PLANTS OF THE RIPARIAN FOREST
                                                                                          68




                1.      Eragrostl& artrov1erens (Des!.) !rln.                   Poaceae

     I.J
                2.       Marl.cus umbellatua Vahle 	                            Cypernce3~

     i
           •    3. Setaria pallide-fuaca (Schumach) =tapf. rroaceae
  !
                4. 	     Cxnodon daetylon (Linn.) Pers.                         Poacene
     j,         5.      Andropogon gaizanusKunth.                                  "
                6.       Brachiaria obtusiflora                                    "
 i              7.      Baspalum arbicularis (Hochat. ex A.Rich.) Stapf.                         Poaceae
r
,
··1
                8. E1eusine indica (Linn.) Caertn.                              Poaceae
                9.      Echinochloa collone (L1nn.) Link                           "
               'to.     Pennisetum parpureum Schumach.                             "
 I.            11.      Vernonia conferta J3entb.                               Composltae
 !             12. 	 Cassia rotund1fol1a Pers.                                  Caesalplniaceae
               13. 	 Urena lobate Linn.                                         Tlllaceae
               14. 	    Ipomoea involucrata P. 5eauv.                           Convolvulaceae
               15. 	     Cissus palmatida (Sak.) Planch.                        Vitaeeae
               16. 	 Upatorlum odoratum Linn.                                   Compositae
.1             17.      Schwenckla americana Linn.                              Solanaceae
               18. 	 Ubdudfera arrecta Rochst. ex. A.Rich. Pa;.11Ionnceae
               19. 	 Cuttenbergia n1r.ritana (Benth.) Ollv. & Hiem.                            Com~o$itae

               20. 	 PolYgonum lanigerum R.Er •                                 Polygonaceae
               21. 	 Hydrocotyle banaviens1s            ~.                      Um'bell1ferae
               22. 	 Polygonum lanigerum R.Br.                                  Folygonaeeae
                        Ipomoea aquatica Forsk                                  Convolvulnceae
                       ,,/
                                                     .......

                        Desmod1um Ganget1cum (Llnn.) ......                     r~~illon:lceae




               26. 	 SebD-nia aesban (Llr.n.) !!errill.                         P.a:p!11onaceoe
               27. 	 Crinum arnatum (Ait.) nury.                                l.::Jyr1l1CiJ.::..ceae
               28. 	 Jussiaea       reDe~s    var   d1~fusa    .. ..•· ,
                                                              C or _r• • ,
                                                               :

               29. 	 Borreria verticllatn (Linn.) C.F.::.                    !tu1::!:lCC:lC
               30.      Eragrost1$ linear!s (Schwaach) 3 e ntb. I:ey                   Poaceae
                                                                                    69
                 APPENDIX IV: CULTIVATED PLANTS OF THE RESERVOIR AREA
                                                  ,   .


      1.       Daucus corota Linn. (:ol'rot)                                      Ullioelliiart;:<l
      2.       Abelmoschus esculer.tus Linn.                  (Ckr~)             l':a::'vaceoe
,,'            Lycopersicon esculentum 2.                  (~omatoes)             Zolonoceae
      .3.
      4·       Pennisetum sp. (;'ch1.su:u)                                        Poaceoc
      5.       Dioscorea bulbifera Linn. (Yams)                                   Dio~cor~ceae

      6.       Amaranthus hybridus Linn.                  (:~efo)                 ;~ranthaceae

      7.       Capiscum annuum Linn. (pepper)                                     Zolanaceae
      8.       Arachys hYpogeae Linn             (~roundnut)                      F~pilior~ceae

      9.       Colocasia esculenta Linn. (Coco yaml                               Araceae
      10.      Saccharium officinale Linn.                   (~ugar c~ne)                Foo.ceae
      11.      Sorghum bicolor (Linn.) I·:                (~a\o.Cl)                          "
      12.      Cryza sativa Linn. (Rice)
      13.      Phaseolus vulgaris Linn. (3eans)                                   r~pili~naceac

      14.      J.1anihot e sculentum erai tz (Ro6 o)                              Euphorti::.ceae
      15.      Zea ~ Linn.        (~~ize)                                         rouce~e

      16.      Solanum tuberozum Lir..n. (Irish potato)                             :"l:::'l'l:;ccae
      17. Ipomoe<l      batata~ (Lir~)           lam (sweet              ~c~=tc)          Convolvulocco.c
      18.      Parkia clappertoniana I:e4l:l:i (:Jorowa)                          ::ilrlo~"ceac

      19.      Raphia vinli'cra   r .::;eo:..n    (Palm wine tree)                    r:-llul:..e

      20.      Lawsonia inerr.lis l.. (L:.lle) 
                                  Lythraceae
      21.      Androoogon gayanus l:unt!':.. 
                                    r 0: C(;o.:.l.:
      22.      Psldium 6ua,jav:. :"inn. (Cove) 
                                  !·:yrt:-ceae
      2.3.     C~rica   panaLa Linn.      (pap~~aw) 
                             C~ric~cc~e
         ,/'
        ,­

      24.      Butyrdscermum   -:':lr~":'cX"..lm (~3ertn •            .:C 
 ;:C:jJpc:r    :-po:'"'.)ccac
      25.
      26.
J




         "

                                                                                     70                   ..
                          APPENDIX V:   THE MEDICINAL PLAHTS     OF TNt RESERVOIR AREA



                     .,                  ..
     .        1• 	    Uvaria Chamae P. Beauv.                                  Annonaceae
    •                 Phyllanthus muellerlnnus             CO.~tzc)   ,        !:xell. =uphorbiaceae
              2.
              .3.     Pl1iostlgma thonnln;;li (:c!';.u..) ::ilme-Redheacl                      Caesalpini~ce.::e

              4·      CUssonia barteri Seeman 	                                Aralio.ceae
              S. 	    CiSSUS    carnifolla (Bak.) Planch.                      :.::npelid~ceae

              6.     . Rhynchosia densiflora       (ao~~.)      :c             rapilionaceae
              7. 	 Erythrophleum africanum (:;el.w ex Denth.) Barms Cuesalpiniacea.e
              8. 	 Leersia hexandra Swartz.                               •     ~rCi::lineae

              9. 	    ~ichrostachys      glomerata (Forsk) C'noiv. r·amosaceae
             10.      Alchornia cordifolia (Schum &. :-llonn.) I·:ull.. Arg. Eupharbiaceae
             11. 	    Annona senegalensis Pers.                                Annonaceae
              12•     XxK Ficus iteoohylla       ....
                                                 •-.1.g.                       :-:oraceae
              13.     Anogeissusleiocarpus       CD:.)      Guill & rer.         COQbret~~eae                  ('
                                                                                                               '"
              14.     Combretum ni:;ricans Lepr. ex Cuil.l :;.. ferr.                     tt


              1S.     R3uvolfla caffra Sonde                                   A.pocyn:::lce~e

              16. 	 Royek Hausa name Botanical name not                   ~no~n.     ~ut       it is
                    from "J..canth~ceae ?a!:l1l.y."
              The plant could not be          identi~i~d bec~~se              it was nei .
              in flower.
                                                            71
                                 APPENDIX VI


                   Algae of Zonkwa Dam Project Area


            Samples collected from a pond (rich in nutfients) and material

 and the two small relatively fast (lowing streams.

 Algae Texa: 

 Stigeoclonium lubricum       (Dillw) Kuetzing 


 Spirogira Sp. Dominant filamentous Algae 


 Phacus 

 Pinmularia 


 Scenedesimus abundance 


 Voluox 


 Trachelomonas volvocina (Rhrenberg) common 


 Trachelomonas kellogii (akv) Deflandre 


 Oscillatoria chlorina Kutz (after Preny) very common 


 Scenedesmu8 bijuga (Turp.) lager heim 


 Oscillatoria mimata (Zanard) Hauch ox Gomont. (7-11ug broad) 


 Oscillatoria subbravis Schmidle. 6u broad 


 Scenedesmus guardricauda var. Westii. C.M. Smith 

 Scenedesmus acuminatus (Lag) Chodat (after Smith) 


 Scenedesmus epoliensis P. Richler 


 Ulothrix spp. 


 Oedogonum spp. (Several spicies fairly common) 


 Euglena    ~      Ehrenberg (most common Euglena) 


 Straurastum app. 


 Frarilaria 


GloeocystoB    ~      (Kuetz) La 6 •

Pa.ldornia   ~      (Huell.) Bony
                                                                                  72
               AppendIx VI(Con'd)
                        ,
               Scenedesmus guardricauda var.       ~ongispina    (Clod.) Cu.

               Ankistrodesmus falcatus (corda) Ralfs. 


               Sphaerocystis schroeCarl Chodat. 

               Radiococcus nimbalus (de Wild)       Sc~     (Common)

•
               Pandonia elegans Ehrenberg.

               Oscillatoria limnetica      Lamme~nn


               Phormidium spp.
                    r­
           _"> Cosmanium spp.
                       -.{
           _OJ 	   Staurasbrium currirostrum

                   Secredesmus guardricanda    (co~on)

               Oscillatoria limnetica

               Trachelomonas volvocina Ehrenberg

               Trachelomonas hispida yare Crenulatocollis Fa. rects Deflandre

               Trachelomonas horrida Palmer

                   Ankistrodasmus convolutus Corda

                   Trachalomonas sp.
               Diatoms

               Pinnularia mesolepts (Elu.) W.Smith var.          Mesolnpl~   (less common

               Pinnularia abanjensis yare subundulala

               Carparlogramma crucicula (Cruner CI. Ross) var crucicula.

               Nitzschia emphibia

               Comphonema angus tatum

                   Comphonema Parvulum

                   Fragilaria   brevistri~te

                                u
               Navicula ce1spidata var. ambigua

               Nitzschia filiformis (very       abund~nt)


               Navicula rhyncocephala A.V.H.
               t:
    -- "      'i
                ~omphoncma truncalium var. Ctlpltolium n01:l. nov.

               Comphonema affine A.C.C. (very abundant)
                                                                73
      Appendix VI (Con' d)

      C,
       Comphonema grunowii nom. nov.
       e,
      Comphonema parvulum A.G.C •
               .
-',
               l
       NitzschIa
       Navicula cuspidata (Kutz) Kutz var ambigua 


       Pinularia M. 


       Synedra ulan A. Kutz. Dec. rare 


      Cymbella prostrata (Berok) cl. (very rare) 


      Navicula radiosa (common) 

      C,
 -~   Comphonema spp. (Abundant attached diatoms especially in the river).
                                                                                                                                   7/.
                             I NSTKUHUiTAT JON ANU HON J TU" J N(: (:ullml. J NI-:S U I "1~C:'i'( Jf( y

                                                          "'"
                                                          tit.
                                                          ::;,
                                                          en        3                                 CI)
                                                                                                            .                 .

                                Z                         en        0                                 ;5                    en
                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                    ....J
                                ....
                                0
                                           "'" "'"        tit.                                        :r          LtJ
                                ~
                                                          A.
                                                                    .0                                 t;.        a:
                                           a: en 3 r:
                                                                                                                            ::r.
                                >
                                a:         "'" ....J en ...c
                                                      0
                                                                                                LtJ
                                                                                                a:
                                                                                                !;)
                                                                                                      ...c
                                                                                                      .., ~
                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                  ~
                                                                                                                  en        ...c
                                                                                                                            ;1
                                "'" en 0 >'" &! ::;,
                                en
                                                " ...., ....J
                                                        <
                                                          A.                                    en
                                                                                                                            ....
                                II'.l
                                0    ....       "'"       .0                                    ;j                          en

                                ~
                                     ...., .... ...:I 0 0'
                                     Z

                                ::" is .... ....,
                                           "'"        < ....,       II:              tit.        . :ac:
                                                                                                x:    .0

                                                                                                      u
                                                                                                                  U
                                                                                                                  ...c
                                                                                                                  x: ....,
                                                                                                                  en
                                                                                                                     en
                                                                                                                  .... a:
                                                                                                                            en
                                                        ....                  A.

                                                                              "'" :i !i
                                en > ....J
MEANS OF PROBLEM DETECTION      ....
                                >           ~
                                                ~ "'"     A.
                                                          !;)       3         en     ....              ~
                                                                                                       u          "'" ....
                                                                                                                  en en

FEATURE
EMBARKMENT DAM
                                                                                                                  ,I,
Upstream slope                  Ji'o                                                                                  f\o
Left/Right Abutments
                               .. ,
                               ,
                                                          ,t.­                                           ,
                                                 I'                                        ""
C:l'est                        .. ...
                               ~            .;                 I'
                                                                                                         "
                                                                                                      ,, "
                                                                                                      ...


                                                                                     ..
Internal Drainage System
                              ... Ii'                     .j,
                                                                              ,      '"                               "
Relief Drains                  •                      J                       J

Riprap & Slope Protection      •
SPILLWAYS
Approach channel                ."          • II                    .v
                                'I' •
Inlet/Outlet structure          -II              If                 ,li-
                                                                    ,
                                                          .I
                                            I
                                                                              "'I'
Stilling basin                        II                            ,I.­
                                                                    ,                                             .
                                                                                                                  'f'
Discharge conduit/channel      .. II                                .                                 ,
                                I      '                  4~        .I I'
                                                                                                      "'"
                               ,II
Control features               II'

Erosion protection                    !.o
                               •
                                ,~                             II
Side slopes                                 -1#
                                                 "'                           '"
OUTLETS & DRAINS
                                                                                                      .
Inlet/Outlet structure
Stilling basin
                                ·lJ

                                      V
                                                 "        .              "'
                                                                                                      ,               I'"


                               ';f'
Discharge channel                I,-II '                       lJ   .. ~
                                .' , "'          "
                                                                        I'                            .;    ...
Trashrack/Debris control       ,
Emergency systems                      ,
GENERAL AREAS
Reservoir surface             , ...
                               .... 1,­                                                   iI'

Mech/Elect. systems           ..                                    ...11­
                                                                    ,I'

Shoreline                      ..                                                    ..
Upstream watershed
                               '.."                                                   ,
                               ';1'
Downstream channel              .11                                           ..
                                                                              , I'   ;
                               '"
              APPENDIX VIlI: MAINTENANCE GUlDt:LINES DIRECTORY                                                                " 75, "




.' 
   REQUIRED MAINTENANCE 

       FEATURE
                                         ,,]    ~~     >    ....1Q   g:::g:::   ... g:::          LaJ    U         U




       EMBANKMENT                          ",




       Upstream slope                                                                                   '"
       Downstream slope              ,
       Left/Right Abutments                            ..
       Crest                                           ,     ,         I

       Internal Drainage System
       Relief Drains                                                                       ,
       Riprap & Slope Protection
       SPILLWAYS
       Approach Channel                                                r


       Inlet/Outlet structure                                                                           -r              -..
       Stilling Basin
                                                 ,'"
                                                                                                        .         ...
       Discharge Conduit/Channel                                                           ...,                         -,
                                                                                                                        ~




       Control features                                                                    ,
       Erosion protection                        ,                                ,
       Side slopes                        ,
       OUTLETS & DRAINS
       Inlet/outlet structure                                                                                     ,     ...
       Stilling basin                                                                                        '"
       Discharge channel                                                          ..
       Trashrack/Debris control
       Emergency systems

       GENERAL AREAS
                                                                                                         ~
       Reservoir surface
       Mech/elect. systems
       Shoreline
       Upstream watershed                                                                                    "-
       Downstream channel                 •                                                                       .,
    -,




                                                                      76

         APPENDIX IX:     LIST OF PREPARERS
•
         1. 	    Dr. J.P. Voh - (Rural Sociologist)
                 Centre for Social-and Economic Research


         2. 	    Dr. L.I. Odigie (Water Resources Engineer,
                 Dept. of Water Resources , Environmental Engineering.
         3. 	    Mr. E.H. Shaibu-I1IIOdagbe - (Environmental Scientist)
                 Division of Agricultural Colleges.

         4. 	    Dr. R.W. Bako-AnY81ll (Freshwater Biologist)
                 Department of Biological Science.
         5. 	    Prof. H. Awogbade (Rural Sociologist)
                 Centre for Social and Economic Research.

         6. 	    Prof. J.A. Ogunrombi (Environmental Health Engineer)
                 Department of Water Resources and Environmental Engineering.


         NOTE:

                 All members of the team are of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria.
                                                                                      II

     AI'I'f<:NU I X XI      1.1 trl' CU' 1'r.tt:ltJtHl C:cttHAC:'II'U


.	   DATE                         PLACE                                         CONTACT

     7/5/91 	            Kaduna Water Board                        1.             "
                                                                        Engineer Mohammed H. Ilyaau 

                         Headquarter.· Kaduna                           (AGM Project) on behalf of 

                                                                        the General Manager (KSWB) 


                                                                   2.   Engr. Shuaibu 

                                                                        Senior Water Engineer. KSWB. 


                                                                   3.   Mohammed Birnin Gwarri 

                                                                        Principal Technologist 

                                                                        Hydrology Section. KSWB. 



     14/5/91 	           Zonkwa                                    1.   Mohammed Aliyu 

                                                                        Asst. Resident Engineer 

                                                                        Kaduna State Water Board 

                                                                        Zonkwa. 


     15/5/91 	           Zonkwa                                    1.   Sarkin Kaje Zonkwa 

                                                                        His Highness 

                                                                        Auta Hagaji Binyang. Zonkwa. 


                                                                   2.   Sarkin Hausawa Zonkwa 

                                                                        His Highness Adamu YU8ufu 

                                                                        Zonkwa. 


                                                                   3.   Herbalist: 	Shabanyam Magaji
                                                                                    Yiran., Zonkwa.
                                                                   4.   Moses Saleh-Kaje Farmer
                                                                        Zonkwa.

     16/5/91 	           ILeA Office, Zonkwa                            Mr. Abubakar
                                                                        ILCA Representative
                                                                        Zonal Office, Zonkwa.

     17/5/91 	           Zonkwa                                         Dr. Akang
                                                                        Deputy Director
                                                                        St. 1.ouis General Hospital
                                                                        Zonkwa.

     17/5/91 	       Zonkwa                                             Mr. Sambo
                                                                        Med. Records Officer
                                                                        St. 1.ouis General Hospital
                                                                        Zonkwa.
                                  78

Appendix x (Continued)


17/5/91      Zonkva      Hauvan C. Sonkvai
                         Ag. Head Health Department
                         Zangon Kataf Local Government
                         Zonkwa.


24/5/91      Zonkwa      Geologist 

                         KSWB Zonal Office. Zonkwa. 


18/6/91      Zonkwa      Bello Ali
                         Ag. Head Health Department
                         Zangon Kataf Local government

18/6/91      Zonkwa       The Principal
                          Government Girls Sec. School
                         ·P.O. Box 4
                          Zonkwa.

18/6/91      Zonkwa      Matron 

                         St. Louis General Hospital 

                         Zonkwa. 


18/6/91      Zonkva      Station Manager 

                         Nigerian Railways 

                         Zonkwa Station 

                         Zonkva. 

..                                                             79

     APPENDIX   XI:   REFERENCES

     1. 	   Zonkwa Water supply scheme - Rehabilitation Study (February 1991)
            by Water and Power Development Company Limited. Kaduna.

     2. 	   Zonkwa Water supply Scheme,- Revised Feasibility and
            Preliminary Design Report (September. 1976) by Engineering
            and Consultants Associates Nigeria Limited. Kano.

     3. 	   An Exploratory Survey of the Farming Systems of Southern
            Kaduna State (1990) Published by Institute for Agricultural
            Research. A.B.U •• Zaria.

     4. 	   Methods of EtA   in Project Appraisals (1984) by Wood C.M.
            and Lee N. Published by Town and Country Planning Department.
            University of Manchester, U.K.

     5. 	   Dam Safety: An Owner's Guidance Manual (July 1987) FEMA 145
            by The Colorada Division of Disaster Emergency Services.
            U.S.A.
                                                                       80
             APPENDIX XII:    RECORD OF INTERAGENCY/FORUM MEETINGS
                                      ...   ::



•   7/5/91          lCaduna        Host:
                                   Engr. Mohammed Ilyasu AGH (Projects). KSWB.
                                   Envlted: All Consultants on Zonkwa Wnter
                                             Project (EIA - team)
                                   Present:      Dr. L.I.O. Odigie
                                                 Mr. E.M. Shaibu-lmodagbe
                                                 Dr. R.W. Bako-Anyam
                                   Inattendance:
                                             Engr. Shuaibu Senir Engr.
                                             Hall. Birnin Gvari P. Tech (Hydro).

    14/6/91         Kaduna         Host:
                                   G.H. Kaduna State G.M.'s Office
                                   Water Board.
                                   Invited: 
 All Consultants on Zonkwa Water
                                              Project (EIA team)
                                   Present: 
 Dr. L.I.O. Odigie
                                              Mr. E.M. Shaibu-lmodagbe
                                                 Dr. R.W. Bako-Anyam
                                             World Bank team led by
                                             Mr. David A. Henley
                                   Inattendance:
                                             Engr. Mohammed llyasu
                                             (AGH - Projects) KSWB.

    Summary of Discussions:

         The Consultants indicated that EIA report was not ready and promised
    to aubmit it on or before 22/6/91. Report will shov no resettlement
    required. Proximity to town increases the risk of drowning. Malaria
    already endemic but may possibly have increased incidence.              Team to
    investigate the use of bucket latrines.

    Decision: 	     Draft Report to be submitted to the Water Board (or
                    transmission to Mr. Henley at Abuja.
