                                       E2804 v3
BLlfE NILE PUBLICATIONS SERIES 

ON :VIEASLRIl\(; HEAlTH IMPACTS OF TROPICAL DEVELOPl\lENT PROJECTS




Kaduna and Katsina State Governments of Nigeria




for
HEALTH        OPPORTUNITY                  ASSESSMENTS
of Proposed Water Supply Systems of


KADUNA    STATE    WATER    BOARD

AND

KATSINA    STATE    WATER    BOARD


16 MARCH 1994




                           DlUE nILE llSSOCIllTES 

                       Consultants on tropical diseases in water resource development projects
                                            for

          HEALTH            OPPORTUNITY                   ASSESSMENTS
                     of proposed Water Supply Systems of


                           KADUKA     STATE     KATER     BOARD

                                            AKD

                          KATSIKA      STATE      KATER    BOARD




            Under contract for First Multi-State Water Supply Project


                                             for 

Conducting- public health and environmental impact study of proposed reservoirs for danestic 

water supply to he constructed near Kwoi and Kajim Spring- in Kaduna State and near Funtua in 

                                  Katsina State in Nig-eria. 

          Kaduna State Water Board 

          Katsina State Water Board 



              HEALTH OPPORTUNITY ASSESSMENTS 

             ON PROPOSED WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS 

     IN KADUNA AND KATSINA STATES OF NORTHERN NIGERIA 



                               q     oR
                               ,_'=:'l "c,




                      Table of Contents
Chapter    Title                                      Page

          SUMMARY 

1
        Description of the Proposed Projects        4

2
        Geographical Boundaries of Health Impacts   7

3
        Health Hazards for Northern Nigeria         8

4
        Human populations                           27 

5
        Mosquito Populations                        33 

6
        Snail populations                           34 

7
        Blackfly populations                        46 

8
        Geography and Ecology                       47 

9
        Reservoir Predictions                       51 

10 
      Water Quality Predictions                   54 

11 
      Bibliography                                64 

          List of Tables and Figures                  77 





                     Blue   Hile Associates
                            PO Box 542 

                    Foxboro, Massachusetts USA 

                          16 March 1994 

           HEALTH OPPORTUNITY ASSESSMENTS 

          ON PROPOSED WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS 

  IN KADUNA AND KATSINA STATES OP NORTHERN NIGERIA 





                            SUMMARY 


     A review of over 100 articles and books on health hazards
related to water in northern Nigeria, including detailed analyses
of 56 articles, indicated that the proposed water supply projects
may provide important opportunities to improve the health of the
populations to be served. There are significant health benefits
as well as health risks to be expected with construction and
operation of the proposed public water supply systems at Kwoi and
Kajim Spring in Kaduna State, and at Funtua in Katsina State.
people in the areas of the proposed projects have relatively high
death rates due to diseases, many related to water. Over 60% of
all deaths in the area are children under 5 years of age, although
they constitute only 19% of the total population. The Infant
Mortality Rate is about 170 deaths per 1,000 live births, and the
Crude Death Rate for all age-groups is about 17 per 1,000 persons.
Malaria transmission is severe and perennial, one of the most
important causes of death in Kaduna and Katsina States. Diarrheal
Disease is also a severe health problem among children. Cholera
epidemics have occurred regionally in the last decade and pose a
constant threat to infants. Both the intestinal and urinary forms
of bilharzia are widespread, and this parasitic disease has
increased around new reservoirs in the region. Fortunately the
proposed water supply projects will reduce the risk of some of
these diseases. In the communities served, provision of adequate
piped water will significantly reduce risks of Bilharzia and
Diarrheal Disease, including Cholera. The public systems will
also reduce the risk of Yellow Fever, due to reduction in the need
for households to keep artificial water containers where the
Yellow Fever mosquitos breed. The protected water supplies should
also contribute to reductions in Guinea Worm infections, but this
may be partially offset by increased risk of other filarial
infections. However there will be increased health risks for
communities near the reservoirs. The reservoirs will become
habitats for insects, snails and copepods which transmit disease,
thus creating new risks of Malaria, Bilharzia, River Blindness and
perhaps Guinea Worm. The proposed system at Kajim Spring may also
increase risk of these disease if public access is allowed.
Prediction of the relative importance of these benefits and
hazards will be facilitated by relevant computer simulations of
the diseases and the insects and snails which transmit the
diseases. Field investigations are needed on water quality for
the proposed reservoirs, especially water clarity, nitrates and
phosphorus nutrients, and temperature of surface waters.
Information is also needed on potential contamination of the water
supplies with agricultural and industrial chemicals.
LITERATURE SEARCH POR HEALTH OPPORTUNITY ASSESSMENT 

          ON PROPOSED WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS 

            IN KADUNA AND KATSINA STATES 

                OP HORTBERH HIGERIA 





     This is the first volume in a series on the Health
Opportunity Assessment of proposed reservoirs and related systems
for water supplies, prepared for the State Water Boards of Kaduna
and Katsina States of northern Nigeria (Figure 1). This is a
Health Opportunity Assessment, not a simple Health Impact
Assessment. Estimates of the positive opportunities to improve
health are an important part of this study. In the standard
Health or Environmental Impact Assessment, usually only the
negative aspects are evaluated.
     Domestic water supplies have particularly large health
opportunities. The main motivating force behind such projects is
the realization that they offer improved health as well as
convenience and reliability. These positive impacts need to be
clearly assessed in making an overall analysis of the desirability
of a water project, and in making comparisons of alternative
designs or operating programs.
     For the geographical area of interest in this Health
opportunity Assessment, a wide variety of published information
was reviewed after a thorough search of appropriate literature.
Information was found on all of the water-associated diseases,
including the biology and ecology of the insects and snails which
transmit the diseases. Considerable data was available on
geography and ecology of existing reservoirs, as well as specific
information on current bilharzia and malaria transmission around
the reservoirs.
     A number of computer simulations were reviewed which made it
possible to predict the likelihood of disease transmission around
the new water supply systems proposed for Kaduna and Katsina
States. A highly relevant computer simulation of malaria
transmission, developed during studies in villages just East of
Kano, was determined to be a useful tool for evaluating malaria
transmission around the proposed reservoirs. All of the
publications reviewed in this exercise were listed at the end of
this volume.
                                            3



                o     100          250             500
                                                      I
                                                                                       1,000
                                       graphic scale in kilometers




                                                                                   Lake Chad
                                                                                                   II'!!!I!'!!P!I!''!II




                            • 50"0'0


                     5011:0-:0 STATE
                                                     .....:.,.-
                                                         KANO STATE
                                                                   .. ~- \..
                                                                           r\      BORNO   STATE

                                                      • I(ano             .J   \
                                                                     c:
                                                         r'
                                                              .'    -,.J
                                                                _---. l '-,
Lake 
                                                   •          9AUCHISTATE

                                                                     • Dwehi
Kainji 





                                                                                    Nor t h




                                       NIGERIA
                      States, capitols and major water bodies

    pigure 1.       Kaduna and Katsina States in Northern Nigeria
                              4



1.    Description of Proposed Projects
     There are three water supply systems being evaluated in this
Health Opportunity Assessment: a reservoir for Kwoi, a system at
Kajim Spring for Zonkwa, and a reservoir for Funtua. The
decisions regarding final site selection for the reservoirs and
the spring have already been made and are not a consideration in
this assessment. Final design and operation are the aspects under
consideration at present.
     The reservoir proposed for the Kwoi water supply will be
located in the extreme southern portion of Kaduna State near the
border with Plateau State (Figure 2). It will capture surface
flows from the Phae River or the Chori River, both tributaries of
the Gurara River which is also part of the Kaduna River Basin.
     The Kwoi Reservoir will supply a reliable flow of 10.9
million cubic meters per year. An earthen dam would form the
reservoir with a storage capacity of 7.8 Million cubic meters and
a surface area of 320 hectares at full supply level. The
catchment area providing rainfall runoff to the reservoir is 63
square kilometers.
     Kajim Spring, the preferred alternative water supply for the
Zonkwa area, is about 25 kilometers East of the town of Zonkwa,
close to the town of Manchok. It has been selected to supply
Zonkwa in preference to a previous proposal for a reservoir on the
River Kwasau.
     The water supply system proposed at Kajim Spring would give a
reliable supply of 6.3 million cubic meters per year. The
recharge area for the Spring is estimated to be 33 square
kilometers of permeable soil. The Spring would be enclosed, with
minimal surface area of stored water, and minimal human contact.
                                                     5



                     Kaduna State Boundary


                                        City of Kaduna




                                                                                             -          ..... ajim Spring




             Gurara
             River ~

              ..                ....
                                8
                                                                                                 .. 

              ..
              ~
               i
                                                                                                 $I
                                                                                                 :.


             KADUNA STATE   BOUNDAR V

     ...c-   River




                     Sou'(~: "'O~I~r   Pto". KOOUtW> 5101<1 Wale,   e..<II'cI.   MRT   '9"


Figure 2.   Location of Proposed Reservoirs in the Gurara River
Basin in Kaduna State, near Kwoi on Chori and Phae Rivers, and at
Kajim Spring.
                                          6



      The reservoir proposed for Funtua is on the Gwaigwaye River,
a tributary of the Sokoto River about 300 kilometers above Sokoto
City, and 160 kilometers upstream of Bakolori Dam and Reservoir
(Figure 3). An earthen dam would form the reservoir, which would
have a total storage capacity of 5.4 million cubic meters.
The catchment area for the reservoir is 120 square kilometers
including the reservoir itself.



                                          Niger        Republic




    Katsina State Boundary                                        ..   Garl
           Bakalori Dam




                                      Mairua Dam
       Sokoto River




        Proposed dam on 

        Gwaigwaye River 


                             '2       ~
      Katsina State Boundary
                                  "(
                                  o               50   100 km

Figure 3. Proposed dam at Funtua in Katsina State, within the
Sokoto River Basin
                              7



2. Geographic Boundaries of Health Impacts
     Around each proposed project, human populations will either
be affected by the project, or conversely they will have an impact
on the proposed reservoirs through contamination of runoff. The
populations are located in four geographic zones in each of the
projects:
     (1) the disease transmission zone defined by the travel
     range of the insect vectors or of the people involved in
     transmission,
     (2) the contributing watershed zone which includes the
     entire catchment area supplying rain runoff to the
     reservoir site,
     (3) the water supply zone which includes the human 

     population which will receive their water from the 

     project, and 

     (4) the downstream zone below the dam in which the 

     normal hydrology of the river is affected. 

      Information must be gathered for each of these zones in order
to conduct the Health Opportunity Assessment. The disease
transmission zone includes two insect flight zones and two human
travel zones. The insect flight zones are defind by travel ranges
of blackflies and mosquitos. The blackflies which transmit River
Blindness have a normal flight range of 30 kilometers. The
malaria mosquitos have a shorter flight range of about 5
kilometers. The human travel zones include a the first human
travel zone for bilharzia transmission around houses which has a
maximum radius of 2 kilometers (Tameim et a1, 1985). The
second human travel zone is related to the large scale migration
of Fulani herders. These patterns of travel have been described
for the Malumfashi Project (Pugh et a1, 1980). The herd
migrations are in a general North-South direction, traversing the
project areas.
     The contributing watershed zones can be easily determined
from topographical maps. Also the water supply zones are well
defined by the planning documents. Downstream zones are
determined primarily by the distance to the first major tributary
or impoundment. Thus for each of the proposed reservoirs the
zones can be delineated for projections of disease transmission
and the numbers of people likely to be affected.
     People within the water supply zones will be affected in a
positive sense by the projects because current disease
transmission in those communities should decrease markedly when
the projects are implemented. However people in the other zones
are more likely to be affected negatively by the projects.
                              8



3.    Health Hazards for Northern Nigeria 

      Of the truly water-associated diseases, malaria is the most
prominent health hazard associated with reservoirs in the tropics,
followed by the snail transmitted disease called bilharzia. The
diarrheal diseases, including cholera and typhoid fever, are also
important health hazards associated with water. Additional
problems to be evaluated are river blindness spread by the biting
blackflies, filariasis spread by Culex or Anopheline mosquitos,
and a cattle and sheep parasite known as the liver fluke, spread
by amphibious snails. These infections can beset human and
livestock populations near new reservoirs, especially populations
which migrate into the surroundings for fishing and agricultural
activities.

     A.    Malaria
     Malaria is transmitted throughout the tropics by anopheline
mosquitos depicted below, often found infesting water supply
reservoirs. Due to resistance of the mosquitos to insecticides,
prevention by environmental modification is becoming a necessity
in water resource developments.




     Human malaria includes four kinds of infections, of which the
most important is the infection caused by Plasmodium falciparum,
because of its potentially fatal course. Of more than 200 million
people who are affected by malaria in the world, about 80% harbor
this species. The one million children who die from malaria every
year in Africa, die from infection with Plasmodium falciparum.
Next in importance is Plasmodium vivax which causes a non-fatal
but severe infection. Its public health importance is due to its
ability to spread into temperate areas.
     There are more than one hundred species of Anopheline
mosquitos, and sixty of them are important vectors - or
transmitters - of malaria. The seasonal changes in breeding of
these mosquitos, as well as transmission of the malaria parasite,
are governed by outdoor air temperatures, and also by relative
humidity. Plasmodium vivax, the temperate species, develops in
mosquitos if the air temperature is above 16 degrees Celsius. For
Plasmodium falciparum and the other tropical kinds of malaria, the
threshold is higher, at 18 degrees C. For all species of malaria,
their survival in mosquitos drops dramatically at temperatures
                              9



above 30 degrees C (Blue Rile Associates,    Handbook    Four,
1994).
     Transmission of malaria is also curtailed by dry seasons,
when the number of breeding places for Anopheline mosquitos is
reduced, and the temperature rises above the 30 degree limit. In
some areas, depending on the type of breeding places preferred by
the local vectors, mosquito breeding may also be reduced
temporarily during the rainy season due to flushing and
destruction of larval habitats during rain storms.
      In areas of heavy and continuous transmission, where malaria
is classified as hyperendemic, the disease contributes to a high
mortality in young children, and the fevers interfere with the
development and education of older ones. In rural areas where
this kind of hyperendemic transmission occurs, general community
welfare is undermined by the persistent pressure of the disease.
      In areas of lesser transmission, malaria tends to provoke
intermittent outbreaks which cause suffering in adults and
children alike. Seasonal patterns of malaria transmission - often
governed by seasonal patterns of rainfall - also often coincide
with intense agricultural activities related to weeding and
harvest of crops, thus interfering with agricultural productivity_
Many agricultural areas have been impossible to cultivate as long
as malaria outbreaks were uncontrolled.
     Water resource developments in the tropics often result in
malaria epidemics during construction of dams and canals due to:
     - increase in breeding sites due to excavation pits,
     - importation of new strains of the malaria parasite by
          migrant labor,
     - and disturbance of the social structure of the local
          population during resettlement, such as deterioration in
          housing and interruption of normal health services.
     Malaria problems can persist around such water projects after
they are completed, due to:
     - new mosquito breeding sites in impounded water,
     - creation of new breeding sites because of seepage and poor
          drainage,
     - and increased human populations in proximity to mosquito
          breeding sites due to attractiveness of project.
     Prevention of additional malaria due to water projects is
possible with specific engineering and environmental measures, but
they must be carefully designed to fit the local ecology of the
mosquito vectors, and the seasonal and geographic patterns of
disease transmission. If these measures are incorporated into
projects during the initial design stages, costs are frequently
acceptable. However when the problem is ignored, subsequent
health and agricultural losses from the disease can be large, and
                             10



remedial measures impractical or prohibitively expensive. Thus it
is important to avoid creation of the conditions favoring malaria
transmission in the initial planning stages for water resource
developments.
     Analysis of various intervention methods for malaria control
is facilitated by computer simulations of malaria transmission,
especially one developed not far from Kaduna and Katsina. A study
was begun in 1970 in Kano State which has resulted in the
development of such a model (Molyneaux and Gramiccia, 1980).
It was based on detailed biological and medical data from two
small villages and has since been tested and improved in a number
of different places in Africa.
     The computer predictions of the seasonal variations in the
capacity of the two important malaria mosquitos, Anopheles gambiae
and Anopheles funestus, gave reasonable agreement with the
observed figures for the two villages investigated (Figure 4).
The person-biting rates of the two species of mosquitos combined
was near zero the first 3 months of 1971 when air temperatures
were low, but rose slightly in April, May and June when the
temperatures increased. However the weather was still very dry
and mosquito survival was poor. In contrast, the rates during the
last six months of the year were quite high, about 20 bites per
person per night. This seasonal pattern of the biting rate of the
mosquito is very typical of malaria transmission in northern
Nigeria.
     Under these conditions of person-biting rates in northern
Nigeria, the proportion of people with evident malaria infections
(Crude Positive Rate) was very high. Roughly 80% of children
under 15 years of age were positive, while older people had Crude
positivity Rates between 20% and 50%, varying with the season of
the year. This condition was clearly hyperendemic malaria, the
most serious kind.
                                                                                                                     1 1





Bites/person/night                                                                                                                                                                                        Vectorial Capacity



       10<t5
                t·)
                /,,;,
                        -.                                                                                                                                             ..
                                                                                                                                                                            ~o
                                                                                                                                                                                .;
                                                                                                                                                                                     ....
                                                                                                                                                                                       .....     ... ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                 :     .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~ lOa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "i~


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   II


       10 1
                2'l
                                 ~                                                                                                                               >'I
                                                                                                                                                                       I                                0.                                    I-i 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .
                                           ~                                                                                                                                                            "-
                                                ~Sugungum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "
                                                                                                                                                                          ~/
             &                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...... 0




                                                            ,
                                                                                                                                                                       .c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                       M~/
        ii,. " 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ",i
                                                                                                                                                           y                                                                 ........
           '?     ~ 
           r--","                                                                          ..                                                     /"
       1   ~.     :                                                                                         ,

                                                                                                                                                      .I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "':.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               . ;j,

                                                \                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~.



                ~."
                                                    \
                                                        \                                r          .!i<i
                                                                                                            I"""'"                   ....   ij>

                                                                                                                                                  7                                                                                                 ~.



                                                            .,
                                           0
                                                                               '"
       O.lv.l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X·
                        ~




                                                            \
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                  r                                                                                                 "



                                                                \                              ( ... f - - - f,---J
                                                                                                   ~             ~~'C;£
                                                                                                                                                      Ratin Marke
                                                                                                                                                             j              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ."b.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~.




           . Q

            Qat?            1·, ;~,   ,J
                                               ".               ".
                                                                    ';'.
                                                                           , 41,.   ~   .:,.   ..           +'
                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                                                                                          ,~   • t
                                                                                                                                            Q
                                                                                                                                            ;'C fi     .     ~
                                                                                                                                                           1- .', t
                                                                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                                                                           ",.n
                                                                                                                                                                                A
                                                                                                                                                                                            ~.   - t
                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~.   ,""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~        t.:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             •.,,..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~   .. .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    >.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5~·

                                           N        D                      J        F          M                 A              M    J                           J

                                      1970 
                                                                                    1971


            Observed person-biting rates (circles) and estimated
            vectorial capacities (lines) for all anopheline mosquitos
            in Sungum and Rafin Marke villages of Kano State, 1971.

   Figure 4.                                                     (t.aken froDl Molyneaux and GraDlieia,                                                                                                                                                  1974)
                                 12



     B.    Bilharzia
     Bilharzia was formerly concentrated around the great tropical
rivers and their deltas, but the extension of habitats for aquatic
snails caused by development of irrigation and hydroelectric power
since the first World War has spread the disease to many adjacent
areas, including Nigeria (Ofoezie e't aI, 1991). Bilharzia is a
parasitic disease transmitted in a complex cycle by freshwater
snails, an infection classically associated with the Nile River.
However it is also found in the rest of Africa, the Caribbean area
and Brazil, in China, the Philippines and in the Middle East. The
disease is also known academically as schistosomiasis.




                          Shetl of planorbid snail



     Adult snails which transmit bilharzia reach about 2
centimeters in diameter (Above). These aquatic snails have found
tropical reservoirs and irrigation systems to be ideal aquaria for
rapid reproduction and growth. The number of snails in such
artificial habitats is generally linked to the seasonal duration
of water in the habitat and the amount of algae and weed growth,
which serves the snails as food and as sites for egg deposition.
     The fragile-shelled snails are typified by the ram's horn
shaped shells of Biomphalaria which transmit the intestinal form
of bilharzia (Above). The discoidal-shaped snails (Fragile Disk
Snails) lay eggs in proportion to the amount of vegetation in
their habitat. They are moderately resistant to drying and
moderately susceptible to predation, especially the smaller
species. In habitats which contain water for several months, the
stands of vegetation become profuse, leading to large snail
populations, some of which will then survive the annual dry
season.
                         Fragile           Globes

     This group includes the snails with partially elongated
shells; Bulinus, Physa and the amphibious Lymnaea. They lay eggs
in proportion to the amount of vegetation, as do the Fragile Disk
snails. These include some species of Bulinus which transmit
urinary bilharzia and are found in the Sahel of Africa. They are
generally smaller and thus more susceptible to aquatic predators
than are the Fragile Disk snails.
                                             13




TABLE 1.             SIX ECOLOGICAL GROUPS OF AQUATIC SNAILS 

Group             Snail             Egg                      Resistance to
based             genus             laying         Drought    FISh        High
on shell                            pattem                   Pl"edation temp­
cliarader                                                                erature

I.     STRONG SHELLS (Forest Group, Operculatas)

     A. DISKS
                  Marisa            Profuse, on    LOW         MOD      MODERATE
     B. GLOBES                      submerged weeds
                  (Apple Snails)    Limited,
                  Ampullaria        need strong    LOW         HIGH     MOD
                  Pomaces           surface at     LOW         HIGH     MOO
                  Lanistes, Pita    stable         LOW         HIGH     MOD
                                    water-line
 C. SPIRES
                  Oncomelania    Ovoviparous         LOW       HIGH     MOD
                  Tarebla Thiam Ovoviparous
                  Clsopatra Juga Very high
                                 reproductive
                  Melanoides     rates

II. FRAGILE SHELLS (Savannah Group. Non-operculates)

     A. DISKS
                  He/isoma          FINV*            MOD       MOD      LOW
                  Biompha/aria                       MOD       MOO      MOD
     B. GLOBES
       1. Bulinus africanus group
                    (B. Physopsis) FINV*             MOD       MOD      MOD
                   africanus
                   globosus jousseami
       2. Bulinus truncatus-tropicus group
                    truncatus         FINV*          MOD       MOO      MOO
                    truncatus rohlfs;
                    tropicus guemei
                    culbosi     abyssinicus
      C. SPIRES        (Sahel Group)
      1. Bulinus forskalii group      BURST*·        HIGH      LOW      HIGH
                    forskalli senega/ensis
      2. Bulinus reticulatus group BURST·­           HIGH      LOW      HIGH
                   reticulatus
                    wrighti

• FINV is the formula for calculating egg-laying mte which is proportional to 

food F and inversely proportional to numbers N and volume ot habitat V. 

•• BURST indicates that a single, large burst of eggs are laid upon 

I'8vival of stranded snails, regardless of food availability. 

                             14


                         Fragile   Spires
     These include snails with the long, thin spiral shells such
as the tiny Bulinus forskalli and Bulinus senegalensis. Their
relatively small apertures give them extra protection against
drying. They lay large bursts of eggs as soon as they are revived
by flooding of their habitat, even in the absence of vegetation or
food. Because they are small, they are very susceptible to aquatic
predators and are not found in permanent habitats with fish or
other large aquatic predators. Bulinus senegalensis is an
important carrier of the parasite which causes urinary bilharzia.




     A microscopic view of a pair of schistosomes (Above) shows
the adult worms which cause bilharzia and parasitize the human
circulatory system, reproducing by laying eggs into the human gut
or bladder. The eggs of the parasite (insert) then pass out of
the human body in feces or urine. If they reach aquatic habitats
of certain tropical snails, the parasite eggs will hatch and
develop into larvae which penetrate the snail and then develop
                                        15



further, after multiplying by astronomical factors. Swarms of the
parasite larvae leave the snail and swim through the water
searching for a human host to infect and continue their life
cycle.
     Bilharzia is a debilitating disease which can cause early
death of persons parasitized by large numbers of worms. The
people most exposed to water in the tropics, such as irrigation
workers, are also usually the most heavily infected. In small
villages in central Sudan which did not have safe public water
supplies, the distance of the village from the nearest snail
habitat (in this case a minor canal) was inversely proportional to
the prevalence of infection (Figure 5). In villages close to the
canals, the people crossed or used the canal much more frequently,
and thus were exposed more often to the parasitic larvae in the
water.

     '2
     i       100%
     c
     l1li
    :E
     l1li      80
     E
     Sc
    --
    .!!O
    s: ...
    all
               60


               40 

                                                   o    Medina



    0=
     -
    g

    .!
     l1li
     :>
               20

    !
    a..
                      o           500            1000             1500 Meten
                          Distance From Village To Nearest Minor Canal

Figure 5. Prevalence of intestinal bilharzia caused by
Schistosoma mansoni infections, versus distance to nearest snail
habitat in small villages without safe water supply systems, in­
agricultural area of central Sudan (Taaeill et a1, 1987).




     Of great importance to this Health Opportunity Assessment is
the value of safe public water supply in preventing transmission
of bilharzia (Taaeill et a1, 1987). In the same rural area of
central sudan, a two year study of villages with safe water
supplies showed that increases in the per capita consumption of
                                 16


safe water caused dramatic decreases in the prevalence of
intestinal bilharzia, up to a limit of about 70 liters per capita
per day (Figure 6).

 -
 .,
 U
  c 100%
  II.
        90
 l.
 c
        80                    KEY
 (8
 ';                           o From Study Zone Villages
 .!!                          "From Riche Fond, St. lucia
        70
             ~'"
  E
  S
  o     60
 i
                       ~~
 .I!
                   "   0
 U


 -,.
 f/J
 o
        50
                                            f    Most Ukely Relation

 u
        40                    o ' ...."'I'1---'~------- o
 c
 •      30

!       20-+----~~----~----,_----_r----~----~~----T_----~---
             o   20      40      60        80       100     120   140      180
                 Annual Rate Of Safe Water Consumption Ut..../Caplta/Day


Figure 6. Prevalence of intestinal bilharzia caused by
Schistosoma mansoni infection, versus rate of safe water
consumption by residents of small villages in agricultural area of
central Sudan (Taaeim et a1 1987).
                           Northern     Nigeria
     There are two kinds of bilharzia in the Nigerian states of
Kaduna and Katsina. Intestinal bilharzia is transmitted by
Fragile Disk Snails of the species Biomphalaria pfeifferi.
Intestinal bilharzia is transmitted by contamination of aquatic
snail habitats with feces from infected persons. After the
parasite develops in the snail, it comes out in another form, able
to penetrate human skin and thus complete its life cycle. The
other form of urinary bilharzia is more widespread. It is
transmitted when urine of infected persons contaminates habitats
containing Fragile Globe or spire snails of three similar species,
Bulinus globosus, Bulinus truncatus and Bulinus senegalensis.
Each species has slightly different habitat requirements. Thus
prediction of habitat conditions in the proposed reservoirs will
aid in predicting which snails can survive, and then estimating
the risk of bilharzia transmission.
                                                                        17



             computer simulations                                          of bilharzia transmission
      Bilharzia transmission has been simulated with a number of
computer models, including one well-suited for evaluating
transmission potential of proposed reservoirs. It is a model
based on the lineal meters of snail habitat in a transmission
focus. Thus the model can directly use the measurement of lineal
meters of suitable shoreline, taken from analysis of the
topography of the proposed reservoir. In addition the model
accounts for human behavior by using a correlation between
incidence and prevalence of bilharzia in the affected population.
This shoreline bilharzia model was developed with data from Iran,
and then further improved with data from St. Lucia and Lake Volta
(ROSenfield, 1975; Rosenfield, 1979).
     The model was first calibrated with data collected by the
bilharzia control program organized around the Dez Reservoir and
Irrigation project in Southwestern Iran. The data spanned over a
decade, including the period before construction of the irrigation
system and also several years after a comprehensive control
program had been initiated. Prevalence predictions from the
simple model gave fairly close agreement with observed values of
the fraction positive for bilharzia among the human population
(Figure 7).

            O~r------------------------------------------------'
                  I'r, '1"'~OIlOI\

                  '.-.2~J!~_t­       CCtl$tr"chon Phos~
                                     lrr'?~lion P'OLlf_=.;."___
                                                       -            Operotion o"d Maintenance PlIou
                                                                    If(, Ol'on PrOJect
            04

                                              l.IolI"seieidin9      Ch• ."oth.raPl
                                                  809'"'               El~qrn.


     w
                                                           .
                                                           I. _ _~_l             SelliJlooomiolh Conlrol Project
     ;>
     ;::. 03
     if)
     f)
     0..
                                                                                                             (I   Obo.e .. td Vol".,
                                                                                                         -        Pfedicle<l Velvet
     1­

     ~O£
     ct
     ....


            O,f

                                                               I)


                                                                                                     o
                                                                                                                   o
                                                                                                                             o
            O'___         ~     __   ~   __   ~   __   ~_~_~                __    ~   __   ~   __   ~    __       ~    __   ~    __- J
             f',H;'    1')(;2    196]     1964     1<;)(,5    1966      '967     t'368     1969     1910          f'iHI     1972    1913




Figure 7. Predicted versus observed prevalence rates for Dez
project in Iran, using the Shoreline Model (taken from
Rosenfield, 1975).
                                    18


     c.    River Blindness
     Prevalent in Africa and tropical America, river blindness is
spread through the bite of the blackfly. This biting fly breeds
in rapids or white water on spillways and water control
structures, and is responsible for impeding riverine development
in much of Africa. The disease is called onchocerciasis by
parasitologists. DDT, temephos and other insecticides have been
used to control the flies, but insecticide resistance poses a
formidable threat for the future of existing control programs, and
engineering measures would be more permanent for blackfly control.




                       l!IackfIy.



     The distribution of River Blindness in Nigeria closely
follows the main river valleys, especially the Kaduna River and
the headwaters of several rivers around Jos (Figure 8). However
recent surveys have shown that the disease is more widespread than
previously documented (UfOlDado et. a1, 1992). Also the
blackflies can breed intermittently in many rivers, and may be
present in areas where no human disease is observed. The biting
rate of the blackflies in these areas may be slightly less than
the critical level necessary to insure transmission of the
parasite. Low human populations can also prevent transmission.
Thus dam construction or other hydraulic modifications could
increase the blackfly breeding and thus cause the biting rates to
rise above the critical level, initiating transmission.
     Nigeria is not a member of the OCP - the West African
OnChocerciasis Control Program - a large effort which has
successfully controlled River Blindness in several countries for
almost two decades (OCP, 1993). However Nigeria has recently
begun a large campaign of its own, using drugs to suppress
transmission. This effort began in Bauchi, Oyo, Benue and Niger
States, reaching very close to the site of the proposed reservoir
at Kwoi in southern Kaduna State (Ogunba and Geaade, 1992).
This drug does not cure the infection, but reduces transmission.
Used alone, it is a rather unlikely strategy to achieve the long­
term success of the OCP. Thus new dams and spillways in Nigeria
should be designed to insure that they cause no additional
blackfly breeding.
                             19





      Figure 8.   Distribution of River Blindness in Nigeria
                  (fr08l Gockel et al, 1970).




      Computer Models of River Blindness Transmission
      Two preliminary computer simulations have been developed for
transmission predictions of River Blindness in West Africa, but
they are too complex for use in relation to the proposed
reservoirs (Remme et al 1986 J and Jerwood and Saporu, 1988).
Prediction of the impact of the reservoirs on breeding of the
blackflies will be sufficient for this health assessment.
Complete epidemiological evaluation is not necessary for such
small reservoirs.
      In Kainji Lake, extensive studies have been completed on the
extent of blackfly breeding and transmission of the disease, after
construction of the lake. In general it was concluded that the
overall effect was to eliminate a large number of breeding sites,
and to generally reduce transmission in the area (Adekolu-John,
1981; and Bdungbola et al, 1986). Some transmission occurred
around the perimeter of the lake, due to fly breeding in tributary
streams. But this had occurred prior to formation of the lake, as
well.
                             20 



     D.    Cholera and diarrheal diseases

     In tropical communities with poor sanitation and water supply
such as the open pit well in Sudan shown below, a large group of
diseases including cholera, typhoid fever, hepatitis, intestinal
infections and many others - often referred to as diarrheal
diseases - are a major cause of death among infants and children.
These are transmitted in a variety of ways but most of them can be
prevented with safe water supply and proper disposal of human
feces. The value of safe water supply systems is highly
appreciated by all members of the community who recognize the
improvement in health and convenience which they bring.




     Cholera has been occurring in epidemic form in Nigeria since
before 1980. In Kaduna State, epidemics have been occurring since
1975, with a change in the serotype of cholera organism occurring
in 1984 (Onyeme1ukwe and Lawande, 1991). This change seemed
to be due to introduction of a new strain of cholera which entered
Nigeria in the early 1980's. The incidence of cholera, typhoid
fever and paratyphoid fever are all on the increase in Nigeria
since 1982 (Sabaniyi, 1991).
     In a detailed study of gastro-intestinal disease in Sokoto,
typhoid and paratyphoid fevers were seen most frequently during
the rainy season, probably because of the increased number of
houseflies and the turbid condition of surface waters which
reduces the bactericidal effect of sunlight (Osisanya e~ a1, ­
1988). However in Calabar State cholera epidemics occurred most
often in the dry season and appeared to correlate with periods of
acute water shortage in the municipality (U~sa10 e~ a1, 1991).
     Intestinal parasites such as roundworms, hookworms and
tapeworms can also cause diarrheal disease. Only the roundworm is
transmitted through contaminated water, but improved sanitation
and food preparation due to adequate supplies of safe water in
homes can reduce this kind of parasitism in general. Multiple
infections with all of these parasitic worms is very common in
children in northern Nigeria (Akogun, 1990).
                                2 1


     The positive impact of the proposed reservoirs and water
supply systems will probably be most apparent in respect to
control of cholera, typhoid fever and other diarrheal diseases
(Tamei.. et:. al, 1984). In many areas of the Sahel, increased
availability of safe water causes dramatic and direct decreases in
diarrheal diseases (Pigure 9).

PrevaleDce of
4iarrheal 4iaeaa.
iD chil4reD

100%

                                   Annual Mean Water Consumption
   80
                                   For System Including Operational
                    Gad EI Ein-.....
   60


   40


   20


    O~----~----~--~-----r----~--~~--~----~----r---
         o    10     20    30    40     50    60     70    80      90
             Rate Of Safe Water Consumption In Llters!CapltaJDay


Pigure 9. Relation of prevalence of diarrheal disease and safe
water consumption in agricultural villages of central Sudan
(Tame!.. et:. al 1987).

        E.    Filariasis
      In urban situations, Filariasis is caused by the worm
parasite WUchereria bancrofti, often resulting in swollen limbs or
genitalia, the condition known as elephantiasis. This parasitic
disease is becoming increasingly prevalent in warm countries due
to transmission by the mosquito Culex quinquefasciatus and Culex
pipiens which breed prolifically in polluted water. As these
mosquitos have developed widespread resistance to insecticides it
is preferable to control them by environmental management and
elimination of the polluted water habitats where they breed
(WHO/vae, 1989).
                              22

     In rural situations, Wuchereria bancrofti is mainly
transmitted by some of the same Anopheline mosquitos which
transmit malaria. Such strains of the parasite are nocturnally
periodic, but in West Africa and Malaysia they cannot be
transmitted by the urban Culex mosquitos, thus transmission is
separated into urban and rural strains. The rural strain of the
parasite is transmitted by Anopheline mosquitos, while the urban
strain is transmitted by species of Culex.
     The usual result of introduction of reliable piped water to a
town which previously relied on water carriers, is the creation of
many pools of standing water or wastewater around houses in the
town. This is the result of a large increase in supply of water
without development of a drainage system to handle the excess or
waste water. These bodies of stagnant water are good habitats for
the Aedes mosquitos which transmit this filarial disease.
Although not common in the dry areas of northern Nigeria, the
disease will appear if adequate drainage is not provided.

     F.    Guinea Worm
      Another filarial worm infection found in northern Nigeria is
caused by the Guinea Worm, Dracunculus medinensis. This parasite
is transmitted in contaminated water holes where infected people
wade in to collect drinking water. A parasitic copepod in the
water infects people who ingest it accidentally in their drinking
water. The mature worm settles in human extremities, most
commonly their lower legs. At certain times of the year the worm
breaks through the skin, and can infect water bodies with eggs
when the person wades into the water.
      Safe drinking water, supplied in pipes, generally reduces the
prevalence of this disease because people do not need to take
water from infected ponds. If water is taken from such ponds, it
is recommended that it be filtered through nylon mesh with 100
micron openings, or that it be chlorinated.
                             23 


     G.   Yellow Fever and other arboviral diseases

     Yellow Fever has reappeared in epidemic form in Nigeria (Bang
et al, 1981). It is normally not a health concern in planning
reservoirs because the Aedes mosquitos which transmit the virus do
not inhabit reservoirs, they breed in artificial water containers
such as clay jars and pots (Rasidi et. al, 1989). For that
reason the provision of public water supply should have a
beneficial effect regarding this disease. As people develop
confidence in the piped supply of water they can eliminate the
numerous containers used to store drinking water. Thus the Health
Opportunity Assessment will include this favorable impact of the
proposed water supply systems.
     Rift Valley Fever is also an arbovirus with an extremely
complex natural history. It has recently invaded West Africa,
causing epidemics in the Senegal River Basin in 1987 (Jobin,
1990). It occurs during the first filling of new reservoirs and
is thus a concern for the proposed reservoirs in Kaduna and
Katsina. Although the likelihood of a problem is remote because
of the small size of these reservoirs, and because this
haemorrhagic viral disease has not occurred around any of the
numerous reservoirs constructed in northern Nigeria in the last
decade, it will be investigated further during the course of this
study.


     H.    Biocide Toxicity
     Biocides used in agriculture, such as herbicides and
insecticides, can cause cancer and other hidden health problems if
exposure occurs continuously over a long period (Tchobanoglous
and Schroeder, 1985). This could happen if the biocides are
flushed into the reservoirs and accumulate there. Field
investigations, starting with screening tests for complex
synthetic organic chemicals, are needed.
                                  24


      I.       Salt Imbalances
     Excessive nitrates can cause anemia in children, and
excessive sodium can cause hypertension and kidney disease in
adults (Tchobanoglous and Schroeder, 1985). Samples from the
sources of water for the proposed projects indicated that the
concentration of Sodium was below the dangerous levels (Table 2).
However unusually high concentrations of Nitrates in two samples
from the Kwoi project area indicate a need for further sampling.
Also, if water quality data from the Gwaigwaye River is not
available, sampling should be conducted there.

Table 2. Reported concentrations of nitrates and sodium in
drinking water supplies in project areas, in milligrams per liter
(from Parkman    and Sa.m.aila,    1993) .
Source 	          Date of Sample       Nitrates   Sodium
River Phae 	      8 December 1993      45*        4.7
                  16 August 1993       0.6        1.2

River Chori 	     16 August 1993       0.1        1.3
                  1993                 48*        5.6

Kajim Spring 	    17 June 1993         4.7        6.4

Gwaigwaye River 	 **
Recommended
maximum
concentration
in drinking
water                                  10         20

* These high values indicate possible contamination with sewage 

or fertilizers and require further investigation.

** If water quality data is not available for the proposed

reservoir at Funtua, sampling should be conducted. 

                              25 


     J.    Livestock diseases
       In addition to the human diseases related to water, there are
also livestock diseases transmitted by aquatic organisms. The
primary diseases of animals associated with water resource
developments in Africa are Liver Fluke, Ngana and Rift Valley
Fever (Acha and Szyfres, 1987) • All three of these diseases
can cause some human disease as well, but their major impact is on
livestock and wildlife. They are transmitted by amphibious
snails, Tsetse flies and ticks or mosquitos, respectively •
       Amphibious lymnaeid snails transmit fasciola parasites to
cattle, causing Liver Fluke disease. These snails inhabit marshy
shores of reservoirs, and could cause transmission of fasciola to
herds brought to the reservoirs for watering. However according
to fairly complete studies around Kano, these parasites are not
cOIlDDOn in the region, and can be disregarded (Pugh at. aI, 1980).
       Tsetse flies transmit blood parasites to people, livestock
and wildlife.       The disease in humans is known as Sleeping
Sickness, for cattle it is called N'gana in parts of Africa.
Flooding of riverine stands of trees and vegetation by the
proposed reservoirs would reduce Tsetse fly habitats, not increase
them. Thus this chronic disease does not have to be evaluated in
this study.
       Ticks or mosquitos may be responsible for transmitting the
virus which causes Rift Valley Fever in cattle, and apparently
mosquitos also pass the transmission on to people, resulting in
highly fatal epidemics around newly filled reservoirs in the Sahel
of Africa. As discussed in the section on Yellow Fever, Rift
valley Fever epidemics are unlikely in relation to the proposed
reservoirs, but the possibility will be investigated.
                               26


     K.    Environmental Concerns
      Several environmental aspects of water resource development
are closely related to human health, such as degradation of
drinking water quality in newly filled reservoirs(Hun~er e~ aI,
1993). These environmental aspects fall under globally recognized
problems of eutrophication of lakes, salinization and water­
logging of lowlands, damage to fisheries from pesticide
application to crops, and impacts on aquatic vegetation from
agricultural fertilizers (WHO, 1992).
                              Fisheries
     New reservoirs which convert flowing streams to standing
water have large impacts on fish populations, sometimes with
adverse consequences (Bernascek, 1984). Fish populations in
reservoirs and in downstream reaches of the river increase
predation on snail and insect larvae and thus reduce disease
transmission (TVA, 1946).
             Rese~~leJllen~   and   Cons~ruc~ion   Camps
     There are three general health concerns which do not fit the
usual patterns of water associated diseases, but are important for
development of large water projects. Although they are minor in
the proposed projects in Kaduna and Katsina because of the small
size of the reservoirs, they need to be addressed. The first and
by far the most important is the disease, death and trauma
associated with resettlement of indigenous human populations. The
virtual elimination of such communities after flooding of Kariba
Lake in Southern Africa is the classical example of this
(Scudder, 1965). unfortunately it has been repeated time and
time again, allover the world.
     The second general concern is sexually transmitted disease
associated with construction camps, including the classical
diseases but also the newer and more dangerous AIDS. The third is
construction related injuries and fatalities which often accompany
construction projects requiring heavy machinery, explosives, and
difficult living conditions.
                              27 



4.    Human Populations
      Most of this section on people and human population dynamics
was taken directly from a book on disease in sub-saharan Africa
(Feacham and Jamison, 1991). The book contained a chapter on
the Malumfashi District in northern Kaduna State, close to the
proposed reservoir at Funtua (Ch. 21, Tomkins et. ai, 1991).
      Three main groups of people inhabit Kaduna and Katsina States
in northern Nigeria; the Rausa, the Maguzawa and the Fulani.
Although ethnically similar, the Rausa and Maguzawa have different
cultural patterns.
      The most numerous, the Hausa, live in compact villages or
hamlets and adhere strongly to Islam. The Maguzawa usually live
in large, isolated compounds in extended families. Unlike the
Rausa, they did not embrace Islam but maintain their traditional
beliefs. The Rausa strictly seclude their females,who do not work
in the fields; in the Maguzawan family both sexes are active in
farming.
      The third group, the Fulani are pastoralists who build
temporary shelters and move every few days or weeks. They do not
farm but rely instead on their cattle, goats and sheep for their
main source of food, and barter or buy the cereals or other foods
they need. Some Fulani have settled and live in seasonal
settlements until January or February when they must move to find
water for their flocks. Others have settled in towns.

     A.    Populations at risk
     The nine population subgroups at risk or affecting
construction and operation of the proposed water supply systems in
Kaduna and Katsina States are:
     1. Residents within 30 kilometer radius of proposed
reservoirs, based on maximum normal flight range of blackflies
which may breed on dam spillway.
     2. If blackfly breeding is eliminated, the affected radius
shrinks to 5 kilometers which is the maximum flight range of
malaria mosquitos.
     3. For risk of bilharzia transmission alone, the population
within a 2 kilometer radius should be considered,
     4. populations served by the proposed piped water supply
derived from proposed reservoirs or springs,
     5. population within the hydrologic catchment area from
which the water in the proposed system is obtained,
     6. populations along rivers immediately downstream of
proposed reservoirs or springs. The distance downstream is
generally to the first large tributary, but generally as far down
as there is a noticeably change in hydrology due to the project,
     7. Resettled populations displaced by construction,
     8. Nomadic or semi-nomadic Fulani herders who will pass near
the proposed reservoirs, and
     9. Temporary construction workers who will come into the
area to build the dams and related structures.
                                28



     The estimated populations in these eight subgroups were taken
primarily from the planning documents (Table 3). Some figures
were obtained by multiplying estimated population densities by the
area of land. Because many of the figures were not available to
the author at the time of writing this ,report, an extra effort
must be made to assemble the missing data. The basic population
data is needed to make population projections required for Volume
2 of this Health Opportunity Assessment.



Table 3. preliminary assumed populations by subgroups, related
to proposed water supply projects in Kaduna and Katsina States,
for 1990.
Proposed project         population subgroup       1990 population
                                               estimates and sources
Proposed reservoir at   Kwoi in Kaduna State
    (2,821 square km)    1 within 30 km
        (18 square km)   2 within 5 km
        (13 square km)   3 within 2 km
     63 square km - a    4 within catchment
                         5 served by system             55,400-b
                         6 downstream
                         1 displaced
                         8 nomadic
                         9 construction force
Proposed system 	a t Kajim Spring in Kaduna State
                         1
                         2
                         3
                         4
                         5                              55,400-b
                         6
                         1
                         8
                         9
Proposed reservoir at Funtua in Katsina State
                         1
                         2
                         3
      120 square km-c 	 4                               30,000-c
                        5
                        6
                         1
                         8                              12,000-c
                         9
a. from Annex 1. Surface water hydrology for Kwoi water supply
b. from WAPDECO 	 report on Zonkwa Project, Part 5 of Feb 1991
c. from ENPLAN group EIA of June 1991
                             29 





     B. Demography and Population Prediction
     Reliable predictions for the various populations at risk are
important for several reasons. Population increase rates are so
high in Nigeria that it is necessary to build a project with large
capacity in order to deliver sufficient water per person
throughout the life of the project. The population doubling time
in Nigeria is only 25 years. Also the transmission of disease is
greatly affected by population density. Thus estimation of
negative and positive health impacts of the project requires
detailed population predictions to estimate the number of deaths
and the amount of productive days lost due to disease. For these
reasons considerable care has been given to determine precise
demographic statistics for the project area, for several
generations into the future.

     c.    Death Rates
     Based on the Malumfashi study, the Crude Death Rate, obtained
by dividing the total number of deaths in a year by the midyear
population and multiply by 1,000, was estimated at 19 per 1,000 in
Malumfashi during 1978 (Tomkins et al, 1991). The annual
Infant Mortality Rate was about 170 deaths by the end of the first
year, per 1,000 live births. The annual Child Mortality Rate was
about 200 per 1,000 children age 1-4 years, much higher than the
Crude Death Rate of 19 for the entire population. Thus children
under 5 years of age made up 60% of all deaths, although that
group made up only 19% of the total population. All of these
death rates have decreased considerably since 1978.
     Crude Death Rates are decreasing about 1.9 percentage points
every decade in Nigeria (World Bank, 1992). Thus the Crude
Death Rate for Malumfashi in 1990 is projected to be about 17.1
per 1,000 in 1988 and roughly 16.7 per 1,000 in 1990. This is
only slightly above the national Crude Death Rate for 1990 of
14.6 per 1,000 (World Bank, 1992).
                                30 



     D.         Causes of Death
     From the Malumfashi study, the primary causes of death for
the several age-groups in the population, were reported as Fever
(probably malaria), Diarrheal Disease, and Measles (Table 4).
These were also the major causes of death in children under 5
years of age. Other major causes of death were classified by the
Malumfashi scientists according to symptoms recorded just before
death, not quite the same thing as categorizing them by the
disease causing the death. The remaining symptoms were grouped as
Cough, Jaundice, Swelling, Accidents and Other symptoms.

Table 4. Symptoms present before death, by age, in Malumfashi,
Nigeria, 1977-78.
                                Age in years
symptom    0-4      5-14    15-44    45 and    Total     Per cent
                                     above               of all
                                                         deaths
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Menin-   4         0         0        1         5        2.2
gitis
Measles    30       4       0          0       34        14.9
Cough      2                           3       5         2.2
Jaundice   5        0       0          1       6         2.6
Fevers     59       11      12         4       86        37.7
Diarrhea   37       7       5          6       55        24.1
Swelling   3        1       3          8       15        2.2
Accident   2        0       1          2       5         2.2
Others     9        2       3          3       17        7.5
Totals     151      25      24         28      228       100
                                   3 1


     E.         Death Rates by Disease
      The estimated Crude Death Rate for all people and ages in
Nigeria is 14.6 per 1000, for 1990-95. The Infant Mortality Rate
is 94 (World Bank, 1992). These numbers are expected to
decrease slightly in the near future.
     The numerical death rates for the major diseases associated
with water and directly relevant to this health opportunity
assessment were calculated according to a system developed in Mali
which uses incidence rates and case fatality rates (Duflo et a1,
1986). The area in western Mali was fairly similar to northern
Nigeria, although rainfall and income were slightly lower in Mali.
Thus in the cases where figures were not directly available from
Nigeria, the figures from Mali were used as tentative substitutes
(Table    5).
     In general the death rates from Mali were similar to those
reported for northern Nigeria. The Infant Mortality Rate in Mali
in 1990-95 was 164 per 1,000 live births (Table 6). The Infant
Mortality Rate reported for Malumfashi in 1978 was about the same,
170 per 1,000 live births (TOmkins et aI, 1991).




Table 5. Annual disease incidence and death rates due to
diseases related to water, estimated for northern Nigeria, for a
population of 1,000 people (derived from Duflo et aI, 1986).
Disease            Annual                Mortality rate   Deaths per year
                   incidence per         per case
                   thousand
Malaria            37.2                  0.462            17.2
Diarrhea           442.5                 0.008            3.56
Bilharzia          26                    0.01             0.26
River Blindness    158                   0.005            0.8
                                    32 



        F.     Birth Rates
      The 1995 estimate of the annual Crude Birth Rate for Nigeria
was 43 per 1000, resulting in an annual Growth Rate for the
national population of 2.87% (World Bank, 1992). The time
required for doubling of the population in Nigeria is thus only 25
years, well within the lifespan of the proposed projects.
      Using these figures the national population of 56.7 million
in 1995 is projected to increase to 65.3 million by 2000 and to
151 million by 2050. Nigeria has a comparatively high Growth Rate
because reductions in birth rates have not accompanied reductions
in death rates during this century (Table 6).     Among African
countries, Kenya has the highest Growth Rate of 3.48%. This
corresponds to a doubling rate of only 20 years.
     The Total Fertility Rate in Nigeria is 5.86 births per woman
of child-bearing age, slightly lower than in neighboring countries
but significantly higher than the world average of 3.23 births per
woman. Infant mortality is slightly under 100 deaths in the first
year, per live births, similar to nearby countries, as is life
expectancy - about 50 years in Nigeria.

Table 6. Estimated demographic characteristics of Nigeria and
other countries for 1990 (World Bank, 1992).
Country       Population Growth            Total       Infant       Life
              1990       rate per          Fertility   Mortality    expectancy
              in         year in %,        in births   at 1 year,   in years,
              millions   including         per woman   per 1,000    1980*
                         migration                     births
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Nigeria        96.2        2.87     5.86       94.2     48.6
Niger             7.7         3.11           7.18        123.2        44.2
Cameroon         11.7         2.87           5.85         84.6        49.6
Benin             4.7         2.97           6.20        110.9        49.4
Togo              3.6         3.32           6.50         84.3        48.3
Ghana            14.9         3.09           6.10         81.2        54.1
Mali              8.5         2.87           7.06        164.1        44.3
Chad              5.7         2.57           6.03        119.8        42.2
Kenya            24.2         3.48           6.42         64.1        55.3
Zimbabwe          9.8         2.65           4.55         46.6        54.5

Japan           123.5         0.35           1.55          4.3        76.4
China         1,113.7         1.44           2.37         26.8        66.4
Brazil          150.4         1.84           3.02         53.8        63.1
USA             250.0         0.93           2.0           9.0        74.5
Russia          148.3         0.48           2.18         16.0        71.4

World         5,268.0         1.7            3.23         63.0        66**

*    fro. World Bank, 1983
**    for 1992 (World Bank 1992)
                             33 



     G.    Migration
     Although national estimates indicated no net migration and
this was assumed to apply to northern Nigeria as a region (World
Bank, 1992), local migration should be estimated when making
population projections for future conditions, because of the
attractiveness of the proposed water supply systems themselves.
Towns with new and reliable water supplies will experience
increased migration into the town, both because people desire safe
domestic water supplies, and because industrial and commercial
development may increase because of the new water supply.




5.    Mosquito Populations
     The two types of mosquitos considered here will be Anopheline
mosquitos which transmit malaria and rural filariasis, and Culex
mosquitos which transmit urban filariasis.

     A.    Anopheline mosquitos
     Anopheline mosquitos are found in fairly permanent habitats
(adapted from spielman and James,      1990).   The boatlike egg
is deposited directly upon the water. Some species appear capable
of surviving for a week or so if the egg becomes stranded.
Absence of an air tube permits the larva to lie against the water
surface, often in the line of intersection formed by air, water,
and emergent vegetation, and this appears to protect against
predators. The larva feeds mainly upon material contained in the
surface film. The water must remain for several weeks or morej
the surface must be free from mold; and particular vegetation may
be required. Generally, predators reduce Anopheline larval
density with the passage of time.
     In Africa, Anopheles gambiae exploits open sunlit pools such
as the brick pits used for making mud bricks for home
construction. Maximum breeding densities are reached soon after
the onset of seasonal rains.
     A companion African vector, Anopheles funestus, becomes most
abundant with onset of the dry season. Sunlit pools containing
emergent marginal vegetation provide the main breeding sites.
This includes reservoirs with stable water levels. Thus clearing
of forests near developing villages renders human populations
vulnerable to risk of perennial malaria, even where rainfall is
seasonal. Combined transmission by Anopheles gambiae and
Anopheles funestus results in seasonally constant transmission
patterns.
                             34 



     B.    Culex mosquitos
      Culex mosquitos are adapted to conditions intermediate in
stability between those temporary habitats exploited by Aedes
mosquitos and the more permanent habitats of Anopheline mosquitos.
Eggs are deposited directly on the water. Larvae hatch after 3 or
4 days; the eggs cannot withstand drying. Larval Culex are filter
feeders that hang from the surface by means of a long, slender air
tube. The more important vector species breed in highly
contaminated ground pools including cesspools, ditches, and sewage
waste lagoons. Such water stands long enough to develop an
infusion but not so long as to permit the water to clarify. The
erect position of the egg and the long air tube appear to adapt
Culex mosquitos to the scum often present on such water, while
filter feeding exploits rich supplies of suspended nutrients.
      Culex pipiens mosquitos become abundant in proportion to the
amount of waste water accumulated near human dwellings.    These
insects are absent or scarce where houses are constructed without
disrupting natural drainage patterns, and where feces are
deposited on the ground rather than in pits. They become abundant
where drainage ditches must be constructed and where fecal
deposits are flushed by water.
     Although some computer simulation models are available to
predict numbers of mosquitos as a function of climate, it will be
assumed that numbers of mosquitos and vector capacity - the
ability to transmit malaria - is related to ecological parameters
of the proposed reservoirs. These parameters include MP the
'marsh potential', VHF, the 'vector habitat potential, and IL, the
'intersection line'. All of these can be calculated from the
reservoir geometry, hydrologic simulations, and estimates of the
growth and standing crops of vegetation in the reservoir.
Prediction of these factors for the proposed reservoirs is
explained in Sections 8 and 9 on Reservoirs and Water Quality.


6.    Snail Population Dynamics
     Prediction of the suitability of the proposed reservoirs for
bilharzia snails can be made on the basis of population
simulations for several years of expected ecological conditions.
If the predictions indicate that snail populations cannot survive
even during the most favorable periods, then the reservoir can be
dismissed as a likely snail habitat.
     Improved understanding of snail population dynamics made it
possible to progress from descriptive to quantitative predictions
of the number of snails in a population, further aided by computer
technology. Most recently the development of computer
spreadsheets for business use in small offices, to the point where
they can be used for life-table modelling, has brought the use of
population models within everyone's reach. This chapter describes
the development of one model which is now available for the Lotus
Spreadsheet Application, or other simple business spreadsheets.
                             35 


     Numerical prediction of snail populations requires historical
data on seasonal changes in habitat volume, food, water
temperature and catastrophic events which cause significant deaths
of snails, as well as biological data on age-specific survival and
egg-laying rates for the snail species. When these data are
linked together by simple equations, and the number of snails in a
population are divided into age groups, their future numbers can
be roughly predicted by constructing successive life-table
summaries.
      Important concepts in dynamics of aquatic snail populations
include the specification of the size of a Crowding Zone which
regulates egg-laying rates of snails, and the effect of water
temperature and the abundance of food on the egg laying rate.
Maximum egg production occurs around 25 degrees Celsius for most
bilharzia snails, with limits below 20 degrees and above 30
degrees. Abundance of food, which can be measured in terms of
grams of food per liter of habitat, has a direct bearing on rate
of egg production (Jobin and Michelson, 1967).
     Over twenty years of experience with snail control on a small
island in the Eastern Caribbean Sea, led to formulation of a
series of simple 'laws' for snail control. The Second Law (below)
was formulated due to the very high reproductive rate of snails in
an uncrowded habitat, and because each individual is both female
and male. Thus one surviving snail is able to quickly repopulate
a habitat.

                  Second Law of Snail Control




      The best documented reservoir in Nigeria is Lake Kainji,
where bilharzia, malaria, River Blindness, and other health
problems have been studied since construction of the dam was
proposed (Adeni j i , 1975 i and Bidwe II, 1976). However the
limnological conditions in Kainji Lake are heavily influenced by
the flow of the Niger River, in addition to the effect of local
climate. Thus the numerical values of water quality observed in
Kainji Lake cannot be used for the proposed reservoirs which
depend entirely on local conditions for determination of their
water quality.
                               36 



     A.     Important Parameters
     There are several important parameters which govern the
population dynamics of aquatic snails, including stranding,
habitat volume, food, water temperature, and predation.
          St.randing,   Sst.ivat.ion and Drying of Snails
      Resistance to drying is a major determinant of survival of
these snail populations, and thus of their geographical
distribution. As the water level in a snail habitat recedes
during the dry season, the snails may be stranded on the shore.
They become dormant or estivate under the mud, and many survive
until the water returns.
      The Fragile Disk Snail Biomphalaria pfeifferi is more
susceptible to drying than the others, while the Fragile Spire
Snails Bulinus senegalensis and Bulinus forskalli are quite
resistant. The Fragile Globe Snails Bulinus globosus and Bulinus
truncatus rohlfsi are less susceptible to drying than is
Biomphalaria pfeifferi, but more susceptible than the other two.
Bulinus forskalli is not a transmitter of human bilharzia but does
transmit a similar parasite to livestock.
      Ranking all of the snails by their resistance to natural
drying gives a general indication of their distribution by
Latitude which correlates closely with rainfall in Northern
Nigeria, and also their distribution in terms of permanent nature
of habitats (,rable 1).
     Studies in the Kano area have shown that the Fragile Spire
Snails are more successful in surviving the dry season because
they estivate near the high water level in temporary habitats
which are drying out (aet.t.erton et aI, 1988). Thus they are
revived only when the pool is completely filled by heavy rains,
not by false beginnings of the rainy season.
     Although the Fragile Globe Snails are often found in similar
habitats with the Fragile Spire Snails, in contrast they estivate
near the bottom in habitats which are drying out. Thus early,
light rains revive them, and they often face a second, fatal
stranding before heavier rains fill their habitat for the season.
Thus in an ecological zone where rainfall is erratic, the Spires
are more successful.
                                  37 



Table 7. Ranking of bilharzia snails from Northern Nigeria in
regard to resistance to seasonal drying.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Snail species      Half life for   Limiting length Limits of
                   survival of 50% of dry season   annual rain for
                   of snails in    for major river major river
                   naturally       basin,          basin,
                   drying pond,    in months       in meters
                   in months       (Jobin, 1993) (Jobin, 1993)
-----------------------------------------------------------------
FRAGILE DISKS 

 Biom pfeifferi    1-3                   2-7              less than 1.5
FRAGILE GLOBES     estivate in
                   habitat bottom
 Bul. globosus     4                     4-10             1*-1.4
 Bul. t rohlfsi    1-2*                  4-10             less than 1.4
FRAGILE SPIRES  estivate at
 Bul.           habitat surface
   senegalensis probably 5               10-11            less than 1.4
 Bul. forskalli probably 5               10-11            less than 1.4
* agrees with local reports from Niger and Nigeria indicating precise northern
limit of Bulinus globosus is 12 degrees N Latitude, corresponding to mean
annual rainfall of 1 meter. Also that populations near Kano survived 6 weeks
of drying (Betterton et aI, 1988; and Sellin et aI, 1980).



     If drying were the only factor limiting Fragile Snail
populations, Bulinus senegalensis and Bulinus forskalli should be
found almost everywhere. In fact they are limited to dry regions,
mainly temporary habitats which dry out completely every year.
     Their limited abundance in wetter areas is probably due to
predation from fish and other aquatic organisms which inhabit
permanent waterbodies, but which cannot survive in the temporary
pools where the Fragile Spire Snails are found. Fragile Spire
Snails are smaller than Fragile Globe or Disk snails, and seldom
exceed 6 or 7 mm in length or 2 or 3 mm in maximum diameter. Thus
they are easily consumed by fish or crayfish.
     On the contrary, in temporary habitats where the snails are
stranded on the ground for several months, the spire shape works
to their advantage in giving them protection against predators.
The Globes and Discs have much larger apertures. This allows ants
easier access, and also allows more rapid water loss through the
aperture.
                             38 



                     Illuminat.ed Shore Zone

      The volume of the Illuminated Shore Zone where the snails can
live is the wedge of illuminated habitat around the perimeter of a
waterbody, determined by the slope of the shore and the depth of
light penetration into the water (Figure 10). The depth of light
penetration can be approximated by the Secchi Disk measurement,
and the Secchi Disk Measurement can be estimated from the
phosphorus nutrient loading on the waterbody (Figure 11).     This
phosphorus loading factor has other uses related to snail
population predictions, including the amount of food in the
habitat, as measured by chlorophyll concentrations, and the amount
of fish predation to be expected on the small snails.
     The Illuminated Shore Zone can be easily defined in an
aquatic habitat by determining the depth of the Photic Zone
according to the Secchi Disk Depth, and then noting where this
Photic Zone intersects the shore slope (Figure 10). The band of
habitat bottom which thus receives illumination by sunlight is the
site where most algae and other vegetation will be found, thus
providing food and cover for the aquatic snails which browse
vegetation and detritus. The wedge-shaped volume of water above
this illuminated band of shore is defined as the Illuminated Shore
Zone, and its volume can be calculated from Secchi Disk and
topographical data (Jobin, 1984). A good topographic map is a
basic requirement, preferably with a one meter or smaller contour
interval.
     Estimation of Secchi Disk depths expected in a proposed
reservoir is difficult, but can be attempted by comparison with
similar or nearby water bodies, or by some general relationships
determined from global studies on lakes (Lee and Jones, 1992).
A recent study indicated that Secchi Disk Depth correlates well
with the annual load of phosphorus the lake receives (Figure 11).
                                            39 





        ­ - --
      . Depth Of Sunlight Penetration
          Measured With Secchi Disk


Figure 10        Definition             sketch   for   ILLUMINATED   SHORE   ZONE.
Sketch also includes length of INTERSECTION LINE along ,shore of
typical reservoir, an ideal habitat for malaria mosquitoes and
bilharzia snails.


                                             Food

     Measurement of the amount of food by sampling in a snail
habitat is difficult, especially when the submerged vegetation
consists of woody species, or extremely dense stands. A method of
approximating the amount of algae and thus available food for the
small snails, is to assume it is proportionate to the chlorophyll
concentration which is determined by the rate of loading of the
habitat with phosphorus nutrients (Lee and Jones, 1992) .        A
direct relation of phosphorus loading and chlorophyll has been
summarized from a large series of observations on lakes allover
the world, although many of them were from temperate areas
(Figure 11).     These empirical estimates would need calibration
with field data for use with specific reservoirs, and would need
to be modified for seasonal fluctuations since most of the
vegetation would die during temporary drying of the habitat.
     Although nutrients in solution, especially phosphorus, have a
large influence on algae, it is the nutrients in the soil which
stimulated rooted vegetation in a lake, as long as the sunlight
can penetrate through the water to the bottom of the reservoir.
                                  40 


Information on the soil to be submerged is thus also important for
estimating weed growth.
     Estimates of the areal phosphorus loading are thus key items
in projecting vegetation growth, followed by reproduction and
survival rates of insects and snails.


                 100
           Q)
          (5
          E
           0
          J2      10
           Q)
           Q)
           rn

          (J.)
          ::J
                    1
          (ij
          >
          >­
                  0.1


                 0.01
                        1          10         100         1000
                            Normalized phosphorus loading

 Figure 11. Correlation between phosphorus loading on normal
 lakes versus chlorophyll concentrations, Secchi Disk depths
 and fish yields.
 Note: The Normalized phosphorus loading is in units of
 milligrams of phosphorus/square meter of lake surface. It is
 calculated from Vollenweider's equation as [(L(P)/q)/(l+square
 root of tau)]. In this equation L(P) is the annual areal load
 of phosphorus in mg of p/square meter/year, tau is the
 hydraulic residence time in years, and q is equivalent to the
 waterbody mean depth divided by tau, in meters per year. The
 units on the vertical axis are micrograms per liter for
 chlorophyll, meters for Secchi Disk Depth, and grams of wet
 weight/square meter/year for Fish Yield (Lee and Jones,
 1992.)
                                                                         4 1



                                                    Kater                      Temperature

      Observations on a series of tropical lakes indicated a simple
relation between the deep mean temperature and the altitude and
latitude of the lake (Lewis,      1973).   This would be a logical
result of changes in solar radiation and decreases of temperature
with altitude.     The equation for this correlation includes an
Altitude Factor which is calculated as the Altitude above sea
level in meters, plus an additional 49 meters of Altitude for
every Degree of Latitude (Pigure 12).       The lake temperature is
calculated as
     T   =­       0.0038AF + 28.07

in which T is the annual mean of the deep-body temperature of the
lake in degrees Celsius, and AF is the Altitude Factor in meters.
     This is a simple estimate and could be considerably refined
with adequate data on solar radiation and other thermodynamic
parameters, if warranted by the size and importance of the
reservoir under analysis (Harleman, 1982).



                    Lake Temperature vs                                                                       Altitude                            Factor 


          (f)
          ::::J   30
         'w
          Q)                                           ........ ···················r··················· .......................................
         o
          (f)     26
          Q)
          Q)
          '­
          ~ 22
         o                                                                                                                                           1973)
          c
          Q)      18       •............... ·..·..·..··........+..·........·..·..·..;.··········.. ·······1

          -
          '­
          :::J
          cu
          '­
          Q)
          c.
                  14
                                                                   Surfaca Water (Puerto
          E
          Q)
         I­
                  10
                       a             500                1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
                                            Altitude Factor in Meters

 Pigure 12. Relation of lake temperature and altitude factor,
 for tropical lakes. Taken from Lewis, 1973 and Jobin and
 Laracuente, 1984.
                                42 





     The optimum water temperature for reproduction of bilharzia
snails is 25 degrees C, with outer limits of 20 and 30 degrees.
At 25 degrees the egg laying rate is highest, for otherwise
similar conditions. Thus prediction of the water temperature in
the surface layer of habitats, out at the periphery where the
snails usually live, is a key step in predicting seasonal
variations in numbers of snails.
                         Fish     Predation
     Additional information regarding predation on snails by fish
can be determined from this same correlation with nutrient loading
(Figure 11). As nutrient loading rates increase, the fish yield
also increases, implying that predation by fish becomes more
important as a regulator of snail and mosquito larvae populations.
This would apply only to larger stable habitats which had a
permanent zone favorable to fish survival, a zone which was not
eliminated seasonally by drying, freezing or anoxic conditions.

     B.    Basic Snail Model
     Computer models offer an ideal way to fashion simple
theoretical concepts regarding crowding and reproduction among
aquatic snails into a predictive device which can be compared with
numerical measures of field populations, thus testing the
theoretical concepts. Such a model has been gradually developed
for bilharzia snails. It is called the Basic Snail Model.
                    Foyle pond Cal ibration
     A life-table model was developed for aquatic snail
populations, initially derived from data published on snails in
Foyle Pond in Zimbabwe (Shiff, 1964). The model was then tested
against American Biomphalaria glabrata and found to give
reasonable predictions (Figure 13). Thereafter it has been used
for predictions of snail population success in proposed reservoirs
(Jobin, 1967). The principal factors governing snail population
dynamics in this model are snail species characteristics, water
temperature, habitat volume, mass of food in habitat, and a
crowding effect which suppresses egg production when the number of
snails in the immediate zone around the snails exceeds one. This
crowding zone is about 100 liters for bulinid snails from
Zimbabwe. The most difficult factor to determine in these studies
on proposed reservoirs is the amount of food expected on a
seasonal basis. This can only be estimated quantitatively from
water temperatures, nutrient concentrations, and grazing pressures
from other aquatic organisms such as fish.
                                                                43 


      By using the concept of the crowding zone, the equation
relating egg deposition to crowding can be written as
                                                            E   =k            F I (N       V)
where E is the number of eggs per snail per day, k is a factor
dependent on the snail species, age, water temperature and type
of food, F is the total amount of food in grams, N is the mean
number of snails per crowding zone and V is the volume of the
habitat in liters (Jobin and Michelson, 1967). The factor k
was determined to be 22.5 for mature Biomphalaria glabrata at 25
degrees Celsius using watercress as food.
     In a very large habitat with few snails, the number of snails
in the crowding zone is I, meaning there is no crowding. If the
crowding zone is 100 liters, then in an aquarium of 50 liters, all
snails are in the crowding zone, and N is equal to the total
population. Thus the concept of the crowding zone makes it
possible to compute egg laying rates in any habitat, even as the
population grows and becomes crowded.


          107              PREDICTED AND OBSERVED                                  NUMBERS      O.F


                           BUI.!NUS                   GLOBQS\.!~              IN


                           FOYLE                  POND


  en        5
  ..J 

          10
  4( 

  Z

  (f)                          0
               4
          10
  u.
  0                                                                                MODEL
               3
  0:      10
  "'"
  dl
  "l!
                   SRfEDING            SEAS;;;i                          SREEDING      SEASON                      BREEOING
                                                                                                                   SEASON
  :>
  z                                                                     R A I l'f S


                   D   J   F       M    A   to!   J    J   A,   0   N    [)    J   F   M   AM   J     J   A   $0   ND


 Figure 13.    Calibration of snail population model against
 data on Bulinus globosus from Zimbabwe.
                                       44 


                        Validation        in   Puerto     Rico

     After initial calibration of the model of the snail
population against the first field study in Zimbabwe, second and
third comparisons or validations were made with the model against
data from two separate field populations of Biomphalaria glabrata
in Puerto Rico (Jobin, 1970). Using a revised model with age­
specific survival rates and environmental data on Pond B from
Puerto Rico, the number of snails was predicted for a two-year
time span (Figure 14). The predicted number of snails agreed
satisfactorily with the numbers observed in the field study.


   I 0 6 . - - - - - - - - - - - . . - - - - - - - - -...........

                                                                 " ."'m."'.. .




                 o

                                                                     -I          I




         OBSERVEOP


   I04~------_-------



                                                     00

   I03~________------~--------------i

              I 9 6 7                   9 6 8
 Figure 14.    Predicted versus observed numbers of Biomphalaria
 glabrata in Pond B of Puerto Rico, using Basic Snail Model.
                              45 





                  o
  fO~ ~----------------~-------------------------


                       0

                       +

       ,J   IA;   r$   10                %
                                       M~J   IJ   A
                   9    6 7           6 8

  Pigure 15.    Predicted versus observed numbers of Biomphalaria
  glabrata in pond C from Puerto Rico, using Basic Snail Model,
  1972 version.


     The other verification was conducted with the Basic Snail
Model using data from the newly constructed Pond C (Jobin, 1970).
In the field study it was observed that Pond C had been
constructed in June 1967 and filled slowly. At first the snail
population remained below 10,000 but as the pond filled the
population increased to 80,000 in early January 1968 (Figure 15).
The water temperature dropped then to less than 20 degrees Celsius
and breeding ceased, causing the population to decline to near
zero by April, until the temperature increased and breeding
resumed.
     For the first year of the computer prediction there was close
agreement with the observed number of snails in the pond. The
major discrepancy between observed and predicted numbers occurred
in June and July 1968. The model predicted populations of 45,000
and 90,000 for those two months, while the sampling yielded an
estimate of less than 10,000 for both months. No explanation can
                              46 


be given for the discrepancy unless it be related to an error in
the data on vegetation. The observations indicated over 300
kilograms of vegetation in the pond in June, considerably higher
than all other observations. It was this large amount of
vegetation which caused the model to calculate a high rate of
oviposition and subsequent population rise. Assuming this was a
sampling error and a likely explanation for the discrepancy, no
adjustments to the Basic Snail Model were made.

7.       Blackfly Populations 

      The biting Blackflies such as Simulium damnosum which
transmit River Blindness in West Africa, develop in rapidly
flowing water (adapted from Spielman and James, 1990). Eggs
are cemented to vegetation or other materials close to the
breeding site, or in certain species, laid directly on the water.
Embryos survive until inundation and consequent hatching. The
larvae of most species attach to submerged rocks or vegetation by
means of specialized suckers. They tend to concentrate at points
where the current is greatest. Feeding is a passive process,
depending upon the current for particulate matter to collect in a
basketlike filter. Rapid flow of water maximizes feeding
efficiency, and the aeration facilitates respiration. Large,
leathery wings enable the emerging adult to take flight
immediately after contact with air; other insects must rest while
their wings harden. This combination of characteristics enables
blackflies to exploit rapidly flowing water such as spillways of
dams, narrow points in rivers, and mountain streams.
      The blackfly larvae require relatively high water velocities
to successfully develop to the adult stage (Table 8). For
Nigeria the. required velocities are between 70 and 250 centimeters
per second with the preferred range about 100 to 150 centimeters
per second (Jobin, 1986). The flow must persist for about two
weeks for larvae to mature, although some might mature within one
week •• During the cooler time of the year an additional week is
probably needed. Water temperature limits for successful
development of the larvae are between 17 degrees C and 33 C (WHO,
1991).

Table  8. Limiting water velocities for breeding of Simulium
damnosum, the tropical blackfly in Africa which transmits River
Blindness (Jobin, 1986; and Burton and McRae, 1965).
River basin         Water velocities in centimeters per second
                Minimum         preferred        Maximum
White Volta      77                  108-132       252
Main Volta       70
Nile             56
Ubangi                               96-126
Congo                                120-185
                             47 


      If a dam causes natural rapids to be flooded, it often
permanently eliminates those rapids as breeding sites for the
blackflies. However spillways of such dams are ideal sites for
breeding of the blackfly larvae, especially if the discharge is
continuous. Within a very short time after construction, small
concrete spillways in Northern Ghana became breeding sites along a
river where blackflies had not been seen before (Burton and
McRae,    1965).
      A study of several dams in Burkina Faso indicated that
stepped spillways are particularly favorable for blackflies. For
intermittently discharging spillways, the Creager type or steeply
inclined planes reduced the time when conditions were favorable
for the flies. Experimental trials indicated that the blackflies
settled only with considerable difficulty along vertical walls and
this type of spillway was recommended (Quelennec et aI, 1967).
Thus Creager or vertical wall spillways were recommended in
endemic areas, but siphons or sluice gates were recommended in
areas where no natural breeding sites were present. The adult
flies can cover large distances, thus a new breeding site
occurring within a few hundred kilometers of the main transmission
zone, could create a new focus of disease.
      There is a computer model for predicting the time in which
the blackflies can begin breeding again, after elimination by
biocide application, flushing or other methods. Although this is
useful in planning large scale programs, its greatest relevance
for dam design is to note that reinvasion occurs very soon, in
about a month (Birley et aI, 1983).      Models for detailed
prediction of blackfly numbers are not available.
      Another important effect of a reservoir on blackfly breeding
occurs downstream of the dam, where seasonal flow patterns are
markedly changed. In hydroelectric reservoirs the downstream
reach of river usually becomes a continuous site of blackfly
breeding. However in water supply or irrigation reservoirs such
as those proposed for Kaduna and Katsina States, the large amount
of flow extracted from the river will cause a decrease in
breeding. This effect will occur downstream as far as the first
large tributary and can be estimated from hydrologic analyses.


8.       Geography and Ecology
     Both Kaduna and Katsina States of northern Nigeria are in the
highlands on the western slope of the Jos Plateau. The natural
vegetation is predominantly savanna with scrub woodlands (Odyssey
World Atlas, 1967). There is a marked dry season, with about 1
meter of precipitation occurring during the rainy season from May
through september. The human population density is relatively
high, about 50-100 persons per square kilometer, compared to the
national average for 1990 of 100 persons per square kilometer
(World Bank 1992). Shifting cultivation of crops and
rudimentary sedentary cultivation are mixed with nomadic herding.
                                   48


        A.     Climate
     The marked rainy season provides high rainfall and humidity
favorable to breeding and survival of mosquitos and b1ackf1ies.
Weather at Funtua, Kaduna and Kano show maximum air temperatures
of 28 degrees C in April with minima of 23 degrees in December and
January (Tables 9a-d). Relative Humidity goes as low as 6% from
December to February during the dry season, but approaches 100%
during the rains. Annual pan evaporation is about 3.5 meters,
compared to 1 meter rainfall. Harmattan winds reach maxima of 8
kilometers per hour from the North East in January, with a mean of
5 kilometers per hour during the entire dry season. The mean
velocity of winds during the monsoon season is higher, 7
kilometers per hour, although the maximum is lower, about 6
kilometers per hour.
Table 9a. Weather conditions for Funtua in Katsina State, taken
at Mairua Dam, average for three years 1972-1974
Month        Rainfall    Evapo­   Relative humidity     Temperature in
                mm       ration          in %             degrees C
                           rom
                                  maximum   minimum    maximum    minimum
January          0        272        71           13         36         12
February         0        365        70            6         38         13
March            7        398        66            8         39         12
April           30        330        94            8         39         18
May             72        295        97           42         38         16
June           143        245        95           33         37         19
July           176        194        91           18         34         19
August         254        195       100           62         33         18
September      155        186        95           49         33         18
October         31        221       100           12         36         12
November         0        278        92           10         34          9
December         0        260        65            7         34         11
Totals         868       3239       100            6         39          9



Table 9b. Annual rainfall at Mairua Dam near Funtua, 1969-1974.
The average for the six years is 914 rom, with large fluctuations
between 600 mm and 1100 mm.
Year         1969       1970      1971      1972       1973       1974
Rainfall 813            1109      974       984        616        987
in mIll
                                49 


Table    9c.   Mean climate at Kano, Nigeria.
------------------------------------------------------------------
Month       Rainfall Wind      Sunlight    Evapo­             Mean air
            in nun   direction in hours    ration           temperature in
                                            in nun            degrees C
                                                       maximum        minimum
-----------------------------------------------------------------
January 0            NE        8.9        277          30             13
February 1           NE        9.1        309          33             15
March     2          NE        8.6        386          37             19
April     8          NE/SW     8.4        403          38             24
May       71         SW        8.8        383          37             24
June      119        SW        8.7        292          34             23
July      209        SW        7.5        217          31             22
August    311        sw        6.0        182          29             21
September 137        SW        7.9        205          31             21
October 14           SW        9.5        282          34             19
November 1           NE        9.8        270          33             16
December 0           NE        9.2        277          31             13
Totals      873                8.5        3,503        33             19



Table    94.   Weather conditions at Kaduna
Month                     Mean air temperature       Mean wind speed in
                              in degrees C           kilometers per hour
January                           23.2                         8.7
February                          25.8                         7.6
March                             27.9                         6.3
April                             28.0                         6.3
May                               26.9                         6.1
June                              24.9                         5.3
July                              23.9                         5.25
August                            23.5                         5.0
September                         24.4                         3.7
October                           25.0
November                          25.6
December                          23.3


     An important factor in determining the portions of a proposed
reservoir which will be suitable as habitat for aquatic snails or
mosquito larvae is the direction of prevailing winds. This
information was obtained from weather records for Kano and similar
areas. From November to mid-April the Harmattan winds blow from
the North East at a mean speed of 5 kilometers per hour (Pigure
16). During the rest of the year the wind blows from the South
West at a mean speed of 7.4 kilometers per hour.
                               50 




                                        Harmattan winds from
                                        North East
                                        November to mid April
                                        mean speed of 5 kilometers
                                        per hour




         o/H/------­ - - - - - - - - I E                 -=:J




   Monsoon winds from Southwest       mid April through October
   mean speed of 7.4
   kilometers per hour


Figure    16.   Estimated Wind Rose for Kaduna and Katsina States in
                           northern Nigeria

     B.     Hydrology
     The major rivers in the area of the proposed water supply
projects drain the Rima or Sokoto River Basin and the Gurara­
Kaduna River Basin, both part of the continental Niger River Basin
which discharges into the Atlantic Ocean at Port Harcourt (Figure
1). The Sokoto River has a mean annual flow of 3.2 billion cubic
meters at its junction with the Niger River upstream of Lake
Kainji, while the Kaduna River flow is much larger with a mean
annual flow of 24 billion cubic meters at its junction with the
Niger River, downstream of Lake Kainji and West of the Federal
District (Fraaj i and Mahajan, 1969). These two river basins
cover all of North West Nigeria. The hydrologic divide separating
them from the Lake Chad Basin to the East, passes North to South
between the cities of Jos and Kano •
                             5 1


     c.    Soils
     Most of the soil is sandy with a red-brown, gravelly surface.
The soils are generally low in nutrients, requiring large amounts
of fertilizer for agriculture. The exception might be the fadaaa
lands along the rivers which have probably collected nutrients.

     D.    Vegetation
     The area around Malumfashi is transitional between the Sudan
savanna and the northern Guinea savanna zones with occasional
outcrops of trees typical of Sudan savanna vegetation (taken froa
Tomkins et a1, 1991).
     The main crops are Guinea corn, millet, cowpeas, groundnuts,
and cotton. During the past few years the quantity of maize
cultivated has increased considerably. Cassava is traditionally
grown as insurance against food shortages in times of drought.
Traditionally, most farming is carried out by individual farmers
on land allocated to families by district and village leaders.
     Outside of the Kaduna River Project, most crops are grown
under rainfall conditions, although some, usually vegetables are
grown with irrigation, using the shadoof. Rice production has
increased in the limited areas able to control the runoff of
rainwater, or able to increase the local water supply by building
small earthen dams.
     Aquatic vegetation found in reservoirs includes Chara which
grew profusely during the dry season and formed a thick carpet
fringing the shoreline in Rimin Gado reservoir just West of Kano
(Betterton et a1, 1988). During the rainy season the
predominant aquatic vegetation was filamentous algae. Between
OCtober and January the water was clear and the submerged weed
Chara formed thick mats along the receding shoreline. In late
January a bloom of unicellular algae turned the water greenly
opaque. Towards the end of February the water turned from green
to brown.

9.    Reservoir Predictions
     The proposed reservoirs will have complex geometric shapes
and will vary drastically in volume as the flows into the
reservoir change seasonally. Also long term precipitation changes
such as the severe droughts will directly affect the volume and
thus the shape of the reservoir. These characteristics need to be
defined for prediction of the suitability of the reservoirs as
habitats for snails and insects which transmit disease.

     A.    Geometry
     One of the first steps in evaluating the potential for
proposed reservoirs to serve as habitats for disease vectors is to
define their geometry, especially the amount of shoreline which is
                             52 


protected from wave action and predation, thus offering favorable
conditions for breeding and growth of the mosquitos and snails
often found in tropical reservoirs.
     A geometric analysis of reservoirs suggests several
parameters which give numerical indications of the potential as a
vector habitat. In hydroelectric reservoirs in Puerto Rico, the
concept of Illumination Zone was developed to indicate snail
habitat volume (Jobin and Laracuente, 1984). This can be used
directly in calculations of habitat volume.
     Engineers using drainage and filling of reservoir margins to
eliminate mosquito breeding sites, use an Index of Marsh Potential
to compare desirability of proposed earthmoving operations (WHO,
1982). The magnitude of the mosquito problem in a reservoir is
directly proportional to the length of marshy shoreline. The
Index of Harsh Potential was based on the following formula:
(Shore length x square root of reservoir areal/reservoir volume.
If metric units are used, a deep reservoir with steep slopes in a
mountainous area may have a Marsh Potential of 2 to 3 per meter,
while a flat, shallow reservoir with many indentations in the
shoreline and thus a high potential for mosquito production, may
have a Marsh Potential as has as 15 to 20 per meter.
     Calculation of the above parameters must be based on
topographic maps of the areas to be flooded by the proposed
reservoir. From these maps simple tables or graphs are made to
relate perimeter, volume and area to the water level. From these
charts one can calculate Marsh Potential and other parameters •
     Another way of estimating the potential of a habitat for
mosquito production is to calculate the Vector Habitat Potential
which is the water surface area of the 0 to 2 meter depth zone
(Brook, 19881 and Carter et ai, 1990). This can also be
calculated directly from topographical maps.


     B.    Shoreline Erosion
     The portions of a reservoir exposed to waves generated by
prevailing winds are usually in an eroding condition during the
seasons corresponding to the prevailing wind patterns. These
exposed shorelines often erode if the waves are large enough, and
are unsuitable for snail or mosquito breeding.
     Conversely the portions of lee shoreline - protected from the
wind - are quiet and thus suitable areas for snail and mosquito
populations. Determination of suitable shorelines can be
accomplished by superimposing the patterns of prevailing winds
over the map of the proposed reservoir.
     The prevailing winds in northern Nigeria were derived from
weather records for Kano and similar areas in West Africa.
                              53 



     c.    Seasonal patterns
     Because of the long dry season, the reservoirs will reach
their lowest levels in April, with highest levels occurring at the
end of the rains, about October. These seasonal inflows, along
with the expected regular withdrawals from the reservoirs for
domestic use, can be summarized to give expected monthly patterns
of reservoir water level and VOlume, using simple computer models.

     D.    Downstream hydrology
     Capture of the normal river flow for domestic use in the
proposed reservoirs will drastically change the downstream
hydrology. From the health point of view the results will be
largely positive, as reduced water downstream will generally
reduce the snail and aquatic insect populations.
     However certain aspects related to snail populations need to
be investigated. Downstream of Tiga Dam near Kano, the dry season
flow increased noticeably after construction of the dam (Olofin,
1988). Also the size of peak flood flows was reduced, as one
would expect from a storage reservoir. These two factors might
favor increased snail and mosquito breeding, and need to be
investigated for both the proposed reservoirs.
     Downstream of Tiga Dam the moderation of discharge
fluctuations resulted in rapid development of vegetation because
of improved water availability and enriched silt and clay
sediments, compared to the pre-dam conditions when the channels
were bare and incised.
     Downstream of Kubanni Lake, large populations of bilharzia
snails were found in the seepage which continued to flow in the
Kubanni River even during the dry season (Smit.h, 1982). This
flow was further supplemented by treated sewage discharges which
added nutrients to the river, stimulating algae and aquatic
vegetation which support snail growth. Impounded water and
protected conditions inside certain reservoirs provide a haven for
aquatic snails during the normally unfavorable dry season. The
lake becomes a biological reservoir for snails which are then
widely distributed downstream during peak flood events when the
dam spillway overflows and snails are washed downstream.
     Release of sharp flood waves in small streams has been used
as a technique for mosquito and snail control in several tropical
areas (Frit.sch, 1991 i and MacDonald, 1939).      Thus the reduced
flood peaks caused by the proposed reservoirs may favor breeding
of mosquitos and snails in streams, or in small pools or marshes
on the stream margins.
     At the existing Mairua Reservoir near Funtua, modest flow
from backwashing of the sand filters below the reservoir also
stabilizes the conditions for snails and mosquitos in the Sokoto
River. Expansion of this plant for the new reservoir will
increase the volume of backwash flow, thus increasing the
suitability of the channel for snails and mosquitos.
                             54 



10.        Water Quality Predictions
     Several water quality parameters have direct influences on
snail population dynamics, including water temperature in the
shore zone, the volume of the Illuminated Zone which is protected
from wave action, and the amount of food and protection available
to the snails. Also phosphorus nutrients are important, and they,
in turn affect vegetation and dissolved oxygen. water quality is
also impaired by synthetic and industrial chemicals.

      A.    water Temperature
     water temperature is a primary factor in regulation of
bilharzia snail populations. Few ecological studies in northern
Nigeria included water temperatures. Thus for the proposed
reservoirs the water temperatures have to be inferred from other
areas. A study of tropical lakes in the Philippines showed that
deep water temperature can be predicted on the basis of Latitude
and Altitude (Figure 12 in Chapter 6). For 12 degrees N
Latitude and an Altitude of about 500 meters above sea level, the
temperature predicted from this equation is 24 degrees C (Lewis,
1973).
     A study of 25 reservoirs in Puerto Rico indicated a similar
relation to Latitude and Altitude with the temperature of the
surface layer of water (Jobin and Laracuente, 1984). Based on
this relationship, the estimated mean temperature for surface
water in the proposed reservoirs is 26 degrees (Figure 12 in
Chapter 6).    The same study indicated that seasonal variations
around the annual mean temperature could be approximated with a
sinusoidal wave with a maximum about 1.15 times the mean in July
and a minimum of 0.85 times the mean in January (Pigure 17).
                                                                          55 



                 Normalized                                  Surface                             Water                     Temperature 


         ....                                                                                                                                           rature
         o
        o
        «S
                1.12
        LL
         (J)
         ~      1.04
        +0­
         ct!
         ....
         (J)
         c..
         E 0.96
         (J)
        I­
         (J)
         ~      0.88
        't:                        :          :           1              :         !         !         !
        :::l
       (f)                 ········!··..·..····,..···..····,·........   ·y..· ·. ·t···..····t·······..t··········t········..   ! .................. 


                 0.8
                       J         F           MA                         MJ                  J         A         SON                                0

Figure 17. Sinusoidal pattern of monthly fluctuation in surface
water temperatures, derived from lakes in Puerto Rico (Jobin and
Laracuente,        1984).



     Despite its importance in aquatic ecology, studies on
bilharzia snails seldom include measurements of water temperature.
The closest study of use in predicting temperatures for the
proposed reservoirs is that of a small pond near Jos called
Kongingiri Dam, used for water supply. Mean water temperature
during the dry season was reported to be 21.6 degrees C with a
range of 17 to 25 degrees (Khan and Agugo, 1990). Monthly
temperatures were given for the dry season, a few degrees cooler
than the prediction for Kaduna and Katsina (Table 10).
     Using the described predictive method for Kongingiri Dam
which had a Latitude of 10 degrees N and an Altitude of 1,343
meters, the predicted deep water temperature was 21 degrees and
the surface water temperature was predicted to be 20 degrees
(Table    10). Monthly temperatures were lower than those
predicted from the sinusoidal pattern. The predicted annual mean
temperature was 1.6 degrees lower than the observed temperature,
but the predicted temperature during the rainy season may have
been fairly accurate. The predictions for the dry season were
lower than observed. During the first 3 months of the calendar
year the predicted temperature was 2.5 degrees lower than
observed, and during the last 4 months of the year the predicted
temperature was 4 degrees lower than observed.
                             56 


Table 10. Temperatures reported from Kongingiri Dam near Jos,
compared to predicted temperatures (Khan and Agugo, 1990).
Month              Secchi Disk      Observed water   Predicted water
                    in meters       temperature      temperature
                                    in degrees C     in degrees C
January              2.2                19.0               17.0
February             2.0                20.5               18.0
March                1.4                22.3               19.4
April                                                      21.0
May                                                        22.4
June                                                       22.8
July                                                       23.0
August                                                     22.0
September            1.2                23.0               20.8
October              1.9                23.6               19.2
November             1.8                24.3               18.0
December             1.9                21.0               17.2
    Means            1.77               21.6               20.0


     using this background information, the monthly surface water
temperatures were predicted for reservoirs in northern Nigeria •
When other weather conditions were considered, it was seen that
the rainy season, especially July, August and September, had a
relatively low amount of sunshine (Table 11). The mean hours of
sunshine for those 3 months was 82% of the annual mean of 8.5
hours per day_ Thus the estimated water temperatures for those
months, directly dependent on solar radiation, were assumed to be
82% of the temperature predicted from the sinusoidal distribution.
A further correction was made on the basis of the data from Jos,
reducing the mean temperature by 1.6 degrees. Based on this
reasoning, the maximum surface water temperature would be 29.6
degrees in June, and the minimum would be 22.1 degrees in January.
      The first series of estimated water temperatures for
reservoirs in northern Nigeria was unsatisfactory, and should be
supplemented by field measurements in Kaduna and Katsina.
                               57 


Table 11. Estimated monthly mean water temperatures in the
surface layers of reservoirs in northern Nigeria, in degrees C
(Jobin and Laracuent.e, 1985; and Lewis, 1973).
Month         Monthly       Predicted     Observed      Observed
              factor from   surface       Maximum       Minimum
              Puerto Rico   water         air           air
                            temperature   temperature   temperature
-----------------------------------------------------------------
January          0.85         22.1         30            13
February          0.90         23.4          33            15
March             0.97         25.2          37            19
April             1.05         27.3          38            24
May               1.12         29.1          37            24
June              1.14         29.6          34            23
July              1.15         24.5          31            22
August            1.10         23.5          29            21
September         1.04         22.2          31            21
October           0.96         25.0          34            19
November          0.90         23.4          33            16
December          0.85         22.4          31            13
Means             1            26            33            19


        B.   Turbidity and Water Clarity
      The report for Kongingiri Dam indicated that the water
clarity decreased markedly in September and March, coinciding with
rains which brought in inorganic materials and associated clay
from runoff (Khan and Agugo, 1990). The Secchi Disk could be
seen to a maximum depth of 2.0 meters in February, but only to 1.2
meters in September. It was likely that it remained around 1
meter throughout the rainy season, although not recorded.
      In ponds studied near Kano, the onset of persistent rains in
June probably turned the water very turbid, causing low Secchi
Disk readings. By August the water was warm and very turbid
(Bet.t.ert.on et. aI, 1988). However the water was clear and cool
from mid-October, when the rains ended, until the end of January
when an algae bloom turned the water greenly opaque., and towards
the end of February the water changed from green to brown. By
March or April the pond was usually dried out.
                             58 



       c.     Nutrients
     An important factor in predicting aquatic ecology of a
proposed reservoir is the parameter known as the Normalized
Phosphorus Loading (Lee and Jones, 1992). This parameter is
calculated from the amount of phosphorus being washed into the
reservoir from the drainage basin. Unit phosphorus loadings for
rural cropland and rural non-cropland have been compiled,
averaging about 1 kilograms per hectare per year for cropland, and
about 0.1 kilograms per hectare per year for non-cropland (Table
12).

Table 12. Total phosphorus unit area loads in kilograms per
hectare per year (Ryding and Rast., 1989).
-----------------------------------------------------------------
                              Surface Soil Texture
Land Use Sand      Coarse   Medium    Fine      Clay     Organic
                   loam     loam      loam
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Row      0.25      0.65     0.85      1.05     1.25
crops
with low
animal
density
Mixed       0.10   0.20     0.30     0.55      0.85
farming                     most
with                        likely
medium                      value
animal                      for
density                     Funtua
                            and Kwoi
                            areas
Pasture     0.05   0.05     0.10     0.40      0.60
and
range
Grass­      0.05   0.05     0.10      0.15     0.25
land or
idle
land
Forest      0.05                               0.10
Wetlands                                                 0.20

     In Zimbabwe these values were determined for various land
uses and found to be 0.014, 0.28 and 0.13-0.53 kilograms per
hectare per year, respectively (Ryding and Rast., 1989).
     Based on descriptions of the catchment areas in the planning
documents, it appears that the value of 0.3 kilograms per hectare
                             59 


is the most appropriate phosphorus loading value to use in
calculations on loading for the proposed reservoirs.
     Another independent way to estimate the phosphorus loading
coming into a proposed reservoir is to measure the phosphorus in
the existing stream, integrating the concentration and flow rate
over a full year. In the case of small reservoirs in which the
residence time will be significantly less than a year, this
phosphorus loading should be calculated over the correspondingly
shorter portion of a year, with seasonal considerations included.


     D.    Algal Productivity and Weeds
     The basic food of aquatic snails is algae.       Other larger
forms of aquatic vegetation provide egg laying sites as well as
cover from predators for snails, mosquitos and other insects.
Thus an important part of prediction of habitat suitability for
these disease bearing organisms is prediction of the seasonal
variations in algae and vegetation.
     The Rimin Gado pond near Kano showed a mark seasonal
variation in algae and vegetation.   The pond filled about March,
and by August the predominant aquatic plants were filamentous
algae (Betterton et a1, 1988) .       From October to January the
water was clear of algae and the submerged weed Chara formed thick
mats along the receding shoreline.     In late January a bloom of
unicellular algae turned the water greenly opaque, and towards the
end of February the color of the water changed from green to
brown.
                                  60 


     E.     Dissolved Oxygen
     If the first filling of a new reservoir occurs quickly,
flooding an area of high organic content such as a rain forest,
the decay of the organic material can consume oxygen and produce
corrosive and toxic conditions in the lower strata of the
reservoir.
     Rough estimates of the risk of this occurrence are available
from experience of the World Bank in a variety of tropical areas
(Garzon, 1984). The risk of oxygen problems is related to the
size of the reservoir and the mean residence time of the flow
through the reservoir (Figure 18).


  Figure   18.   Water quality as a function of reservoir time and
                        area (Garzon, 1984).




                         6   12     18     24      30     36     42   48

                                     Retention TII"ne (Months)
                             61 



     F.    Agricultural chemicals
      Intensive irrigation is often accompanied by heavy
application of fertilizers. When applied in excess these
fertilizers reach drains and natural waterbodies, causing
eutrophication in impounded waters as the aquatic vegetation
becomes over-fertilized as well. Eventually this leads to
conditions detrimental to fish populations, and may cause filling
of shallow ponds and lakes, leaving only swamps and wetlands.
Such conditions can also favor reproduction among aquatic snails
and insects which spread disease.
     A detailed inventory of agricultural fertilizers and biocides
including herbicides and insecticides was completed during the EIA
for the Funtua project (BHPLAH, 1991). Rainfed cultivation of
crops is extensive in the catchment area for the Funtua Reservoir,
with 80% of the area under cultivation, about 9,000 hectares.
Biocides are applied at about 40 kilograms/hectare per year, and
fertilizers are applied at 700 kilograms/hectare per year.
     Because of the potential long-term hazards to human health of
biocides in drinking water, and because of the impact of
phosphates on productivity in the proposed reservoirs, and thus on
snail and mosquito populations, detailed simulations of the
transport of these compounds to the reservoirs will be conducted.
In addition these compounds need to be measured in the field, both
in the streams leading to the proposed reservoir at Funtua on the
Gwaigwaye River, and the existing Mairua Reservoir on the nearby
Sokoto River.
     The Kwoi Reservoir catchment area is not subject to such
intensive farming. The catchment area is described as vegetated
with tall grassland, and some woodland and cultivation (Annex 1,
1993). If conditions are acceptable for the Funtua Reservoir, no
additional study on agricultural chemicals will be conducted on
the Kwoi Reservoir, or on the Kajim Spring System.
                               62 



        G.   Industrial chemicals
      The Town of Funtua sits astride the ridge dividing the
catchment area of the proposed reservoir on the Gwaigwaye River
and the existing Mairua reservoir on the Sokoto River. Funtua
Textile Mills are located along the ridge road between the Funtua
and Sokoto, and discharges towards the Gwaigwaye basin. The use
of industrial chemicals has been documented for the Textile Mills,
and it is likely that improved public water supply will draw
additional industries to Funtua (BHPLAR, 1991).
      Along with high amounts of organic waste which have high
rates of decomposition and thus consume oxygen from their
environment (called biochemical oxygen demand), typical
wastewaters from textile and tannery industries include high
amounts of suspended solids, phosphorus nutrients, ammonia
nitrogen, organic nitrogen, color from dyes, chromium, grease and
oil crable 13).

~able  13. Concentrations of typical components of textile and
tannery wastewaters, in milligrams per liter (from various
industries   in USA,    Cooperman et aI,    1970).
Chemical     Taunton      Swan             Geilich     Harodite
parameter    Dyecraftsmen Finishing        Tanning     Finishing
Oxygen       159-201        450-520        710-1,350   900-1,080
demand*
Suspended    13-30          40-65          100-880     135-420
solids
Phosphorus   4.3-7.5        1-31           2.0-4.3     8.3-34
Ammonia      3.1-11.0       1-21           46-90       7-30
nitrogen
OrganiC      12-19          34-238         0.4-130     140-420
nitrogen
Color                       Green-Red
Chromates                                  22-92
Grease and                                 6-180
oil
* This is the 5-day Biochemical Oxygen Demand, that is the amount
of oxygen which would be consumed by this waste in five days at
standard temperature.
     The National Petroleum Corporation Refinery at Kaduna
contained heavy metals which were toxic to fish in laboratory
studies (Onwullere and Oladimej i, 1990). Although this
refinery does not discharge to any of the streams in the project
areas, the accumulation of the metals in fish indicate the
potential kinds of industrial contamination which might occur with
further industrial development in Kaduna or Katsina.
     In industrialized countries, contamination of drinking water
from synthetic and industrial chemicals has become a major source
                              63 


of cancer and other environmental diseases. In the USA this has
resulted in strict standards for a large number of compounds
(Table 14). Some of these could become important in northern
Nigeria with further agricultural and industrial development.
Table  14. Maximum contaminant levels (MCL) in milligrams per
liter, allowed in drinking water in USA for variety of synthetic
and industrial chemicals (Tchobanog1ous and Schroeder, 1985).
Class of contaminant   Contaminant             Maximum contaminant
                                               level allowed
Inorganic chemicals    Cadmium                 0.005
                       Chromium                0.1
                       Lead                    0.015
                       Mercury                 0.002
                       Nitrates as Nitrogen    10
Biocidal chemicals
used in agriculture
                       Endrin                  0.002
                       Lindane                 0.0002
                       Methoxychlor            0.4
                       Toxaphene               0.003
                       2,40                    0.07
                       Oiquat                  0.02
                       2,4,5-TP(Silvex)        0.05
                       Total trihalomethanes   0.1
                       Heptachlor              0.0004
Other organic
chemicals
                       Benzene                 0.005
                       Chlorobenzene           0.1
                       Tetrachloroethylene     0.005
                       Toluene                 1
                       Vinyl chloride          0.002
                       Total xylenes           10

     An industrial inventory should be conducted around Funtua,
and a plan developed for monitoring of streams to determine if
industrial chemicals are being discharged to surface or
groundwaters. The classes of chemicals to investigate include
heavy metals, industrial solvents, and traditional chemicals
associated with the industries. This is a subject for field
investigations, and should be initiated by samples which are
scanned for organic compounds and heavy metals.
                                              64 



11.           BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Note: There are 126 references. 

Large letters indicates entire reference was reviewed for report. 

ABOtJLKADIR-S-A.
AHMADU BELLO UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL, ZARIA, NIGERIA.
CHOLERA AND CHOLERA-LIKE DIARRHOEAL DISEASES:
WHY THE DIFFERENCES IN SEVERITY?
MBD-HYPOTHESES.     1991 MAR.   34(3).   P 278-81.

ACRA-P-N. SZYFRES -B.
PAN AMERICAN HEALTH ORGANIZATION
ZOONOSES AND COMMUNICABLE DISEASES COMMON TO MAN AND ANIMALS
SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATION NO 503
1987 P1IBO, WASHINGTON DC USA

.AD.EXOLU-JOHN-E-o.
KAINJI !.ARE RESEARCH INSTI'l'U'l"E, NEW BUSSA, NIGERIA
THE POST IMPOUNDMENT STATUS OF ONCHOCERCIAS IS IN KAINJI LAKE
AREA OF NIGERIA
TROP-GEOG-MBD     1982 P 139-143 


ADENIJI-8-A. 

FISHERIES LIMNOLOGIST, KAINJI LAl\:E RES. INST., NEW BtESA, NIGERIA. 

CIRCADIAN VERTICAL MIGRATION OF ZOO PLANKTON DURING STRATIFICATION 

   AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE TO FISH DISTRIBUTION AND ABUNDANCE IN KAINJI
   LAKE NIGERIA.
21ST CO:ooRESS OF '!'BE INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY OF LIMNOLOGY, PART 2,
   KYO'ro, JAPAN, AUG.-SEPT., 1980.
INT VER THEOR ANGBW LIMNOL VERB 21 (2). 1981. 1021-1024.

ADEWUNMI-C-o. GEBREMBDBIN-G. BBCKER-W. OLURONMOLA-F-o. OORFLER-G.
   ADEWmIU-T-A.
FACULTY OF PBARMilCY, DEPARTMENT OF MEDICAL MICROBIOLOGY AND
   PARASITOLOGY, OBAFEMI AiiOLOWO UNIVERSITY, ILE-IFE, NIGERIA.
SCHISTOSOMIASIS AND IN'IESTIHM. PARASI'l'ES IN RURAL VILLAGBS IN
   SOl1'1'BH!:ST NIGERIA: AN INDICATION :roR EXPANDED PROGRAMM! ON DRUG
   DISTRIBUTION AND INTEGRATl!:D CONTROL PROGRAMMB IN NIGERIA.
TROP-MED-PARASITOL. 1993 SEP. 44(3). P 177-80.

ADEWUNMI-C-o. FURU-P. CBRISTENS!N-N-O. OLORUNMOIaA-F.
DANISH BIHARZIASIS LAB., JUGERSBORG ALL!!: 1 0, DK-2920 CHARLO'l"l."ENUND,
   DENMARK.
ENDEMICITY SEASONALITY AND FOCALITY OF TRANSMISSION OF HUMAN
SCHISTOSOMIASIS IN 3 COMMUNITIES IN SOUTHWESTERN NIGERIA.
TRaP MED PARASITOL 42 (4). 1991. 332-334.

ADEWUNMI-o. ESSIEN-E-E. OK>DE-o.
DRUG RES. AND PRODUCTION UNIT, OBAl!'BMI AiiO:OOWO UNIV., ILE-IFE,
   NIGERIA.
PHYSIOLOGICAL VARIATIONS IN SNAILS BULINUS-PHYOPSIS-GLQBOSUS IN THE
   LABORATORY AND PARTS 01" OYO STATE NIGERIA.
J ANIM PROD RES 9 (1-2). 1989. 43-52.

AKINBtMA-o. ADENIYI-I-1" •
DEP. BIOL. SCI., NIGERIAN DEFE!K:E ACADEMY, P. M. B. 2109, KADUNA, NIGI!:RIA.
THE ROTIFERA FAUNA OF OPA RESERVOIR ILB-IFE NIGERIA.
J AFR ZooL 105 (5). 1991. 383-392.
                                                 65 


AKOGUN~-B.    AKOH-J-I.  BELLANDENOU-H.
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES, FEI'lI!:RAL UNIVERSITY OF TECKOOLOGY,
    YOLA, NIGERIA.
NON-0CULAR CLINICAL ONCHOCERCIASIS IN RELATION 'ro SKIN MICROFILARIA
    IN THE TARABA RIVER VALLEY, NIGERIA.
J-BYG-EPIDEMIOL-MICROBIOL-IMMUNOL.   1992. 36(4). P 368-83.

AKOGUN~-B.
PARASITE STUDY GJ«)UP, UNIVERSITY OF JOS, NIGERIA.
FILARIASIS IN GQlI'Q)LA STATE NIGERIA. I I CLINICAL AND PARASI'roLOGICAL
   STUDIES IN MUTUM-BIYU DISTRICT.
ANGEW-PARASITOL.    1992 AUG. 33(3). P 125-31.

AKOGUN~B.
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES, l!1!:DERAL UNIVERSITY OF TECB»:>LOGY,
   YOLA, NIGERIA.
EYE LESIONS, BLINDNESS AND VISUAL IMPAIRMENT IN THE TARABA RIVER
   VALLEY, NIGERIA AND THEIR RELATION 'ro ONCHOCERCAL MICROFILARIAE IN SKIN.
ACTA-TROP (BASEL). 1992 JUN. 51(2). P 143-9.

AKOGUN~-B.
PARASITE STUDY GJ«)UP, UNIVERSITY OF JOS, NIGERIA.
FILARIASIS IN GONGOLA STATE NIGERIA.
I: CLINICAL AND PARASITOLOGICAL STUDIES IN MUTUM-BIYU DISTRICT.
J-BYG-EPIDEMIOL-MICROBIOL-IMMUNOL.       1991.     35(4).     P 383-93.

AKOGUN~B.
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY, FEDERAL UNIVERSITY OF TECB»:>LOGY, YOLA, NIGBRIA
WATER DEMAND AND SCHISTOSOMIASIS AMONG THE GUMAU PEOPLE OF BAUCHI STATE, NIGERIA
TRANS-R-5OC-TROP-MED-BYG.     1990   84 (4) •    P 548-550.

AKOGUN-o-B. ONWULIRI..c~.
APPLIED EN'1'OM:JI.OOY AND PARASITOLOGY UNIT, DEPARTEMENT OF ZOOLOGY,
   JOS, NIGERIA.
HY.PERElIIEMIC ONCHOCERCIASIS IN THE TARABA RIVER VALLEY OF GOlI'Q)LA
   STATE (OLD ADAMAWA PROVINCE), NIGERIA.
ANN-PARASITOL-HUM-COMP.      1991. 66(1). P 22-6.

ANYA-A-o. OKAFOR-F..c. 

DEP. ZooL., UNIV. NIGERIA, NSUKKA, ANAMBRA STATE, NIGBRIA. 

PREVALEN::E OF SCHISTOSOMA-HAEMATOBIUM INFECTIONS IN ANAKBRA STATE
   NIGERIA.
BULL INST FONDAM AFR NOIRE SER A SCI ~T 46 (3-4). 1986-1987. 321-332.

ASSI-L-A.
CENT. NATL. FLORIST., UNIV. ABI~, BP 4322, ABIDJAN, IVORY COAST.
SALVINIA-NYMPBELLULA SALVINIACEAE A PEST EXTI!:NDING ITS DISTRIBUTION
   WES'lWARDS IN TROPICAL AFRICA.
BULL INST FONDAM AFR NOIRE SER A SCI ~T 39 (3). 1977. 555-562.

BABANIYI-o-A.
DEPARTMENT OF EPIDEMIOLOGY AND COMMUNITY HEALTH, UNIVERSITY OF ILORIN
   TltACBING HOSPITAL, DARA S'.eATE, NIGERIA.
ORAL REHYDRATION OF CHILDREN KITH DIARRHOEA IN NIGERIAI A 12-YEAR
   REVIEW OF IMPACT ON MORBIDITY AND MJRTALITY P'ROM DIARRHOEAL DISEASES
   AND DIARRHOEAL 'l"RBATMENT PRACTICES.
J-T.ROP-PED~.     1991 MAR.   37(2).    P 57-63.

BANG-Y-H. BONN-D-N. ONNtJBIm-A-O. 

WHO ARBOV'IRtE VECTOR RESEARCH UNIT, ENUGU, NIGERIA 

PREV.ALl!'N::E OF LARVA! OF POTENTIAL lELLOW FEVER VECTORS IN DOMESTIC WATER CONTAIN!RS IN SOt1rB­ 

EAST NIGERIA 

BULL-KHO 1981 59(1) P 107-114. 

                                                 66 


BE'l"l'ERTON-C. NDIFON-G-T. TAN-R-M.
clo   SIR M. MACDONALD AND PARTNERS, DEMETER HOUSE, STATION RD.,
    CAMBRIDGE CBl 2RS, UK.
SCHISTOSOMIASIS IN KANO STATE NIGERIA II. 

FIELD STUDIES ON AESTIVATION IN BULINUS-ROHLFSI CLESSIN AND 

BULINUS-GLOBOSUS MORELET AND THEIR SUSCEPTIBILITY TO LOCAL STRAINS 

OF SCHISTOSOMA-HAEMATOBIUM BILHARZ. 

ANN TROP MED PARASITOL 82 (6). 1988. 571-580.

BIDWELL-A. CLAaKE-N-V. 

DEPT ZOOLOGY, UNIVERS'l'IY OF READING, UK 

THE INVERTEBRATE F.At:Ibm. OF LAKE KAIIUI, NIGERIA 

THE NIGERIAN FIELD      1977 2. P 104-110. 


BIRLEY-M-H. WALSH-J-F. DAVIES-J-B. 

LIVERPOOL SCBooL OF 'l'lIOPICAL MEDICINI!:, LIVERPOOL UK 

DEVELOPMENT OF A MODEL FOR SIMULIUM DAMNOSUM RECOLONIZATION
DYNAMICS
J-APPL-ECOL.   20    1983     P 507-519.

BITTO-A-O • ltALl!:-0-0. ODUNTAN-S-o •
DEPARTMEN'l' OF PREVEN'l'IVE AND SOCIAL MEDICINI!:, COLLEGE OF MEDICINB,
   UNIVERSITY OF IBADAN, NIGERIA.
EPIDEMIOIOOICAL SURVEY O!' AN 0U'l'BREAK OF GASTROENTERITIS IN A RURAL
   COMMUNITY IN oro STATE.
WEST-AFR-J-MED. 1992 JAN-KAR.       1l( 1). P 34-8.

BIAY-J JR. 

DEP. ZooL., UNIV. CAPE COAST, CAPE COAST, GHANA. 

FLOCTUATIONS IN SOH! HYDROLOGICAL FACTORS AND THE CONDITION INDEX OF 

   ABPATHARIA-SINt1ATA BIVALVIA UNIONACBAE IN A SMALL NIGERIAN RESERVOIR.
ARCH HYDROBIOL 117 (3). 1990. 357-364.

BIAY-J JR. 

DEP. BIOL. SCI., UNIV. ILORIN, ILORIN, NIGERIA. 

OBSZRVATIONS ON THE BALANCE IN FISH POPULATIONS IN A SMALL RESERVOIR IN GHANA. 

FISH RES (AMST) 3 (1). 1985. 1-12. 


BURTON-G-J. ~-T-M. 

GHANA NATIO!U\L INSTI'l'UTE OF HEALTH, ACCRA 

DAM SPILLWAY BREEDING OF SIMULIUM DAMNOSUM THEOBALD
IN NORTHERN GHANA
ANN-TROP-MED-PARASTI.       59.   1965    P 405-412.

CARTER-R-C. BROO1:-J-M. JEWSBURY-J-H.
SILSOE COLLEGE, BEDFORD, UK
ASSESSING THE IMPACT OF SMALL DAMS ON VECTOR BORNE DISEASES
IRRIG-DRAIN-SYST.    1990     4, P 1-16

CLAY-D. 

DEP. ZooL., UNIV. READ., WBlTEIWIGBTS, READING RG6 2AJ, ENGL., UK. 

SEVERAL MODELS FOR WATER AIR TEMPERATURE REIATIONSHIPS OF SOME 

   AFRICAN LADS.
WATER S A (PRETORIA) 2 (2). 1976 61-66.

COOP£RMAN-A-N. SALO-J-E. JOBIN-W-R. 

MASSACHUSETTS DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION CON'l'llOL, BOSTON MA, USA 

1970 TAUNTON RIVER BASIN INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE STUDY
DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION CONTROL, 1971.
                                           67 


DADA-B-F. 

PRESENT STATUS AND PROSPECTS FOR AQUACULTURE IN NIGERIA AFRICA. 

CIFA (COMM INLAND FISH AFR) TECH PAP 4 (SUPPL 1). 1976. 79-85. 


DIAMANT-B-Z. 

AHMlU)U-BELI£l UNIV., ZARIA, NIGERIA. 

ENVIRONMENTAL REPERCUSSIONS OF IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT IN HOT CLIMATES. 

ENVIRON CONSERV 7 (1). 1980. 53-58. 


EDUNGBOLA-L-D. ASAOLU-S-o. WATT5-S-J. 

FAC. OF BEALTB SCI., UNIV. OF lLORIN, I LORIN, NIGERIA. 

THE STATUS OF HUMAN ONCHOCERCIASIS IN THE KAINJI RESERVOIR BASIN 

20 YEARS AFTER THE IMPOUNDMENT OF THE LAKE. 

TROP GEOGR MED 38 (3). 1986. 226-232. 

EGBORE-A-B-M.
BYDROBIOL. RES. LAB., DEP. ZOOL., UNIV. IBADAN, lBADAH, NIGERIA. 

SEASONAL VARIATIONS IN THE DENSITY OF A SMALL WEST AFRICAN LAKE. 

BYDROBIOLOGIA 61 (3). 1978. 195-204. 


EGBORE-A-B-M. 

DEP. BIOLOGICAL SCI., UNIV. BENIN, BENIN CITY, NIGl:RIA. 

TB! PHOSPHATE CONTENT OF THE BOTTOM SEDIMENTS OF A SMALL WEST AFRICAN 

   IMPOUNDMENT •
21ST COM:;RESS OF TB! IN'l'!lUiM'IONAL SOCIETY OF LImKlLOGY, PART 2,
   KYOTO, JAPAN, AUG.-SEPT., 1980.
INT VER THEOR ANGEW LImKlL VERB 21 (2). 1981. 1025-1030.

EJ!ZIE-G-C. GE.MADE-E-I-I. U'l'SALO-S-J. 

DEP. MED. MICROBIOL. PARASlTOL., COLL. MED. SCI. UNIV. CAIABAR, 

   CALABAR, C. R. S., NIGERIA.
THE SCHISTOSOMIASIS PROBLEM IN NIGERIA.
J BYG EPIDEMIOL MICROBIOL IMMUNOL (PRAGUE) 33 (2). 1989. 169-179.

E]q'ENYONG-E. 

DEP. BIOLOGICAL OCEA!J:lGRAPBY, INST. OCEANOGRAPBY, UNIV. CAIABAR 

    P.M.B. 1115, CALABAR, NIGERIA.
THE CHEMICAL LIMNOLOGY OF SOME FISB PONDS IN lLE IF! NIGERIA.
TROP ECOL 32 (1). 1991. 65-68.

ENPLAN GROUP
CONSULTING ENGINEERS AND PLUNBRS OJ!' IlATSlNA, NIGBRIA
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF FUNTUA WATER SUPPLY EXTENSION
JUNE 1991

EWA-I-Q-B. DIM-L-A.
CENT. ENERGY RES. TRAINING, AB.MADU BELI£l UNIV., ZARIA, NIGERIA •
.MAJOR MIl«>R AND TRACE ELEMENT DETERMINATIONS FROM A NIGERIAN AQUATIC
    SEDIMENT.
J ENVIRON SCI HEALTB PART A ENVIRON SCI ENG 24 (3). 1989. 243-254.

FASBUYI-S-A. 

DEP. SIOL., nDERAL UNIV. T!C~L., P.M.B. 704, MURE, ONDO STAT!, 

    NIGERIA.
lRESBWATER GASTROPOD K:>LLUSCS IN ONDO STAT! NIGERIA.
REV ZOOL APR 104 (2). 1990. 165-170.

FEACBAM-R-G. JAMISON-D-T.
LONDON SCBOOL OF TROPICAL MEDICINE AND HYGIENE, UK
DISEASE AND f!K>RTALITY IN SUB-SABARAN APRICA
1991 WORLD BANK AND OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS, UK
                                                  68 


FIN:::B-M-J. MORRIS-J-G JR. KAVITI-J. KAGWANJA-W.   IZVINE-M-M.
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE, UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND SCHOOL OF MEDICINE,
   BALTIMORE 2120!.
                    EPIDEMIOLOGY OF ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANT CHOLERA IN KENYA AND EAST AP'RICA.
AK-J-TROP-MED-BYG.   1988 l'I)V. 39 (5) • P 484-90.

l"RAKJI-K-K. MAIJAJAH-I-K.
INTERNATIONAL COMMISSION ON IRRIGATION AND DRAINP.G.B, NEW DELHI, INDIA
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE IN THE WORLD.                        CHAPTER ON NIGERIA
1969 ICID NEW DELHI INOIA

P'REMPOlG-E • 

DEP. OF BIOLOGICAL SC~S, UNIV. OF SCI. AND TECSH:>LOGY, 1WHASI, 

   GHANA, WEST AP'RICA.
DIEL PERIODICITY IN TBE CBBMICAL COMPOSITION OF LAlO!: PBYTO PI..AIiIKTOM.
ARCH HYDROBIOL 92 (4). 1981. 451-495.

l"RI'l'SCH-M. 

E'm, ZURICH SWITZERLAND 

ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FOR SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONTROL IN TANZANIA
OOCTORAL TBESIS
1991 E'm ZURICH

GARION-C-E.
WORLD BARF:
WATER QUALITY IN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECTS
WORLD BANK TECHNICAL PAPER NUMBER 20
1984 WORLD BANK 1i1ASBIB7.00N DC USA

GEMADE-E-I. U'.l"SAW-S-J •
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICAL MICROBIOLOGY" PARASITOLOGY, COI.LIGB OF MEDICAL
   SC~S, UNIVERSITY OF CALABAR, NIGERIA.
ONCHOCERCIASIS IN BENUB STATZ OF NIGERIA. VI. TBE PRIWALB'NC!: AND
   DISTRIBUTION OF TBE DISUSE JUt::)}.:; 'mE HUMAN POPULATION IN SATI-IKYOV
   VILIAGI!:.
AC~-LBIDEN.   1990. 59(1-2). P 51-8.

GOCDL-C-w.   WILL£TT-K-C-. HERNARD-J •
PARASITIC DISEASES, WORLD REAL'm ORGANIZATION
KNOWN DISTRIBUTION OF ONCHOCERCIASIS IN AFRICA
WHO PUBLI~ION WHO/ONCBO/10.80
WHO GlmEVA, SWITZERIAND

GOLDSMI'm-E. BILDYARD-N. 'l'RUSSBLL-D.
WADlmRIDGB ECOLOGICAL CENTRE UK
THE SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECT OF LARGE DAMS, VOLUMES 1-3
1984-1992, ABBEY PRBSS, BODMIN, CORNWALL, JmGLAND, UK

HARB-L. CAR'l'ZR-J-C-B.
DEPARTMKN'l'      or
              BIOUlGY, UNIVERSITY OF WA1'ERIOO, NA'1'ZRI.OO, ONTARIO,
   CANADA N2L 3G1.
TBE BBH'l'HOS or A NM'URAL WBS'l' AP'RICAN :I...ME WI'm EMPHASIS ON TBE DIEL
   MIGRM'IONS AND LUNAR AND SEASONAL PERIODICITIES OF TBE CHAOBORUS
   POPULATIONS DIPTERA CBAOBaUDAB.
FRESBW~           BIOL 16 (6). 1986.   159-180.

HARLEMAli-D-R-r. 

                 or TZCB'HOLOGY, CAMBRIDGE, ~BlJSB'l"1'S,
KASSACBtBBTTS INSTITU"l'!                                               USA 

HYDROTHERMAL ANALYSIS OF LAKES AND RESERVOIRS
J-BYDRAUL-DIV-AM-SOC-CIVIL-ENGS 108(BY3) 1982 P 302-325.
                                               69 


HASSAN-A-T. 

DEP. ZooL., UNIV. IBADAN, IBADAN, NIGERIA. 

THE EFFECT OF A SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT EFFLUENT ON THE ECOLOGY OF A 

   SMALL TROPICAL STREAM. 

21ST CONlRBSS OF THE INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY OF LIMNOLOGY, PART 2, 

   KYO'IU, JAPAN, AUG.-SEPT., 1980. 

INT VER TBEOR ANGEW LIMNOL VERB 21 (2). 1981. 1093. 


HUNTER-J-M. REY-L. CHU-K-Y.        ADEKOLU-JOHN-E-o.    MOTT-K-.
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
PARASITIC DISEASES IN WATER RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
1993 WHO GENEVA SWITZERLAND 


HYSLOP-E-J. 

DEP. BIOL., t1NIV. SWAZILAND, PRIVA'l'B BAG NO.4, KWALUSENI, SWAZILAND. 

A COMPARISON OF THE COMPOSITION OF TBE JUVENILE FISH CATCH FROM TBE 

   SOKOTO-RIMA FLOODPLAIN NIGERIA IN YEARS PRECBDIm AND IMMBDIA'l'BLY
   AFTER UPSTREAM DAM COMPLETION.
J FISH BIOL 32 (6). 1988. 895-900.

IGBINOSA-I-B. 

DEP. ZOOLOGY, UNIV. NIGERIA, NSUKKA, ANAMBRA STATE, NIGERIA. 

INVESTIGA.TIONS ON THE BRBEDIm SITE PREFERENCES OF MOSQUITOES IN 

   EKPOMA NIGERIA.
J APPL ENTOMOL 107 (4). 1989. 325-330.

ILBGBODU-V-A. CmuSTENSEN-B-L. WISE-R-A. ILEGBODU-A-E.              KALE-<>-O.
P.O. BOX 20163, HOUSTON, TEX. 77225-0163, USA.
SOURCE OF DRINKING WATER SUPPLY AND TRANSMISSION OF GUINEA WORM
DISEASE IN NIGERIA.
ANN TROP MBD PARASITOL 81 (6). 1987. 713-718. 


JERWOOD-D. SAPORU-F-W-o. 

UNIVERSITY OF MAIDUGURI, NIGERIA 

MODBLLIlC ENDEMIC ONCHOCERCIASIS IN HAN IN TBE PRESENCE OF VECTOR CONTROLS 

MBD-IMFORM   13(1)   1988 P 1-14. 


JOBIN-W-R. 

BLUE NILE ASSOCIATES PO BOX 542 FOXBORO .MASSACHUSETTS USA 

RAPID HEALTH ASSESSMENT OF MANANTALI ENERGY PROJECT IN MALI
BNA REPORT MARCH 1993 


JOBIN-W-R. 

BLUE NILE ASSOCIATES PO BOX 542 FOXBORO MASSACHUSETTS USA 

BILHARZIA PREVENTION AND HYDROELECTRIC RESERVOIRS
BNA HANDBOOK 2, 1993. FOXBORO .MASSllCHUSETTS 


JOBIN-W-R. 

BLUE NILE ASSOCIA1'BS PO BOX 542 FOXBORO .MASSACHUSETTS USA 

IRRIGATION PLANNING AND PREVENTION OF BILHARZIA
BNA HANDBOOK 1, 1993. FOXBORO MASSllCHUSI!:TTS 


JOBIN-W-R. 

BLUB NILE ASSOCIATI!:S PO BOX 542 FOXBORO .MASSACHUSETTS USA 

ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT OF DISEASE VECTORS
1987 Pl!:EM, WHO, GENEVA SWITZl!:RLAND 


JOBIN-W-R. LARACUENT-A. 

BLUE NILE HEALTH PROJECT, WAD MBDANI. SUDAN 

SNAIL MARISA CORNUARIETIS IN TROPICAL HYDROELECTRIC RESERVOIRS
J-8NVIRON-E!c-AMBR-SOC-CIVIL-ENG       1984   110(2) P 356-368.
                                                     70 


Jt:ADIRI-H-Q. OPUTJ.I.:-l"-I. 

DEP. BOT., tlNIV. BERIN, BENIN CITY, NIGERIA. 

A RICH FLORA OF HICRASTE'RIAS FROM THE IKPOBA RESERVOIR NIGERIA. 

ARCS HYDROBIOL 116 (3). 1989. 391-399. 


KHAN-H-A. BJIO-C.
DEPARTMBNT OF BOTANY, UNIVERSITY OF JOB, PHB 2084 JOS, NI<Z1UA.
LIMNOLOGY AND PLANKTON PERIODICITY OF JOS-PLATEAU WATER RESERVOIR.
BYDROBIOLOGIA 114 (3). 1984. 189-200.

KBAN-H-A. FAGBEHI-T. EJID-C. 

DEP. OF BOT., UNIV. or JOB, NIGERIA. 

DIURNAL VARIATIONS OF PHYSICOCHEMICAL FAC'l'ORS AND Pr.ANKTONIC 

 OIGYITSMS IN JOB PLMZAU JlBST AFRICA WA'l'BR RESERVOIR.
JPN J LIMNOL 44 (1). 1983. 65-71.

lUNG-R-P. HKANTA-H-A.
DEP. ZOOL • .AND l"ISHERIES, UNIV. CROSS RIVER STA'l!:, P. M. B. 1017,
   om, NIGERIA.
THE STATUS .AND SDSONALITY IN THE PBYSIco-cBEMICAL HYDROI.CGY 01" A
   NIGERIAN RAINFOREST POND.
JPN J LIMNOL 52 (1). 1991. 1-12.

KLIJ!G-G-W.
ECOSYST. CElfl' ., WOODS BOLE, MASS. 02543.
COMPARATIVE 'I'RANSPARElCY DEPTH OF MIXIlG AND STABILITY 01"
   STRATIFICATION IN LADS OF CAMEROON WBST AFRICA.
LIHNOL OCEANOGR 33 (1). 1988. 27-40.

KOS'l'l-W. 'l'OBIAS-W.
LtJ'DWIG-BRILL-STR. 5, D-4570 QUAKENBRUICK.
ROTIFERS OF IWHIADB SAHMRANI LAD TRIBUTARY TO THE NIGER RIVER
    MALI WEST AFRICA.
ARCH BYDROBIOL 108 (4). 1987. 499-516.

KRAGBA-I-K.
DEPARTMENT 01" OPTOMETRY, UNIVERSITY or BENIN, NIGERIA.
EYE DISEASES IN toT8J!lRH NIGERIA, PREVALBIC!:, AGE AND SEX
   DI~S.
OPBTBALMIC-PBYSIOL-oPT.          1987.   7 (4) •   P 481-3.

KWEI-E-A.
VOLTA lAD RES. DIN. PROJ., P.O. BOX 88, AKOSOMBO, GHANA.
BIOLOGICAL CHEMICAL AND HYDROLOGICAL CHARACTERS OF COASTAL LAGOONS       or
   GHANA WEST Al'RICA.
BYDROBIOLOGIA 56 (2). 1977 157-174.

LEE-l"-G.   JONES-A.
EFFECTS OF EUTROPHICATION ON FISHERIES
LAKE LIN!       12(4)     1992   P 13-20. 


LEWIS-1f-M. 

DEPT ZOOLOGY,     IND~      UNIVERSITY, BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA USA 

THE THERMAL REGIME OF LAKE LANAO AND ITS THEORETICAL IMPLICATIONS
FOR TROPICAL LAKES
LIMN-oc&ANOG.      1973     18(2)   P 200-217.

M1ICOOHALD-G
LO!I)ON SCHOOL OF TROPICAL MBDICINB AND BYGIENB, UK
A DESIGN OF l"LUSBIW SIPBONS POR CO!ilTilDL OF Al«)PBBLINB BREEDIlC
JL-MAIoAR-INST-INDIA 1939. 2 P 63
                                               7 I


MTADA-Q-S-M.
DEP. BIOL. SCL, UNIV. ZIMBABWE, P.O. BOXMP 167, MOUNT PLEASANT,
   HARARE, ZIMBABWE.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE LIIH)LOGY OF A TROPICAL RESERVOIR IN WEST AFRICA
   THE GUMA DAM SIERRA LBONE I. FACTORS INFLUENCING ITS PHYSICAL LlMOOLOGY.
TROP ECOL 27 (2). 1986. 184-194.

MOLlNEAUX-L.   GRAMICCIA-G.
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
THE GARKI PROJECT
1980 WHO GENEVA, SWITZERLAND

NASIDI ET AL.
FEDERAL VACCINE PRODlX:TION LAB, YABA, NIGERIA 

URBAN YELLOW FEVER EPIDEMIC IN WESTERN NIGERIA, 1987 

TRANS-ROY-SCX'!-TROP-MED-HYG.   1989   83   P 401-406. 


NDIFON-G-T. UKOLI-F-H-A. 

DEP. BIOL. SCI., BAYERO, UNIV., KAll), NIGERIA. 

ECOLOGY OF !'RI!:SBWATER SNAILS IN SOUTB-wESTERN NIGERIA I. DISTRIBUTION 

   AND HABITAT PRE!'EREII!ES.
HYDROBIOLOGIA 171 (3). 1989. 231-254.

NDON-J-A.  uno-S-H. WEBRENBBRG-W-B. 

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH SCIENCES, UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN, HILWAUKI!:E 53201. 

VIBRI0-ASSOCIA'l'ED GASTROEN'l'ERlTIS IN THE LOWER CROSS-RIVER BASIN OF NIGERIA. 

J-CLIN-MICROBIOL. 1992 OCT. 30(10). P 2730-2. 


NWADIARO-C. ODIGI-H. 

UNIV. PORT BARCOURr, FAC. SCI., DEP. ZOOL., P.M. B. 5323, PORT 

   HARCOURT, NIGERIA.
SEDIMENTS OF LAD OGUTA NIGERIA I. CM'IOHS AND TRACE METALS.
ARCH HYDROBIOL 121 (3). 1991. 365-372.

NWOD-S-E.     ONWULIRI-C-o. UI'OMADu-G-O.
MEDICAL EN'l'Ol«)LOGY & PARASI'IOLOGY UNIT, SCHOOL OF BIOLOGICAL
   SCIENCES, nD STA'l'E UNIVERSITY, OItIGNE, NIGERIA.
ONCHOCERCIASIS IN PLATEAU STATE; NIGERIA:
ECOLOGICAL BACKGROUND, LOCAL DISEASE PERCEPTION & TREATMENT; AND 

VECTOR/PARASITE DYNAMICS. 

J-BYG-EPIDEMIOL-MICROBIOL-IMMUHOL.     1992.    36(2).     P 153-60. 


OCP
OCP WHO GENEVA SWITZERLAND
ONCHOCERIASIS CONTROL PROGRAMME IN WEST AFRICA
PROGRESS REPORT OF JPC-CCP
1975-1993, WHO, GENEVA, SWITZERIAND

ODIGI-H-I. NWADIARO-C-S. 

DEP. GEOL., URIV. PORT HARCOURT, P.M. B. 5323, PORT BARCOURT, NIGERIA. 

GEOPHYSICAL LIMM:>LOGY OF LAD OGI'JI'A IN SOt.J'l.'BEAS'I'ERN NIGERIA WITH 

   NOTES ON ITS POSSIBLE ORIGIN.
HYDROBIOL BULL 22 (2). 1988. 113-126.

ODYSSEY WORLD ATI..AS
GOLDEN EDITION
1967 OOLDEN PRESS, NEW YORK USA

OFOJ!:ZIE-I-E. lMEVBORE-A-M-A. BALOGUN-M-o.      OGtJNKOYA-o-o. ASAOLU-S-o
INSTITU'l'B ECOLOGY, ILE-Il'B, NIGERIA.
A STUDY OF AN OUTBREAK OF SCHISTOSOMIASIS IN TWO RESETTLEMENT 

VILLAGES NEAR ABEOKUTA OGUN STATE NIGERIA. 

J HELMINTBOL 65 (2). 1991. 95-102. 

                                                       72 



OGBOGU-V-C. BABLIS-J-M. AJANUSI-o-J.
DBPARTMEN'l' OJ!' VETERINARY PARASITOLOGY AND BN'roMOLOGY, ABMADU BELLO
   UNIVERSI'l'!, ZARIA, NIGERIA.
PREVALENCE OF MICROFILARIAE IN CATTLE AT SLAUGHTER IN ZARIA, 

NIGERIA. 

VBT-PARASITOL.     1990 MAY.       36(1-2).     P 171-5. 


OKAl!'OR-F-C. ANYA-J!'AS-A-o. 

DBP. ZOOLOGY, UNIV. NIGERIA, NSUKKA, NIGBRIA. 

J!'IELD AGB STRTXTURB DEVELOPMENT BIOLOGY AND REPRODUCTION OJ!' 

     BULINUS-GLOBOSUS <.aSTROPODA PULMONATA AND J!'ACTORS Al!':P'BCTING ITS
     GROWTH AND REPRODTX'l'ION IN ANAMSRA STATE NIGIRIA.
TROP BOOL 32 (1). 1991. 69-85.

OMPOR-I!'-C.
DEl>. ZOOLOGY, UNIVERSI'l'! NIGERIA, NSUlatA, NIGERIA.
SCBISTOSOMA-BABMATOBIUM CERCARIAE TRANSMISSION PATTERNS IN J.l'RESBWATBR
    SYSTEMS or ANI\MBRA S'l'A!I'Z NIGIRIA.
ANGEW PARASITOL 31 (3). 1990. 159-166.

OMPOR-I!'-C.
DEP. ZooL., UHIV. NIGBRIA, NSUJatA, NIGERIA.
ASSOCIATION or CHAETOGNlTBR-LIMNAEI AND PUIB:>NA'l'I!: GASTROPODS IN THE
   FRESBWATBR SYSTBMS or S01J'rBEASTBRN NIGERIA.
TROP BCOL 30 (1). 1989. P 48-51.

OLOFIN-B-A.
DEPT GEOGRAPHY, BAl'BRO UNIVERSITY, MNO, NIGERIA
MONITORING THE IMPACT OF DAMS ON THE DOWNSTREAM PHYSICAL
ENVIRONMENT IN THE TROPICS
REG-RIVERSaRES-MGMT.        1988    2 P 167-174

ONllUM!RB-B~.  OLADIMEJI-A-A.
DEPT BIOL SCIER.:BS, ABMADU BELLO UNIVERSI'l'!, ZARIA, NIGERIA
ACCUMULATION OF METALS AND HISTOPATHOLOGY OF OREOCHROMIS NILOTICUS
EXPOSED TO TREATED NNPC KAnONA (NIGERIA) PETROLEUM REFINERY
EFFLUENT.
BCO'1'OX-ENVIR-SAFBTY.      1990    19.    P 123-134.

ONWULIRI-C-o.     NMOD-B-E. LAWAL-I-A. IWUALA-M-o.
DEPARTMBNT OF    zooux:t,     UNIVERSITY or JOB, PI.AT.BJW STATE, NIGERIA.
O~BOCERCIASIS IN PLATEAU STM'B OF NIGERIA.            II. THE PREVALENCE
   AMONG RBSIDB!f1"S AROUND TB!: ASSOB Rl:VER AREA.
ANN-'l'ROP-MJSD-PAftASI'l'OL.   1987 FEB. 81 (1). P 49-52.

ONDMBLUKWE-G-C. LAWAROB-R-V.
DBPARTMBNT OJ!' MlDICIRB, AB.H.N)U BELLO UNIVERSITY TEACBING HOSPITAL,
   ZARIA, NIGBRIA.
SDO'1'YPB VARIATIOII IN VIBRIO CHOLBRAl!: EL TOR DIARRHOEA IN NORTBBRN
   NIGERIA.
CBNT-APR-J-MlD. 1991 JUN. 37(6). P 186-9.

OSISANYA-J-o. DAllIBL-S-O. SBBGAL-S-C. Al!'IGBO-A. IYANDA-A.
   OKORO-r-I. MBlLU-H.
UNIVERSITY OF SOKO'1'O COLLEGE OF HEALTH SCIENCES, 5OKO'1'O, NIGERIA.
ACUTE DIARRHOEAL DISEASE IN NIGERIA: DETECTION OF ENTEROPATHOGENS
IN A RURAL SUB-SAHARAN POPULATION.
TRAHS-R-SOC-TROP-MBD-HYG.          1988.    82 (5) •   P 773-7.
                                             73 


O'lUBO-F-O. 

AAINJI LAKE RES. INST., PRIV. MAIL BAG 666, NEW BUSSA, NIGERIA. 

THE FISH FAUNA CHANGES AND THE PLACE OF CLUPEIDS IN LAKE KAINJI 

    NIGERIA. 

HYDROBIOLOGIA 64 (2). 1979. 99-104. 


PAM-D-D.  IMANDEH-N~.   AJAYI-J-A. 

DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF JOS, NIGERIA. 

MALARIA MORBIDITY AMONG CHILDREN ATTENDING MATERNAL AND CHILD 'WELFARE 

   CLINICS IN NJRTHERN NIGERIA.
APPL-PARASITOL.  1993 SEP. 34(3). P 215-9.

PARKMAN SAMAILA CONSULTANTS
KATSINA, NIGERIA
RECOMMENDATIONS ON THE LOCATION OF THE GWAIGWAYE DAM SITE
JANUARY 1994

POOB-R-N-H. VAN-VDN-T-W-S. TAYO-M-A.
DIP. TROP. MED., LIVERP. SCH • TROP. MED., PEMBRCllQ!: PL., LIVERPOOL L3
   5QA, ENGL., UK.
MALUMFASHI ENDEMIC DISEASES RESEARCH PROJECT XII
SCHISTOSOMA-BOVIS AND FASCIOLA-GlGANTlCA IN LIVESTOCK.
ANN TROP MED PARASlTOL 74 (4). 1980. 447-454.

POOH-R-N-H. GILLES-H-M.
DIP. TROP. MED., LIVBRP. SCH. TROPICAL MED., PEMBROKl!: PL., LIVERPOOL
   L3 5QA, ENlL., UK.
MALUMFASHI ENDEMIC DISEASES RESEARCH PROJECT PART III
URINARY SCHISTOSOMIASIS A LONGITUDINAL STUDY.
ANN TROP MBD PARASlTOL 72 (5). 1978. 471-482.

QUEIJ!:NNBC~. SIMONKOVICH-E. OVAZZA-M.
ORSTOM, BOBO DlOUIASSO, BURKINA FASO
SEARCH FOR A TYPE OF DAM SPILLWAY UNFAVORABLE TO BREEDING OF
SIMULIUM
WHO PUBLICATION WHO/ONCHO/67.57
WHO GENEVA SWITZERLAND

REMME-J. BA-o.   DADZIE-K-Y. KARAM-M.
OCP, BP 549, OUAGADOUGOU, BURKINA FASO
A FORCE OF INFECTION MODEL FOR ONCHOCERCIASIS AND ITS APPLICATION
BULL-WHO.     1986   64(5)   P667-681.

RYDING-S-o.    RAST-W.
UNESCO
THE CONTROL OF EUTROPHICATION IN LAKES AND RESERVOIRS
MAN AND THE BIOSPHERE SERIES, VOLUME 1 

1989PARTHENCIl PUBLISHING COMPANY AND UNESCO PARIS 


ROSBNFIBLD-P-L. 

JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSI'l'Y, BALTDf)RE MARYIAND, USA 

DEVELOPMENT AND VERIFICATION OF A SCHISTOSOMIASIS TRANSMISSION
MODEL
us AGtm::y !'OR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT    1975

ROSENFIELD-P-R. 

RESOURCES !'OR THE FlJl'URB, WASHINGTON DC USA 

THE MANAGEMENT OF SCHISTOSOMIASIS
RESEARCH PAPER R-16, 1979
RESOURCES FOR THE FUTtJRB
                                                    74 


SALITJ-J-K JR. 

DEP. BIOL. SCL, UNIV. ILORDl, P.M.B. 1515, ILORIN, NIGERIA. 

AQUATIC INSECTS ASSOCIATED WITH PIANTS IN 'I'iO RESERV'OIRS AT IBAlJAN NIGERIA. 

REV BIOL TROP 37 (2). 1989. 217-220. 


SHIrF-C-J. 

BILHARZIA RESEARCH LABORA'roRY, HARARE, ZIMBABWB 

STUDIES ON BULlNUS GLOBOSUS IN RHODESIA
ANN-TROP-MED-HYG.        1964   58 ( 1)   P 94-105. 


SMITH-V-G-l" • 

SCH. SCIElt2S, HEN! COLL., 1I>UL'l'ON PARK, Nat'l'BAMP'1'ON NN2 7AL, U.K. 

DISTRIBUTION OF SNAILS OF MEDICAL AND VETERINARY IMPORTANCE IN AN
ORGANICALLY POLLUTED WATER COURSE IN NIGERIA.
ANN TROP MED PARASI'roL 76 (5). 1982. 539-546.

TAMEIM-o. DAPl"ALLA-A-A-R. Jl)JWmD-A-B. BASIT-S-A.                EL GADDM.-A-A.    PlmWICK-A.   .JOBIN-W-R.
BLUE NILE HEALTH PROOl!:CT, WAD MEDANI, SUDAN
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS IN BLUE NILE HEALTH PROJECT
J-ENVIRDN-ENG - AM-SOC-CIVIL-ENG            1987   113(6)   P 1219-1233. 


TAIO-M-A. PUGB-R-N-B. BRADLEY-~K. 

ENDBM. DIS. :RES. UNIT., ABU HOOP., MALUMFASBI, NIGBRIA. 

MALUMFASHI NIGERIA ENDEMIC DISEASE RESEARCH PROJECT II.
WATER CONTACT ACTIVITIES IN THE SCHISTOSOMIASIS STUDY AREA.
ANN TROP MED PARASI'roL 74 (3). 1980. 347-354. 


TAYQ-M-A. JEWSBURY-J-M. 

ENIEMIC DIS. RES. UNIT, ABU HOSP., .MALUHl'ASBI, JICADUNA, NIGBRIA. 

MALUMFASHI ENDEMIC DISEASES RESEARCH PROJECT PART IV
CHANGES IN SNAIL POPULATION FOLLOWING THE CONSTRUCTION OF A SMALL
DAM.
ANN TROP MED PARASI'roL 72 (5). 1978. 483-488.

TCHOBAHJGLOUS-G.  SCHROEDER-E-D.
UNIVBRSITY OP CALIFORNIA AT rAVIS, USA
WATER QUALITY
1985
ADDISOH-wBSUY PUBLISBING COMPANY, READING MASSACBUSB'l'TS USA

'l'OMORI-o •
VIRDL. DIV., BUR. LAB., CEN'r. DIS. CON'l"ROL, ATLANTA, GA. 30333, USA.
RIFT-VALLEY FEVER VIRUS INFECTION IN MAN IN NIGERIA.
J KED   ~ROL      5 (4). 1980. 343-350.

'l'OMl{INS-A. BRADUY-A. BRADUY-IIXJUI:-A. GRZDH:X>D-B.            IW:!I'ARLAD-6.   GILLES-B.
LIVERPOOL SCHOOL OF 'lROPICAL MlDICINI, UK
CHAPTER 21 MORBIDITY AND MORTALITY
AT MALUMFASHI, NIGERIA 1974-1979
l"RCfI1 DIs&ASB AND IIlRTALITY IN SUB-sABARAN AFRICA, BY FBACBAM AND JAMISON, 1991
WORLD BAH!I; AND OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS, UK

UIX>!l,;I -J-K.
PARASI'l'OLOGY EN'J.'O!I:)LOGY RESBARCB LAB., DEP. ZooL., UNIV. PORT
   HARCOURT, POR'!' HARCOURT, NIGIDUA.
HUMAN COMMUNITY ECOLOGY OF 0RIlGRY SCBIS'roSOMIASIS IN RELM'ION TO
   SNAIL VEC'roR BIONOMICS IN 'l'HB IGWUN RIVER BASIN OF NIGBRIA.
TROP MBD PARASI'roL 41 (2). 1990. 131-135.
                                                 75 


UOONSI-J-K. 

DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF PORT HARCOURT, NIGERIA. 

FILARIASIS IN THE IGWUN RIVER BASIN, NIGERIA I AN EPIDEMIOLOGICAL AND 

   CLINICAL STUDY WITH A N:>TE ON THE VECTORS.
ANN-TROP-MED-PARASITOL.  1988 FEB. 82 (1) • P 75-82.

UFOMADU-G-O. ENO-R-o. AKOB-J-I. TAKAHASHI-H. UCHIDA-A.
   BAYAKAWA-H. WATANABE-M. SATO-Y. EREJINDU-G-O. ONWULIRI-C-o.          ET AL.
PARASlTOLOOY DIVISION, NIGERIAN INSTITUTE FOR TRYPAK)SOMIASIS
   RESEARCH, PLATEAU STATE.
EVALUATION OF SKIN BIOPSIES PROM DIFFERENT BODY REGIONS OF
   ONCHOCERCIASIS PATIENTS IN CENTRAL NIGERIA.
ACTA-TROP (BASEL).  1988 BEP. 45(3). P 257-62.

UFOMADU-G-o. AKPA-A-U. EREJINDU-I-M.
ENTOMOLOGY AND PARASlTOLOOY DIVISION, NIGERIA INSTITUTE lOR
   TRYP~IASIS RESEARCH, VOM, PLATEAU STATE.

HUMAN ONCHOCERCIASIS IN THE LOWER JOS PLATEAU, CENTRAL NIGERIA:
THE PREVALENCE, GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION AND EPIDEMIOLOGY IN
AKWANGA AND LAFIA LOCAL GOVERNMENT AREAS.
ANN-TROP-MED-PARASITOL.    1992 DEC.    86(6).    P 637-47. 


UTSALO-S-J. EKo-F-o. ANTIA-oBOliG-E-o. 

DEPARTMENT OF MEDICAL MICROBIOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF CAIABAR, NIGERIA. 

FEATURES OF CHOLERA AND VIBRIO PARAHAEMOLYTICUS DIARRHOEA
ENDEMICITY IN CALABAR, NIGERIA.
EUR-J-EPIDEMIOL.    1992 NOV.   8(6).   P 856-60. 


UTSALO-5-J. EKo-P-o. ANTIA-oBOliG-O-E. 

DEPARTMENT OF Ml!!DlCAL MICROBIOLOGY & PARASITOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF 

   CALABAR, TEACHINl HOSPITAL.
CHOLERA AND VIBRIO PARABAEMOLYTICUS DIARRHOEA ENDEKICITY IN CALABAR, NIGERIA.
WEST-AFR-J-MED. 1991 APR-JUN. 10(2). P 175-80.

VICTOR-R. TETTEH-J-o. 

DEP. ZooL., UNIV. BENIN, PMB 1154, BENIN CITY, NIGERIA, W. AFR. 

PISH COMMUNITIES OP A PERTURBED STREAM IN SOlJ'l'HERN NIGERIA. 

J TROP ECOL 4 (1). 1988. 49-59. 


WAPDECO 

KADUNA, NIGERIA 

FINAL REPORT ON ZONKWA WATER SUPPLY SCHEME
FEBRUARY 1991

WIJE~TN!-P-M.
DSP. COMMUNITY MI!!D., ABMADU BELLO UNIV., ZARIA, NIGBRIA.
INCREASED PREVALENCE OF PLASMODIUM-FALCIPARUM AND SCHISTOSOMA­
HAEMATOBIUM INFECTIONS AND THEIR VECTORS IN A NORTHERN NIGERIAN
AREA FOLLOWING THE PROVISION OF SMALL DAMS.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE 5TH INTERNJ.TIONAL COl«,;.RESS OF PARASITOLOOY, TORON'ro, CANADA, AU:;. 7-14,
1982. MOL BIOCBEM PARASlTOL (SUPPL.). 1982. 318-319.

iQW)  BANK
WORLD POP~ION PROJECTIONS, 1992-1993 EDITION
WORLD BANK, WASHINGTON DC AND JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY

iQW) BANK
WORLD TABLES VOLUME II SOCIAL DATA
1983 WORLD BANK WASHINGTON DC USA
                                         76

WORLD HEALTH COMMISSION ON HEALTH AND ENVIRONHBNT
WHO
OUR PLANET, OUR HEALTH
1992 WHO GENEVA SWITZERLAND

WHO
MANUAL ON ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FOR MOSQUITO CONTROL
WHO OFFSET PUBLICATION 66
1982 WHO GENEVA SWITZERLAND

wao
RIFT VALLEY FEVER
wao Ol'!'SBT PUBLICATION NO 63
1982 WHO G8'NEVA SWITZBRLAND
                             77 



                LIST OF TABLES AND FIGURES 

TABLE NUMBER     TITLE                                         PAGE
1    Six ecological groups of aquatic snails                   13
2    Nitrates and sodium in drinking water in project areas    24
3    preliminary assumed population subgroups for projects     28
4    Symptoms present before death in Malumfashi               30
5    Annual disease incidence and death rates in Nigeria       31
6    Estimated demographic characteristics of Nigeria          32
7    Ranking of bilharzia snails for resistance to drying      37
8    Limiting water velocities for breeding of Simulium        46
9    Weather conditions for northern Nigeria                   48
10   Temperatures from Kongingiri Dam near Jos                 56
11   Estimated water temperatures in reservoirs                57
12   Total phosphorus loads                                    58
13   Textile and tannery wastewaters                           62
14   Maximum contaminant levels allowed in drinking water      63



FIGURE NUMBER    TITLE                                         PAGE
1    Kaduna and Katsina states in northern Nigeria             3
2    Location of proposed reservoirs in Kaduna state           5
3    Proposed dam at Funtua in Katsina state                   6
4    Observed person-biting rates for mosquitos in Kano        11
5    Prevalence of bilharzia versus distance to water          15
6    Prevalence of bilharzia versus water consumption rate     16
7    Predicted versus observed prevalence rates of bilharzia   17
8    Distribution of River Blindness in Nigeria                19
9    Prevalence of diarrheal disease and water consumption     21
10   Definition sketch for Illuminated Shore Zone              39
11   Phosphorus loading and eutrophication in lakes            40
12   Relation of lake temperature and altitude factor          41
13   Calibration of snail population model                     43
14   Predicted versus observed numbers of snails in Pond B     44
15   Predicted versus observed numbers of snails in Pond C     45
16   wind rose for Kaduna and Katsina                          50
17   Sinusoidal pattern of fluctuations in water temperature   55
18   Water quality as function of reservoir time and area      60
                                                             MALARIA
                                                             The most common of the tropical
                                                             diseases related to water, malaria is
                                                             transmitted tllrougllOut the tropics
                                                             by anopheline mosquitoes which
                                                             are often found infesting reservoirs,
                                                             irrigation canals and drains. Due to
                                                             resistance to insecticides and drugs,
                                                             prevention by environmental modi­
                                                             fication is becoming a necessity in
                                                             water resource developments.
                                                             These environmental control mea­
                                                             sures are best implemented in the
            Anopheline mosquito.                             design         of a project.




                                                             BILHARZIA
                                                             Bilharzia is a parasitk disease trans­
                                                             mitted in a complex cycle by fresh
                                                             water snails. an infection closely
                                                             linked with irrigation and classically
                                                             associated with the Nile River. It is
                                                             also found. however. in tile Carib­
                                                             bean area and Brazil, in China, the
                                                             Philippines and the Middle East. The
                                                             disease is also known academically
            Shells of planorbid snails.                      as schistosomiasis.




                                                             RIVER BLINDNESS
                                                             This disease, prevalent in Africa ami
                                                             tropical America. is spread through
                                                             the bite of the blackfly. The biting
                                                             blackfly breeds in rapids or white­
                                                             water on spillways and water control
                                                             structures, and is responsible for
                                                             impeding agricultural development
                                                             in mucll of West Africa. The disease
                                                             is also known as onchocerciasis to
            !'.Iacklly.                                      parasitologists.




Major Diseases Related to Water Resource Projects 



BWE NILE ASSOCIATES                 P.o. BOX 542   FOXBORO, MASSACHUSETTS 02035              U.S.A.
