Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11451
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDITS 1338-HA & SFI-HA)
DECEMBER 21, 1992
Infrastructure Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Gourde (Gourdes)
Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 1991
US$1.00   Gdes 5.00
US$0.20   Gdes 1.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CDB       Croix-des-Bossales
EPPLS     Public Social Housing Promotion Company
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
GOH       Government of Haiti
KFW       German Reconstruction Loan Corporation
MTPTC     Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and
Communications
ONL       National Housing Office
SAGMP     Metropolitan Market Management Agency
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 21, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Haiti
Urban Development Proiect (Credits 1338-HA and SFI-HA)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Haiti - Urban Development
Project (Credits 1338-HA and SFI-HA)" prepared by the Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office. No contribution was received from the Borrower.
Project implementation suffered from poor design and unfavorable
country conditions.   The closing date was extended by four years in total.
Physical achievements were limited. Capacity building and policy development
impacts were marginal. The project, typical of early generation urban projects,
was too complex and demanding given the weakness of the institutional framework.
The project outcome is rated as highly unsatisfactory.
The Project Completion Report is of excellent quality. It provides,
for each major component, an interesting discussion as to how implementation
problems might have been avoided. No audit is planned.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LNS. 1338-HA & SFI-HA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ..............................................................                                                   i
Evaluation Summary ...................................................                                                 ii
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity ......................................                                            1
2.  Background ............................................                                            1
3.  Project Objectives and Description ....................                                            1
4.  Project Design and Organization .......................                                            3
5.  Project Implementation ................................                                            5
6.  Project Results .......................................                                           12
7.  Project Sustainability ................................                                           14
8.  Bank Performance and Lessons Learned ..................                                           14
9.  Borrower's Performance ................................                                           16
10.  Bank-Borrower Relationship ............................                                           17
11.  Consulting Services ...................................                                           18
12.  Project Documentation and Data ........................                                           19
PART II   BORROWER'S  )MMENTS ........................................                                                 20
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION ....................................                                                 21
Related Bank Credits .......................................                                           22
Project Timetable ..........................................                                           22
Credit Disbursements .......................................                                           23
Project Implementation Status ..............................                                           25
Project Costs & Financing ..................................                                           26
Project Results: ...........................................                                           28
A. Direct Benefits ....................................                                        28
B. Economic Impact ....................................                                        28
C. Financial Impact ...................................                                        29
D. Studies ............................................                                        30
Status of Covenants ........................................                                           31
Use of Bank Resources ......................................                                           32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1338-HA, SF1-HA)
PREFACE
1.    The following is the Project Completion Report on the Urban Development
Project in Haiti under Credit 1338-HA and SF1-HA totalling SDR19.4 million
(US$21.0 million equivalent). The Credits were signed on March 31, 1983, and the
project was carried out from June 1983 through August 31, 1991.  The original
Closing Date of December 1987, was extended four times to December 31, 1991 when
the Credits were to be closed. The Credits were not fully disbursed and SDR3.0
(US$3.9 million equivalent) will be canceled from the Credit Accounts as soon as
the current suspension of disbursements is lifted.
2.    This report was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division,
Department III, of Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. It is based
on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit and the Special Fund Agreements,
information obtained from the project files.
3.    Due to substantial personnel changes within the project executing agencies
(EPPLS and MTPTC) that took place in the aftermath of the recent political
upheavals, many of the key staff who were involved with the project are no longer
available to prepare an analysis of key issues related to the project nor to make
a retrospective assessment of the project implementation from the Borrower's
perspective. Therefore, the Borrower did not prepare Part II of the report. The
last IDA mission which collected data on the project visited Haiti in August
1991.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1338-HA and SF1-HA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Objectives
i.          The project's main objectives at appraisal were to finance the
upgrading of the physical infrastructure and the institutional strengthening of
the principal market in Port-au-Prince (Credit SF1-HA, SDR 12 million).  The
objectives were radically changed when their implementation proved impracticable
in 1986/1987, due to project-related as well as political problems. Following
the cancellation of the market component, Cr. SF1-HA was amended to finance a new
component consisting of urban road improvements. The project's other component,
aimed at providing low-cost housing (Credit 1338-HA, SDR 7.4 million), suffered
fewer implementation problems. The components comprised (1) upgrading of the
Croix-des-Bossales (CDB) market in Port-au-Prince, and provision of serviced
sites for low-income families to be displaced from the CDB upgrading works site;
(2) provision of 'sites and services' in Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes to improve
living conditions of low-income groups (3) creation of SAGMAP, an agency to
operate and promote the long-term development of markets in Port-au-Prince; and
(4) institutional strengthening of EPPLS, the Public Social Housing Promotion
Company (para. 3.01 and 3.02).
ii.         The market component was later replaced by an urban road component
whose objectives were to (1) improve selected key roads in Port-au-Prince; (2)
ameliorate maintenance of the city road network; and (3) to review the issues
affecting transportation in Port-au-Prince (para. 3.03).
Implementation Experience
iii.        Market component (para. 5.02 - 5.08).  The Ministry of Public Works,
Transport and Communications (MTPTC) was responsible for the implementation of
this component; EPPLS was responsible to provide housing for those to be
relocated from the market work site. Coordination between MTPTC and EPPLS was
poor and IDA's supervision was limited.   As a result, MTPTC delayed the
contracting of the market upgrading works for two years (works were only to start
in Jan. 1986).  At that time, the construction of some 1,000 houses for the
families living in the market had already been completed but the relocation was
not  initiated  due to the lack of counterpart  funds necessary to provide
compensation payments to those to be displaced. In February 1986, Duvalier's
regime fell, and, in the confused period that followed, part of the houses
constructed for the market occupants were invaded by squatters; also, many market
occupants no longer wished to leave the market because of the prevailing
political instability. Under the circumstances, the contract for the market



- iii -
upgrading had to be canceled, and the remaining US$12 million under Cr. SF1-HA
were reallocated in 1987, to finance the urban road component.
iv.         Housing component (para. 5.09 - 5.15).  Construction of about 1,000
shelters of acceptable quality was completed in Port-au-Prince by mid-1985.
Provision of serviced sites in Cap-Haitien (883 units) and Les Cayes (254 units)
was completed, with delays, by mid-1987, due to EPPLS's limited capacity and
political problems. In 1987, IDA agreed to finance additional housing units in
Cap Haitien and Les Cayes. However, due to problems with squatters, only the
program in Les Cayes was implemented. Overall, more than 25% of the units have
been illegally occupied by squatters. A new extension of the housing program was
agreed in 1989, but no work was done due to constant changes among EPPLS high
level staff and political uncertainties. The quality of the works done in Cap
Haitien and Les Cayes was acceptable due to on-site visits by IDA supervision
missions. EPPLS's cost recovery performance was poor throughout the life of the
project (35% on average), mainly because of the difficulty to collect rents in
areas where houses were occupied by squatters, and due to EPPLS's unwillingness
to contract out rent collection in line with IDA's recommendations.
v.          Urban road component (para. 5.16 - 5.19). This component experienced
major delays, cost overruns, expropriation problems and misprocurement resulting
in the cancellation of a significant part of it.  As a result, at the end of
1989, some US$11 million remained undisbursed. These funds were allocated to a
new road maintenance project, including the paving of 7 km of Port-au-Prince
secondary streets and periodic maintenance of about 330 km of interurban roads.
Implementation of this new component was acceptable and was completed around mid-
1991 (para. 5.20).
vi.         A fourth extension of the closing date until December 1991 was
granted in April 1991 to finance a labor-intensive program requested by the
Government. A political coup in September 1991 disrupted implementation of the
program and prompted IDA to suspend disbursements. Some US$3.9 million still
remained undisbursed under Credits 1338-HA and SF1-HA when the credits closed in
December 1991 (para. 5.21).
Proiect Results
vii.        Overall, the results of the project are hardly satisfactory.  Its
main component, namely, to upgrade the CDB market and create SAGMAP, had to be
canceled.    The only positive  results  of  this  project were  the physical
achievements under the housing and the urban road components (para. 6.01 - 6.05).
viii. The achievement under the housing component was the construction of 2,661
low-cost housing units of acceptable quality, that benefitted some 10,000 people.
However, the overall results of this component are unsatisfactory because (1) the
basic services were not provided in a timely manner, or at all; (2) the project
houses were often not occupied by the target beneficiaries; (3) the institutional
objectives of the housing component were hardly met: average cost recovery never



- iv -
exceeded 35 percent, and EPPLS failed to develop any sound housing sector
policies.
ix.         The results of the urban road component are mixed.   The initial
component designed in 1987 suffered from major reductions of its scope.  The
works, mostly carried out by force account, were generally of poor quality.
Concerning the revised road maintenance and labor-intensive components described
in the June 1989 and April 1991 amendments, most of their objectives were met,
including the improvement of important urban and interurban roads, and the
initiation of the labor-intensive program.   Those components represented a
successful pilot experience and an opportunity to improve MTPTC's procedures for
the management of road programs, in line with the reorganization of the Ministry
to be implemented under the proposed Road Maintenance Project.
Proiect Sustainability
x.          Whether the benefits derived from the construction of sites and
services and the 2,661 housing units will be sustained will depend on the
commitment of the beneficiaries to preserve their properties through regular
maintenance. Given the difficult economic situation and the limited interest in
maintenance works in Haiti, it is possible that these benefits will not be long
lasting. The benefits from the rehabilitation and paving of a limited number of
roads may not be sustainable in the future mainly because of lack of timely
maintenance caused by delays in launching the proposed Road Maintenance Project.
Findings and Lessons Learned
xi.         The project is a typical example of the early generation of urban
projects: complex components with weak implementing agencies and poor
coordination arrangements. The generally unsatisfactory results of the project
strongly indicate the need (1) to pay more attention to implementation
arrangements to ensure that sufficient capacity exists within project executing
agencies and that coordination is well defined and agreed upon; (2) to encourage
private sector participation in all "external" activities such as rent collection
(EPPLS) and road maintenance (MTPTC); and (3) to put due emphasis on supervision
missions whenever a complex project experiences major problems (para 8.01 -
9.03).
xii.        More specifically, MTPTC should be encouraged to contract out most
of the works and to improve its project management skills. Regarding the housing
sector, emphasis should be given to the provision of basic infrastructure, and
the review of the issues affecting the sector. The present EPPLS's role, which
mainly amounts to providing houses, should be reviewed in this context, in view
of the limited number of housing units constructed and managed by EPPLS compared
to the overall country-wide demand.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1338-HA and SF1-HA)
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect identity
Project Name:            Urban Development Project.
Credit Number:           1338-HA and SF1-HA.
RVP Unit:                Latin America and Caribbean Region Country
Department III
Country:                 Haiti.
Sector:                  Urban Development.
Subsector:               Housing & Market.
2.    Background
2.01        IDA's approach to the urban sector was based on the findings of an
urban sector study conducted in 1977, which concluded that in view of Haiti's
limited resources, policies of spatial decentralization should be approached
cautiously and progressively, and that, in the short- and medium-term, the
major priority should be the provision of urban services in Port-au-Prince.
Simultaneously, institutional capacity and basic infrastructure were to be
developed in selected provincial cities. This approach was closely linked
with macro policy objectives to improve and expand basic infrastructure, and
to strengthen local institutions.
2.02        The project was designed in line with the above sectoral and macro
policy, to (i) address the most pressing needs in Port-au-Prince, Cap-Haitian
and Les Cayes, the cities with the highest urban growth rates and most visible
urbanization problems; and (ii) develop policies and institutions to deal with
medium and long term urban problems.
3.    Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.01        Proiect Obiectives.  The main objectives of the project were to:
(a) upgrade and rehabilitate the Croix-des-Bossales (CDB) market in Port-au-
Prince, and to provide serviced sites for the low-income families who would be
displaced as a result of the works necessary to upgrade CDB market services;
(b) improve the living conditions of low-income groups in Cap-Haitian and Les
Cayes by financing pilot "sites and services" projects; (c) help establish a
metropolitan market agency, SAGMAP, that would operate the markets in Port-au-
Prince and promote their long-term development; and (d) support institutional
development of the Public Social Housing Promotion Company, EPPLS, to assist
the Government in its efforts to develop a sound institutional and policy
framework for low-cost housing in urban areas.



3.02        Proiect Description.  The project included the following
component:
(a)   Rehabilitation and upgrading of the CDB central market facilities
within an area of about 12 hectares in the center of Port-au-
Prince, comprising: (i) a covered retail market area for the sale
of agricultural products, manufactured goods, meat and fish, and
other services; (ii) an open-air retail market; (iii) a wholesale
market (designed for future conversion into a retail facility);
(iv) a water supply network for the market; (v) an interior road
system interconnecting various sub-markets; and (vi) an
administrative building to house SAGMAP, the Metropolitan Market
Agency; a dormitory for about 180 caretakers employed by SAGMAP,
with a separate building for storage of maintenance equipment.
The Ministry of Public Works, MTPTC, was responsible for
procurement and the supervision of the required works.
(b)   Sites and services project for 1,036 housing units in Cite Soleil,
to be occupied by the relocated families whose dwellings on the
CDB market site would be demolished to make room for the
construction of the proposed CDB market improvements.
(c)   Provision of 1,093 housing units, a small market and a community
center in Cap-Haitian, and of 278 housing units, a community
center and a health post in Les Cayes. In these two provincial
towns, as well as in Port-au Prince, the standards of the serviced
sites were kept to a minimum but included communal water taps and
sanitary facilities, surfaced main roads, footpaths, storm
drainage, and public lighting along the major streets.
(d)   Establishment and strengthening of SAGMAP, which would be
responsible for the operation and maintenance of all metropolitan
markets (starting with the CDB market). SAGMAP was also expected
to generate sufficient revenues to cover its operating costs and
at least 60% of depreciation on its assets. This institutional
development was supported by the provision of limited financial
assistance for studies, staff training, vehicles and equipment,
and for 14 man-months of international technical assistance.
(e)   Institutional development of EPPLS, which was created in November
1982 to assume the functions of the National Housing Office, ONL,
that was responsible for housing projects in Port-au-Prince.
EPPLS was given the nation-wide mandate to (i) take the lead in
formulating housing policy, and (ii) make housing available on a
cost-recovery basis, so that the income generated from sales and
rentals would be sufficient to cover investment and recurrent
costs and allow replication of the housing programs. The
institutional development program to support EPPLS included
preparation of studies; acquisition of equipment; and the
provision of 78 man-months of technical assistance services by
international experts for training EPPLS staff in the management



of housing projects, to be implemented by the Ministry of Public
Works (MTPTC).
3.03        IDA financing for the project totalling US$21 million equivalent
was provided under Special Fund 001-HA (US$ 13 million) for the market
component, and under Credit 1338-HA (US$ 8 million) for the housing component.
Due to the cancellation of the entire market component in 1986, as will be
explained below, the Government proposed to IDA that the funds available in
SF1-HA account (about US$12 million) be used to finance urban roads projects
in Port-au-Prince which the Government considered necessary, the most
important of which was the Carrefour Road project. Carrefour Road is the only
road link connecting the Northern and the Southern parts of the country. Its
capacity to carry the traffic was completely inadequate, and its
reconstruction and widening was of high priority. In addition to improving
some key road links, the revised objectives were to improve the maintenance of
the Port-au-Prince road network and to review Port-au-Prince's transport
system. The proposed major change of the project's scope was approved by the
Board in September 1987, and the project description was amended to include:
(a)   implementation of a five-year maintenance program for Port-au-
Prince road network, including purchase of equipment for MTPTC's
maintenance brigades, upgrading of MTPTC's asphalt plant, and
rehabilitation and maintenance works;
(b)   reconstruction (including widening) of about 7 km of the Carrefour
road, and of the Canap6-Vert road (2.6 km); and
(c)   technical assistance to help MTPTC (i) prepare and implement the
above works program, and (ii) prepare a diagnostic and
recommendations concerning the organization and funding issues
needed to resolve the transportation problems in Port-au-Prince.
3.04        Finally, at the request of the new elected Government, both
Credits were amended in April 1991 to enable all remaining funds (about US$3.5
million) to be reallocated to a labor-intensive road program.
4.    Prolect Design and Organization
4.01        Conceptual Foundation.  The project was decided to address
problems of extremely poor sanitary facilities and inefficient working
conditions inside the CDB market, which affected thousands of people whose
activities were directly or indirectly connected with the market. The project
was designed to upgrade the CDB market and to create an autonomous agency
responsible for its operation. The shortage of housing in Port-au-Prince, and
the need to relocate about 1,000 families living inside the market, required
preparation of a housing program in Port-au-Prince. Additional housing
programs in two provincial towns were later added on to the housing component
of the project, as a pilot operation for IDA's first involvement in the
housing sector in Haiti.



-4-
4.02        Institutional building was an important component of the project
design and included the creation and strengthening of autonomous agencies
fully responsible for (i) the design and implementation of policies and
programs for Port-au-Prince markets (SAGMAP), and the housing sector of the
entire country (EPPLS); and (ii) the management of the corresponding
infrastructure based on a full recovery of costs.
4.03        Innovative concepts.  The proposed design differed from previous
Haitian practices under which: (i) the responsibility for Port-au-Prince
markets was shared among its four poorly-staffed and financially-weak
municipalities; (ii) ONL (EPPLS' predecessor) was not involved in the design
and implementation of the housing projects that it managed; and (iii) housing
programs and markets were not operating under a full cost recovery scheme.
4.04        Prolect scope.  In retrospect, the overall scope of this first
IDA-financed urban project appears too ambitious considering that its
implementation was entrusted to weak institutions, MTPTC and EPPLS. MTPTC was
to manage all the works related to the market upgrading, but it had at the
time limited satisfactory experience in managing large and complex contracts;
ONL, EPPLS's predecessor, had completed only its first large-scale housing
project (879 housing units financed by UNDP), between 1979 and 1982, yet EPPLS
was expected to implement at the same time three new significant housing
projects both in and outside Port-au-Prince totalling 4,400 housing units (750
UNDP-financed and 1,250 KfW-financed housing units, in addition to the 2,400
units to be financed by IDA).
4.05        Prolect preparation.  The technical preparation of the project was
generally adequate. By appraisal, most detailed engineering studies had been
completed and all the land necessary for the project acquired by the
Government. With regards to the market component, it is now evident that
arrangements agreed with the Government during project preparation did not
adequately take into account the need for close collaboration between the
Ministry of Public Works and EPPLS (which reported to the Ministry of Social
Affairs, MAS) to implement the market upgrading. The project design made it
imperative that the completion of the house construction program in Linthau
II, under EPPLS's responsibility, coincide with the initiation of the works on
the market site, under MTPTC's responsibility. The need for a strong
coordinating agency to oversee and synchronize all CDB market-related
activities was all the more important because of (i) MTPTC's weak project
management capacity for the complexity of the market component; and (ii) the
fact that EPPLS, had no voice concerning the timing of the market upgrading
activities to be arranged by the Ministry of Public Works.
4.06        With regards to the housing component, it appears that the
proposed full-cost recovery scheme promoted under the project may have been
premature because (i) ONL's organization inherited by EPPLS was weak; and (ii)
the cost recovery target under current ONL's housing programs never exceeded
50 percent. Furthermore, EPPLS, a parastatal company subsidized by the
Government, lacked the incentive to press its clients for the payments due to
EPPLS.



4.07        Roles and responsibilities.  The project was prepared by IDA
jointly with EPPLS for the housing component, and with an inter-ministerial
work group for the CDB market component. The roles and responsibilities of
the various implementing agencies were defined during project preparation and
clearly spelled out in the SAR: EPPLS was responsible for the housing
component, MTPTC for the upgrading of CDB market, and SAGMAP for the
management of the market. SAGMAP was to become operational only after the
completion of the market upgrading. The inter-ministerial work group was only
consultative and lacked executive authority. The lack of a unified command
for the implementation of the project became critical during the market
upgrading phase and constituted the main flaw in the project design.
Coordination of EPPLS's and MTPTC's project related activities during the
difficult initial phase (see above para. 4.05) should have been the main role
of SAGMAP.
4.08        Coordination between EPPLS and MTPTC was instead entrusted to the
EPPLS Director, who he had no decision-making authority within MTPTC,
especially in matters of project procurement, whose delays affected
implementation of the project. Neither was anyone put in charge to prevent
newcomers from moving into the market area, after the Government announced
(around 1980) that the upgrading of the market had top priority. As a result,
the number of families living in the market increased from 1,000 in 1980 up to
about 1,900 in 1983, when the project actually started, delaying further the
relocation process that was so important to begin the upgrading works. The
relocation problem was a serious threat to the viability of the market
component even before the 1986 political upheaval.
5.    Prolect Implementation
5.01        The Project was appraised by IDA in July 1982, negotiated with the
Government in February and approved by Board in March 1983. It became
effective on June 30, 1983; its original Completion Date of June 1987 and the
Closing Date of December 1987, were extended each year through December 1991.
Implementation of the project suffered from managerial shortcomings, including
inadequate project coordination, and from socio-political upheavals after
1986. As a result, the project required five amendments and four extensions,
and was completed in 8.5 years, compared to the 4.5 years estimated at
appraisal. The 1987 amendment comprised a radical change of the project scope
and objectives after the cancellation of the market component. As of the
final closing date (December 31, 1991), about SDR 3 million (US$3.9 million
equivalent) remained undisbursed.
5.02        In the case of the CDB market component, MTPTC's lack of
experience in procurement caused major delays in contracting works for the
market upgrading program. More than two years elapsed between Credit
effectiveness (June 1983) and the signature of the contract for the market
upgrading works (September 1985). This was due to MTPTC's weak capacity to
follow IDA's procurement guidelines, and to a change of MTPTC's staff in 1984,
following which MTPTC insisted on reviewing the bid evaluation prepared by the
previous administration. The contractor was finally ready to start in January
1986, the works which at appraisal were scheduled for completion in 1985.



-6-
5.03        Although the Linthau II housing program was completed by mid-1985,
relocation of the families living in the market had not yet started in January
1986. These unexpected relocation problems were the result of Government's
inability to provide the necessary counterpart funds to finance the
compensation payments to the CDB market occupants. This was mainly caused by
an unexpected increase from US$0.8 million to US$ 1.6 million in the amount of
compensation payments, following the increase of the number of families living
in the market from about 1,000 in 1980, up to 1,900 in 1983. The increase was
only noted in mid-1983, when the 1980 survey of the market occupants was
updated. By April 1985, the Government had still not provided the necessary
counterpart funds, and IDA had threatened to reconsider its financing of the
entire market component.
5.04        The delays and the lack of coordination of the Linthau II house
construction and the market upgrading programs had become critical as 1985
drew on, and jeopardized the viability of the entire market component. Close
synchronization between the two programs was essential for two reasons: (i)
the market occupants (mostly merchants) were not willing to move out until
construction to upgrade the market was to begin, for fear that they might lose
their place of business to squatters, if they had moved out and the upgrading
works had not been started; and (ii) completion of the houses before they
could be occupied would cause EPPLS to lose revenues and would increase the
risk of invasion and vandalism of the houses. Thus, EPPLS had slowed down its
construction program since end-1984. Despite this late coordination effort,
the Linthau II houses had been completed by mid-1985. In August 1985, IDA had
agreed with EPPLS that the Linthau II site had to be occupied by January 1986
and that the priority access of the market occupants to the Linthau II houses
would, therefore, expire in December 1985. This prompted the Government to
schedule the beginning of the relocation for December 1985, and to budget US$1
million for compensation payments. Unfortunately, further deterioration of
the socio-political situation disrupted all project activities by the end of
1985, and led to the fall of Duvalier's regime in February 1986.
5.05        After Duvalier's fall, part of the houses constructed for the
market occupants were illegally invaded by squatters. As a result of the
political instability, many market occupants no longer wished to leave the
market, their workplace. Since the contractor was charging for mobilization
(up to US$60,000/month) while the relocation of the market occupants was no
longer feasible, the contract was canceled in May 1986, at a cost of US$1.5
million. This amount was paid for mobilization and penalties for cancellation
of the contract.
5.06        Possible avoidance of the cancellation of the CDB market
component. The early 1986 political and social upheaval was unforeseeable,
and, during that period, nothing could have prevented the Linthau II site from
being invaded. In fact, most EPPLS sites suffered from the same invasion and
the EPPLS Director, responsible for the surveillance of the housing sites, was
personally threatened and had to leave the country.



- 7 -
5.07        By mid-1985, there were concerns that implementation was likely to
suffer from further delays, cost overruns and possibly reduction of its scope,
even in a stable political situation. This was mainly due to the inadequate
coordination between EPPLS and MTPTC and to limited support provided by the
Government to the project, that was mentioned by IDA supervision missions. If
a strong coordinating agency, solely responsible for the oversight of project
implementation, had been put in place from the very beginning, it could have
been in a position to (i) control the settlement of new families in the CDB
market after the upgrading project was agreed to by the Government; (ii)
prompt MTPTC to carry out the market upgrading in a timely manner; and (iii)
coordinate MTPTC's and EPPLS's actions, including putting the Linthau II
construction program on hold. Such a coordination effort was particularly
needed because (i) MTPTC either did not understand the complexity of or was
not interested in the project, as was noted by the January 1984 supervision
mission; (ii) EPPLS had commercial interests in selling its houses and,
therefore, did not have any incentives to stop its construction program; (iii)
timely implementation of the relocation program was essential, because the
market occupants could not sustain their motivation to relocate over any
considerable length of time, as was concluded by the 1983 sociologic survey of
the CDB market.
5.08        The appraisal report (SAR, para. 7.10) mentions the weak
implementation capacity of the existing executing agencies and the lack of
Government support as the most important project risks. In the case of the
market component, this risk was deemed mitigated by the existence of a Project
Implementing Unit that would be set up within MTPTC. However, this executing
unit was to become active only after the works had begun, with the result that
no assistance in project management was provided to MTPTC during the early
stages of the project. Given the Government's limited support for the
project, MTPTC's weakness and EPPLS's inability to act as a coordinating
agency for the market upgrading, IDA supervision might have insisted that the
Government (i) give SAGMAP (which had been created) the mandate to oversee all
market-related activities; and (ii) set up a strong executing unit within
MTPTC to speed up the market upgrading activities. Had such arrangements been
implemented, the project might have been less vulnerable to the circumstances
that led to the cancellation of its main component.
5.09        Provision of serviced sites. In Port-au-Prince (Linthau II area),
construction of about 1,000 shelters started only in mid-1984, one year after
Credit effectiveness, due to procurement delays. After the slow-down of the
housing construction to synchronize its completion with the start of works at
the CDB market (see para. 5.04), the Linthau II housing program was completed
around mid-1985. In general, the quality of works on this highly visible
housing component was satisfactory. After Duvalier's fall, squatters took
advantage of the inter-regnum situation to invade about 250 houses. By end
1986, the status of these squatters as authorized occupants was approved by
EPPLS.
5.10        Provision of the serviced sites was delayed in Cap-Haitian and Les
Cayes more than in Port-au-Prince, and the quality of works was inferior.
Because EPPLS was focusing on Port-au-Prince, works in Cap Haitian started
only at the end of 1984 and in Les Cayes in mid-1985. After Duvalier's fall,



-8-
works were interrupted for several months. They resumed in September 1986,
and were completed around mid-1987, including 883 houses in Cap Haitian and
254 in Les Cayes. At that time, the housing component was proceeding
satisfactorily, but with delays of up to two years. IDA agreed, therefore, to
the Government's request to use the remaining funds under Cr. 1338-HA
(extended till December 1988) as well as SDR300,000 from Cr. SF1-HA, to
finance construction of 1,240 additional housing units in Cap-Haitian and 480
units in Les Cayes. Due to problems with squatters, the Cap Haitian component
was eventually abandoned and EPPLS focused on the program in Les Cayes, where
housing was completed in 1989, after a second extension of Cr. 1338-HA had
been granted through December 1989.
5.11        IDA also agreed that the remaining funds under Cr. 1338-HA
(estimated at US$1.8 million) be used to finance (i) another phase of the
housing program in Linthau II, Cap-Haitian and Les Cayes, (ii) equipment for
garbage collection and cleaning of latrines, and (iii) technical consultants
to assist EPPLS in reviewing its overall strategy and to prepare a new pluri-
annual housing program. Because of political instability, little progress was
made in 1989, and IDA agreed once again to extend the closing date, until
December 1990. However, due to continuous changes in EPPLS' high level staff,
EPPLS' newly hired inexperienced staff was unable to comply with IDA's
procurement requirements for the contracting of works or the purchase of
equipment. The remaining funds under Cr. 1338-HA (when finally extended
through December 1991) were reallocated to a labor-intensive program, in line
with the priorities of the newly elected Government.
5.12        The quality of the works carried out under the Cap Haitian and Les
Cayes housing programs was generally adequate, thanks to the intervention of
the few field visits made by IDA supervision missions. The September 1987
supervision mission, which made the first technical field visit to the housing
program outside Port-au-Prince, found that many completed units had major
construction defects including improper roofs and sanitary pits, as a result
of deficient design, and poor construction and supervision. Eventually, most
of these construction deficiencies were corrected. EPPLS's management of the
completed sites was not satisfactory: basic utilities were not provided on
time, and garbage collection and sanitary pit cleaning programs have never
materialized.
5.13        EPPLS's cost recovery performance (35% on average) was also poor
throughout the life of the project, and particularly low in 1986 and 1987 (see
Part III.6 of the PCR). The main reason was the difficulty to collect rents
in areas where houses were occupied by squatters. Another reason for a low
cost recovery was poor delivery of basic services. Finally, there was the
problem of non-uniform rents. Some housing projects were located in low-lying
areas that were subject to flooding. These areas had to be filled prior to
construction of the housing units. The cost of such units was higher than
that of the houses built on lots where the fill was not necessary. This was
reflected in the monthly payments made by the purchasers of the housing units
constructed under IDA projects, and made it difficult for EPPLS to collect
payments from house owners who objected to paying more than the purchasers of
seemingly equivalent houses constructed under projects financed by other
agencies. At one time, EPPLS explored the possibility to reduce the amount of



- 9 -
periodic payments by extending the total repayment period, but this effort was
not successful.
5.14        Institutional strengthening of EPPLS. The project was to finance
technical assistance to strengthen EPPLS in internal administration, operation
of the serviced sites, rent collection, and the development of sound housing
policies. In fact, due to the operational weakness of EPPLS, its staff and
consultants had to focus exclusively on the supervision of the works,
accounting, financial controls, and computerization of EPPLS operations and
had no opportunity to work on the formulation of housing policies.
5.15        Possible avoidance of Variances within the above housing component
could have been avoided if the following action had been taken:
(a)   The poor technical quality of the serviced sites could have been
reduced by more frequent technical supervision by IDA. Field
visits made since September 1987 proved very efficient. Also,
more works should have been contracted out because EPPLS's
attempts to do works by force account produced poor results.
(b)   Occupation of the project houses by squatters was mainly possible
because (i) construction of the units was completed before they
were sold to the intended beneficiaries, (ii) the housing sites
were always located close to existing poor neighborhoods where the
housing demand was tremendous and the temptation for illegal
occupation high, and (iii) the climate of social unrest since 1986
made it impossible to oust squatters once the sites were invaded.
Nevertheless, EPPLS observed in 1988, that community participation
in the works and an early take over of the housing sites by the
beneficiaries, precluded illegal invasion. If such a scheme had
been adopted from the beginning, much of the invasion problem
might have been avoided.
(c)   Low cost-recovery, poor operation and lack of maintenance of the
sites were mainly a consequence of an unrealistic assessment by
IDA that EPPLS would act as a private enterprise (see SAR 2.12).
Responsibility for "external activities", such as maintenance of
the sites and rent collection, should have been transferred to a
private institution under EPPLS' supervision. In 1987, as a
condition to extend Cr. 1338-HA, EPPLS was to propose such a
privatization scheme to be implemented in 1988, at least for the
collection of payments due from purchasers and renters, which
might have helped resolve EPPLS financial problems. In the
absence of EPPLS's interest, such a privatization scheme has not
been implemented. In retrospect, it seems that IDA should have
been more persistent to resolve these important issues, especially
since KfW, the other main donor participating in the housing
sector, had similar problems and fully agreed on the concept of
privatization.
5.16        Urban Road component.  In 1987, following the cancellation of the
market component, IDA agreed that, in spite of MTPTC's poor performance, the



- 10 -
Ministry could use the US$12 million available under Credit SF1-HA to finance
an urban road component. This was motivated by (i) the priority of the road
works to be financed (see para. 3.03 and (ii) IDA's willingness to support the
new Government which had replaced Duvalier's dictatorial regime. The new
component, which was approved by Board in September 1987, included the
reconstruction of the Carrefour and the Canape Vert roads, as well as road
maintenance works.
5.17        The Carrefour road preliminary design prepared by local
consultants was presented as technically and financially feasible by MTPTC to
IDA during the January 1987 supervision mission. Its cost was estimated at
US$8.5 million, including US$3 million for expropriation. It was on this
basis that the 1987 amendment was agreed. However, in 1988, a detailed
technical and economic evaluation of the Carrefour road project, including
expropriation costs, were carried out by a consulting firm. The estimated cost
of the projects of US$24 million (including US$7 million for expropriation),
was based on final engineering. The cost exceeded the Ministry preliminary
estimates and the available external financing. Furthermore, the Government
did not have the financial capacity nor the political will to complete
expropriation within a reasonable period of time and MTPTC requested that this
component be withdrawn from the project.
5.18        The Canap6-Vert road project was initiated early in 1987 and
completed by mid-1988.  The initial cost estimate was US$1.6 million (of which
IDA accepted to finance US$1.2 million). The final cost to complete the works
amounted to US$2.8 million, or more than US$1 million per km.  The works,
which were carried out partly by force account (for about US$1 million) and
partly by contract, were of poor quality. By the end of 1988, some sections
were already badly eroded, threatened the stability of nearby houses, and
required costly repairs. Many contracts had not been awarded in accordance
with IDA's procurement guidelines, including some that had even been awarded
to unqualified contractors. As a result, IDA decided, in May 1988, not to
finance the works carried out by contract, and financed only US$0.6 million of
the total cost (US$2.8 million).
5.19        Road Maintenance Component. Agreement was reached with IDA in
April 1988 that this component would include: equipment for MTPTC maintenance
brigades, rehabilitation of M,TPTC's asphalt plant and road maintenance works
by force account (total cost of US$615,000); road maintenance works by
contract (US$380,000); and installation of traffic lights at the main Port-au-
Prince intersections (US$590,000). To carry out the works, Credit SF1-HA was
extended until December 1989. Maintenance works by force account started in
May 1988, and were limited to filling potholes (for a total cost of US$0.62
million), for lack of maintenance equipment and MTPTC's failure to repair its
asphalt plant. Similarly, contracts for maintenance works approved by IDA to
improve streets connecting the Canape-Vert road with the center of Port-au-
Prince, could not start because of expropriation problems. Finally, MTPTC
could not satisfy IDA procurement requirements for the traffic lights and the
component was abandoned by MTPTC.



- 11 -
5.20        Due to the cancellation of the Carrefour road project, and the
poor management by MTPTC of the Canape-Vert road and the urban road
maintenance components, almost US$11 million equivalent remained undiabursed
under Cr. SF1-HA in mid-1989, prompting IDA to approve the Government's
request to amend the Credit. In view of the state of deterioration of the
entire road network, the amendment provided financing for: (i) periodic
maintenance of 330 km of interurban roads (US$6.5 million); (ii) the
rehabilitation of 7.5 km of secondary Port-au-Prince streets (US$2.5 million);
and (iii) an institutional study of MTPTC and preparation activities for a
proposed Road Maintenance Project. In October 1989, the Closing Date of Cr.
SF1-HA was extended until December 1990, to enable implementation of the
program. More delays occurred in preparing contract documents and making
arrangements for the supervision of the project activities. Works started in
September 1990, and were finally completed around mid-1991, after protracted
delays caused by social unrest in early 1991.
5.21        A fourth extension of the closing date till December 1991 was
granted in April 1991, to (i) enable the completion of the above program,
which was concluded around mid-1991; and (ii) use the remaining funds under
Credit SF1-HA and 1338-HA (about US$3.9 million equivalent) to finance a
labor-intensive program requested by the Government. The political coup of
September 1991 disrupted implementation of the program and prompted IDA to
suspend disbursements.
5.22        Possible avoidance of variances within the urban road component:
Some of the problems could possibly have been avoided by the following
actions:
(i) Improvement of project management by MTPTC. Poor management
markedly delayed implementation of the urban road component. MTPTC needed to
strengthen its capacity in engineering, cost control, procurement procedures
and management of contracted works. The urban road component would have been
better managed by a specially created executing unit staffed with competent
local consultants, assisted by expatriate experts in key fields such as
engineering and procurement. Finally, payments should have been made directly
to all contractors and consultants to avoid repeated misuse of the project's
special account, which eventually led to IDA's decision, in 1990, not to open
new special accounts; and
(ii) The contracting of most of the project works to avoid uneven
quality of the works carried out by force account, and to have better
financial controls. In view of the unsatisfactory quality of the force
account works carried out under the Canape-Vert and the urban road maintenance
components, IDA required upon amending Cr. SF1-HA in June 1989, that the
additional works to be executed should be contracted.
5.23        The issue of expropriation was underestimated by MTPTC.  The
Ministry never succeeded in expropriating the necessary properties for the
Carrefour road nor for the extension of the Canap6-Vert road. The main
problems were (i) the difficulty to assess property values, (ii) social and



- 12 -
political issues involved, and (iii) the lack of Government funds for
compensation payments (IDA does not finances expropriation costs). In
retrospect, road projects which require major expropriation should not be
considered for IDA financing unless (i) firm and detailed expropriation costs
are available, (ii) the corresponding amount of Government funds is set aside
for expropriation payments in a specific account, and (iii) a formal
arrangement has been made with the occupants to be expropriated.
6.    Proiect Results
6.01        Overall, the results from the project are hardly satisfactory.
Its main objective, to upgrade the CDB market and create SAGMAP, had to be
canceled. The positive results included achievements under the housing and
the urban road components. Institutional strengthening of the responsible
agencies, EPPLS and MTPTC, was insignificant.
6.02        CDB market upgrading was canceled in 1986, and SAGMAP was never
set up. As a result of the cancellation, US$1.5 million were paid to the
contractor.
6.03        Housing component. The only achievement was the construction of
2661 low-cost housing units of acceptable quality (at an average cost of
US$2,450, ie. 4% less than appraisal estimates). It is estimated that some
10,000 people benefitted from the project. However, the result of the housing
program may be considered unsatisfactory for the following reasons:
(a)   The basic services (ie. water supply, electricity, garbage
collection) were not provided in a timely manner or at all;
(b)   The project houses were often not occupied by the target
beneficiaries. Many units were taken over illegally by squatters,
or purchased by private entrepreneurs as rental houses. This
makes it difficult to assess the number of beneficiaries who
actually were within the targeted income category;
(c)   The institutional objectives of the housing component were hardly
met. The averaged cost recovery never exceeded 35 percent. EPPLS
failed to develop as a financially autonomous agency, and was
unable to reimburse the loan contracted with the Government and
reinvest its remaining profit in new housing programs. Instead,
as stated in the 1990 audit of EPPLS, a significant share of the
scarce resources coming from rent collection served, under
political pressure, to finance an increasing number of EPPLS
permanent staff, which increased up to 420 in the late 1980's,
before it was eventually reduced to 160. The full cost recovery
target (including almost all investment costs) was probably over-
ambitious, given ONL past experience with housing programs which
never achieved a cost recovery of more than 50 percent;
(d)   Finally, EPPLS failed to develop any sound housing sector policies
to address, on a significant scale, the problems confronted by the
urban poor in the housing sector.



- 13 -
6.04        The results of the urban road component are not satisfactory,
because most objectives were not met, namely:
(a)   The reconstruction of the Carrefour road was not possible for lack
of funds. A traffic master plan, including a review of the
necessary key road investments, was finally scheduled to be
financed under the proposed Road Maintenance Project.
Nonetheless, this important arterial, the only link between the
southern and northern part of the country, will remain badly
congested until the mid-1990s, at a great cost to the Haitian
economy.
(b)   The results of the reconstruction of the Canap6-Vert road are also
unsatisfactory. The cost of reconstruction of the 2.6 km road
section was excessively high (more than US$1 million per km), for
a project of standard design. The quality of works was, at best,
fair. The actual reduction of traffic congestion in the area was
smaller than expected because MTPTC failed to complete the
widening of an intersection at the down-town end of Canap6-Vert
area, that was necessary to relieve traffic congestion on the
Canape-Vert road.
(c)   Finally, a significant share of the maintenance works that were
included in this component were not implemented. Works actually
carried out were limited to filling potholes, because MTPTC failed
to acquire the minimum of necessary equipment and to upgrade its
asphalt plant, for which IDA financing was available.
6.05        Concerning the revised road maintenance component described in the
June 1989 and April 1991 amendments, most of the objectives were met:
(a)   The paving of 7.5 km of secondary streets in Port-au-Prince was
completed by mid-91. These works were all contracted out, were
generally of good quality and succeeded in promoting paving with
concrete blocks, a labor-intensive and easy-to-maintain paving
technique which should be extensively used under the proposed Road
Maintenance Project;
(b)   Periodic maintenance on about 330 km of interurban roads was
completed in early 1991. The quality of works was acceptable,
despite poor supervision.
(c)   An institutional study to reorganize MTPTC and other preparatory
activities were financed under Cr. SF1-HA and were instrumental in
the preparation of the proposed Road Maintenance Project;
(d)   Under the labor-intensive program, it was possible to initiate,
before the September 1991 coup, projects designed to generate
about 100,000 man-days of employment. This program also served as
successful pilot experience to implement MTPTC's new procedures



- 14 _
for road program management, in line with the proposed
reorganization of the Ministry.
7.    Prolect Sustainabilitv
7.01        The sustainability of the project's benefits is problematical.  No
benefits have been derived from the CDB market project due to its
cancellation. Whether the benefits derived from the construction of sites and
services and the 2,661 housing units will be sustained will depend on the
commitment of the beneficiaries to preserve their properties through regular
maintenance. Given the difficult economic situation and limited interest in
maintenance works in Haiti, it is possible that these benefits will not be
long lasting.
7.02        The benefits from the rehabilitation and paving of a limited
number of roads may not be sustainable in the future because of (i) defective
construction (eg. Canape-Vert road); and (ii) the lack of timely maintenance
due to delays in starting the proposed Road Maintenance Project, in the wake
of the September 1991 political crisis. This situation could affect the
condition of 100 km of regravelled roads that need extensive maintenance after
rainy seasons. Streets paved with concrete blocks should produce the expected
benefits to road users, as this type of pavement requires very limited
maintenance. Finally, sustainability of the rather limited institutional
strengthening of MTPTC is doubtful, given that the Ministry has no permanent
civil service cadre because of the tradition that key personnel are changed as
new ministers assume office.
8.    Bank Performance and Lessons Learned
8.01        Preparation and Appraisal. During project preparation, IDA made a
thorough evaluation of the technical aspects of the project and ensured that
most detailed engineering studies were completed by appraisal. However, IDA
did not realistically assess the complexity of the market component and the
subsequent need for a local agency with decision-making authority to be
responsible for that component from the very beginning. In addition, IDA
apparently overestimated the capacity of EPPLS to properly operate its
serviced sites and to meet full cost recovery targets; and overestimated
MTPTC's capacity and commitment to proceed with the implementation of the
market component. The lack of commitment was evidenced by protracted delays
in matters of procurement and the lack of coordination with EPPLS.
8.02        The very concept of building houses to address the housing needs
of the urban poor, promoted by IDA during preparation of the project, should
be reviewed. The number of housing units financed by the project was 2,661;
in total, EPPLS program during the 1980's included less than 10,000 units.
This is insignificant compared to the overall demand from low-income families,
which was estimated, in early 1980, at 115,000 units in Port-au-Prince only,
with 6-8% annual growth. In retrospect, it seems that the impact of the
housing project might have been more significant if (i) EPPLS had primarily
focused on the provision of basic infrastructure (sites and services including



- 15 -
construction of primary roads and drainage) and let the private sector or the
beneficiary communities be in charge of house construction (which would also
have reduced the risk of illegal invasion); and (ii) EPPLS had carried out a
review of issues affecting the housing sector (eg land management).
8.03        Supervision. IDA allocated no more than 10 staff-week per year for
project supervision (including field and office work). Two field supervision
missions, on average, per year were insufficient in light of the unusually
high supervision requirements for a project whose performance was rated (3)
(ie major problems) for more than four years, and (2) (ie moderate problems)
for about three years, over a total implementation period of 8.5 years. The
main weakness of IDA's performance during supervision are as follows:
(a)   Limited supervision by IDA and relatively high turnover of IDA
task managers (change of task managers after 1.5 years of
supervision) during the early stage of the project, whose
implementation was experiencing serious delays. When the lack of
coordination of the market component, the inadequate Government
support and the limited interest of MTPTC in the project had
become obvious in 1984, IDA should have been more active in
assisting in the implementation of this complex component, and
should have required the setting up of (i) a strong coordinating
agency for the market component; and (ii) an executing unit within
MTPTC to speed up the market upgrading works.
(b)   EPPLS's inadequate operation and maintenance of the serviced sites
and weak rent collection capacity should have prompted IDA to
require that these activities be contracted out, before any
extension of the housing program was granted. This idea to
contract out "external activities" was shared by KfW, the other
EPPLS's main donor, and a strong common position could have been
adopted.
(c)   Concerning the quality of the works on both EPPLS' housing program
and MTPTC's road program, the few IDA field visits made proved
useful and prompted EPPLS and MTPTC to correct defects noted in
the already completed works. Such technical field visits should
have been made more frequently.
(d)   In view of the MTPTC's insufficient capacity to implement the
first phase of the urban road component (see para. 5.17 to 5.19),
IDA should have insisted that a strong executing unit be set up
or, at least, that competent local consultants be recruited,
instead of relying on long-term expatriates whose performance was
inconclusive.
8.04        The main lessons learned from the above are that (i) IDA should
pay due attention to implementation arrangements to ensure that sufficient
capacity exists within the project executing agencies and that coordination is
real. In the absence of a strong executing agency, recruitment of competent
local consultants should be encouraged, in preference to long-term
expatriates; (ii) private sector participation should be encouraged or, at



- 16 -
least, tested whenever in-house execution has no clear comparative advantage;
(iii) more emphasis should be put on supervision missions in general and on
field visits by IDA engineers, in particular, whenever a construction project
experiences major problems.
8.05        To assist in project implementation, the Credit agreement for the
housing component (Cr. 1338-HA) could have spelled out more clearly key
indicators to monitor EPPLS' progress necessary to achieve the agreed
objectives of financial autonomy. Similarly, dated covenants to prompt the
Government to clear the market site of the existing housing units in a timely
manner and to initiate the market upgrading works, could have given IDA more
leverage to persuade the Government to act promptly during the two-year period
when these actions were unnecessarily delayed.
9.    Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned
9.01        Borrower performance during project implementation was not
satisfactory.   The main project objectives were not met due to the social and
political instability that prevailed in Haiti throughout the life of the
project, and to inadequate Government support for the project and the weakness
of the Borrower's executing agencies, namely:
(a)   lack of Government support for (i) the market component, evidenced
by its failure to set up a strong coordinating agency and to
prompt MTPTC to speed up the market upgrading; and for (ii)
EPPLS's effort to prevent illegal occupancy of the housing units.
In addition, from 1986 on, the Government staffed EPPLS's key
positions with political appointees rather than with competent
professionals;
(b)   lack of interest of EPPLS and MTPTC in improving their performance
by contracting out "external activities" (eg housing site
maintenance, rent collection; road maintenance); and
(c)   poor capacity of EPPLS and MTPTC to manage the project, including:
poor engineering and cost estimates; lack of experience in
procurement and contracting; inadequate monitoring of both the
contractors and supervisory consultants; and poor accounting and
mismanagement of the project's special account.
9.02        Lessons learned. In view of the limited impact of the Government's
housing programs and the poor performance of EPPLS, its housing agency, the
Government should reformulate its housing strategies, possibly in line with
recent Bank experience in housing, which tends to focus more on (i)
facilitating the working of the private market for housing, particularly
through financial policies; (ii) targeting of subsidies directly to intended
beneficiaries rather than to suppliers of housing: and (iii) providing basic
infrastructure instead of building houses.
9.03        To correct its weaknesses, MTPTC should (i) contract out most of
the works; (ii) improve management of works contracts by, inter alia,
streamlining payment procedures and selecting contractors on the basis of



- 17 -
their past experience and capacity; (iii) strengthen its administrative
capacity to manage projects, especially in the fields of procurement and
accounting by using IDA standard bidding procedures and documents, and by
relying on specialized consultants for the bidding of large or complex
contracts, and (iv) pay more attention to expropriation problems.
10.   Bank-Borrower Relationship
10.01       The Bank-Borrower relationship was correct but not intense.  Field
supervision missions to monitor project implementation were not frequent
enough. The repeated assurances by EPPLS and MTPTC to take adequate corrective
actions, the social aspects of some project components in a time of economic
crisis, and the prospect of the establishment of democracy after Duvalier's
fall, all induced IDA to be understanding of the project's problems. (During
the later years of the project IDA was virtually the only source of external
financing available to the Government after key bilateral donors pulled out).
Although a more rigid position might have given more incentives to the
Government to take timely corrective actions, IDA tried to make best use of
the funds that remained uncommitted during different stages of the project's
implementation, by designing and preparing totally new projects that met
current priorities (eg. the road maintenance activities and the labor-
intensive program).
10.02       Following the 1990 elections, IDA established a fruitful dialogue
with the new Government regarding preparation of a comprehensive Road
Maintenance Project. MTPTC accepted, as a condition for the launching of the
labor-intensive program, that its most important deficiencies (as described in
para. 9.01) be corrected, including contracting out all works, setting-up an
adequate executing unit, and recruiting external accountants. The dialogue
with EPPLS continued to deteriorate. EPPLS appeared to have little interest
in carrying out a review of its housing strategies. In 1991, Cr. 1338-HA's
remaining funds (US$1.2 million) were transferred to the labor-intensive
program and IDA did not encourage additional housing programs. IDA's decision
was appropriate considering that EPPLS failed to show the required
administrative or technical capabilities for leadership in this field. This
was the first IDA-financed housing operation in a complex sector which
required more than one project to establish sound sector policies and to
strengthen local agencies, and the dialogue with the Government concerning the
housing sector will have to be renewed.
10.03       IDA denied the Government's request for the fifth extension of the
Credit 1338-HA and SF1-HA, both of which are in the process of being canceled.
The total of undisbursed credit funds is SDR 3.0 million (US$3.9 million
equivalent). The project was implemented during a difficult post-Duvalier
period during which the performance of newly formed governments that followed
and their agencies responsible for the implementation of the projects, was
poor, often having a negative effect on the implementation of the project.
There were cases of non-compliance with the Credit covenants which gave IDA
ample legal grounds to consider cancellation of the Credit Agreement, which
IDA discussed with the client. On one occasion (para 5.18) IDA declined a
request from MTPTC to reimburse about US$1 million equivalent which the



- 18 -
Government had paid to contractors who were not contracted in accordance with
Bank guidelines.
10.04       The principal reason which mitigated against cancellation of the
Credit funds during those turbulent years, was an optimistic expectation that
these funds could be used effectively to prevent complete deterioration of the
country's major asset, its road network, whose replacement value was estimated
at about US$400 million. The labor-intensive character of the then proposed
maintenance works provided an additional important economic benefit to the
country through generating employment. These programs were launched and
successfully implemented by communities until problems arose with payments for
the works. The problem was that such payments had to be made through the
Ministry of Works rather than directly to the communities, causing
unacceptable delays and demoralizing the workers. A solution that would
permit making such payments to the communities directly was being worked out
but could not be finalized due to the eruption of the current political
turmoil and the suspension of all project activities. The country arguments
for continuing disbursements took on even more weight after the 1987 elections
were aborted and the key bilateral donors, USA and France, increasingly
canceled their financial support through non-government agencies and private
voluntary agencies. IDA, one of Haiti's few remaining official sources of
external financing, felt it had a special responsibility to continue
supporting the road maintenance program, provided that the Government gave
evidence of moving towards better economic policies and more economic and
efficient use of public funds. IDA's continued involvement with the project
assumed even greater importance as the benefits of the expanding labor-
intensive road maintenance programs became apparent.
11.   Consulting Services
11.01       The technical assistance aimed at improving accounting and
financial control at EPPLS was fair, at best, and did not significantly
improve either EPPLS' cost recovery performance or its accounting or filing
system (see EPPLS 1990 audit report). Technical assistance for MTPTC road
maintenance program by foreign consultants did little to improve MTPTC's
capacity in project management. During their long-term assignment, the
consultants neglected the project's training objectives and were actually
assimilated as "permanent" staff of the Ministry. In the future, qualified
local consultants should be encouraged to provide long-term assistance.
11.02       Consultants' services for detailed engineering studies for the
housing program, the Carrefour road and Canap6-Vert road projects, were of
uneven quality, characterized by design deficiencies and poor cost estimates.
11.03       Civil works supervision by local consultants was satisfactory in
Port-au-Prince (eg. Linthau II housing program, secondary street paving), but
inferior in the case of less visible projects such as the housing programs in
Les Cayes and Cap Haitien, or the maintenance works on inter-urban roads.
11.04       With few exceptions, civil works contractors showed inadequate
technical skills and performed poorly. In many cases, their performance was



- 19 -
also hampered by insufficient financial capacity to confront major delays of
payments for their services, especially during the execution of the road
maintenance program.
12.   Prolect Documentation and Data
12.01       Data needed for the preparation of the PCR was generally available
in Bank files. The supervision reports and corresponding aide memoirs were
particularly helpful. It was difficult, however, to collect the data
necessary to carry out a comprehensive ex-post evaluation of (i) the final
cost of the housing construction programs, including the Government
contribution; (ii) the evolution of EPPLS' cost recovery performance from 1984
to 1991; and (iii) the data on the actual beneficiaries of the project. This
difficulty was mostly due to frequent staff changes within EPPLS, inadequate
administrative procedures to keep an inventory of assets; poor accounting
practices; and the lack of political will to take corrective measures that
might have resulted in increasing social tensions, that were characteristic
during the long implementation period of the project. Preparation of the
quarterly progress reports was lax. It is necessary that, in the future, IDA
insist on receiving well documented quarterly or semi-annual reports in which
Clients review all administrative and technical achievements and/or problems
associated with IDA projects' implementation. The lay-out of such reports
should be standardized following, in principle, the format used for the
preparation of the PCRs, and modified as needed to better reflect specific
characteristics of particular projects. Non-compliance with this requirement
should be seriously considered as grounds for suspending disbursements.



- 20 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1338-HA and SF1-HA)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Due to substantial personnel changes within the project executing
agencies (EPPLS and MTPTC) that took place in the aftermath of the recent political
upheavals, many of the key staff who were involved with the project are no longer
available to prepare an analysis of key issues related to the project nor to make a
retrospective assessment of the project implementation from the Borrower
perspective. Therefore, the Borrower did not prepare Part II of the report. The
last IDA mission which collected data on the project visited Haiti in August 1991.



- 21 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1338-HA and SF1-HA)
PART III.    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.     Related Bank Credits
Credit Number/
Title                                                   Year of
of Project:             Purpose                         Approval        Status          Comments
Water and               Improvement                     12/13/77        Completed       US$10 Mn for
Sewerage in             of water supply                                 12/31/83        project,
Provincial              systems in seven                                                including
Towns.                  towns, including                                                US$6.6 Mn
757-HA                  Cap-Haighten, and                                               from IDA.
strengthening of                                                252 cost
the National Water                                              overruns.
Supply Agency (SNEP).                                           Poor cost
recovery.
2052-HA                 Rehabilitation                  5/25/89         Ongoing         about US$31
Port-au-Prince          of Port-au-Prince                                               Mn for total
Water Supply            water supply                                                     project,
system and                                                      including
strengthening                                                   US$21 Mn
of the metropolitan                                             from IDA.
water supply
agency (CAMEP).
Road Rehabilitation   Rehabilitation                                    Appraised       US$100 Mn
and Maintenance         and Maintenance                                 6/91            for total Project
Project                 of the main Port-                                               project
au-Prince and                                                   including
interurban road                                                 US$36 Mn
networks.                                                       from IDA.
Reorganization of
MTPTC's Maintenance
Departments.



- 22 -
2.    Proiect timetable
Date        Date                Date
Planned     Revised             Actual
Identification                                           Nov 78
Preparation Mission I                                    Feb 79
Preparation Mission II                                   May 79
Preparation Mission III                                  Mar 80
Preparation Mission IV                                   Oct 80
Preparation Mission V                                    Feb 81
Preparation Mission VI                                   Jun 81
Preparation Mission VII                                  Apr 82
Appraisal Mission                                         Jul 82
Credit Negotiations                                      Feb 83
Board Approval                                           Mar 22, 83
Credit Signature                                         Mar 31, 83
Credit Effectiveness                                     Jun 30, 83
Project Completion       Jun 87       Jun 88
Dec 89
Dec 90
Dec 91             Dec 91
Credit Closing           Dec 87       Dec 88
Dec 89
Dec 90
Dec 91             Dec 91



- 23 -
3       Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ millions)
FY:                     83       84      85      86       87      88      89       90      91      92
Appraisal
Estimates:               2.5     6.9     19.6   20.6    20.9   21         21       21      21      21
Actual:                  0.9     2.7     5       7.7      9.1     10.2    11.3    12.6    18.3    21.7 1/
As 2 of
Estimates:               36      39      26      37       44      49      54       60      87      95
1/ A. uming that up to US$2.7 are undisbursed after the Credits are closed. Total amount of Credits 1338
and SF1 is US$24.3 Mn (see Project Financing).



- 24 -
3.      Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(SDR millions)
FY:                     83      84       85      86      87      88      89       90      91
Appraisal
Estimates:              2.3     6.4      18.1    19      19.3    19.4    19.4    19.4    19.4
Actual:                 0.8     2.5      5.2     7.6     8.7     9.5      10.4    11.5    16.4  1/
As 2 of
Estimates:              35      39       29      40      45      49      54       59      85
1/ Credits 1338-HA and SF1-HA are in the process of being closed and the outstanding balances totalling
SDR 3.0 Mn will be canceled.



- 25 -
4.     Proiect Implementation
Appraisal
Estimates  1/          Actual
Sites and Services: (Cr. 1338-HA)
Number of housing units: 2/
Port-au-Prince:                                1,036                    1,311
Cap Haitien:                                   1,093                      883
Lee Cayes:                                       278                      467
Total:                                         2,407                    2,661
CDB Market Upgrading: (Cr. SF1-HA)
Two retail and one
wholesale markets:                      to be upgraded                 not initiated
Creation of SAGMAP                     to operate CDB market           not set up
Revised Estimates
Road Maintenance Program                (9/87 Amendment)               Actual
Rehabilitation of the
Carrefour road:                          7 km                          not initiated
Rehabilitation of the
Canape-Vert road:                      2.6 km                          2.6 km
Urban road maintenance: 3/             US$1.58 Mn                      US$0.62 Mn
Revised Estimates
(6/89 Amendment)               Actual
Intercity road
maintenance:                            330 km                         330 km
Urban road
rehabilitation:                        7.5 km                          7.5 km
Revised Estimates
Labor-Intensive Program:                (4/91 Amendment)               Actual
Amount:                                US$3.2 Mn                       not initiated
Employment generated:                  500,000 man-day
Preparation of the Road
Maintenance Project:
technical and                  completed over
institutional                   1990 and 1991.
studies
1/ Appraisal estimates include physical and price contingencies
2/ In addition to housing units, the following infrastructures were built, as planned at appraisal: a
small market and a community center in Cap Haitien, and a health post and a community center in Les
Cayes.
3/ This road maintenance program was intended to include: equipment for DTP maintenance brigades,
rehabilitation of DTP's asphalt plant and maintenance works by force account (total estimated cost of
US$615,000); maintenance works by contract (US$380,000); and installation of traffic lights on the main
intersections in Port-au-Prince (US$590,000). Because of MTPTC's inability to properly manage the above
program, only road maintenance by force account was carried out, for a total cost of about US$620,000.



- 26 -
5.      Proiect Costs and Financine
A.      Prolect Costs
Appraisal                Revised
Item                              Estimatel/               Estimate                  Actual
IDA/ GOH                 (USS' Millions)           IDA/GOH
IDA/GOH
Market Upgrading                  15.7                      16.8                     2.7
Sites & Services (S & S):
Port-au-Prince                            2.23                                                NA
Le Cap                                    3.08                                                NA
Les Cayes                         0.85                                               NA
Total S & S:                              6.16                                                6.5
Instit. Dev. SAGMAP                       0.65                                                0
Instit. Devt. EPPLS:
Equipment                         0.12                                               0.1
TA                                1.17                                               1.2
Total Market and S & S:           23.8                                               10.5
1987 Estimates
Rehabilitation of the
Canape-Vert road:                 1.6                                                2.8
Reconstruction of the
Carrefour road:                   8.5                      24 2t                     0.54
urban road maintenance:           2.3                                                0.62
1989 Estimates
intercity road
maintenance:                              5.75                                                5.75  3/
urban road
rehabilitation:                   2.4                                                2.4
TA for MTPTC:                             0.05                      0.5                       1.4  4/
1990 Estimates
Labor-Intensive
Program:                          3.5                                                0.8
PPF:                              1                                                  1.0
Total                                                                               25.8
1/ Appraisal estimates include physical and price contingencies
2/ The cost of reconstructing the Carrefour Road was estimated at US$8.5 Mn, in 1987. Following
completion of a detailed technical study, the final estimated cost was US$24 Mn (including US$7 Mn for
expropriation), which led to the postponement of the project.
3/ Although actual cost is shown here to be equal to the estimated cost, the rehabilitation works on the
intercity network would require about US$0.6 Mn for additional works, if the sections rehabilitated are
to meet minimum standards.
4/ This amount includes TA from Lavalin for the urban road component (about US$700,000) and consultants'
services for the preparation of the Proposed Road Maintenance Project (about US$700,000).



- 27 -
B.      Pro1ect Financina
Appraisal               Revised
Item-Source                             Estimate                Estimate                Actual
IDA\GOH          (US$' Millions)              IDA\GOH
Market Upgrading:
IDA                                     13.85                                           2.1
GOH     I/                                      1.85                                             0.6
Sites & Services (S L S):
IDA                                     5.5                                             6.1
GOH     1/                                      0.65                                             0.4
Instit. Dev. SAGMAP
IDA                                     0.6                                             0
GOH     2/                                      0.05                                             0
Instit. Devt. EPPLS:
IDA                                     1.05                                             1.2
GOH 2/                                        0.25                                              0.1
Total Market and S & S:
Total IDA:                              21.0                                             9.4
Total GOH:                                      2.8                                              1.1
Reconstruction of the
Carrefour road:
IDA                                                             4.2                     0
GOH 1/                                                                  4.3                      0.54
Reconstruction of the
Canape-Vert road:
IDA                                                             1.2                     0.57
GOH     1/                                                              0.4                      2.23
Urban road maintenance:
IDA                                                             1.8                     0.33
GOH 1/                                                                  0.5                      0.29
Intercity road
maintenance:
IDA                                                             5.75                    5.75
GOH 3/                                                                  0                        0
Urban road
rehabilitation:
IDA 3/                                                          2.4                     2.4
GOH                                                                     0                        0
TA for MTPTC:
IDA                                     0.05                    0.4                     1.35
GOH                                             0                       0.1                      0.05
Labor-Intensive
Program:
IDA                                                             3.5                     0.8
GOH                                                                     0                        0
PPF (IDA):                              1                                                1
Total: 4/
IDA                                     21                                              21.6
GOH                                         2.8                                                   4.2
Grand Total:                               23.8                                                  25.8
1/ Government to finance 232 of local costs for civil works and 100X of land acquisition costs.
2/ Government to finance 902 of local costs for TA and 232 of local costs for equipment.
3/ No financing required from the Government, according to November 1989 amendment.
4/ IDA total available financing was SDR19.4 Mn (SDR12 Mn under Cr. SF1-BA and SDR7.4 Mn under Cr. 1338-
BA), which was equivalent to about US$21 Mn at the time of Appraisal (ie. SDR1-USS1.1). If all available
funds had been disbursed by December 1991, IDA would have disbursed up to US$24.3 Mn as a result of the
continuous increase of the SDR/US$ exchange rate (ie. from 1.1 in 1983 to more than 1.3 in 1991).



- 28 -
6.      Project Results
A.      Direct Benefits
Appraisal                       Estimated at
Estimate                        Closing Date
Indicators
Market upgradinR:
- improved sanitary
conditions.                   no benefit, in spite
- reduced congestion.           of a cost of US$2.7 Mn
- improved operation
of CDB area.
Serviced Sites:
- beneficiaries:                more than 9,500                 about 10,000  1/
- low-cost housing:
Average cost per unit:
Port-au-Prince:                 $2,150                                  NA
Cap Haitien:                    $2,350                                  NA
Les Cayes:                      $3,050                                  NA
Total average cost:             $2,560                                  $2,450
Cost recovery:
84:                             1002                                    92%
85:                             1002                                    302
86:                             100%                                    242
87:                             100%                                    292
88:                             100o                                    452
89:                             100%                                    NA
90:                             1002                                    NA
Road maintenance
and Labor-Intensive
ProRram: 2/
- urban roads:                                                  about 7.5 km were
rehabilitated, mostly
with easy-to-maintain and
labor-intensive techniques.
- intercity roads:                                              periodic maintenance on
330 Ian, which improved access
in three remote regions of the
country.
- labor-intensive
program:                                                        employment generation
equiv. to about 100,000 man-day
1/ This figure is only based on the fact that there were more housing units build than were estimated at
appraisal (2,661 instead of 2,407), and on the number of beneficiaries estimated at appraisal (9,500
people for 2,407 housing units). However, these figures exaggerate the real impact of the housing
component because part of the users of the housing units financed by the project do not belong to the
target population due to repeated illegal invasions by squatters and uncontrolled purchase of project
houses by private entrepreneurs, as rental houses.
2/ Additional indirect benefits are the following: the road maintenance component and the labor-intensive
program were an opportunity to test new approaches before implementing them on a larger scale under the
proposed Road Maintenance Project. These new approaches were mainly (i) the contracting out of road
maintenance execution and supervision to local construction and consulting firms; (ii) the promotion of
local resources including village communities, small contractors and local materials (concrete blocks for
street paving); and (iii) the improvement of MTPTC procedures for contract management, including
supervision, payments and accounting.



- 29 -
B.     Economic Impact
Economic                     Appraisal
Rate of Return               Estimate                            Actual
Market upgrading:            132                                 Negetive impact  [/
Serviced Sites:
Port-au-Prince:              242
Cap Haitien:                 11%                                 ) Not cost-effective  2/
Les Cayes:                   182
Road Maintenance
and Labor-Intensive
Program:                     Not estimated                       Economically cost-effective  3/
1/ There was almost no benefit (except limited cleaning of part of the market area) compared to a total
cost of US$2.69 Mn.
2) The Appraisal ERRs were derived from cost and benefit streams over a 15-year period. Costs included
land acquisition, civil works and related engineering and supervision; benefits included the rent paid by
beneficiaries (equivalent to full recovery of almost all costs) and the valorization of the serviced
land. On the one hand, actual costs were about 4% lower than appraisal estimates; on the other hand, cost
recovery from the beneficiaries did not exceed 35% (in average over 1985-1990) and valorization of the
serviced sites must not be significant as they were generally poorly operated and maintained. It is
therefore estimated that an economic re-evaluation of the housing component would indicate that it was
not economically cost-effective. That was confirmed by the Bank economist who carried out the economic
analysis of the project during Appraisal.
3) This component is estimated to have been economically cost-effective, because most road maintenance-
projects generally have very high ERR when carried out correctly, which was the case of that component.
Periodic maintenance works (regravelling and shoulder stabilization) carried out on the intercity road
network might, however, not be sustainable if the necessary routine maintenance is not assured. Most
works carried out on the urban network or under the labor-intensive program are easy-to-maintain
rehabilitation works whose impact should not be much affected by lack of maintenance.
C.     Financial Impact
One of the key objectives of the project was to establish and strengthen
financially-autonomous agencies (SAGMAP and EPPLS) that would reinvest in new
infrastructure programs the profit coming from the operation of the initial IDA-
financed project. This ambitious objective was not met since SAGMAP was never set up
and EPPLS never became a financially sound agency, as explained below.
EPPLS was expected to develop into a financially-autonomous agency with a net profit
estimated at about US$100,000 per year after 1994. Revenues were assumed to be
mainly composed of housing loan interest (50-60%) and of rents and taxes (about
40%). Expenses estimates were mainly composed of personnel (60%), contracted
services (20%) and repayment of the loan contracted with the Government (15%).
However, during project implementation, cost recovery did not exceed 35%, on
average, since 1985, and most of the rent and sale revenues were used to pay for an
increasing number of permanent personnel (from less than 100 in 1983 to more than
400 in the late 80s, while in the SAR the necessary permanent staff was estimated at
about 50) thus precluding the financial viability of EPPLS and the replicability of
the IDA-financed housing component.



- 30 -
D.      Studies
Purpose as
Defined at                                              Impact of
Studies                        Appraisal                       Status                  the Study
Feasibility Study              Assessment                      completed               None (project
of Carrefour Road              of the beat                     1989                    was not imple-
technical and                                          mented due to
economic                                                lack of funds) 1/
alternative
Study of Road                  Review of needed                completed               provided the basis
User Charges  2/               road maintenance                7/90                    for designing a
expenditures and                                        financing scheme for
current road                                            road maintenance,
user charges.                                           including a Road Fund.
Institutional  2/              diagnosis of                    completed               Provided a good
Study of MTPTC                 the organization                10|91                   basis for MTPTC's
of MTPTC and                                            reorganization
action plan for
its reorganization
I/ A feasibility study of this key investment will be included in the Port-au-Prince Transport Master
Plan to be financed under the proposed Road Maintenance Project.
2/ The financing of these studies was decided following the 1987 amendment of Credit SF1-HA.



- 31 -
7.         Status of Credit Covenants
Section of
Lredt  arFeement        Su_ary of Covensat                         Status of Compliance
Credit 1338-BAs
2.03                    Procurement                                Procurement needs improvement. EPPLS's weaknesese  in following Bank's
proeurement guidelines resulted in major delays during project
plementation.
3.02 (a) (b)            EPPLS to carry out parts                   Complied.
B and C
3.03 (a)                Insurance for isported goods
used by EPPLS                             Complied.
(b)               Exclusive use of goods and
services for the project.                 Complied.
3.04 (a)                EPPLS to furnish plans and                 Complied.
specifications
(bh               EPPLS to maintain records                  Complied.
(d)               Project Completion &eport                  Prepared.
3.05                    Land Acquisition                           Most of the land necssary for project implementation wam  timely acquired,
but, in many occasion, t   land vas not availabl for th  pro act because
of wide pread illegal invasion by squatters (eg in Cap Hait n.
4.01 (a)                Aceounting                                 EPPLS accounting practices improved through technical assistance, but
still need to be strengthened.
4.01 (b)                Auditing                                   Audits for IY91 and FY92 have to be initiated.
Cr. SP1-HA Aaremenotm
2.03                    Procurement                                DTP procurement practices need improvesent. DTP we kn*see in  procurement
resulted In major dely  throughout the project life.
3.01                    The Borrover to carry out Part A
and SAQGAP to carry out Part D            Contract wee terminated.
3.03                    Use of Consultants by DTP                  Consultants have been recruited to prepare the urban road program that
replaced the market component in 1987.
3.04 (a)                Insurance for imported goods
used by DTP                               Complied.
(b)               Exclusive use of goods and
Services for the project.                 Complied.
3.05 (a)                DTP to furnish plans and
specifications                            Complied.
(b)               DT? to maintain records                    The keeping of records has been
strengthenLed through the assistance of
private accountants.
(d)               Project Completion Report                  Prepared.
3.06                    Land Acquisition                           Expropriation of properties needed for some components of the project (eg
Carrefour road) could not be cerried out.
4.01 (a)                Accounting                                 DTP accounting practices have been strengthened through the use of a
private accounting firm which managed all project accounts since the
beginning of 1991.
4.01 (b)                Auditing                                   Audits for FY91 and nY92 have to be completed.



- 32 -
8.      Use of Bank Resources
A.      Staff Inputs
FY:     79      80      81      82      83      84      85      86      87       88      89      90      91      92
Through
Aprais-
al:     43.1    32.7    31.1    33.1
Appraisal- 1/
Effective-
ness:                                   47.3
Supervision:                                    11.4    14.8    7.3      12      13.4   11       7.4     5.6     8.7
PCR:                                                                                                             4.5
Total:  43.1    32.7    31.1    33.1    47.3    11.4    14.8    7.3      12      13.4    11      7.4     5.6      13.2
Cumulative
Total:  43      76      107     140     187     199     213      221     233     246     257     265     270     275
1/ Including appraisal.
B.      Missions
Type of
Perform.
Month/              No. of              Mission         Speciali-        Rating
Year   Persons          Duration                         zations         Problems
Through                 11/78      3                1
Appraisal:              21/79       3               2
5/79       2               1
3/80       3               1
10180      4               1
2/81       2               1
6/81       2               1.5
3/82       3               1
6/82       5               2
Appraisal-
Board:                  8/82        1               0.5
Board-
Effectiveness:          6/83       1                1
Supervision:            7/83        1               1              En                1
1/84       3               1              En,FA,C           2               M
7/84       1               1              En                2               M,F
12/84      1               0.5            FA                3              M,F
3/85       2               1              FA,C              3               M,F
10/85      1               1              Eco               3              H,Y
5/86       1               1              FA,C              3               M,F,P
1/87       1               1              Eco               3               M,F,P
2/87       1               1              En                3               M,F,P
9/87       2               1.5            Eco,En            3               M,F,P
3/88       1               1              En                3               M,F,P
11/88      1               1              En                3              M,F,P
5/89       1               1              En                 2              M,F,P
12/89      2               1              FA,En             2              H,P
6/90       2               1              FA,En             2               H
3/91       2               3              FA,En,RA          2               M
8/91       1                              RA                 1
Specialization:
En: engineer; Eco: economist; FA: financial analyst; RA: research assistant; C: consultant.
Type of problems:
M: managerial; F: financial; P: political.



