Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3395-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND SPECIAL FUND CREDIT
IN AMOUNTS EQUIVALENT TO US$21.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR AN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 3, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be lisclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Cturrency Unit = Gourde (G)
G 1.00 = US$0.20
G 5.00 = US$1.00
G 1 million = US$200,000
The Gourde has been tied to the US Dollar at the ratio of
five Gourdes to one Dollar since 1917.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                   British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                  =   3.281 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)           =   35.32 cubic feet (ft3)
264.2 gallons (gal)
6.290 barrels (bbl)
1 kg                         =   2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t; metric; 1,000 kg)  =   1.100 short tons (sh. ton)
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BDL     -  Housing Bank
CAMEP   - Metropolitan Water Company
CDB     -  Croix-de-Bossales Market
CIDA    -  Canadian International Development Agency
DATPE   -  Land Use Management and Environmental Protection Agency
DTPTC   - Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications
EPPLS   -  Public Social Housing Promotion Company (New name for ONL)
GOH     -  Government of Haiti
IDB     -  Inter-American Development Bank
ILO     -  International Labour Organisation
IMF     -  International Monetary Fund
KfW     -  (German) Reconstruction Loan Corporation
ONL     -  National Housing Office
PAHO    -  Pan-American Health Organisation
PPF     -  Project Preparation Facility
SAGMAP  - Metropolitan Market Agency
SCUD    -  Special Commission for Urban development
SNEP    -  National Water Service
SPU     -  Urban Planning Service
UNCDF   -  United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF  -  United Nations Children's Fund
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Haiti
Amount:              SDR 7.4 million (US$8.0 equivalent) from IDA
SDR 12.0 million (US$13.0 equivalent) from the IDA
Special Fund.
Terms:               Standard
Beneficiary:         Entreprise Publique de Promotion de Logements Sociaux
(EPPLS)
Relending
Terms:               A part of the proceeds of the Credit would be relent by
the Government to EPPLS for 25 years, with interest at
4 percernt per annum.
Project
Descraption:         The project would initiate IDA involvement in urban
development in Haiti and assist the Government in
improving the living conditions of the urban poor in
the capital and in two of the three next most important
cities. It would include (i) the rehabilitation and
upgrading of the Port-au-Prince central market area;
(ii) a sites and services scheme for the relocation of
1,036 families displaced by the upgrading of the market;
(iii) a pilot sites and services scheme for 1,093 low-
income families in Cap-Haitien; (iv) a pilot sites and
services scheme for 278 low-income families in Les Cayes;
(v) institutional development of the metropolitan market
agency; and (vi) institutional development of the Public
Social Housing Promotion Company (EPPLS).
Risks:               Any new program involving important structural changes
and the establishment and promotion of public agencies,
is associated with certain risks. These would include
the continuity of Government support (in particular the
ability to meet counterpart fund requirements) and the
capacity and efficiency as well as the financial sound-
ness of the supported public agencies. Supervision
missions would monitor these risks carefully in order to
initiate corrective measures as soon as implementation
delays, cost overruns or a deterioration of the financial
status of the supported public agencies should become
visible.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance, of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs: a/                               -    -   --US$'000----------
Local      Foreign      Total
Market Upgrading
Studies and engineering           122        488          610
Indemnization                    800           -         800
Earthworks                       760       1,008        1,768
Civil works                    4,410       4,590       9,000
Implementation                   665         285         950
Subtotal                     6,757       6,371      134128
Sites and Services
(a) Port-au-Prince
Studies and engineering         18          72          90
Land                            38           -           38
Earthworks                     206         273         479
Civil works                    630         403       1,033
Implementation                 156          66         222
Subtotal                   1,048         814       1,862
(b) Cap-Haitien
Studies and engineering         16          64          80
Land                            49           -          49
Earthworks                     248         329         577
Civil works                    757         484       1,241
Material loans                  76          67         143
Implementation                 338         145         483
Subtotal                   1,484       1,089       2,573
(c) Les Cayes
Studies and engineering         12          48          60
Land                            13           -           13
Ear:thworks                     56          74         130
Civil works                    206         132         338
Material loans                  18          16          34
Implementation                  94          40         134
Subtotal                     399         310         709
Institutional Development SAGMAP
Studies and engineering           16          64          80
Initial working capital          250           -         250
Pre-operating expense             81           -           81
Vehicles and equipment              4         31           35
Technical assistance              29          66          95
Subtotal                       380         161         541
Institutional Development EPPLS
Studies and engineering           16          64          80
Technical assistance             240         560         800
Training                           -         100         100
Equipment                          10         90         100
Subtotal                       266         814       1,080
Base costs                       10,334      9,559       19,893
Physical contingencies             692         599        1,291
Price contingencies               1,497      1,127       2,624
TOTAL PROJECT COST               12,523     11,285      23,808
a/   Cost estimates exclude taxes and duties, from which this project is
exempt.



Financing Plan:                                ---------US$'000-----------
Local    Foreign      Total
IDA (including IDA         9,715     11,285      21,000
Special Fund)
Government                 2,808        -         2,808
Total                     12,523     11,285      23,808
Estimated
Disbursements:                     -----------------US$'000-----------------
IDA FY        1983  1984    1985     1986    1987    1988
Annual       2,500   4,400  12,700   1,000     300     100
Cumulative   2,500  6,900   19,600  20,600  20,900  21,000
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 4211-HA, dated March 2, 1983.
Rate of Return:     15 percent for the market upgrading and sites and services
components which account for 93 percent of total costs.
Maps:                IBRD Nos. 16756, 16758 and 16759 attached.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND SPECIAL FUND CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI FOR AN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
K         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 7.4 million (US$8.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, and a proposed IDA Special Fund Credit of SDR 12.0
million (US$13.0 million equivalent), on terms adopted by the Executive
Directors of IDA 1/, to the Republic of Haiti, to help finance an Urban
Development Project. The Government would relend a part of the proceeds of
the proposed credit to Entreprise Publique de Promotion des Logements Sociaux
for 25 years, with interest at 4 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Haiti, distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 25, 1982, was Report No. 3931-HA entitled "Economic Memoran-
dum on Haiti". Its main findings, updated and complemented with findings of
recent missions to Haiti, are summarized below. Relevant social and economic
data are presented in Annex I.
3.        Haiti's GNP per capita stood at US$270 in 1981, the lowest level in
the Western Hemisphere. Its dire poverty is reflected in 1976 data showing
that almost 75 percent of the population lived under conditions of absolute
poverty; the rate of infant mortality was about 150 per thousand live births;
average life expectancy was 51 years; there were low nutrition and sanitation
standards (malnutrition and gastro-enteric diseases account for over half of
the deaths in the country) and the adult illiteracy rate was about 80
percent. Extreme rural poverty and high pressure on agricultural land (350
inhabitants per sq km) and the lack of development of other sectors resulted,
in recerit years, in an acceleration of migration within and out of the
country.
4.        High mortality and migration have so far slowed population growth
(1.9 percent per annum during the 1975-80 period), but the natural desire on
the part of the Government is to improve health conditions. Thus, health
improvements and growing difficulties imposed on emigration to neighboring
countries will aggravate the already unfavorable relation of resources to
population. Efforts are currently under way to promote modern methods of
contraception through community organizations and other groups in collabora-
tion with various national and external public and private agencies.
5.        Haiti's GDP expanded at an average annual rate of 4.4 percent or
2.7 percent per capita during the 1970-80 period. The pattern of growth,
however, was subject to cyclical fluctuations, influenced by the performance
1/   Resolution No. IDA 82-6 of October 26, 1982.



-2-
and weight of agriculture, subject to the vagaries of weather and external
markets. Manufacturing and construction have shown a more even performance.
6.        Between 1970 and 1980, agriculture provided employment for about 63
percent of the labor force, contributed on average 38 percent to GDP, and
grew at an average annual rate of 1.7 percent. The sector--which provides
most of Haiti's exports--is characterized by extremely low productivity.
Furthermore, the rapid disappearance of Haiti's forests and the resulting
soil erosion are reducing the availability of wood, the country's prime
source of energy, and leading to a shrinkage of the area of productive land.
In an effort to halt these trends, the Government has recently revived
erosion control and forestry programs. It also has initiated programs to
introduce improved grain varieties, rehabilitate coffee plantations, restore
the major irrigated systems and develop agro-industries.
7.        Since 1970, manufacturing industries, construction and public util-
ities have emerged as the most consistently dynamic activities with average
annual growth rates of 7 percent, 14 percent and 9 percent respectively.
The manufacturing sector owes much of its expansionary drive to the export
processing industries--which have a strong potential for further
development-- and to a rapid increase in output of construction materials.
Growth of locally manufactured products, other than construction materials,
for the domestic market was necessarily limited by the thinness of this
market. Construction, on the other hand, was fueled by public investment in
infras tructure.
8.        Gross investment reached 13 percent of GDP in 1981, compared to
10 percent in 1970. This progress was entirely attributable to the public
sector, whose share of total investment has increased from one-fifth in 1970
to over 50 percent in 1981, as a result of an average expansion rate of
10 percent per year in real terms. The Government's investment strategy, as
stated in its two Five-Year Development Plans (1972-76 and 1977-81), was
geared to the decentralization of economic activity in favor of rural areas
and provincial towns.
9.        The mobilization of domestic resources for investment is hampered
by a low average income level and institutional weaknesses in the capital
market and in public finance. During the 1979-81 period, gross domestic
savings amounted to only 2.6 percent of GNP. Foreign assistance, therefore,
plays a major role in supplementing domestic savings; some two-thirds of
public investment are financed by foreign aid,
10.       As regards public sector savings, the Government of Haiti has
undertaken during the period 1979-81 a major reorganization of fiscal manage-
ment: all tax revenues have been integrated into the Government's budget;
the Treasury now handles all Central Government expenditures; tax collection
is being consolidated and parafiscal functions have been removed from the
Regie du Tabac (State Trading Monopoly); sound accounting procedures are
being established; customs duties have been consolidated and rates on luxury
goods have been raised; new taxes have been imposed and the income tax law
was amended to improve equity and elasticity of income taxation. While there
were significant gains towards achieving the goals of the fiscal reform,
large extra-budgetary expenditure authorizations in 1980 and 1981 raised
public sector deficit from 7.9 percent of GDP in 1979 to around 8.4 percent
in 1981 and increasing recourse was made to central bank financing.



-3-
11.       Haiti did not avoid the negative effects of world recession.    In
addition, the 1981 coffee crop was particularly poor. This, coupled with a
drop in its world price and a decline in bauxite export revenues, resulted in
an overall decline of Haiti's merchandise exports of 28 percent as compared
with the level achieved in 1980. These low export revenues and the demand
pre 'sures generated by the domestic financing of the fiscal deficit generated
a foreign exchange crisis. Furthermore, Haiti's drawing rights under an
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) established with the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) for the period 1979-81, were interrupted as ceilings on net domestic
bank credit to the pUDliC sector and on net domestic assets of the monetary
authorities were exceeded.
12.       Economic activity would have remained almost stagnant during 1982,
were it not for agriculture, where a good crop allowed overall GDP to grow by
1.5 percent.  The assembly industry, the most dynamic sector in the recent
past, was still hampered by world recession. Stringent monetary and fiscal
policies restrained both public and private expenditures; public investment
was particularly affected as counterpart funds were reduced. The foreign
exchange constraint led to an accumulation of commercial arrears of US$20
million, and official foreign res,.erves dropped. As the forc2ign exchange
situation became critical, the Haitian Authorities signed a Stand-by Arrange-
ment with the IMF for the period June 1982 to September 1983. Under the
conditions of this Arrangement, public expenditures and the arrears in the
payment for vital imports are being reduced and a new general sales tax was
approved. Also, measures are being taken to improve tax collection and an
in-depth audit of the Central Bank is presently under way. Up to December
1982, the conditions of the Arrangement have been fully met,
13.       The continuing high proportion of grants and concessionary loans
extended to Haiti has helped the country maintain its debt-service ratio at
an estimated 9.4 percent for 1981.   The rising level of private foreign
investment and of supplier's credits', however, will bring with it larger
factor payments in the form of dividend repatriation and interest payments.
14.       The ability of Haiti to maintain an acceptable growth rate in the
future will depend on successful efforts to improve substantially the produc-
tivity of the agricultural sector and to continue diversifying the economic
structure, especially into export-oriented industry. Because of the limited
capacity to generate adequate levels of savings, Haiti will have to continue
relying heavily on foreign savings to finance a high proportion of the costs
of carefully selected development and institution building projects. More-
over, such external assistance should continue being extended on very
concessionary terms in view of Haiti's low income level, modest prospects for
overall export growth and increasing dependence on imported energy. But the
terms, size and timing of the external assistance will depend very much on
Haiti's own efforts in exercising fiscal and monetary prudence, in mobilizing
domestic resources and putting them to good use.
15.       The Association and the IMF are closely involved in Haiti's effort
to improve fiscal performance and economic management in general. The
Association, at the request of the Haitian Authorities, established a sub-



-4-
group within the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development.
IDA is also extending assistance to the authori.ties in the preparation of
longer term plans to mobilize the country's scarce resources for economic
development, including the priorities of public investments, identification
of bottlenecks in project execution and, more generally, institution building
efforts.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI 2/
16.       The Bank Group began its operations in Haiti with a loan for a
highway project in 1956. Since then, 17 !DA credits and one IFC investment
(U1S$1.5 million) for an integrated poultry project have followed. As of
September 30, 1982, the total of credits outstanding was US$175.2 million of
which US$78.2 million were undisbursed. Annex II includes a summary state-
ment of Bank Group operations and IFC investments in Haiti and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. Bank Group loans and credits have financed
six highway/transport projects mainly serving the Northern region; three
power projects helping to increase the country's electricity generation and
distribution capacity; three education projects emphasizing primary school
construction and qualitative improvements at the primary level; one water
supply project for smaller locations outside the capital; one rural develop-
ment project in the Northern region; one agricultural rehabilitation project
designed to help compensate damages caused by a severe hurricane; one port
development project predominantly improving small coastal port installations
.11 around the country; one industrial credit facility, and one pilot
forestry project.
17.       Overall, project implementation and disbursement performance is
satisfactory. However, on several occasions, lack of counterpart funds has
delayed disbursements. The establishment of working funds in recent projects
has brought improvement in this respect. Nevertheless, the Association is
carefully monitoring the capacity of absorption of the country for exter-
nally assisted development investments. The Government of Haiti (GOH) has
requested the major external aid agencies to finance temporarily a larger
share of local costs of projects. In case the major agencies should agree to
the Haitian request, a larger number of high priority projects could be
continued without delays or reductions, or started as planned, and the
country would still be able to satisfy the conditions of the fiscal
stabVlization program agreed with the International .',Monetary Fund in order to
help overcome the present economic difficulties.
18.       Many public and private aid agencies are active in Haiti.    Among
the most important are the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the
United States Agency for International Developmert (USAID), the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) and the assistance agencies of the
Federal Republic of Germany and France. IDB retains a diverse program in
Haiti both regionally and sectorally. In addition to transportation, agri-
culture and energy, projects in health, education, industry, urban improve-
ment, water supply and port improvement are now being implemented or planned
2/   Reprinted substantially from PR No. P-3363-HA of November 5, 1982 for a
Third Education Project in Haiti except for para. 16.



for implementation in the near future. The USAID program is implemented in
collaboration with private volunteer groups and is concentrating on increas-
ing agricultural production, improving rural infrastructure and employment
generation, conservation and restoration of natural resources, health care
and the strengthening of public and private development institutions. An
important aspect of the USAID program is the sale of foodstuffs to the GOH,
supported with long-term, low interest credits.
19.       CIDA has been supporting\> rural development project in the
Southern Peninsula and is now undertaking a review of its country's lending
strategy. CIDA is participating in the second IDA power project and remains
committed to supporting the institutional development of public and private
organizations within Haiti. This objective is reflected in training and tech-
nical assistance projects now underway with the Ministries of Educa"Lion and
Agriculture and the National Institute of Administration. The Federal
Republic of Germany is providing technical and financial assistance for a
rural development project in the Gonaives Plain and for power sector develop-
ment all over the country. Together with France, Germany is providing sub-
stantial technical assistance for the IDA rural development project in the
Northern region. Likewise, the co-financing of water supply and of the IDA
port development projects is included in the German program. France has
financed road construction and currently sponsors two integrated rural devel-
opment projects, educational planning and research, a multitude of training
programs and a maritime lighting project. Also, France is financing compo-
nents of the third IDA power project and may become engaged in forestry
development and further power projects.
IDA Strategy
20.       The lending strategy for Haiti is under review.    It appears, how-
ever, that the present strategy of supporting the improvement and expansion
of basic infrastructure in power, rural development, reforestation, educa-
tion, urban development and of creating employment in the directly productive
sectors will keep its merits and efficiency in the near future. The present
IDA lending program reflects the priorities of the national development plans
and is sensitive to the current and future programs of other public assist-
ance agencies operating in Haiti, and all IDA projects always would include
substantial institution-building components.
21.       Under the current IDA program, the ongoing Rural Development
Project provides for the preparation of a second project which would extend
the scope of the Regional Development Agency's program to additional crops
and areas of the Northern regicn. A further power project will help in
expanding hydroelectric generation capacity and substantially reduce silta-
tion in the Peligre reservoir, the country's largest existing power scheme.
A petroleum exploration promotion project will speed up the reassessment of
the petroleum potential, and a large scale erosion control/reforestation
project will improve the supply situation for firewood, the most important
source of domestic energy. Sector reviews are being undertaken or will start
soon in agriculture, industry, education and population, and are expected to
lead to the identification of projects in these fields.



-6-
22.       The Bank Group's share in Haiti's external debt disbursed and out-
standing came to 25.6 percent as of October 1, 1981. The Bank Group's share
of excernal public debt service was about 2.8 percent and will decrease
during the coming years.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Background
23.       While Haiti is one of the least urbanized countries (26 percent) in
the Western hemisphere, its urban growth is rapid, unbalanced and heavily
concentrated in the capital, Port-au-Prince, where 900,000 of the approxi-
mately 1.4 million urban inhabitants are living. The next largest city,
Cap-Haitien, is twelve times smaller with about 65,000 inhabitants, followed
by Gonaives and Las Cayes with 44,000 and 30,000 inhabitants, respectively.
Another 350,000 inhabitants live in the remaining four departmental capitals
and eighteen other small towns. Over the past decade, urban centers have
grown at an average rate of 4.1 percent p.a. (rural growth 1.1 percent p.a.;
total growth 1.8 percent p.a.) - up from 1.6 percent p.a. for the 1950-1971
period. However, Port-au-Prince is growing at about 6 percent p.a. compared
to 3 percent for the other cities. As the center of Government and manufac-
turing, the metropolitan area of Port-au-Prince generates some 40 percent of
GDP and about half of all Government development and recurrent expenditures
are spent in the metropolitan region where the provision of social services
is highly centralized, particularly in health and education.
Urban Poverty and Living Conditions
24.       Income distribution in Haiti is uneven and 74 percent of the total
population live in absolute poverty. Higher incomes are concentrated in
Port-au-Prince and the secondary cities where per capita income is 6.7 and
3.9 times that in rural areas, respectively. Nevertheless, even, in
Port-au-Prince, 60 percent of the population have incomes below the absolute
poverty threshold - against 78 percent in the rural areas.
25.       More than 60 percent of the Haitian population in 1976 lived in
relative poverty, i.e. at or below an income level equal to one-third of
average per-capita income. In terms of actual income, the United Nations
Children's Fund (UNICEF) estimated in 1980 that 70 percent of the households
of Port-au-Prince disposed on an average of US$70 equivalent per month or
less. Of this amount, nonfood expenditures were nearly as high as those for
food (53 percent), with rent alone accounting for 30 percent of total
expenditures (14 percent in secondary cities). In surveyed areas of
Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes, median monthly household income was US$39 and
US$28 equivalent, respectively, of which, on average, about 70 percent was
devoted, to food purchases.



-7-
Nutrition and Health
26.       Nutritional status and health are inextricably linked.    Most
Haitiai.s, particularly those living in urban areas cannot afford a nutri-
tionally adequate diet and for many years, malnutrition has been cited as one
of Haiti's most serious health problems. Protein-caloric malnutrition is
severe, although other nutritional deficiencies are widespread. Using data
from several nutrition surveys conducted between 1959 and 1976, it was esti-
mated that between 24 and 57 percent of children up to age 6 could be classi-
fied as having second or third degree malnutrition. More recent data frcm
the National Nutrition Survey (1978) indicate that only one-quarter of
children under 5 years old are in the normal range of weight for their age.
Undernourishment is more frequent among the elder children of the surveyed
age group and one-quarter of these children were stunted (height for age),
indicating that their growth had been impaired by prolonged periods of inade-
quate nutrition. Malnutrition was a primary cause of 31 percent of deaths
recorded during 1979-80 at the Albert Schweitzer Hospital, for children up to
the age of 14. Haitian statistics on communicable diseases also reflect the
toll of undernourishment; the two leading causes are gastroenteritis and
bronchopneumonia, which are strongly associated with poor nutritional status
and lowered resistance to infection.
Shelter and Urban Services
27.       Housing conditions in Port-au-Prince are poor and some two-thirds
of the population live in sordid overcrowded slums. About 13 percent of all
dwellings are made of scrap materials, 19 percent of wattle and straw and
another 32 percent of wood. More than three-quarters of the homes in the
city are not connected to the water supply system and erosion run-off
obstructs up to 75 percent of the flow capacity of the drainage system in
downtown Port-au-Prince and 50 percent in the outlying areas. There is no
waterborne sewerage system, and most of the population uses pit latrines.
28.       Residential densities are very high.   In 1976, an estimated 132,000
dwelling units in the city housed 640,000 people.    The number of independent
structures, however, is very much smaller, because many buildings have
anywhere between two and eight rooms, each occupied by separate low- and
middle-income households, and many rooms are shared bg more than one family.
About 61 percent of dwelling units offer less than 3m per resident and
44 percent of the urban population occupy about 12 percent of the residential
land at gross densities in excess of 800 persons per ha.    Although there has
been considerable growth of low-income residential areas on the periphery of
the city, the built-up areas con'tinue to grow denser.   For the St. Martin
neighborhood, a survey in 1978 indicated that density had increased to over
1,600 persons per ha.
29.       In the context of the urban system of Port-au-Prince, the
Croix-de-Bossales (CDB) market is the single most important element affecting
the lives of the largest concentration of urban poor in the country. It
extends over a 3.3 ha mud plain between the modern port and the old downtown
area, spilling over into adjacent streets and a neighbouring ex-transport



-8-
terminal, occupying another 1.3 and 0.2 ha respectively. The market area
includes a retail market with some 14,000 merchants and 80,000 purchasers,
storage facilities, a major inter-urban truck and bus terminal, and a
wholesale market through which more than two-thirds of the food and
manufactured goods for domestic use in Port-au-Prince are commercialized
(also through redistribution in a dozen secondary markets in the metropolitan
area). Although it caters to all the economic groups of the population,
directly or through the hotels and restaurants, the market is of particular
importance to the poorest segment of the metropolitan population, 72 percent
of which (300,000) lives within walking distance. Besides providing for
food, fuel, clothing and building materials that the urban poor consume, the
market is the single largest source of employment and place of commercial and
social interaction - and also the most serious source of disease and
contamination for the 1,036 families living within it, and indeed in the
whole metropolitan area. Following the IDA strategy of urban development (as
outlined in para. 41 below), the rehabilitation of the CDB market has been
chosen as the core component of the proposed project.
30.       In Cap-Haitien, 39 percent of dwellings in the slum areas are of
wattle and straw construction, 42 percent of wood and scrap material, and
19 percent of cement. Density is about 1,500 persons per ha and more recent
dwellings have been built up the sides of the surrounding foothills,
aggravating an already severe erosion and drainage problem. 72 percent of
all dwellings have no running water, 58 percent have no electricity, and
43 percent have no sanitary facilities. Pit latrines are shared by many
families and are poorly maintained. Families devote about one-fourth of
their income to shelter expenditures (rent, water, electricity and
maintenance). In the low-income neighbourhoods of Les Cayes, 31 percent of
all dwellings are of wattle and straw, while 67 percent are made of more
durable materials. Densities, however, are much lower: about 305 persons
per ha. About 16 percent of household income is used for shelter, 54 per-
cent of all low-income residents of Les Cayes use polluted well or river
water; another 35 percent buy water from vendors. One-third have no
latrines, and 87 percent have no electricity.    Stagnant water poses a major
sanitation problem.
Urban Employment and Income
31i       In 1979, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) estimated that
54 percent of the total population participated in the labour force. This
high participation rate reflects the large proportion of women engaged in
marketing activities, family farm employment and child labour. The total
labour force is expected to grow in line with population growth by more than
one percent annually until the end of the decade, while in urban areas this
growth will equal at least four percent. Few of the new entrants to the
urban labour market will be able to find employment in the formal sector,
which accounts for only about 30 percent of total employment in
Port-au-Prince.
32.       Employment in the formal sector is concentrated in manufacturing
industry, of which the assembly industries (clothing, sports goods,
electronics) are the most dynamic part, and in the construction industry.
Other major components of formal sector employment are commerce and public



-9-
administration. Manufacturing firms employ 80 percent of the capital's
formal industrial workers (36,000). After manufacturing, construction is the
major modern and growth sector of the economy. Value added is created
predominantly in housing (70 percent) and in industrial and commercial
structures (25 percent). Much of construction employment is sporadic,
occupying on a full-time basis (300 days per year) only 4 percent of the
metropolitan area workers. In addition to the construction workers, some
7,000 workers are estimated to be engaged in the production, transport and
marketing of building materials.
33.       About 65 percent of the labor force is estimated to be engaged in
the informal sector. However, linkages between the formal and informal
sectors are complex and the dividing line unclear. Much manufacturing work
is done at home on consignment; subcontracting is common in the construction
industry, especially for housing construction. A sample survey (1976) in an
important low-income neighborhood of Port-au-Prince (St. Martin) adjacent to
the Croix-de-Bossales central market found that 35 percent of all workers
were involved in small-scale manufacturing, 34 percent in trade (mostly
retail trade), 6 percent in construction and the remainder largely in
services. Almost half (47 percent) of all women were involved in trading
activities as were 6 percent of the men; they made use of the CDB market
facilities for purchasing, selling and storing.
34.       For secondary cities less detailed information is available.    How-
ever, socio-economic surveys of low-income neighborhoods of Cap-Haitien and
Les Cayes in 1980 showed that 85 percent of all workers were considered to
belong to the informal sector (the formal sector comprising only fishermen
and those employed full-time by the public administration). Most of the
workers were unskilled and an average household at Cap-Haitien had 1.5 gain-
fully employed members supporting 4.8 persons. For Les Cayes no estimates
are available.
Urban Policy and Institutions
Urban Strategy
35.       During the past three years, the Government has undertaken consid-
erable efforts to define an urban strategy and to create the institutiocnal
framework for its implementation. Apart from restructuring the National
Housing Office (ONL), in August 1982, a comprehensive law was adopted, estab-
lishing the basis for administrative decentralization and creation of
regional commissions and institutions for planning and development. The
Government is committed to supporting the growth of secondary cities, while
increasing the share of agriculture in development expenditures at the same
time. This strategy faces serious resource constraints. Efficient decen-
tralization of non-agricultural employment, particularly in manufacturing,
would require levels of investment in infrastructure and social services not
attainable at this time. Also, deficits in employment, housing and urban
services capacity in Port-au-Prince will continue to require prompt attention
and compete with decentralization measures.



- 10 -
Urban Planning
36.       Primary responsibility for urban planning functions rests with the
Urban Planning Service (SPU) of the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
Communications (DTPTC), while the Land Use Management and Environmental
Protection Agency (DATPE) of the Ministry of Planning retains general urban
development advisory functions. SPU is entrusted with all matters concerning
the physical and economic planning of urban and rural settlement. In close
collaboration with DATPE, the SPU is formulating the objectives and
strategies for their development but project implementation is currently
assigned to the Urban Works Department of the DTPTC. A Special Committee for
Urban Development was established to monitor the preparation of the proposed
project.
Housing
37.       In 1966, the National Housing Office (ONL) was created as a semi-
autonomous agency attached to the Ministry of Social Affairs. ONL's mandate
was to build, maintain and manage housing projects for all income groups, but
in practice, the Office has maintained and managed housing projects planned,
built and financed by other agencies. Through the years it was a weak insti-
tution but recent IDA-sponsored restructuring has resulted in improvements.
In November 1982, ONL was renamed the Public Social Housing Promotion Company
(EPPLS) in the context of this restructuring exercise. A Housing Bank (BDL)
has been recently established but is not yet operational. It is under-
capitalized and its tasks have not yet been well defined, particularly
regarding low-income housing. USAID is presently evaluating the possibility
of providing financial assistance to building new home3 for middle-income
families (about US$150 per month equivalent) in Port-au-Prince.
Environmental Management and Water Supply
38.       The interrelated issues of erosion, drainage, and solid and liquid
waste removal are the responsibilities of a number of public agencies.
Erosion control is the mandate of the Soil Conservation Office of the
Ministry of Agriculture in both rural and urban areas; construction -Ld
maintenance of urban drainage systems, streets and bridges, is assign:-d to
the municipal engineering office of the DTPTC, which, to the extent that a
significant amount of waste accumulates in the drainage system, is also
involved in solid waste removal. The efficiency of the environmental
services provided by these agencies is hampered by the lack of apPèopiiate
equipment and materials.
39.       In Port-au-Prince, the Metropolitan Water Departmc-,it (CAMEP)   is
responsible for the water supply system.    In the provincial i:Own<, tile
National Drinking Water Service (SNEP) is building and managinig dAri nk:
water systems.   CAMEP's financial resources are inadequate and its mi9r-ir8CerLt
is weak.  It is therefore unable to carry out effective maintaaancr a.ti
repair work.   SNEP is a newly created organization, strongly stippo-zLed by
bi- and multilateral technical and financial assistance; its cffici?mc' will
have to be evaluated after some more years of consolidation.     SNEP 1-
currently implementing an IDA-assisted water supply project in ten prov-,i.-ovii
towns.



Municipal 'Government
40.       Municipal administrations are under heavy tutelage of the Central
Government. The responsibility of the secondary cities is restricted to
running a few urban services such as garbage collection and disposal, and
their financial position is precarious. More than half of their revenues
come from taxes earmarked for the municipalities such as property tax,
license taxes on enterprises and a newly established fee for vendors in all
municipal markets. The remainder consists essentially of grants by the
Central Government. In real terms, revenues from local taxes have been
falling and tax collection is inefficient.
IDA Involvement in the Urban Sector
41.       IDA's approach to the urban sector is based on the findings of an
urban sector study conducted in 1977. In the medium term, employment
creation and the provision of urban services in Port-au-Prince is considered
of highest priority whilst attention should also be given to strengthening
the institutional capacity and basic infrastructure of the more important
provincial cities. Given the magnitude of the urban problem in Haiti and the
limited resources available, IDA would seek to incorporate in its lending
operations a realistic balance of corrective and prescriptive measures, i.e.
investing in improvement of current deficiencies and planning to avoid or
minimize future ones. The proposed project is therefore addressing the most
pressing needs in Port-au-Prince, Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes, the cities with
the highest growth rates and most visible urbanization problems.
42.       Other bi- and multilateral aid agencies are also participating in
the development of the urban sector. The United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) financed the development plan for Port-au-Prince (1975/76)
and initiated, with the assistance of the United Nations Capital Development
Fund (UNCDF), two sites and services projects. The German Reconstruction
Loan Corporation (KfW) has supported the preparation of the master plan for
the upgrading of another critical slum area of Port-au-Prince and will
finance a subsequent sites and services project. The Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) approved in 1979, and is presently implementing, a
project to improve the storm drainage system of Port-au-Prince, and the
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) is identifying a project to provide
improved sanitation, health and nutrition ed,ication, job training, and
formation of small-scale manufacturing cooperatives to benefit women and
children in low-income neighbourhoods of Port-au-Prince.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.       Appraisal of the proposed project took place during June/July
1982. The appraisal mission was preceded by an identification mission during
November 1979 and project preparation was supported by Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) advances of US$1.0 million for detailed engineering of the
main components. Negotiations were held in Washington, from February 9
to 11, 1983, and the Haitian delegation was led by Mr. Claude Weil, Minister



12 -
of Planning. A staff appraisal report No. 4211-HA of March 2, 1983, is
being distributed separately.
Project Objectives
44.       The proposed project would address the most pressing urbanization
problems in the capital and two of the three next most important secondary
cities. In Port-au-Prince, it would upgrade and rehabilitate the CDB market
and help to establish a metropolitan market agency as well as provide
serviced sites for low-income families who would be displaced by the market
development. In Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes, low-income families would benefit
from pilot sites and services projects. The institutional development of the
Public Social Housing Promotion Company would be supported.
Project Description
45.       The project would include the following components:
(a) Rehabilitation and upgrading of the Croix-de-Bossales central
market area (about 12 ha) in Port-au-Prince;
(b) Relocation of 1,036 families displaced >v< the upgrading of the
market, on serviced lots within walking distance from their former
housing area;
(c) Pilot sites and services project for 1,093 low-income families in
the least privileged urban neighbourhoods of Cap Haitien;
(d) Pilot sites and services project for 278 low-income families in Les
Cayes;
(e) Technical and financial support and equipment for the institutional
development of the metropolitan market agency (SAGMAP); and
(f) Technical assistance, training and equipment for the institutional
development of the Public Social Housing Promotion Company.
Detailed Features of the Project
46.       Rehabilitation and Upgrading of the Croix-de-Bossales central
market of Port-au-Prince: The proposed project would provide, on CDB market
grounds, a wholesale market area, two covered and one open-air retail market
areas, and basic services for about 8,200 merchants. It would include
storage, administrative and support buildings, infrastructure improvements,
paved and compacted areas, as well as sanitary and parking facilities, all
designed for low cost construction, durability and easy maintenance. The
covered retail market area would include two groups of buildings located in
the center of the new CDB market for the sale of agricultural products, manu-
factured goods, meat and fish, cooked food, and services (such as shoe



- 13 -
repairs), Structures would be simple and stalls and pre-cast counters would
vary to respond to the type of merchandise traded. The open-air retail
market would include a paved and fenced large open area, equipped with storm
drainage, water taps and sanitary modules, in order to accommodate the over-
flow of retail merchants (3,000). The wholesale market (designed for later
conversion into a retail facility) would include two parallel buildings (110
x 28m) which, depending on the needs of the wholesalers, could be divided
into variable-sized depots. Access to the wholesale area would be controlled
(fence) and each building block would have a loading deck and additional
adjacent parking space.
47.       Sanitation and water supply being a major problem for the present
market, the proposed project would also provide for a large cistern (200m3)
and a network of five smaller elevated tanks (18m3 each) to be fed by the
city water supply system as well as by rainwater collected from the extensive
covered surfaces. For cleaning, for the sanitary modules and for fire-
fighting purposes, brackish water from six shallow wells would be utilized.
An interior road service would interconnect the different sub-markets and be
accessible to garbage removal, emergency and maintenance vehicles only. For
administrative and control functions, a small building (675 m2) is foreseen
to house the Metropolitan Market Agency (SAGMAP), and a dormitory unit would
serve to accommodate (for a fee) about 180 people connected with the market.
For the storage of maintenance equipment, a small technical building (145 m2)
would be added. The Government would make all land available for the
proposed market upgrading as well as for future expansions of the market area
(Sections 3.05(a) - (c) of the draft Credit Agreement and 3.06 of the draft
Special Fund Agreement).
48.       Sites and Services Scheme in Port-au-Prince for CDB market
relocation: The preparation of the site as well as the efficient organiza-
tion of the market in the future would require the demolition of 644 dwelling
units which have been located on market grounds over the years, housing 1,036
families. In order to minimize the negative social and economic impact on
these families, and in order not to reduce the low-income housing stock, they
would be relocated to a nearby area in the Cite Simone district, prior to the
upgrading of the market. Cite Simon is the location of the ongoing
UNDP/UNCDF financed and planned KfW sites and services projects, and the area
of relocation is included in the recently completed KfW master plan.
Combined with the sites and services schemes in Cap-Haitien and Les Cayes
(see paras. 49 and 50 below), the proposed component would complement
Government efforts to develop a sound institutional and policy framework for
urban shelter (see para. 53 below).
49.       Pilot Sites and Services Scheme in Cap-Haitien:    The intention of
Government regarding the strengthening of regional development is given
expression in a comprehensive law ratified in August 1982. Under this law, a
series of institutions for the management of regional affairs has been or
will be created and it is the desire of Government that low-income families
in secondary cities should receive the same social housing benefits as those
in the metropolitan area. Cap-Haitien, in the Northern region, although
showing less dynamic population growth than the capital, can only accommodate



- 14 -
new low-income residents in slum areas which are already housing an estimated
40 percent of the population. Urban services in Cap-Haitien are inadequate.
The city water supply system functions for only a limited time per day and
serves under 50 percent of the inhabitants. Likewise, waste disposal and
other systems of environmental sanitation are not well developed. In order
to improve this situation and to strengthen the regional role of EPPLS, the
proposed component would provide 1,093 housing units, a small market and a
modest community center.
50.       Pilot Sites and Services Scheme in Les Cayes:    in Les Cayes,
located in the Southern region, housing also is a major problem, although
construction costs are lower than in the metropolitan area. While the
central portion of the city benefits from basic urban services, the growing
slum areas on the periphery remain without adequate water supply and
environmental sanitation. Les Cayes lies in a flat area a little above sea
level, and stagnant waters exacerbate a local mosquito and malaria problem.
In order to start improving housing opportunities of low-income families on a
visible scale, this compoaent would finance 278 housing units, a community
center and a health post.
51.       Design Standards and Infrastructure of Sites and Services
Components: The sites and services components would include a total of 2,407
units. In all three cities, the project would involve drainage and filling
floodable areas - i.e. "creating" new urban land.    In Cap-Haitien and Ies
Cayes, tlhe proposed sites are within the main urban areas, in Port-au-Prince,
within 15 minutes walking distance from the CDB market. Of the total number
of units, 86 percent (2,070) are specifically for low-income housing (1,003
units in Port-au-Prince; 829 in Cap-Haitien; 238 in Les Cayes). The remain-
ing 337 units are larger and would be for combined housing and commercial or
artisanal use. The sites and services areas would be divided in blocks
(84x80m) comprising 134 lots in four clusters around small semi-private
courtyards. Given the low levels of target population affordability, build-
ing and infrastructure standards would be kept to a minimum (Section
2.08(a)(i) of the draft Project Agreement).    In all cases, shelter solutions
(five options) would consist of contractor-built, one-room expandable units
(cinder block walled, tin roofed, communal water taps and sanitary facil-
ities). Circulation networks would consist of compacted, surfaced roads and
footpaths, and storm drainage is conceived as a surface system leading into
open channels along the transversal roads and eventually to the sea. There
would be no iridividual electricity connections to the dwellings, but public
lighting would be available at the entrance of the blocks and along the major
roads.
52.       Establishment of a Metropolitan Market Agency:    The markets of
Port-au-Prince are currently under the responsability of the four
municipalities that make up the metropolitan area. They lack qualified
personnel and have limited financial resources. In order to improve this
situation, this component would assist in the establishment of an autonomous,
city-wide market operating agency (Societe Autonome de Gestion des Marches de
l'Aire de Port-au-Prince - SAGMAP). Its function would be to operate and
maintain all metropolitan markets(starting with the CDB market), and to



- 15 -
provide them with financial management as well as security and surveillance
services. In carrying out these functions, SAGbAP would coordinate its
efforts with Government agencies, public utilities and other municipal
services. However, it would not be responsible for regulatory functions such
as setting and controlling food prices. SAGMAP would be set up as a public
company under a board of directors and would be expected to create sufficient
revenues to at least cover its operating costs (Schedule 5, para. (m) of the
draft Credit Agreement). The institutional development of SAGMAP would be
supported by the provision of limited financial assistance for studies and
engineering as well as vehicles and equipment. Also, 14 man-months of inter-
national technical assistance for its initial financial management and opera-
tion, as well as staff training would be provided. During its initial years
of operation, SAGMAP would consult IDA before undertaking major investments
(Schedule 5, para. (n) of the draft Credit Agreement).
53.       Institutional Development of the Public Social Housing Promotion
Company (EPPLS): As an implementation agency for the UNDP/UNCDF financed
sites and services project in Port-au-Prince (involving 25,000 inhabitants),
ONL received full exposure with respect to the planning and implementing of a
complex upgrading/sites and services operation.   This experience, however,
showed that further improvement in financial and technical management, and a
higher degree of autonomy of ONL was required. Therefore, the Government,
assisted by IDA-financed consultants, prepared a new law (adopted in November
1982), giving ONL full autonomy, a new name (Entreprise Publique de Promotion
de Logements Sociaux - EPPLS), and the nationwide mandate to make housing
available in such a manner that income generated from sales and rentals would
be sufficient to cover investment costs and allow replication of housing
programs (Section 2.08 (a)(i)-(iv) of the draft Project Agreement). At the
same time, an institutional development program was adopted which this compo-
nent would support with the provision of 78 man-months of international
specialist services in the fields of housing and financial management;
technical equipment (including a microcomputer); assistance for studies and
engineering as well as the upgrading of EPPLS staff through participation in
national and international training courses relevant to their professional
activities. In order not to overtax its financial capacity, EPPLS would
consult IDA before undertaking major investments (Section 3.04 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
54.       The total project cost is estimated at US$23.8 million equivalent,
net of taxes, with a foreign exchange component of about US$11.3 million, or
about 47 percent of total project costs. An allocation of US$8.0 million
equivalent from regular IDA funds and US$13.0 million equivalent from the IDA
Special Fund is proposed as IDA contribution to the project. The proposed
credit would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange component, and about
77 percent of local costs. Higher local cost financing is justified by the
constraints in resource mobilization in Haiti and the high priority attached
by the Government to the proposed project. The Government would finance the
balance of local costs and would transfer, on a grant basis, the total
financing for the CDB market investment costs to SAGMAP under a subsidiary
loan agreement (Sections 3.02(d) and 6.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
The proceeds of the proposed sites and services components would be onlent to



- 16 -
EPPLS under a subsidiary loan agreement (Sections 3.02(b) and 6.01(a) of the
draft Credit Agreement) at four percent interest p.a. for 25 years; funds for
the institutional development of EPPLS and SAGMAP would be considered as
grants by the Government.
55.        Costs have been estimated on the basis of completed detailed
engineering for civil works, and a detailed assessment of technical assis-
tance requirements and land acquisition. Physical contingencies, therefore,
are conservatively estimated at 10 percent for all civil works. Price esca-
lation varies for individual components resulting in an annual increase of 10
percent for both foreign and local costs in 1983, tapering off by one percent
yearly during the construction period. 3/ In total, 92 man-months of inter-
national technical assistance for the institutional development of SAGMAP and
EPPLS are foreseen under the proposed project, at an average man-month cost
of US$9,730. This cost is considered reasonable in view of the highly
specialized nature of the services required and the predominantly short-term
duration of the assignments. Technical assistance specialists would be
contracted in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by World Bank as Executing Agency" of August 1981
(Section 3.03 of the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement and Schedule 5,
para. (b) of the draft Credit Agreement). Regarding the provision of
counterpart funds, the Government would exchange views with IDA each year on
the adequacy of the proposed budget allocations in order to assure timely
project implementation (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Project Preparation Facility and Retroactive Financing
56.        For the preparation of the project, Project Preparation Facility
advances totalling US$1.0 million were approved between May 1979 and July
1981 for detailed engineering of the CDB market and the sites and services
subcomponents. The outlays under the PPF are included in the cost of the
proposed project.   In order to avoid costly delays in starting works for the
market upgrading, the Government has already initiated the clearing of the
market and the relocation of families affected by these activities.     The cost
of these preparatory works of about US$0.8 million equivalent would be
advanced by Government and they are proposed to be reimbursed by retroactive
financing as of August 1, 1982 (Schedule 1, para. 4 of the draft Credit
Agreement).
Cost Recovery, Affordability and Replicability
57.       The extreme poverty of the target groups of the proposed project
inhibits the recovery of costs at the opportunity cost of capital. However,
the cost recovery mechanism foreseen would still produce substantial revenues
and achieve a greater degree of cost recovery than hitherto known in the
sector. In the case of the CDB market, SAGMAP would recover operating
expenses and more than 60 percent of depreciation on revalued fixed assets.
SAGMAP's ratio of operating expenses to total revenues would not exceed 0.9
(working ratio) (Schedule 5, para. (m) of the draft Credit Agreement).     The
3/   Price escalation in the construction sector has been higher than other
sectors and around 10% per annum (8% per annum for local costs and 13%
per annum for foreign costs) since June 1980. These trends are expected
to continue, albeit at a slower rate.



- 17 -
corresponding revenues would be generated by vendors' fees, parking charges,
rental for storage facilities and fees from trucks accessing the market.     AIl
fees and charges have been calculated in such a fashion that they are they
are compatible with the financial capacity of each group of beneficiaries.
The combined effects of improved market conditions would result in an
improvement of revenues of the large majority of vendors. Parking fees would
only affect higher income groups and fees paid for trucks would only
marginally affect the benefits of the wholesalers.
58.       About 96.5 percent of the costs of the sites and services compo-
nents would be recovered (Section 2.08(a),(ii)-(iv) of the draft Project
Agreement) according to the following procedures:    Costs for land prepara-
tion, construction and infrastructure and management would be recovered
directly by EPPLS from the beneficiaries (loans for 25 years at 8 percent
annual interest in Port-au-Prince, and 6 percent in Cap-Haitien and Les
Cayes) which represents a drastic departure from the previous practice of
fully subsidizing social housing. The cost of water and electricity would be
recovered through periodically adjusted tariffs. EPPLS would collect water
and electricity charges on behalf of the relevant agencies for an initial
period of five years, in orier to simplify collection procedures and to
organise cost sharing for collective sanitary facilities.    The land would
remain the property of EPPLS and be leased for 25 years at 6 or 8 percent
p.a. to the beneficiaries. The costs of the social infrastructure (health,
educational, community facilities) and part of the studies, corresponding to
about US$0.2 million equivalent, would not be recovered.
59.       The affordability of the sites and services components of the
proposed project rests on the assumption that between 22 and 25 percent of
household incomes (as estimated in household surveys performed in 1980,
updated in March 1982) are spent for housing and services costs, including
water and electricity. A cross-subsidy was used to lower by 25 percent in
Les Cayes and by 20 percent in Cap-Haitien, the price of land and
infrastructure for the smallest lots and allow lower income groups to benefit
more. The subsidy would be recovered from occupants of larger (especially
commercial) lots. As a result of the cross-subsidy and reduction of
standards and costs, the lowest percentile able to afford Lhe benefits of the
sites and services components would vary from the 26th to the 31st in
Cap-Haitien, and from the 37th to the 42nd in Les Cayes. All but about 10
percent of the units would be affordable to the poor.
60.       In order to avoid encroachment of the sites and services schemes by
higher income groups than intended, EPPLS would conduct careful screening of
applicants for housing and would determine eligibility on the basis of house-
hold income and need for shelter,   After occupancy, anyone wishing to sell a
housing unit would be obliged to offer it to EPPLS first. Furthermore, the
retention of ownership of land by EPPLS would discourage higher income
encroachment. In Port-au-Prince, to ensure that only the present residents
of the CDB market would benefit from the relocation arrangements, EPPLS would
make use of detailed registers compiled during the feasibility stage of the
proposed project.



- 18 -
Procurement
61.       All civil works contracts, particularly for the CDB market compo-
nent (US$10.8 million) would be procured through ICB in accordance with the
current edition of the Bank Group's guidelines for Procurement of March
1977. Local bidders for civil works and contracts would receive a margin of
preference of 7 1/2 percent. On contracts for supply of equipment and
materials, the local preference would be the lower of 15 percent or the
applicable customs duty. Draft tender and contract documents for the CDB
market and the sites and services components have already been reviewed and
:ipproved by IDA. Approval by IDA of tender evaluation documents for all
contracts above US$250,000 would be required prior to the award of all such
contracts. All other contracts would be reviewed in the field by IDA sper--
vision missions. For the training components, the project implementation
units concerned would prepare and submit to IDA for approval, detailed train-
ing proposals and cost estimates. For components financed by proceeds from
the IDA Special Fund, eligibility restrictions would be applied (Section
2.02(b) and Schedule 3, para. 1, of the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
Disbursements
62.       The proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a)  -    100 percent of foreigr. expenditures and 77 percent of local
expenditures for building materials, equipment and civil works
(US$15.6 million equLvalent);
(b)  -    100 percent of foreign expenditures and 10 percent of local
expenditures for technical assistance and training (US$0.8
million equivalent);
(c)  -    Project Preparation Facility advances (US$1.0 million);
(d)  -    Initial Deposit in Special Accounts (US$1.5 million
equivalent);
(e)  -    Unallocated (US$2.1 million).
Project Implementation
63.       Due to the availability of PPF advances, the proposed project is in
an advanced stage of preparation. The Government has started with
preparatory works for the Port-au-Prince sites and services component in
order to allow the relocation of the affected CDB markqt residents before
mid-1983, the scheduled beginning of civil works. The restructuring of EPPLS
is finalized and preparations for the establishment of SAGMAP are very
advainced. For the CDB market component, a project implementation unit within
the DTPCT would be formed and EPPLS would be responsible for the sites and
services components (Sections 3.01(a) and (c); 3.02(a) and Schedule 4 of the
draft Credit Agreement). The already existing Special Commission for Urban
Development (SCUD) would carry out all activities related to the creation of
SAGMAP as an autonomous entity, starting with recruiting the key staff.
SAGMAP, once legally and factually established (Section 6.01(b) of the draft
Credit Agreement), would administer the small studies and technical



19
assistance component proposed for its benefit. All engineering studies are
fully completed and the Government has already made available all land
required for the relocation of the CDB market residents. The proposed
project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.
Accounts and Auditing
64.       SAGMAP and EPPLS would maintain appropriate accounting systems.
All the entities entrusted with the implementation of specific project
co,mponents (EPPLS, SAGMAP, DTPCT) would maintain separate project accounts
(Schedule 5, paras. (r) and (s) of the Draft Credit Agreement and Section
4.02(a) of the draft Project Agreement).    These accounts would be inspected
regularly in accordance with Haitian standard procedures for the control of
development investment expenditures.   In addition, all project accounts would
be audited annually by external auditors whose qualifications are acceptable
to IDA, and their reports and relevant statements would be forwarded to IDA
not later than four months after the end of the Haitian fiscal year (Section
4.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement and 4.02(b) and (c) of the draft
Project Agreement).
Project Working Fund/Special Account
65.       Since experience with other projects in Haiti has shown that
budgeting constraints limit the capacity of Government to pre-finance expen-
ditures to be reimbursed under IDA credits, a working fund totalling US$1.5
million equivalent, to be opened and maintained by withdrawals from the
Credit and Special Fund Accounts, would be established in special accounts
opened in an appropriate bank. IDA would commence recovery of the initial
deposits when the disbursed credit and Special Fund credit amounts plus any
commitments to commercial banks have reached the levels of US$7.0 and 11.0
million equivalent, respectively (Sections 2.02(c)-(g) and 6.01(c) of the
draft Credit Agreement and 2.02(c)-(g) and 6.01(b) of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement).
Economic Analysis
66.       A detailed economic and financial analysis for the CDB market
and sites and services components was undertaken. For the CDB market, the
analysis focussed on quantifiable benefits directly linked to improvements
in the physical conditions (better transport and selling arrangements for
truckers, merchants and vendors) of the market and considered all investment
and operating costs. For the sites and services components, an evaluation
of each scheme was made separately. Benefits included the imputed rental
value and valorization of serviced urban land and corresponding shelter
solutions. Costs were based on the estimated market value of land, costs of
earthworks and construction, shadow-priced manpower and planning as well as
on-s4te and off-site infrastructure costs. Returns on institutional
developments of EPPLS and SAGMAP were not quantified. The results (for the
CDB market over a horizon of 15 years) show a rate of return of 15 percent
for the market upgrading and sites and services components which account
for 93 percent of total costs.



- 20 -
Benefits and Poverty Impact
67.       The proposed project would substantially improve the system of
commercialization of basic goods for the majority of the population in the
capital, and through better sanitary conditions in the CDB market, enhance
the health status of hundreds of thousands of users of this facility. Over
time, SAGMAP would multiply these benefits by extending its management and
supervision to all metropolitan seconrdlry markets. The sites and services
components would provide housing for a population of at least 9,500 and cover
sizeable portions of the demand for low-cost housing in Cap-Haitien and Les
Cayes for the period up to 1985. The institutional development of EPPLS
would allow the acceleration and intensification of social housing programs
all over the country, and increase the absorptive capacity for external
public and private investments for the benefit of the poorest segment of the
Haitian population
68.       The poverty impact of the proposed project is both direct and
indirect. 86 percent of the benefits of improved commercialization of goods
and sanitary conditions will accrue to the poor, as well as some 37 percent
of the benefits linked to traffic improvement and decongestion around the CDB
market. Likewise, about 59 to 80 percent of the benefits from the
sites and services components would account to the poor.
Risks
69.       Any new program involving important structural changes and the
establishment and promotion of public agencies, is associated with certain
risks. These would include the continuity of Government support (in parti-
cular the ability to meet counterpart fund requirements), and the capacity
and efficiency as well as the financial soundness of the supported public
agencies. Supervision missions would monitor these risks carefully in order
to initiate corrective measures as soon as implementation delays, cost over-
runs or a deterioration of the financial status of the supported public
agencies should become visible.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement and the Special Fund Credit
Agreement between the Republic of Haiti and the Association, and the draft
Project Agreement between the Association and EPPLS, and the Recommendations
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement, are being distributed separately.
71.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex
III of the report. Conditions of Effectiveness would be the execution and
ratification of subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and EPPLS
and SAGMAP, respectively; that SAGMAP has been established, and that the
Association has received evidence that the Special Accounts have been opened
(Sections 6.01(a)-(c) of the draft Credit Agreement and 6.01(a)-(b) of the
Special Fund Credit Agreement).



72.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 3, 1983
Washington, D.C.



22-                                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                             REFERENCE GROUPS ('WEIGHTED AV  AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)51
TOTAL             27.8                               MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      13.9              1960  db   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  90.0       110.0     270.0                 1902.0                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     34.2        32.7      63.3                  1259.9                    610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 3630.0      4235.0    5009.0
URBAN POPUJLATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.6       19.9     27.5                    65.7                     28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      7.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       13.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      130.8       152.6    177.3                    35.2                     54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    305.0       293.1    352.8                    92.5                    129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        40.9        42.9      43.4                    39.7                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                         55.2       53.4      53.1                    56.1                     51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.9         3.7      3.5                     4.2                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.6         1.5       1.7                    2.4                      2.8
URBAN                              4.1         4.0      4.9                     3.8                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     38.8        37.1      35.5                   31.4                     4702
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.5        16.6      13.8                    8.4                     15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.0         3.0      2.4                     2.1                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..      16.1/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..      5.O/c
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)         104.0       100.0     89.0                   110.0                     90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   91.4        86.8     92.1/d                 108.4                     93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          48.7        47.0     50.1/d                  66.0                     54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       16.8        16.7      17.7/d                 34.0                     17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     46.5        29.1      18.1                    5.6                     23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.4        48.9     53.2                    64.2                     51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          182.0       142.6     114.6                   64.2                    118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPUTLATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..       14.0 .                 65.6
URBAN                               ..         ..      38.O                    78.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      7.0/c                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..         ..                   59.3
URBAN                               ..          ..       ..                    75.3
RURAL                               ..         1.0        ..                   30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          9230.0     10609.2   5936.3/d                1617.3                   4185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     4021.8      3077.4   2936.9/d                1063.5                   2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1567.4      1194.6    1218.9/d                477.4                   1036.4
URBAN                            298.0       470.9    583.4/d                 679.8                    430.8
RURAL                               ..      5075.8   3309.7/d                1903.4                   3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                   27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         3.6      4.4/c
URBAN                               ..         2.2      4.2/c
RURAL                               ..        4.3       4.5/c
AVERAGE NJMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.9        ..
ITRBAN                              ..         2.0        ..                     ..
RURAL                               ..         1.9        ..                     ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         4.1       2.9/e
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVLßAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OF SARARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                46.0        51.0      62.0                   104.3                      83.3
MALE                 50.0        57.0        ..                   106.4                      96.1
FEMALE               42.0        46.0        ..                   103.3                      80.,
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 4.0         6.0      15.0                    41.3                      15.3
MALE                  5.0         8.0      16.0                    40.4                      19.4
FEMALE                2.0         4.0      13.0                    41.8                      11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 21.4         19.0       8.0/c                  33.7                       4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           42.9        52.3      41.2/d                  29.9                      38.S
SECONDARY                         12.7        18.0      27.0                    16.7                      23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       15.0        23.3      23.0                     79.1                     35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.3         2.7       4.0/c                  42.8                      31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.8        19.6      20.5                   270.5                      71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.5         2.6       3.0                   107.7                      17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
T1OUSAND POPULATION                 10.5        18.7       6.9                    63.7                      19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..      1.2/d                   2.7                       0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1970.9      2102.4    2375.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  47.6        47.0      46.1                    24.4                      36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             80.0        74.2      73.5                    31.3                      56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 6.4         7.2       7.2                    23.9                      17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               54.3        49.6      47.4                    33.6                      37.0
MALE                                58.4        54.3      52.5                    50.4                      46.9
FEMALE                              50.4        45.2      42.6                    16.8                      27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8         0.9       1.0                      1.3                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..    169.0/d                    ..                     507.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     144.0td                 184.1                     200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     82.0/d                 518.0                     523.9
RURAL                               ..           ..     73.tOd                 371.1                     203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      55.0/d
RURAL                               ..          ..      78. O/d
Hot available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1976; Id 1977; /e 1975.
May, 1982



-24-                                                            ANNEX I
DFNTOSOF SOCIAL INDICATORlS                                         Page        3o      f   5
Noteot  Althoogh the data ar  dr.a   frt ....r.....e.erally jodged the nt     thitio      adrei:ble, ittohold aI- be noted that theysynobeier
naionally ..osparable beoou   of the lack of otadardte     eiiin       n   oopousdb             !ifrn  onrtoi       oietnch        aa     h   aaae     nolllce-
theles, ..ef.1 to d-sribe order- of ngnitd,Idc          te eedot"and ohar.  o~tecetl       njrCi.-ecobe           e  Co...tr too.
Tlhe rofc.-eo  g9-Po 000 (l) the   -ao.o.ootry groP of the sahi ot --oty and (2) a co...try group      tb so.hw.a high-r avrogo ic.o.. thao the co-try gro..p
of the oo    c cotr    (oc pt fo       SIgFh Ioose   Oil opor tro   groop hchre 'SMiddie Iooe.  North Aftica aod dliddie  as I s 1   ic,ho.eo beco..se of  rne
ooo. I-cultra,laffioitieo).   othe refer.o. group da ta the average-    re popoIlatte  ceghted arithoto _eafs fo     each  odirato  aod hbo- only sheo
-Jor'ity of the vco..tr too ton  groop ha- data for that .odi raor.  Siee the oovr.. goo  .o.otr too,  nog the indicators. depedo an the ava.ilahilityo,  a
aod isnot onifors, cautIo    east.. be .oer,iond in rotating averages ofoeidirator to another     The    vrgsaeonyueu              ncsaing      he  alu  of1
onindicatorat ti- an9nthcoo...try and refe..e..e groups,.
AREA (thousan.d  qk.s.)                                                                   ..o.ulation per H..pi.a. I %d    c oal. oca.and rrl-Pplto            tt
Total - T.otal sfco area coap ising load area and inland     -atro; 1979 duta.            urban, an  Iua) divde      bythir r-pective n..tt o.   f hospital betm
Agricultural. I Etinato of agricu1Ltural ure  ned re.npororily or pernanootly             aiibeIs, public and private goneriad spocL.iaiced hospitl1 actI Cc-
for crops, patoo.     aket and kiblteh.n gardeoa or to ile faSlow; 1970 data.baittineer.                        HoaPitals ar  bnalsbot       pooetly stat and
iNP Pitt CAPITA (US$) -GCNP Par ca pita satiates atcrrn      -akb- prices. calI-            dial care are noty inldd.     ural ha-pitalu. ho,eve,, Pinclu.dLIe hat
oulared by sane conor .ion  ethod a         Bol ak.hta  (1978-80 basis); 1960,            and enia"     etr     o pn Er  -bIIh-saiedb     a physicgp Ian  ho by;h
1970 ..ad 1980 data.ndclassat                                                                                 oo,ndte          t.   chic  olo phiin-patien  abaa
datian and provid     a iied range o nedIcifcIties,.r for.p
fENECGY COSUMtPTION PIER CAPITA - Annual1 ... eooPtion of CosoeriaL energy (coal            tieal  paroo    rbus hospitais Include WHIO. pri.cipal/gnera      .. hoptl.
and lignite, ptoen      natsra  gas and hydro- ncerand geothoroi nc-                      and rota1 hanpitals, local or ror. 1 hospitais and -edi'a   n   cesI
tii)inkogIoso      .ca  quvln    pe   cpita;196, 195       ed17                   cnOs      Spc.iationd IopiaI      care inloded only noder toa.
data.                                                                                   Adnissi.no per H-uyita1 Bed - Tota   tu-h- of adoissiono to or di.chkac -
fro. h.oopitato divided by h.n nanher of bodo.
POPULATIONt ADS VITAL STATISTICS
Total Population. Hid-Year (thousands) - As at July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1980          IHOUSING
data.                                                                                 A-oag    ic   f      hasood  p.....o per household) -ttal  urban, andcat-
Urkan Pfpflati.n (percent  f total) - Satin of otban to total popula-tion;                Ahousehold ionlot    ofagru     o   ndndal       hosar    iingq--ala
difeen  dfinitosf    rb. an`rea  na  affect conparahility of data                  and thoir sa   oeai..A boar.der or lodgr nay or say 001 be i_cat.it i
aneng`..st'rins; 1960, 1970, and 1980 data.                                             the household'fr    taisictpurpose.s.
Popaiatioo Pto Jeti.n.                                                                  Aveage n,dter~, of pernon iper roon..- ot-u1a,      and t.rL.1-aveag., ea-
Population In year 2000 - Csrcont population praJo!cti... are hane,d no 1965he0o               peron   pa   osi     l   rba.. and oral- oconpi'dsnvsins
tIsta  poplat,ionby age and.snadthir nartality and fec,tilt        rts                dwellings,cepetiel.        ulinogo   ctld onn-onnotsrutures_
Projecino prannirs fn       ora   y rates casprise of three level as-uncpIe                      pats
Ing life  npoctanecy at hirtk incresng    Ikont       sPotcpt,        os            Ac ess to Electricity (percent nf dsellints)          -boti,ora. and roral
leve,andfnaelf         e           tac   utailicing at 77.) yearn.  The para-        CavsIonldelnsct               lcrctyt       iigqatr          spr
onters for fertIlIty rte also. have three level ao.....Ing decine   ou                   ttl uband      n   oa    wl tg     epciey
fertili ty accrding to inonn  level and past fasily pila..ing perf-r-aon
Eack ono..try in then assIgned one of th ese nine c-bk-atoo   of nortalily        EDUCATIONi
and fert'iILiy trends for projection PurPo....                                      Adjusted Enratlsnt iRtios2
Stationar y population -In a otatlo..ary popuation thorn in no gr`nh since.             Pri;ary school - total. nate and FenaI. - Croon, tnta1, ode and fes-te
the birth rate is equal to the death rate, asd also the age a     -trtr r. -            onolo      o    l ages    t tepiaylvla           eenlgso        et.t
naino  ontt.     This is achieved only after Fertility rates deci ne to                 p,inary school-age popolatIos. nonlly inlu"des children aged 6-ti
the replacen-o  levlf-    ni 00   -rprdutinrate, whe      eac..h generation             year  hut adjusted for differ-t lengths of pri.ary edanattont for
'fsoe  elcs    Itsl   ec l.Tho sttoay population nice cas                          cutrie    sith oIvrsa     du-atio  enr:ollent say ePced ISO pereer
tinatod an th .basi of the projectd ehar,.to      itlc  of the paplatton,              ono, so     upl   aro below nr ahove theofialsholge
in the year, 2000, and the rate of decline nf fertility rat .torPlae                  Secodarysho -otl1, nab         adFeae -1.   C.npotd aabove.; oc      tr
nent level.                                                                             oduca.tion requires at least four years of approved prinary Ioto     a.
Year ttionory population in .reahed - The year     hen, stationay pouainProvIdes general, voctional , ortecher traitting instrctions f.rtut
size sI he...ockd.                                                                      asually of 12 to 17 years of age; corres pondoncec. rc    are gon-rAt
Population Dens.ity                                                                         eaclod ed.
Per so. ho,   M id-year population Per square kiloocter (ISO hectares) of             Vocatioa   enrollment1"  (fo rce-  nf .ecnndarl  - Vocational -nsitutie-
totalIrea   6190  1975 and 1979 data.                                                 include technical, indasiil. n, r other Progam w,hich opera.te Indr Pra-d
Pe  sq. in..ariulurl      ad - Ccnpote!d as ahove For agricultural lund                 notIy or as departeents of -eonaryintoin.
only; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                     popilte..ch"   atia - prinary.and netndary -Totat students     oco1,d a
,Puplation Ace S;troettae (Pe rcn)- Children (0-14 years)., woking-age ('5-               prnr     ndu    nay levldide         by nub-r of teah-r.t        he
64 years), and retired (65 years and over) anperetages      f sid-yoar pepu-            crres.ponding Ine-Ss
lto;1965. _9S    n   90dt.Aoiltoay rate (ecn)- Literoo adults (ble to road and write)
PouainCot    ae(ercent) -total - Annual growth rates of total nid-                  asp-rentago of total adulIt popolatlon aged 1) years andovr
year popu lation for 1950-AS  196-70  and 197-80
Papslation Crooth Sate (percent) -urban -    ...nIa growth rates of urban popo-       COgSUMPTION
lati... fo r 1950-60. 1960-,ad 19 70-00.                                              PaEssenge  Cars (per~ . .. thoadP,plti      Paseger ears cosprinenet
Crude Birth late (pe  nhoso) - Annua lIve1 births per thousan.d of nid-yea                crs   eaing lessthan eight persons; eostudas abalances, hea,rsn a-0.
popultion; 1960, 1970, aod 1980 data.                                                   niliary_vehcles
Crud   oah Ste (per thousa.nd) - Annual Ideaths pot thouss..d  of nid-year              Radio Recies     prtoaadppuain)-Altyo                   frocelvrn toF   ra
Irsss Sprod.ction Sate    Avrg .  nusbr ofduaenawoa             il    a-n iesd rece!ivers in coun.tr iesadin yearn when r-gitatio                          foai
he Iora reproductiv operiud if she eperienc-s preu...tuage-spcfcfr                   eswsin effect; data forreen        years naynobecpabesi.
tility rats;usaly five-yea ..    ve.rage" endin  in 1965. 170. and 1980.                .... t...utres. abois hed Steenoing.
-   Family Pl-unntg - Ac-pt.rn. Anul(hosns            Annua nubrofacptorTV Receivers (Pe                      thousan.d population   r i, receidors for broadcast ta
of birth-control devices under auspices of nat Ioa ..IFasily Plann.ing Progran.         general public per thounan,d popultton;-occldes unlicensed TV reoc La- a
Panily Plan9ing -tlu... (pr...ot of narried woe    -Percentage of married                 in countries, and in years when registration of TV -ets can in effect.
woe  fchild-bearing aio (15-44 years) sIn use birth-c-attol  device. n          lv  cspa...r Cruaion (pir lbhana-dmpunlatton) - Shows the average       Ic
al lared wonen in san  age group.                                                   culatton of 'daI ly general inter-es newpaper, defined as a perIod tIa
publication devated primarily to tocsding genera-nws       It is corelIdr-J
POOD ANDS tfTtITION                                                                         to h  'daily" if it aPp"a"  at leastfortine_    awek
inden of Food Produntion per CaPit, (1969-yl.4SS) - Ind- of per capita   nnal           Cinen_ Annua Atte'1ndoaco per Capita per Ye.ar - Based tan the nunher o
pradoctio n of all Food C.nediMM.     Production nncluden sed and Feed and              tiekoto sold durint the year. Including admis-ions In dr ion-in cinera a
t.oan calnodur year basis. C.nnditieu cnver primacy goodn (e.g. sacan           a        n.d  ubtle aniti..
instLead of sugar) which are edible and contain nutr Ients (e.g.Icffee and
tea are enoluded).  Aggregate production of each country Ir hs.ed on                L.ABOR POiCE
nationaI average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970,..ad 1980 data.                Total Labut Fnrre (tho,usan.ds) - Ico...nical1y acieperson, inc iudire
Pet capita supply of calories (Percent of reurnntj- Cospatod fros                         atnd torte   and un,enploy.d hut  xldn     aswve,suet,ec
n-ergy equivalent at net iood nappIies availo1e in country per capita                   eonueriog populatIan of all ags-.  Defiolti.n. in vari... countries  t
per day. Availabl   uoppieucoopien dt~..ttc PrudoCtion, .nPrto leno,                    notcoparable; 1960. 190ad I190      data.
Pnprts, and changeIninsok      Netspl         sceue animal teed, seds,                 feae(ecn)-Feaelbrftva                     ecnaeo        oa    ao
quant itie  usd in food procensing, and losses in dIstribution.   Rqie                   icitr(pcen t) - la,bor farce in farmig          orsr,.utn           ad
net  ere estimated by PAO bhaued on Physiologtcal needs for normal acti-              fishing as percentag  of total 1 lbor force; 1906, 1970 and 1980 ,ta-t
vity and health cons.idering  -nironseotatepecature, body weights, age                  Idustry (percent!.) -abr frcei       itg     osrcIonnn          ta`u  a
and sen diutributios of population, and al11sint 10 percent for waste at                  and electricity, water and gas as perrcentge of total aabr force
hou-ehnld level; 1961-65. 1970 and 1975 da~ta.                                            1960, 1970 aod l98S data.
for capita supply  f pruet   (gRanu per day) - Proteitn content of per capita           Participation Rate (p.rcent) - tots), mal- and female. - Po~rticipati-a
net supply of fond per- day.  Net supply of,fod in defined an above.c Re-               activity totes are conpated as total, nab, and Femal labor Forc     s
quiremants far all couotrie. ostablished by USODA provide For  inious                   petcen.tageu of total, male and female population ofal ages renpec--eL/;
allwaoe   of 60 grm    f toCa1 protein per dayand 20 groao       nsland                1960, 1970, and 1980 dat.   Thone are, basd on ILO'u p-arteaio      tte
pulne protein, of which 10 gran should be animal protein     Thon  stand-               ref lctiug ago-no  structureofthePoplaion, and long tine trend. -a
ardu are lower than those of 75 grama of total protLein and E3gaao                       o festmtsaef.ainlsucs
animal protei  asna average for the world, Prnpouod by FAO in the Third               tEsoo_i  Depend-ney Ratio - Ratio of population under 15 an,d 65 and na
World Pood Survey; 1961-65. 1920 and 1977 data,                                         to the.totl labOr Fore
Per capita Protein suppl  ionas_      lodpus     - Protein supply of food do-
rin,ed troa animalsand psi.o. in grun- per day, 19611-65, 1970 and 1977 data.       INCOM1E DISTRIBUTIOII
Child (agee  1-4  et     ae(per thousand) - Ann.a deaths per thousan.d in               Pe,ce.tac   f    rivat  Ru'n  (oh in cah and bind) - Recived by t:r.,a
agc  np 1-4 yours, to children in this ago stoup, For mast developing cou-           I5P prcent, richest 20 percet,   ors    20 percen,t, and poorest 40 petoeLc.
tries data derived fron lIfe tables; 1960, 1970 and 1900 data..                         of.hoseekods.
HEALTH                                                                                  POVERTY TAIlCET GROUPS
1,e Epet.ncy at Birth (years).     Aorage tnhber of yearn of life remining              The fo1l.Lowi  estina t,o are very approximate noaeof pon-ty I.-r t"
atbirth; 1960, 1970 an d 1985 dats.                                                    andobald ho interpreted with considerabi     Caut Ion
Infan   ortlity Sao(e t     'housad).   Annual deaths of infants under one year         totmated Absolute Poverty Incon   Level (RIO per capita) - orban and rta
of ag` pot thnuoand live hirohot  19;60, 1970 and 1980 data.                            Absolute. povetty intone level Is tha t tncn  level b.low shich a miolu
Access. to Safe Water (percent of "popltin      total, urban, and rural - 9Nu-            nttritio-atly adequate diet plus  ootlal nan-Fond requir-nets is      a
her of people (total, urbao  ad r.caI) wIth.raoalea           . to sae                  aff.,dablo.
wter.s.Pp   (includes treated surface seters or untreated but ucnanotd               EstImated Relative P-eorty Ione. Level (1100 per capita) - urban and cat-I
water ouch so that Er.n proteted borcholes, opringo, and sanitary welo) as              Rural relativo poverty intone Ilovel Is one-third of avorago per cap1Ia
pocs ono hir respctvepopulations.     In asnra      araapbIc                   personal incone of the contry,    Urb an level isdrivd Fro    the trttI
-tgtstin or standpost locate,d not mare than 200  oters Iron a house nay he             level with adjatoent For hiih"ercot of lIving in urban are-s
conoidore.d as being within reasnable, ccea- of.tatl,sa. In rural areas               Eutiouted Population BeloW Absout  _Pvety I"Co'_ Level (pecet)-ot
reasona ble. a.c.o. wol.d toply that the liou-eifo or sebe   of the house.hold          an   ural- Percent of population (urban an,d rural) who are"aslt
dost kayo to spenda diuprop-rti-mte part ofte day         In  ething thu                paor".
foniy' s. wator needs
M...s to E..retaDinpnaal (pecet. of opulutiouS - total        rhao 'and rual-
Natobet of p  l  (oa,uban, aod rare) neve          b  etlrtei diopooal a
percentages of their respectiv,e popalati..o. Ecoreta disposal may Winclde
the oo1l'tinn aa   dispos.l se it` or wit.nott trotot, of h-os    - noreta
and wa.ste-watr by water-bo rne syot-s  o  the use of pit privies and  isi-
.Popu.aIo  nr Phytinao - Populaton dIv,ided by nusber of practisiug physi-                                                toul     and Soe4n1 Duto Diviaton
cissa qaalitd trt asdica. school at university level                                    .. EcnoIc Analysis ond ProJec.tios                             Dp-rte-
P.p.l.ti. P,r N-uring Pe rn -kPopslation div,idnd by n-,be of pcocti.ing                                                               Say 1982
slo and. female gradunto nuse,    sistant osrLoes, practical osssand
nsr,iog asEilisries,



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
HAITI -  ECONOMIC DATA   1/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% in constant prices)
US$ Million     %                     1965-75 3/    1970-75 3/     1975-81 4/
GNP at Market Prices                1,572.7     100.0                    1.4           3.8            5.0
Gross Domestic Investment             205.3     13.1                    11.8          14.2             5.1
Gross National Savings 2/               1.9      0.1                    13.7          19.7           -4.4
Current Account Balance              -116.0       7.4                    -             -               -
Export of Goods, NFS 5/               226.1      14.4                    1.2          11.9            4.8
Import of Goods, NFS 5/               411.7     26.2                     4.7          10.0            7.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value Added
US$ Million        %
Agriculture                           335.0       32.7
Industry 6/                           235.2      23.0
Services                              453.0      44.3
Total/Average                1,023.2     100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 7/                Central Government
G Million       % of GDP             G Million        % of GDP
1981       1975    1981              1981        1975    1981
Current Receipts                      1,171.5      13.1     14.7             655.9        9.3     8.2
Current Expenditures                  1,220.4      11.7     15.3             807.3        8.2    10.2
Current Surplus(+) or Deficit (-)       -48.9        1.4   -0.6             -151.4        1.1    -2.0
Capital Expenditures                    623.2       7.5      7.8             543.3        5.5     6.6
External Assistance (net) 8/            461.7       5.2      5.8             399.0        4.5     5.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1970    1976    1977       1978      1979     1980       1981
(Million G Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi-Money                      198.2    779.9   930.6   1,159.7   1,353.5   1,593.5   1,801.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector               189.2   346.3   288.9      332.0     392.2     605.6     837.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector               65.3   519.7   658.0      791.5     921.8   1,010.4   1,118.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money as % of GDP           10.0     17.7    18.5     22.5       23.0     22.2      22.1
Consumer Price Index (Base 1955 - 100)     124.0   247.3   264.4     257.5      291.0    343.7     415.9
Consume.: Price Index in
Annual Percentages Changes                3.3    10.2     6.9      -2.6       13.0     18.1      21.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                -2.1     8.9     16.6     14.9       18.1     54.4      38.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                9.9    15.2    26.6      20.3       16.5      9.6      10.7
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/     Date refer to FY ending September 30.
2/     Does not include current transfers
3/     IHS, Comptes de la Nation, 3/31/81.
4/     World Bank estimates
5/     Net of imported inputs for assembly industry exports.
6/     Mining, manufacturing, public utilities and construction.
7!     Consolidated Accounts of Central Government and Public Enterprises.
8/     Net disbursements of loans and grants.
9/     N.A. is Non-Applicable.
October 1982.



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
HAITI - TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BAANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                  M'RCIIANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1978-81)
t SS Million  7
1975     1976      1977     1978     1979      1980     1981
(USS Miliion)                              Coffee                                     56.4       34.2
Cocoa                                       5.2        3.2
Export of Goods, IFS             105.7     147.3    181.0    203.6    209.1     288.1    226.1      Essential Oils                              6.9         4.2
Import of Goods, NFS            -165.'   -225.5   -269.0    -292.2   -342.2    -414.0   -411.7      Bauxite                                    17.9       10-9
Resource Cap (deficit    -)      -59.4    -78.2     -88.0    -88.6   -133.1    -125.9   -185.6      Assembly Industry (net)                    30.5       18.4
Small Industries and Handirraft            22.5       13.7
Interest Payments (net)           -7.0     -7.2    -12.1     -14.7    -13.4    -14.3     -17.8      All Other Commodities                      25.6       15.4
Other Factor Payments (net)        9.       *.        *         .        ..       .8.      ..          Total                                  (l.9        l.0
Net Transfers                     39.4      65.1     61.5     77.9     85.8      69.8     87.4
Balance of Current Account       -27.0    -20.3     -38.6    -25.4    -60.7    -70.4    -116.0      EXTERNAL DEBT, SEPTEMBER 30, 1981 2/        USS Million
Direct Foreign Investment          2.7       6.8      8.0     10.0     12.0      13.0     15.7       Public Debt including guaranteed               329.1
Niet MLT Borrowing                19.7      24.8     50.2     42.2      33.1     36.6     42.6      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Disbursements                  24.9      33.3     60.5     51.3     39.3      46.5     55.8      Total Outstanding and Disbursed                    ..
Amortization                    5.2       8.5     10.3      9.2       6.2      9.9     13.2
Other Items n.e.i.               -18.5       0.1     -6.8    -16.5      29.8      9.0     24.4       DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981                       X
Increase In Reserves (-)          23.1    -11.6    -12.8     -10.3    -14.0      11.8     33.3
Public Debt, including guaranteed                 9.4
Gross Reserves 1/                  9.9      22.7     31.0     38.9     54.7      40,3     19.4      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Net Reserves I/                   -3.8       7.7     20.5     30.7     44.7      32.9     -0.2      Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                          IBRD/IDA LENDING (September 30, 1982)        US$ Million
Imports                        12.9      17.1     23.6     24.5      34.5     63.0     61,0
Exports                          -         -        -        -         -        -        -       Outstanding and Disbursed                        97.0
Undisbursed                                      78.2
Outstanding Including undisbursed               175.2
1/     Monetary Authorities.
-      Not Applicable.
Not Available.
2/     1981 Debt Figures are not available yet.
October 1982



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATIJS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
--      US$ Million--------
Loan or                                                     (less cancellations)
Credit                                                    Bank
Number      Year      Borrower            Purpose        Amount   IDA     Undisbursed
One loan and five credits have been fully disbursed       2.6     51.9
675-HA      1977  Republic of Haiti   Rural Development           10.0        1.3
757-HA      1978  Republic of Haiti   Water Supply                 6.6        2.8
770-HA      1978  Republic of Haiti   Education                   10.0        6.2
807-HA      1978  Republic of Haiti   Transportation V            15.0        0.5
895-HA      1979  Republic of Haiti   Power II                    16.5        5.8
1106-HA    1981   Republic of Haiti   Agricultural
Rehabilitation             3.2        2.4
1121-HA    1981   Republic of Haiti   Ports                       11.0        8.8
1131-HA     1981  Republic of Haiti   Industrial Credit            7.0        6.4
1220-HA    1982   Republic of Haiti   Highways VI                 14.0       14.0
1257-HA     1982  Republic of Haiti   Forestry                     4.0        4.0
1281-HA     1982  Republic of Haiti   Power III                   26.0       26.0
Total                                 2.6    175.2       78.2
of which has been repaid            2.6
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                           0.4
of which has been repaid            o.4      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA               175.2
Total undisbursed                                        78.2
Note: A credit of US$9.0 million for a Third Education Project was approved
and signed subsequent to the date of Statement A above, it is not yet
effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                    Amount in $ Million
Year            Borrower                 Business       Loan   Equity    Total
Promoteurs et 1/            Integrated      1.35    0.15     1.50
Investisseurs               Poultry
Associes, S.A.
Total Gross Commitments                     1.35    0.15     1.50
Less Repayments
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                    1.35    0.15     1.50
1/   Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (as of September 30, 1982) 1/
Credit 675     Rural Development Project; US$10 Million Credit of January 14,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 27, 1977; Closing Date:
Originally December 31, 1981 postponed to December 31, 1982.
In the beginning, the project was facing major difficulties but has
taken off well recently.   Disbursements now are flowing rapidly.   While
agricultural field trials and rural water supply components have progressed
beyond appraisal expectations, implementation of the roads component is
slightly behind schedule.   The irrigation component has been reduced substan-
tially. The Government has expanded the financial autonomy of the project
agency and has established a revolving fund to help spee up the disbursement
process.
Credit 757     Provincial Towns Water Supply Project; US$6.6 Million Credit of
January 23, 1078; Date of Effectiveness: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: Originally December 31, 1981, postponed to
December 31, 1982.
This project is about 18 months behind schedule because of original
delays in the appointment of consultants; delays in issuing bid documents and
the need to rebid for three of the seven project towns. The technical assis-
tance component is proceeding well. KfW (Federal Republic of Germany) agreed
to finance two towns when it became clear that the UNCDF grant was not enough
to cover three towns. UNCDF has increased its allocation for the remaining
town. The total cost of the project is about US$1.7 million above appraisal
estimates. Because of poor contractor performance, a re-arrangement of
contracts has been undertaken.
Credit 770     Second Education Project; US$10 Million Credit of March 16,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 25, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project is about 18 months behind schedule due to a shortage of
local counterpart funds. However, IDB is providing such funds under a post-
Hurricane Allen loan to help Haiti meet local costs of IDB and IDA projects.
Construction has been stepped up under the supervision of the Project Unit.
Progress in the educational aspects of the project is satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to
report any problems which are being encountered, and the action being
taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNX I;
Page 4 of 5
Credit 807     Fifth Transportation Project; US$15 Million Credit ofJune 9,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1978; Closing Date:
Originally December 31, 1981, postponed to December 31, 1982.
(a) Road Component: Civil works have been completed and accepted by
Government. Studies for the preparation of a Sixth Highway Project
were completed and provided the basis for appraisal. The component
is almost fully disbursed.
(b) Coastal Shipping Ports Component: Construction of the three pilot
ports for coastal shipping is complete and the terminals are being
put into operation. The new facilities are efficiently administered
and experimental port charges are being collected from port users.
Consulting work on an accounting study for the National Port
Authority is progressing satisfactorily. The component is almost
fully disbursed.
Credit 895     Second Power Project:   US$15 Million Credit and US$6 Million
and            EEC Special Action Credit of May 31, 1979; Date of
EEC Special    Effectiveness:   April 21, 1980; Closing Date:
Credit 4       December 31, 1983.
The project, co-financed by CIDA (Canada) under a grant of Can$17.1
million, suffered an initial delay resulting from a disagreement between
Government and EdH on contract award for the diesel generators and the subse-
quent dismissal of EdH's management and main consultants. Credit effective-
ness was delayed almost one year and the implementation of important institu-
tional and technical aspects up to 18 months. However, due to quicker
delivery of generators and IDA-arranged overlapping of consultant services,
overall delay will only be about three months. The main component, the expan-
sion of the Varreux power station, proceeded according to schedule. Cost
increases caused a slight reduction in project scope (distribution compo-
nent). The project is now advancing and disbursing in a very satisfactory
manner.
Credit 1106    Agricultural Rehabilitation Project; US$3.2 Million Credit of
April 13, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1981;
Closing Date: Originally September 30, 1982, postponed to
March 31, 1983.
The project is emerging slowly; however, the Government has now set
up a revolving fund to expedite project activities. USAID has supplied five
thousand tons of fertilizer and ICB for more fertilizer purchases under the
project has been undertaken.   Procurement of tools is expected to be completed
soon. Design work for farm service centers has been completed and locations
for 16 centers to be built under the project have been identified. A nursery
program has been established and the Ministry of Agriculture has increased
extension staff strength in the project area from four at appraisal to ten at
present.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Credit 1121     Port Development Project; US$11.0 Million Credit of April 13,
1981; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The major contract of the project, to construct the new terminal in
Cap Haitien, has been awarded. The contract for seven coastal shipping ports
is being awarded and the contractor is already proceeding with preparations
for precasting piles and other work related to the project.      The feasibility
study for the expansion of the international terminal at Port-au-Prince has
been started by the consultants. The weak cash position of the National Ports
Authority due to slow procedures in collecting outstanding debts and delays in
Central Bank transfers may influence project performance in the future.
Credit 1131     Industrial Development Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 13, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: December 8, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The Industrial Development Fund has completed preparation of its
Operations Manual and its Internal Regulations. A first project has been
approved and another 52 applications are under appraisal or processing. Lack
of qualified personnel and a recent change in the management of the project
have delayed its full implementation.
Credit 1220     Sixth Highway Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of April 27,
1982; Date of Effectiveness: December 17, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
This project is not yet effective. 1/
Credit 1257     Forestry Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of June 16, 1982;
Date of Effectiveness: December 14, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
This project is not yet effective. 1/
Credit 1281     Third Power Project; US$26.0 Million Credit of August 18, 1982;
Date of Effectiveness: November 17, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
This project is not yet effective.    1/
1/   Subsequent to the date of Statement C above, these projects have become
effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:     30 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:   ONL, SPU, Ministry of
Planning
(c)  First presentation to IDA:             November 1977
(d)  First mission to review project:       November 1979
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:        June 1982
(f)  Completion of negotiations:            February 11, 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:         July 15, 1983
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations, assurances regarding the following matters
have been received:
1.   Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) Execution and ratification of subsidiary loan agreements
between Government and EPPLS and SAGMAP, respectively
(paras. 54 and 71);
(b) Establishment of SAGMAP (para. 63);
(c) Evidence of opening of Special Accounts (para. 65).
2.   Other Condition:
(a) Availability of additional land for CDB market upgrading and
future expansion of the market area (para. 47);
(b) Building designs for sites and services schemes which make the
benefits of the project affordable to the poorest segment of
the population (para. 51);



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Procedures for cost recovery by SAGMAP and EPPLS (paras. 52,
53, 57 and 58);
(d) Investment limitations for SAGMAP and EPPLS (paras. 52 and
53);
(e) Conditions of onlending/transfer of credit proceeds by
Government to SAGMAP and EPPLS (para. 54);
(f) Procedures for the employment of Consultants by EPPLS and
SAGMAP (para. 55);
(g) Arrangements regarding periodic consultations between IDA and
Government oii the provision of counterpart funds (para. 55);
(h) Establishment of Project Units and separate project accounts
(paras. 63 and 64); and
(i) Adequate auditing procedures (para. 64).



.           U        Th,s hop,, b b  prop-rod be' 11w World 30k t-ff -o-oy for tho
of hrdroo IrprtToh,hI 00100.Thod- . .. . ...  d dlho
I%I,US'''A;                                                                                             rG9 ,,.,,,   accpPhlo oanc jodgauch ooundre the9 1000 01 ou of ny torrtory or any ondoroomnror or
Ar,,t,                    Oc,                      1' vF
-   ;1;   A<o7tc     O¢>,>tOOonoovtt                                                         0
01M                                            'OA TAE
,,,;  CUBA'    tSHIPPlIN'G
DOMINICAN                        0   25  S,                      0So,,tMoo         z
j                   _      RPU1LIC                         KILOMETERS                           HAITI
ytM.rICA  HAIT K   ?     ~     -. z PUERTO RICO r, -,
0 100 200 300                                            .r*b                             Morogoono            '
KILOiRETERS                Corobb.r     S5a L.. Joor
HAITI
Port-au-Prince
METRO     AREA                                                                                               PROPOSED NEW COASTAL;
SHIPP!NO PORT
PROJECTS LOCATIONS
CEUTRAL    1
,MAR?Kf.J 1
NEW   PORT
-1830'                                         .
Logn               kS                                                                                                                                       'o1  2-
T.T
A,                                                                                                     f EXPOR/TIO                    | ORE
CARREFOUR                            ROAD
DIQUINI                                  80LOSSE
M1A R I I5 A N           A
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECTSF
KFW LINTHAU I
IDA LINTHAU TI
UNDP DROUILLARD
3        UNPO St. MARTIN UPGRADING
IDA CDB MARKET UPGRADING PROJECT
A    EXISTING SECONDARY MARKETS
IN  W    LT0,o ,RE 0ir0)EITS
Ti, ILCRT TEME.llAL DARE MooDONALDI
WHOLESALE MARKEr lCHANCERELLES AIRPORT)              L
MAIN ACCESS ROADS
BUILTUP AREAS
MC
0                     1DO0                    2000
METERS



IBRD 16756
n-DECEMBER 1982
72A5'             Swa
COASTAL
CT            LINtHAU It       tE JEAN CANOIS DUVALIER INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
K                   DUVALIER - DROIIILLARDr
, BROOKLYN
f  CITE 6
,AREA
R                            M       OSESALE AAET
RTORT
B EL-AIR                           A
{  1  /            .    FORT/
LALU<          NATIONAL
t /    MORNE-A-TUF                                                A
zA
0p
AA
AA
A,
,,ET                                   V IL L E
|T I L L I E R  5 A
MORNE L'HOPITAL                                                             0 <   -
72' 45'                     oAsncr



4-                 -



IBRD 16758
OCTOBER 1982
iF \HAITI
CAP-HAITIEN
SITES AND SERVICES
FUTURE   RJC
EXPANSION PROJECT Rsdnil
Residential:
Basic unit, 6xlOm lot
Basic unit, 4 x 10 m lot
'Ii> 'Residential and commercial plots
1.                                                        -                                                                mCommercial plots
D El      Sanitary units
Community facilities
i 1\                                                                                               /          .] ':Oper areas
Z                                              Access roads
Main roads
X1                                     ERlIu  Existing buildings
International boundaries
7                                                                         a/
PAR
P \  K                                                                                  MErERS 0     20      40      60     80      10
FEET0           100        200i        300
t \                                                            I                                I fW t t
I   S '  78'           72'             6'6'          6'0  |CU BA  747                        720
500
||1K4lomeiers2Cap-Haitien
1   BAHAMAS                                24'                                 IProject
location
CUBA
This mop has been prepared by the
World Banks staff exclusively for                     DOMINICAN                                                  HAITI
the convenience of the readers of                     REPUBLIC
the report to which it is attached            A |                  UET
The denominations used and the  A                                 RHAITI  SCPUERTO                         Par
boundares shown on this map   JAMAICA                             RICO                                     Port-au-Prince
do not imply, on the part of the  -' 8,                                           1' 1                                     .  -
World Bank and its affiliates, any
Iudgment on the legal status of  0       500
any territory or any endorsementi
or acceptance of such boundanies.  Kilometers,
8'72'                        66'                       ra27?



-US5A                7266 60-                               74.           10- HAITI
.  0    50                                                               LES CAYES
-24'      'AHAM.AS              ''C               247    K,ior.tsrs-                                                   SITES AND SERVICES
q  -ZFUTURE                  PROJECT
'-~  A                                                   z                   XPANIONResidential:
e  DOMINICAN                                                                               77              Basic unit, 6 x10 lot
REPUBLIC                                             xHAITI *~f                             ]   H~~
PUERAITO                                          IBasic unit, 4 x 10 lot
JA~MC   HAITI? .5                                                               j URO'   ~                                    nt
RC  .poet                   Port-u-P                                                Basic ui,4 x 8 lot
o50'>- 1c                      -r                                    Residential and commercial plots
KiIo4toterA                                                                                                             Sanitary units
6.6*                                   74.r                           -IiEAN 5E. 72               F     'l Community facilities
Ths- mop boo  prop-ed by Ch Wo.d .o,k -toff .oc.u.roly f.o th. c-io-.                                                           Oenarea
of h. -odoo of M. e.po't to Wch , io ott cho.e d-owon-t,ono cod ood M.                                            -             pen areas
b-do, ohowo o- Chio mop do oo ik*, o- tho pwo of th. Wold Bo-k nt duo
o,ia, nto  o ju,odg t on Co hof otabco of ny te.oitooy or ny .ndorsnm.t o
oceoptooco of -uch boedri.
Roads
International boundaries
G enerol  M.rir.n                                                                         Generol M .r i .n
I I:_ I L
Q1111 --LL                       T
Freres    Rigaud                                                                      Freres  R i g.u d
S                   I  1cbi  mb jy
Oxilius  Fougere
|METERS 0                       20    4p      60     ao     0o 0
FEET 0        100       260        3 00                                                                                                        wr
\ I                                                                                                                                C
j  ~           I                                                                                                                                                       oN



